December 21, 2020||Goa||Former Academica striker Mazarello dies in London||Panaji:Wilson Benigno Duarte Mazarello, a star forward from the sixties who played his entire career in the top division for Associacao Academica de Goa, passed away in London on Saturday. A doctor by profession, he was 79 and based in England for two years now. His father, Dr Sebastiao Mazarello, was the first MLA of Cuncolim and in the forefront of Opinion Poll of January 16, 1967. Family sources said the former striker from Velim was bed-ridden after suffering a stroke. Mazarello joined Academica, the rage of the fifties and sixties’ student community, just before Goa’s Liberation in 1961. And it was with this team that he came within one win of becoming Primeira Divisao (premier division) champions. Going into the final round of matches, Academica needed a win against Clube Desportivo Salgaocar, for whom a draw was enough to become champions for the first time since Goa’s top division football league was launched in 1951. Academica tried but Salgaocar had the last laugh with a 2-0 victory at Vasco in 1961. “We thought we could win that year. Even my father had come to watch that match assuming we would become champions,” Mazarello was quoted as saying in ‘Footprints in the Sand’, a club publication that celebrated Salgaocar’s 60 years in 2016. Besides Mazarello, that Academica side was powered by the likes of Zezito, a short central defender, Evo and Zar. He played with Academica in the top tier and donned colours for Panvel SC in 1968-69 when his favourite side was relegated. Mazarello was also a guest player with Salgaocar SC when the team travelled to Delhi and took part in the DCM Cup in 1962. It was this team that was invited by the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru at his official residence. “Mazarello was known for his powerful shots. He had this uncanny ability to distract goalkeepers, sometimes by stepping on their foot. For all his tricks with the goalkeepers, he never argued with referees,” said Antonio Botelho, former secretary of the Goa Football Association and Panvel SC. Mazarello represented Goa at the Santosh Trophy in 1965 and 1966.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/former-academica-striker-mazarello-dies-in-london/articleshow/79829365.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
December 21, 2020||Bengaluru||FASTag must for 4-wheelers from January 1||The Centre is planning to make FASTags mandatory for all four-wheelers from January 1. Currently, around 70% of toll payment happens via FASTags in Karnataka. From Jan 1, only those with FASTags will be allowed through toll plazas, a senior NHAI official told TOI. The Centre is planning to collect 100% toll on national highways via FASTags from January 1 to eliminate cash transactions and prevent traffic congestion.  Two-wheelers, autorickshaws and other small vehicles that don’t have to pay toll at present don’t require the tag. TOI gives motorists a lowdown on buying and using it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fastag-must-for-4-wheelers-from-january-1/articleshow/79829361.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 21, 2020||Bengaluru||10% of country’s cold chain points in Karnataka||BENGALURU: With nearly 10% of the country’s 28,932 cold chain points concentrated in the state, the Karnataka government is confident of further ramping up infrastructure and delivering Covid-19 vaccines to people without a hitch. Karnataka has already launched reorientation training for pharmacy officers — who will manage the cold chain — at all levels, besides coaching sessions for medical officers, ANMs, staff nurses and all cadres within the health department. Arundathi Chandrashekar, director, National Health Mission, which will spearhead the inoculation drive in the state, said: “Instructing trainers is already complete and we are in the process of training additional manpower. There are already enough trained people to administer the vaccine to healthcare workers, who will be inoculated in the first phase. Training additional personnel is underway at district and block levels.” Health department data shows Karnataka has 2,870 cold chain points, two statelevel vaccine stores — in Bengaluru and Belagavi — and five regional vaccine stores located in Chitradurga, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi and Bagalkot. These facilities have walk-in coolers and freezers equipped to store large quantities of vaccine, which can be distributed to districts around. All districts have sufficient ice-lined refrigerators (ILRs) and deep freezers (DFs) and other equipment as part of the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) to store vaccines, the department said. “In all, CHCs (community health centres), PHCs (primary health centres) and urban PHCs are equipped with 3,776 ILRs, 3,495 DFs,” the department said. It reiterated that existing facilities, which will be further augmented, will be sufficient to handle Covid-19 vaccines whenever available along with the OPV vaccine the state will receive for the pulse polio campaign next month. “That Covid inoculation will happen in phases is favourable. In any case, we will strengthen our capacity,” an official said. Karnataka has also requested additional equipment such as deep freezers to cool ice-packs from the Centre, the health department said. “The Centre has already provided 64 large ILRs, while 866 small ILRs and 28 deep freezers are in the pipeline... This will boost capacity. Beside this, a contingency plan, additional cold chain space available with other departments at state and districts has also been explored,” the department said. Dr Rajani N, immunisation director, Karnataka, had told TOI earlier that most of the UIP infrastructure is well managed and will be used to roll out the Covid-19 vaccine. “The system is efficient and we have experienced personnel who handle lakhs of children each year. So, inoculating adults will not be a challenge,” she said. That Karnataka is among the states to have already implemented electronic vaccine intelligence network (eVIN), now revamped and renamed as Co-WIN, means that all cold chain points in the state where vaccines are stocked can be monitored in real time. “Also temperature loggers are installed to ensure vaccines are safely stored at the right temperature at all the time,” the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/10-of-indias-cold-chain-points-in-ktaka/articleshow/79829363.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: From RWH to LED lights, Metro adopts slew of eco-friendly steps||BENGALURU: The city’s water shortage during summer could be mitigated with Namma Metro’s rainwater harvesting (RWH) system. Of the existing 42km Phase 1 network, 33km is an elevated viaduct with 33 stations. “It’s possible to collect rainwater through RWH since the viaduct is litter-free. It could be sold to interested parties for further filtering it and making it potable,” said BMRCL’s annual report of 2019-20. According to rough estimates, more than 10 lakh litres of rainwater can be saved by Namma Metro every year, said a BMRCL official. “A large quantity could be used to fill many dying lakes in the city,” added the official. “Rainwater absorption wells have been provided at every alternative span of the viaduct. This has resulted in recharge of groundwater resources across the Metro alignment,” the report added. Each Metro pier has in-built downpipes to carry rainwater to underground tanks. However, at many stations, they are choked. The corporation is planning pipes outside piers in Phase 2. In 2012, BMRCL had invited firms to collect and sell rainwater drained through elevated structures between MG Road and Byappanahalli stations but got no response. RWH facility has been provided at 123 locations across the city. BMRCL said LED lighting is being used at all Phase 1 stations instead of CFL, which has resulted in up to 25 kw of power being saved per station. “Stations are designed to utilise natural lighting during the day so lights installed at public areas don’t have to be switched on. This saves Rs 3.6 crore per annum,” the report added. It said streetlights and high masts are controlled using timers, which helps save around Rs 8.7 lakh per annum, adding in underground stations, automated operation of environmental control system will save around Rs 2.9 crore per year. Adaptation of platform screen doors in Phase 2 underground stations will reduce air-conditioning load from 900T to 400T per station. BMRCL is saving 32 lakh litres of water per month through air-cooled chillers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/from-rwh-to-led-lights-metro-adopts-slew-of-eco-friendly-steps/articleshow/79828531.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Poor students can avail loan scheme: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: With the Centre making it clear that the revised central sector interest subsidy scheme-2009 is in operation since April 1, 2018, the high court said it has to be implemented by all concerned to ensure no student is denied the opportunity to pursue higher education because she/he is poor. A division bench made the observation recently while disposing of a PIL filed by Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Thinkers Forum. The bench noted the scheme has been adopted by all scheduled banks. Under it, education loan is given without any collateral security and third-party guarantee, and for a maximum amount of Rs 7.5 lakh. The scheme is applicable to students, whose annual gross parental income is up to Rs 4.5 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/poor-students-can-avail-loan-scheme-hc/articleshow/79828532.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hubballi||Migrant workers get warm welcome in North Karnataka||HUBBALLI: Migrant labourers from North Karnataka, who were ignored by politicians and officials during the lockdown, are now in huge demand.  Now that they have again gone back to their jobs in distant cities, they are being invited to their villages in the wake of GP elections. Those contesting the elections are welcoming them with a red carpet, repeatedly calling them over the phone. Candidates have made pick-up and drop arrangements, and have agreed to compensate their wages for 2-3 days, to get their vote. They are forcing the labourers’ parents and children living in villages to call them home for the election. Gururaj Desai, a voter in Tallur, Yelburga taluk, Koppal district, said many candidates have made transport arrangements to bring migrant labourers from Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Goa and other places. “Many voters are utilising the transport arrangement and travelling to their village, to cast their vote. It’s good that they are intending to exercise their franchise, but their decision should not be influenced by monetary benefits offered by candidates,” he said. He also demanded that the district administration maintain data of such migrant labourers, and facilitate them with postal ballots on the lines of government employees deputed for election duty. Sharanappa Talawar, a labourer in Kushtagi, Koppal district, said he is working in Udupi and was initially not interested to come to his village to vote. “However, candidates visited my house and made phone calls through my mother. They even touched my mother’s feet and requested to call me for voting. Because of this sentimental blackmail, I am coming to my village to vote,” he shared.  Gangadhar Badiger, AIUTUC, Dharwad district president, noted: “The labourers should remember that no one helped them when they walked for hundreds of kilometres during the lockdown and struggled for food, water and shelter. They should cast their vote cautiously and not get lured by candidates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/migrant-workers-get-warm-welcome-in-n-ktaka/articleshow/79828837.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||#Surviving2020: From a glam job to her dream venture: she fought pandemic blues, and how!||The pandemic compelled her to leave her glamorous job at a multinational wine company and make her dream venture a reality. She now works for senior citizens whose children live in faraway lands. In a candid chat with CT, Turni Dhar takes us through the setbacks, lessons and rewards that 2020 had in store for her. Excerpts: Year began with depression, lossThe company I used to work in is a wine importer and among the top five in the country. I looked after their key accounts across the country. When the pandemic hit us, I was in Bangalore for a market visit and had to rush back to Kolkata. The lockdown came as a blow to the company and especially, the vertical I took care of. With hotels, restaurants, clubs, lounges and banquets shutting down, many of my clients lost their jobs. My salary was slashed by half and the team had to be downsized. Losing my key players was painful as I stared at an uncertain future. The dismal series of events made me depressed and I kept worrying about my home loan. My parents are government pension holders, but at this age, I didn’t want to ask them for financial help. There was nothing to look forward to. The lowest point was when I couldn’t save my friend’s dad from COVID. Unfortunately, I was informed very late, and by the time I got him hospitalised, his situation had gone out of control. Despite doing everything I could, I felt so helpless and the worst part was that he left the world without his daughter by his side as she was in the UK. I was badly shaken by his death. Life seemed so meaningless after that. Derived strength from Amphan victims For nearly two and a half months, I travelled to the Sundarbans to reach out to the Amphan victims. Looking at them I derived my strength to fight back and start afresh. Their sad faces made me realise that I still had a roof over my head and food to eat. Pandemic helped give shape to my dreamsAfter my professional career hit a low, I gave shape to my dream venture, Dependablez, which aims at providing the best home care to senior citizens whose children are away from them or settled outside the country. This has been on my mind for the last few years, but I lacked the courage to go for it. But the pandemic changed everything and in a way helped me give shape to my dreams and I finally founded my company in July this year. Life begins where comfort zone endsThe biggest turning point in my personal life came when I realised that life begins after we are pushed out of our comfort zones. Being on the wrong side of 40s, it took some time for me to make this leap of faith. But the blessings and love these senior citizens shower me with are precious beyond belief and make it all worthwhile. The smiles on their faces are unmatched. Nothing is more satisfying than the feeling when they smile, hold my hands and ask me to spend a few hours with them. I hope they trust us the way they trust their own children. I can assure their children that we are taking care of their parents just the way we look after our own parents. Never take life for grantedThis year came with multiple lessons. The biggest takeaway for me was that one should never take anything in life for granted. It can change anytime and you need to have the skills to adapt to unforeseen situations. So, value the things and people you are surrounded with in every phase of life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/surviving2020-from-a-glam-job-to-her-dream-venture-she-fought-pandemic-blues-and-how/articleshow/79826140.cms||Ruman Ganguly
December 21, 2020||India||Weekly Covid cases in India drop 17%, the steepest decline so far||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 infections and deaths continued to fall in the country 14 weeks after the pandemic had peaked, with cases this week registering a 17.3% decline over the previous seven days, making it the steepest weekly drop so far in percentage terms. India recorded 171,520 fresh cases this week (December 13-20), the lowest since the June 28-July 5 week, and nearly 36,000 down from the previous week’s tally. This was the sixth straight week of falling cases and 13th overall in the last 14 weeks since infections peaked in mid-September. The weekly death toll dropped to its lowest in more than six months, with the virus claiming 2,444 lives in the country in the past seven days. The last time India saw fewer deaths in a week was in June 7-14, when the toll was recorded at 2,318. India is the only country among the 10 worst hit in the world — apart from Argentina — that has not seen a major surge in cases over the past two months. India’s situation is all the more unique considering that cases had peaked in Argentina only two months ago while India had a major festival season last month. The death toll too has been steadily dropping. This week’s cases were 12.4% lower than the previous week, when the number stood at 2,789. Weekly deaths from the virus now stand at just 30% of what they were at the peak. India had recorded its highest weekly toll of 8,175 on September 13-20, exactly three months ago. Read AlsoIndia may start vaccinating people against Covid-19 in January: Harsh VardhanNEW DELHI: India may begin vaccinating people against Covid-19 in January and the government's first priority has been safety and efficacy of the vaccine, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said. "I personally feel may be in January in any stage or any week, there can be a time when we can beOn an average, the country reported 351 deaths per day this week as opposed to 1,168 during September 13-20. Likewise, the daily average of fresh cases last week was 24,500, dropping below the 25,000 mark for the first week since June 28-July 5. At the pandemic’s peak, India was reporting an average of more than 92,000 cases. The current numbers are now nearly a fourth (26.6%) of the peak. On Sunday, India reported 24,833 fresh cases, with the numbers from Assam still awaited till close to midnight. There were 324 deaths reported during the day, the lowest single-day toll since June 8. Read Also‘Out of control’ new coronavirus strain in UK, govt calls meetThe Union health ministry has called an urgent meeting of its joint monitoring group on Monday to discuss the new strain. the emergence of a mutated variant of the coronavirus in the UK, which has led to a surge in the infection rate there.Meanwhile, active cases fell marginally on Sunday to around 3.05 lakh. Recoveries rose to a little over 96 lakh. Continuing the trend of the past week, Kerala posted the highest number of fresh cases at 5,711, followed by Maharashtra (3,811), Bengal (1,978) and Uttar Pradesh (1,247). Maharashtra also reported the highest fatalities at 98, with Bengal recording 40 deaths, followed by Kerala (30) and Delhi (26).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/weekly-covid-cases-in-india-drop-17-the-steepest-decline-so-far/articleshow/79828940.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
December 21, 2020||World||6.3 magnitude quake strikes off Japan's Aomori Prefecture, no tsunami warning issued||AOMORI: An earthquake with a magnitude of 6.3 struck off Aomori Prefecture in northeastern Japan on Monday, according to the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA). The quake occurred around 2:23 a.m. local time, with its epicenter at a latitude of 40.7 degrees north and a longitude of 142.7 degrees east, and at the depth of 10 km. The earthquake logged 5 Lower in some parts of Iwate Prefecture and 4 in Aomori Prefecture on the Japanese seismic intensity scale which peaks at 7. So far no tsunami warning has been issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/6-3-magnitude-quake-strikes-off-japans-aomori-prefecture-no-tsunami-warning-issued/articleshow/79831076.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Patna||Mahabodhi temple in Bodh Gaya to revert to normal timings||GAYA: The world heritage Mahabodhi Mahavihara in Bodh Gaya will open as per its normal schedule – 5am to 9pm – from Monday. The 80-foot Buddha statue in the heritage town was opened for the visitors on Sunday. Also, Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) has decided to initiate steps for the reopening of monasteries of other Buddhist countries in the town. It was decided at the meeting of BTMC advisory board on Saturday that discussions will be held with representatives of the monasteries to decide when and how to reopen them. The monasteries have been closed since March 23 due to Covid-19 pandemic. DM-cum-BTMC chairman Abhishek Singh presided over the meeting in which some other decisions were also taken to promote tourism in Bodh Gaya. BTMC secretary Nangzey Dorjee said it was decided at the meeting that the statue of Maitreya Buddha would be installed in the meditation park on Mahavihara campus. “The BTMC will also install the statue of Anagarika Dharmapala at the roundabout near its existing office. Anagarika Dharmapala was one of the founding contributors of non-violent Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism and a leading figure in Sri Lanka’s independence movement against British rule,” Dorjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mahabodhi-temple-to-revert-to-normal-timings/articleshow/79828551.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Patna||Patna: One dies, 2 hurt in LPG cylinder blast||PATNA: A 42-year-old man died and two others were critically injured when an LPG cylinder exploded at a shop selling electrical equipment on Kumrhar-Sandalpur road under the Bahadurpur police station area in Patna City around 8.30am on Sunday. SHO of Bahadurpur police station Sanovar Khan said the victim was identified as Mukesh Chaudhary. He added the incident occurred during illegal refilling of small cooking gas cylinders at the shop. “The victim was an LPG vendor and a resident of Barh. He died on the spot. The injured people were identified as Dheeraj Chaudhary (19) and Sonu Kumar (22). They are undergoing treatment at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. Police are on the lookout for Vinay Yadav, the owner of the shop,” the SHO said, adding seven domestic LPG cylinders were found at the shop. “Several small cylinders, which were refilled using domestic cylinders, were also. It seems a cylinder weighing 10kg had exploded at the shop during refilling,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-dies-2-hurt-in-lpg-cylinder-blast/articleshow/79827966.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 21, 2020||Patna||2 notorious criminals arrested in Khagaria||PATNA: A team of Special Task Force (STF) of state police arrested two notorious criminals – Suggan Yadav (38) and Deepak Kumar alias Deepan Singh (33) – along with arms and ammunition from Basua village under the Pasraha police station area in Khagaria district late on Saturday night. The two were involved in at least 16 cases of serious nature like murder and extortion. Police recovered two country-made pistols and 10 live cartridges from the possession of the arrested criminals. SHO of Pasraha police station Amlesh Kumar said, “The district police had recently sent a proposal for announcing a reward of Rs 25,000 on Suggan’s head as he had been evading arrest for more than a year. Suggan was running a criminal gang in Khagaria. At least five more members of his gang are yet to be arrested,” he added. In another operation on Saturday, the STF arrested two Maoist activists -- Vishwanath Murmu alias Sushil Murmu and Bhargav Koda -- from Kharagpur and Dharhara in Munger. STF sources said the two were involved in killing of seven police personnel at Kajra in Lakhisarai on August 30, 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-notorious-criminals-arrested-in-khagaria/articleshow/79827953.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Patna||75-year-old commits suicide inside mosque in Bihar||BIHARSHARIF: An elderly person allegedly committed suicide inside a mosque here by slitting his neck early Sunday morning. According to police sources, construction workers on Sunday morning spotted the 75-year-old Matiur Rahman lying in a pool of blood with his neck slit on the first floor of a mosque under construction at Imadpur under Biharsharif Town police station area. The local residents rushed the victim to Biharsharif Sadar hospital after the workers raised alarm. However, the doctors declared him ‘brought dead’. Investigation officer (IO) of the case, Khurshid Alam, said Anis Athar, the son-in-law of the deceased, said his father-in-law had been suffering from acute depression for quite sometime. He said the deceased went to the mosque around 5.30am. It appeared that after the morning prayers, he went to the first floor of the mosque under construction and committed suicide. The IO, who was present at Biharsharif Sadar hospital during postmortem, said the police recovered a bloodstained sharp kitchen knife from the place of occurrence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/75-year-old-commits-suicide-inside-mosque/articleshow/79828027.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Business||Technically skilled gig workers in high demand||CHENNAI: Demand for technically skilled gig workers has gone up as a direct result of large enterprises looking to optimise their future through a digital presence and lower fixed costs with reduction of full-time employees. Gig workers are freelance workers who work on a contractual or temporary basis for a specific period. According to staffing company TeamLease Services, demand for technical gig workers increased by 20%-25% between April-November this year compared to pre-Covid levels. The firm’s business head Sudeep Kumar Sen said this trend has also created an opportunity for women gig workers. “We have seen an increase of 13%-14% of women in the white collar gig worker segments.” With the inherent advantage of freelancing and earning from multiple industries at the same time, gig workers can work from their hometowns. They have the power to decide what to work on, from where and for how much. For example, Kochi-based Sushmita (28), a specialist in web-developing software Ruby on Rails (RoR) tech, was hired as a consultant by a fintech company for a period of six months. “Being a freelancer helps as I can avoid travel and risk during this pandemic. It also helps save on rent, commuting expenses,” she says. Awign Enterprises, a work fulfilment platform focused on gig workforce and last-mile delivery, has on-boarded over 90,000 such workers between March-November this year. It has seen a 40% increase in the monthly average number of gig workers on its platform, from pre-Covid levels. Its co-founder Gurpreet Singh said, “Share of technically skilled gig workers was up 65% — compared to field gig workers, which was up 25% — from March levels. Earlier, field gig workers comprised 70% and digital gig workers were just at 30%.” Digital requirements from businesses have increased demand for content preparations and curations. With the increased use of AI and ML -driven tech by businesses, there is a growing demand for workers to create databases for AI image-recognition. With examinations being conducted in virtual classrooms, online proctoring companies see higher demand for human remote proctors from large assessment platforms. “They help monitor the candidates taking up the exams in real time, to prevent malpractice, answer queries and provide tech support,” Singh added. Upskilling of gig workers has also increased. Online digital technology training provider SimpliLearn has hired 2.5 times more trainers this year. Founder & CEO Krishna Kumar said, “Frequency of weekend classes has gone up from 3-4 to 7-8. Job offers have also increased from 2-3 jobs per candidate to 5-6 now.” Payments and data company Zaggle has hired over a dozen gig workers who are engaged in remote working. Its founder and chairman Raj N said it has saved 25% in employee cost by engaging with freelancers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/technically-skilled-gig-workers-in-high-demand/articleshow/79828608.cms||Mamtha Asokan
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||New Town Coffee House starts e-booking to ease visitor rush||Kolkata: To keep up with the rush at the New Town Coffee House, which logged over 9,000 visitors since it opened on December 4, the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has started an online table booking system. Thirty seats can be booked in advance for one-and-a-half hours at the venue. Officials said the 96 seats at the coffee house were staying occupied all the time, failing to accommodate a large number of those who visit. The wait sometimes exceeds two hours and the authorities have had to start issuing tokens with serial numbers to manage the rush. With the online booking system, 30 seats, mostly on the first floor, can now be booked for 90 minutes’ duration and visitors with valid tickets will be offered six time slots between 12pm and 9pm. The online tickets are available through the Book My Show platform and a charge of Rs 20 per seat will have to be paid, which will be adjusted later against the food bill. The authorities, in consultation with the traffic police, are also trying to come up with additional free parking zones for visitors. People who have already visited the New Town Coffee House have said the atmosphere and ambience bring back the original Coffee House charm. Those who are yet to visit, however, have more than just nostalgia to expect, like the 60-minute live musical performance that was held on Saturday evening at the coffee house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-coffee-house-starts-e-booking-to-ease-visitor-rush/articleshow/79828950.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||‘70% of Telangana farm produce sold outside market yards’||Hyderabad: For farmers in Telangana, rules under the new Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, is not significant, officials and experts said on Sunday as 70% of transactions are already happening outside market yards. Instead, there is a growing concern that the non-regulation of trade will impact the small farmers who sell their produce at their places. Telangana produces on an average 25 crore tonnes of 80 different crops including fruits in a year. “Based on the arrivals at the market yard and produce, we have estimated that market yard transaction is only 30% because of good direct market linkages. But the new Union government laws don’t guarantee any regulation outside market yard. Minimum Support Price (MSP) is also a huge concern,” state agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy told TOI. Agriculture marketing department earns about Rs 345 crore annually. “But due to the changes under the new laws, we may lose about Rs 245 crore income annually,” said a senior official. Experts said in Telangana, like other southern states, most farmers sell their produce at their places to cut travel cost. “These new laws will not do any good, instead they enable traders more than farmers. There is no guarantee that traders will give benefit to farmers and consumers,” Professor D Narsimha Reddy, an expert on agriculture said, adding that in contract farming there was no protection for small farmers in case of disputes between farmers and traders. Also in 52 out of the 192 market yards across the state, eNAM (National Agriculture Market), the pan-India electronic trading portal, is used where traders transact online. Interestingly, Telangana has one of the highest traffic on eNAM platform in the country. For each lot (produce unit put for sale by farmer) on average, four bidders are available. There are 6,000 licenced farm produce traders in the state at present. Professor Krishna Reddy Chittedi, assistant professor with University of Hyderabad, said that if the government appoints agriculture officers for every village to provide necessary guidance and support farmers, it would help. “The government should extent legal assistance to farmers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/70-farm-produce-in-t-sells-outside-market-yards/articleshow/79830177.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 21, 2020||Patna||Cold wave spell likely to continue over next 2 days in Bihar||PATNA: Biting cold conditions prevailed across the state on Sunday. Though there was a slight rise in minimum temperature at Patna and Gaya, it remained in the range of 6-9 degrees C. Gaya remained the coldest place in the state with minimum temperature recorded at 4.3 degrees C, while it was 7.8 degrees C in Patna. India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the cold wave spell is likely to prevail over the next two days. IMD stated that cold wave to severe cold wave is expected at isolated places in Bihar on Monday and cold wave conditions on Tuesday. In meteorological parlance, cold wave condition is declared at a place when the actual minimum temperature is 10 degrees C or lower along with departure of 4.5 to 6.4 degrees C from the corresponding normal for at least two consecutive days. Severe cold wave, on the other hand, is declared when the departure from the normal temperature is more than 6.4 degrees C. Dinesh Kumar Bharti, an officer at Patna Meteorological Centre, said icy winds and cold wave have created shivery conditions across the state. “Minimum temperature at most places in the state remained in the range of 6-9 degrees C. Nevertheless, easterly and southwesterly winds (comparatively warmer) have started blowing in the region and the wind direction is likely to remain the same over the next two days. Thereafter, northwesterly and westerly winds (colder) will start blowing in the region again,” he said. Bharti said the residents may expect slight respite from the biting cold over the next 24 hours owing to a the warmer easterly winds. Light to moderate fog is also expected at a few places in the state in the morning hours over the next two days. Shailendra Kumar Patel, another official at Patna centre, said a western disturbance reached western Himalayas on Sunday. “It has led to comparatively warmer easterly winds blowing in lower level of atmosphere in the region. However, westerly winds continue to blow at the ground level, which is maintaining cold conditions,” he said. “As per numerical calculation, temperature is unlikely to plummet much over the next 48 hours and the moisture incursion from the easterly winds may lead to fog cover at some places,” he added. Skymetweather, on the other hand, predicted icy cold winds from western Himalayas to continue over the Indo-Gangetic plains as well as central part of the country for another 24 hours. “Minimum temperatures of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, east Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra are expected to drop further during the next 2-3 days, leading to intensification of cold wave conditions over these states,” the Skymet report stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cold-wave-spell-likely-to-continue-over-next-2-days/articleshow/79828287.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 599 more Covid cases, five deaths||PATNA: The state recorded 599 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, the state’s Covid tally went up to 2,47,244 and toll reached 1,352 on Sunday. As per the state health department bulletin, four fresh Covid deaths in Patna took the district’s toll to 360. Sheikhpura, on the other hand, registered one death on Sunday. Altogether 584 patients were discharged from different health facilities in the state in the last 24 hours after they recuperated from the virus. With this, the number of cured people in the state has risen to 2,40,915. Active cases in the state stood at 4,977 on Sunday. The state’s recovery rate has touched 97.44%. As many as 1,18,915 new samples were tested at different health facilities and laboratories in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,71,14,663 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. Five patients died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P), including a 68-year-old woman from Rajeev Nagar in Patna. The other deceased included a 63-year-old man from Nand Gola in Patna City, a 68-year-old man from Rupaspur and an 81-year-old man from Ram Jaipal Nagar in Danapur. A 68-year-old man from Goriya Kothi in Siwan also succumbed to the virus. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 13 patients were admitted to the hospital in the last 24 hours, including former CM and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi. “Manjhi is suffering from fever and cough. His city scan was done and there are some evidences of viral infection in lungs,” Dr Kumar said. HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan said Manjhi’s health condition is stable. At NMCH, no new Covid casualty was reported on Sunday. However, two Covid patients were admitted to the hospital and one was discharged in the last 24 hours. Of the 599 new Covid cases registered in the state on Sunday, Patna accounted for 253. With this, the district’s Covid tally has risen to 46,614. With 44,353 recoveries, there are 1,901 active cases in the district. Among other districts, Saran recorded 36 fresh Covid cases, Muzaffarpur 35, Lakhisarai 26 and Begusarai 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-599-more-covid-cases-five-deaths/articleshow/79828520.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Railways extends run of two more special trains||PATNA: The railways has extended the run of superfast weekly Patna-Vasco da Gama special (02741/02742) till January 30, 2021 and the Bhagalpur-Yeswanthpur superfast weekly special (02253/02254) till January 27 to cope with huge rush of passengers. According to East Central Railway chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the Darbhanga-New Delhi special (02569/02570 ) and Patna-Ahmedabad special (09447/09448) have been cancelled from December 24 to January 7 due to yard remodelling work to be carried out in the Prayagraj division of the North Central Railway. “We are strictly following Covid-19 health protocols issued by the ministry of home affairs while allowing passengers to board trains,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-extends-run-of-two-more-special-trains/articleshow/79828487.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Duo beats Bopal woman, tears dress||AHMEDABAD: A 30-year-old woman from the South Bopal area on Saturday filed a complaint against two men who beat and tore her clothes when she objected to their use of foul language in front of her shop on Friday evening. In her complaint with Bopal police of Ahmedabad district, the woman, who runs a shop of snacks in South Bopal and stays in the same locality, states that the incident occurred on Friday evening when she, along with other staffers, were busy at her shop. She said that one of the accused, Chirag Patel was using abusive words loudly and when she went out of her shop and objected, he began abusing her. At that time, his friend Ajit Patel also rushed in and began abusing her. Then the duo began threatening and beating her. Her husband, who was also present in the office, tried to rescue her, but was also beaten badly. The complainant stated that the duo then threatened her with dire consequences and told her to leave her shop and house and leave the area. She called up police control room but the duo left before police could arrive. Bopal police registered a case of causing hurt, criminal intimidation and uttering of abusive words against Chirag and Ajit Patel. The police did not slap charges of molestation even though the accused, allegedly, had torn the woman’s clothes. This is the second case in a week of attacking a woman in the South Bopal area. Last week, an unknown person had barged into the salon of a Bopal woman, tried to strangle her and then molested her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/duo-beats-bopal-woman-tears-dress/articleshow/79829187.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Patna||Patna administration to encourage people for Covaxin trial||PATNA: Concerned over low turnout of volunteers for the phase-3 clinical trial of Covaxin at AIIMS-Patna to counter Covid-19, the district administration has decided to launch a special awareness drive to encourage people. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said at least 60 more people have registered for the vaccine trial — 10 each from Patna, Rohtas, Buxar, Nalanda, Bhojpur and Kaimur. The volunteers would get their first dose of indigenous vaccine within next three-days. Agarwal on Sunday said the volunteers from each district would visit the AIIM-P in a group, so that they don’t be afraid of the vaccine trial. “The selected volunteers would get free transportation, remuneration of Rs750 and medical check-ups during the clinical trial. Besides, these people will be felicitated with mementos. The initiative is to encourage volunteers to participate in the clinical trial,” he said. The Patna district administration will also hold awareness drive in different private institutes, colleges for maximum participation from next week. AIIMS-P began registration of healthy participants from December 7 for the phase-3 trail of Covaxin, jointly developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. AIIMS-P superintendent Dr CM Singh, who is also the principal investigator of the trial, told this newspaper that altogether 201 people have so far received the first dose of vaccine in the ongoing clinical trial, including 41 on Sunday. “Many people are not coming because of the rumours associated with the vaccine trial. However, as people are getting the right information through different mediums, they are coming forward,” he said. “The third and the last phase is more challenging because we have to include 1,000 healthy participants in the vaccine trial. In the first and second phase, less than 50 volunteers were required and came forward in just 3-4 days,” he added. As per the AIIMS-P sources, 100 more people (above 18) have registered themselves for the clinical trial till Sunday. The phase-3 is a double-blind clinical trial, in which 50% participants would receive the vaccine and other 50% would get the placebo. As per the protocol, the first dose would be given on zero day and the second dose on the 28th day. The trial protocol requires follow-ups on the 28th, 42nd, 104th and 194th day to check the level of immunogenicity (amount of antibody produced in a healthy body to fight against the SARS CoV-2 virus, which causes the disease).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/district-administration-to-encourage-people-for-covaxin-trial/articleshow/79828536.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 21, 2020||Patna||Focus on NAAC accreditation: Bihar education minister||PATNA: State education minister Ashok Choudhary on Sunday said the government is serious about National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation to each university and college. “NAAC accreditation is absolutely necessary for infrastructure development and academic ambience on the university and college campuses,” the minister said at a function at B D College here, adding under the new rule prescribed by the University Grants Commission (UGC), NAAC gradation is must to avail financial benefits. “The government has created a cell to keep a tab on NAAC accreditation to each college. The government also provides financial assistance to universities and institutions for infrastructure development so that they can get better NAAC score. Besides, there is a need to improve gross enrolment ratio of students in higher education. The government has worked out a comprehensive plan to improve students’ gross enrolment ratio from 13.6% to 30% at both school and university levels. The enrolment ratio will further be increased to 50% by 2035,” Choudhary said. He also stressed the need for presence of teachers in colleges on regular basis. “The state government has regularised salary payments to university and college teachers. It has also made all possible efforts to address teachers’ grievances,” he said, adding the government will now focus on research-oriented work in the state universities. He also assured B D College principal Pravin Kumar of giving permission to the institution soon to start PG teaching. Pataliputra University vice-chancellor Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal and A N College principal S P Sahi also spoke on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/focus-on-naac-accreditation-minister/articleshow/79828481.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Patna||14-year-old gang-raped in Bhojpur district||ARA: A 14- year-old dalit girl belonging to a village under the Piro police station area of Bhojpur district was allegedly gang-raped and held captive at gun-point in a barn by six men from her village. In a complaint filed by the survivor’s father with the Piro police station, it has been alleged that on December 16, the girl had gone out in the morning around 4am with few other girls to perform some ritual. On their way back, six men of the village kidnapped the minor by gagging her mouth and took turns to rape her. She was even threatened and the accused persons were talking about holding her captive for four days, but she, somehow managed to escape the next morning. After reaching home, she narrated narrate her ordeals to her parents. Police were informed about the incident on Saturday by her father. Meanwhile, police have detained two persons for interrogation. Piro police station SHO A K Choudhary on Sunday said that a case has been lodged against six persons under the POCSO Act and SC/ ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minor-gang-raped-in-bhojpur/articleshow/79827873.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||With increase in internet usage, cyber crime up in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With the usage of of internet increasing significantly in the back drop of Covid-19 and lockdown, the number cyber crime cases registered in Hyderabad went up from 1,400 cases registered in 2019 to 2,500 cases registered this year. From the last week of March, the number of users falling prey to financial frauds and social media stalking cases has gone up. The number of criminal cases registered for various cyber crimes that took place in the city has gone up in the last three years and officials expect it to go up further in the coming years. “This year, new crimes such as organised online gambling done by Chinese firms, instant finance apps have come to light. The cases registered with regard to other conventional cyber crimes like duping online users by offering different financial schemes and misusing social media has gone up. This has happened mainly due to increase in usage of internet during and after lockdown,” officials of Hyderabad police told TOI. With the police deciding to register an FIR for all complaints in the last two years, the number of cases has been increasing year on year. After busting a Chinese online gambling racket, four people were arrested—including a Chinese national, who continues to be behind the bars as an under trial. A few years back, Telangana police decided to set up cyber crime police stations in every district, as victims are from everywhere. As of now, there is only one cyber crime police station in Hyderabad city and a proposal is being mooted to have additional police stations due to the abnormal increase in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-increase-in-internet-usage-cyber-crime-up-in-city/articleshow/79830686.cms||Srinath Vudali
December 21, 2020||Patna||Overbridge to connect Patna Junction flyover with multi-level parking||PATNA: A 5.5-metre-wide overbridge will connect the Patna Junction flyover with the multi-level parking (MLP) facility near Buddha Smriti Park to address the parking problem in Station Road areas. The MLP facility, developed at a cost of Rs13.58 crore often wears a deserted look since its inauguration in 2016 due to encroachment on its approach road. The Patna Smart City Limited (PSCL) has included the overbridge as a part of its ‘Railway Station Area Redevelopment’ project. Commuters coming from R-Block, Buddh Marg, Karbigahiya and Meethapur will be able to use the MLP from the northern-end of the Station Road flyover, without facing any vehicular rush. The MLP will also get direct connectivity with Patna Junction through a subway under the busy road. The construction of overbridge will cost Rs10 crore and subway will cost Rs65 crore. The bidding process for the construction of overbridge has been initiated by the Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam. It is likely to be ready by 2022. Patna municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the construction of overbridge connecting the second-level of MLP with Station Road flyover (between pillar 7 and 8) has been included for proper utilization of the existing parking space. “Commuters coming to Patna Junction would use this overbridge to park their cars directly at MLP without facing any congestion near the Buddh Marg. The subway will provide hassle-free movement between MLP and gate number 1 of Patna Junction near Hanuman Mandir. This subway, will be equipped with escalator and would also be connected to the proposed multi-modal transit hub, under the Railway Station Area Redevelopment project,” Himanshu said. The other infrastructure that is the part of the project is Hawker Complex, Modern Municipal Complex and Smart City Complex and a multi-modal transit hub. It will come up over the 16 acre land at Bakri Bazaar. The entire project will cost around Rs216 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/overbridge-to-connect-patna-jn-flyover-with-multi-level-parking/articleshow/79828001.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Business||Ex-honcho of Blackstone to sell part of MTAR stake||Mumbai: Former Blackstone India honcho Mathew Cyriac will sell part of his stake in aerospace and defence component maker MTAR Technologies in an initial public offer (IPO) that could raise up to Rs 650 crore from retail and institutional investors. Cyriac left Blackstone India three years ago to start his own investment outfit after spending more than a decade at the world’s largest private equity firm. His other investments include garment exporter Gokaldas Exports, CMS IT Services, insurance broker OneInsure, subway sandwich chain Bread Basket and fintech startup City Cash. The MTAR stake is the first investment in a company that he will be encashing, albeit partially. Cyriac holds 33% stake in MTAR through Mumbai-based Fabmohur Advisors. Star and Disney India chief K Madhavan and former Citi banker P Simhadri Reddy too are equity partners in Fabmohur, which is the single largest shareholder in MTAR. Cyriac, the majority shareholder of Fabmohur, started investing in MTAR in November 2017 and now plans to take back some profits, said sources. MTAR has filed initial papers with markets regulator Sebi, and expects to be listed on the stock exchanges before the end of fiscal 2021. Promoters own around 67% in the company, which reported a profit of Rs 31 crore on a revenue of Rs 214 crore in fiscal 2020. The MTAR IPO will be a combination of fresh issuance of shares by the company and a stake-sale by Cyriac and promoters. Cyriac wants to retain some stake in the company after the IPO, said sources, joining a list of investors who do not seem to be in a hurry to completely encash their investments despite the robust IPO market. More than a dozen companies have launched IPOs to raise money since July, when India loosened the lockdown for the second time, with several of them being highly subscribed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ex-honcho-of-blackstone-to-sell-part-of-mtar-stake/articleshow/79830444.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Demand drop: Pvt hosps downsize Covid units||Kolkata: A decline in the number of Covid patients seeking admission over the past fortnight has led three private hospitals to shrink their Covid units — a significant reversal of trend that comes nine months after they were set up and expanded multiple times. While four hospitals have already downsized their Covid units, another is contemplating a similar reduction in the number of its non-critical Covid beds. All of them have pointed to a sharp drop in the number of Covid patients and a manifold rise in the volume of non-Covid patients, many of whom require emergency admission and surgeries, as the reasons behind the move. Last Friday, Medica Superspecialty Hospital reduced its Covid ICU unit to a 100-bed one from 150 beds. The Covid ward, too, has seen a reduction of 10-15 beds. These have now been converted into non-Covid beds to cater to the patient load in other sections. While an entire floor at the hospital has been reserved for Covid treatment, some of the Covid beds on other floors have been converted. “We have multiple ICUs, of which a couple have now been freed of Covid patients. With the number of other patients climbing sharply, we need these beds for them,” said Medica chairperson Alok Roy. AMRI Hospitals have scaled down its Covid wards at the Dhakuria and Mukundapur units by 30%. Its Salt Lake unit and the ICUs, however, have not seen any change. “There has been a surge in the number of non-Covid patients since late-November while the flow of non-critical Covid cases has ebbed significantly. So, we have started converting some of the general ward beds to cater to this change in patient profile. We have not touched the Covid ICUs though, since they still have a 95% occupancy,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. While AMRI’s Mukundapur unit has seen Covid beds sliding from 60 to 30, the Dhakuria unit has seen a drop of around 10 Covid beds. Authorities of the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences said they were facing “immense pressure” to accommodate non-Covid patients — the number of which has returned to almost pre-pandemic levels. Covid occupancy at the hospital, however, has slid to around 50%, according to zonal director R Venkatesh. “We have begun accommodating non-Covid patients in the designated Covid beds, ensuring proper demarcation between the two. We have not reverted any infrastructural changes made for Covid beds, so that, in case there is a surge in cases again, we can quickly re-convert. The average length of stay of non-Covid patients is between five-seven days. So it would take us less than a week to revert in case there is a need,” Venkatesh said. The slide in Covid beds was expected ever since the number of patients started plateauing post-Diwali, said pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “A surge had been feared after the puja period, but fortunately it didn’t happen. Ever since, there has been a sharp drop in the number of non-critical Covid admissions and a minor dip in critical cases. The volume of non-Covid patients, on the other hand, has swelled to almost 75% of the pre-pandemic times. So, a bed redistribution was necessary,” said Dhar. The number of Covid ICU beds has been reduced from 60 to 40 at Charnock Hospital while non-critical Covid beds have gone from 35 to 25. “The rush for Covid beds has eased considerably, so it makes sense now to use some of them for other patients,” reasoned Charnock MD Prashant Sharma. After staying filled to capacity for eight months, Peerless Hospital’s Covid unit saw a drop in numbers last month. “Around 30 non-critical Covid beds are now vacant and three-four are empty at the ITU. If this trend continues, we will appeal to the government to let us reduce the number of Covid beds,” said CEO Sudipta Mitra. Desun Hospital — a government-designated Covid facility — is, however, yet to scale down its 113-bed unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/demand-drop-pvt-hosps-downsize-covid-units/articleshow/79828912.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 21, 2020||Business||Reliance Home Finance gets two firm bids||Mumbai: Authum Investment & Infrastructure and a consortium comprising asset reconstruction company (ARC) Arcil and US distressed fund Avenue Capital Group have placed firm bids for Reliance Home Finance. Sources said that four other bidders have submitted conditional bids, which make them non-compliant. However, the trustees are understood to have extended the last date of the bidding to January 31 to see if there are any more firm bids. The remaining bidders are mostly ARCs. The troubled home financier is being put on the block by lenders who have appointed BoB Capital Markets (BoB Caps) and Ernst & Young (EY) to manage the process. Kotak Special Situations Fund (KSSF) and Asset Care and Reconstruction Enterprise (ACRE) have submitted non-binding bids with conditions, including exclusivity, and have also asked for additional time of to complete due-diligence. The other two ARCs — Invent and Alchemist — have also submitted conditional bids without the Rs 10-crore bond. Earlier, the lenders had indicated December 17 as the last date for submitting bids. However, banking sources said that the trustees are acting on the principle of maximising value for investors by casting a wide net for prospective buyers. Rating agencies had downgraded Reliance Home Finance to default in June 2019 after the company failed to make repayment on its Rs 400-crore debentures. It was hived out of Reliance Capital in 2017, after which it was listed on the stock exchanges. Rel Cap’s stake in the entity fell to 48%, after which it ceased to be a subsidiary and was reclassified as an associate. The housing finance company had total assets of Rs 15,729 crore as of March 2020 and had reported a loss of Rs 375 crore for FY20. The Reliance Home Finance sale is part of the resolution process of Reliance Capital, which is being sold by Vistra ITCL debenture trustees, which represent the majority of creditors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reliance-home-finance-gets-two-firm-bids/articleshow/79830458.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Patna||Patna University colleges to reopen on January 4||PATNA: Even as the state government is yet to issue detailed guidelines for starting normal classroom teaching in colleges and universities, Patna University (PU) has started making necessary preparations for starting classes from January 4. The university has asked its colleges and postgraduate departments to gear up for restoration of offline classes adhering strictly to Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Union health ministry. PU vice-chancellor G K Chaudhary told this newspaper on Sunday that resumption of classes in colleges is also linked with the reopening of hostels. PU would write a letter to the district administration on Monday seeking its permission to open the hostels which lie closed since the third week of March this year. If the district administration permits, the PU would undertake the exercise of making hostel accommodation to its students pursuing their studies, he said. The VC said at present classes of only Degree Part III (honours) students would be started with only 50% strength in a class. For instance, a class of 60 students would be divided into two classes of 30 students each. New timetable of different classes would also be notified shortly. In PU, however, the results of Degree Part II (honours) examinations of 2020 are yet to be announced and, hence, there is no third year class at present. The VC, however, asserted that the results of Part II examination would be published soon and the successful students would be promoted to the third year class as soon as the university reopens after Christmas. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha said a meeting of university officials was held on Saturday to discuss ways and means for starting classes with all precautions. Proper sanitization of classrooms and entire college campus, arrangement of classes with social distancing and framing new timetable for students were discussed at length. Foolproof arrangements for holding final year undergraduate and postgraduate classes were also chalked out at the meeting, he said. Magadh Mahila College principal Shashi Sharma said she has made all the necessary arrangements for starting classes from January 4. Since only final year classes would be held at present, there would be no shortage of classrooms. Each class would be divided into two sections and held in two different classrooms. There is no need of calling students on alternate day. The only problem is that a teacher would have to take two classes on the same topic. But, it would not create much problem as the teachers won’t have much workload for the time being, she said. It may be mentioned here that the UGC, in its guidelines issued in mid-November, had asked the universities to resume classes as per their own convenience with all preventive measures against the Covid 19 pandemic. Educational institutions may also seek written undertaking from students wishing to attend classes, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-colleges-to-reopen-on-january-4/articleshow/79828561.cms||B K Mishra
December 21, 2020||Business||DHFL lenders to select bid this week||MUMBAI: Piramal Group has informed lenders that its plan to merge Piramal Financial Services with DHFL, if successful in its bid, will result in an equity infusion of Rs 10,000 crore into the bankrupt housing finance company (HFC). This will ensure that DHFL’s business and jobs are protected. Lenders to DHFL will decide on the new bids for the troubled HFC. The sale of the company under the insolvency process is now seen as a contest between the Piramal Group and US private equity fund manager Oaktree. With the committee of creditors expected to decide within days, Piramal is going all out to buttress its bid. Piramal Group has offered to buy the DHFL’s life insurance arm, which is being sold outside the insolvency process, for Rs 300 crore if it is successful in its bid for the bankrupt HFC. Since it’s being sold outside the insolvency process, lenders would need to find a buyer for the life insurance arm as it cannot exist without a promoter. Although Oaktree also offered to purchase the life insurer, the acquisition would be subject to foreign direct investment norms. Pramerica holds 49% stake in the life insurance joint venture. Also, Piramal has proposed to pay to the depositors of the HFC 10% more than what is awarded to them under the distribution process. Financial creditors are expected to take a large haircut on their loans as over Rs 20,000 crore of wholesale debt is not traceable. Oaktree is understood to have bid Rs 11,700 crore in cash and Rs 32,700 crore in the form of non-convertible debentures (NCDs). Piramal has offered a higher cash component of Rs 12,700 crore and lower NCDs of Rs 19,500 crore. Lenders are expected to decide after factoring in the net present value of the bids and the extent of cash that they will receive upfront.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dhfl-lenders-to-select-bid-this-week/articleshow/79830433.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP farmer gets surprise call from KCR over best farm methods, lunch invite||HYDERABAD: When Uppala Prasada Rao, a farmer in a remote village in Andhra Pradesh was quizzed on telephone about best farming practices, he wasn’t surprised. But when someone told him that the caller was none other than Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, this Krishna district organic farmer was left speechless. Not just that, KCR even invited Rao for a luncheon meeting to know more about his direct sowing method of paddy using seed drill equipment. “I am happy that a chief minister has called me. I used to read about Swami Vivekananda, as he is my inspiration. Hard work, positive think and commitment has helped my agriculture and dairy business grow. From two acres to 200 acres and two buffalos to 250,” Rao, who is from Ghantasala village, said, adding: “The chief minister said he himself is a farmer and was excited to know about methods followed by me.” “Usually paddy nursery method needs a lot of water and transplantation. With seed drill, we can directly sow paddy seeds and it brings down by Rs 4,000 expense per acre as the total expense per acre can be capped at Rs 15,000 per acre. The yield also comes out significantly,” said Rao. Attracted by his paddy cultivation methods, KCR asked Rao to come to his farmhouse as a guest and explain his methods. KCR spoke to the farmer for around 10 minutes, before he invited him over. “I will send a car to your village, please come as my guest and have lunch with me and tell me about the methods,” KCR was quoted as having said to him. Rao mostly uses organic manure for farming. “Agriculture allied with diary industry can help farming sector revival,” he said. Rao said he hailed from a very modest background and when he was studying in class 10 his dad sold off almost all land except for two acres and couldn’t buy even clothes for festival. “When I told him, I want to do agriculture he hugged me and wept. From that day I was determined to take up cultivation and worked hard,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-farmer-gets-surprise-call-from-kcr-over-best-farm-methods-lunch-invite/articleshow/79831818.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||AP farmer gets surprise call from KCR over best farm methods, lunch invite||HYDERABAD: When Uppala Prasada Rao, a farmer in a remote village in Andhra Pradesh was quizzed on telephone about best farming practices, he wasn’t surprised. But when someone told him that the caller was none other than Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, this Krishna district organic farmer was left speechless. Not just that, KCR even invited Rao for a luncheon meeting to know more about his direct sowing method of paddy using seed drill equipment. “I am happy that a chief minister has called me. I used to read about Swami Vivekananda, as he is my inspiration. Hard work, positive think and commitment has helped my agriculture and dairy business grow. From two acres to 200 acres and two buffalos to 250,” Rao, who is from Ghantasala village, said, adding: “The chief minister said he himself is a farmer and was excited to know about methods followed by me.” “Usually paddy nursery method needs a lot of water and transplantation. With seed drill, we can directly sow paddy seeds and it brings down by Rs 4,000 expense per acre as the total expense per acre can be capped at Rs 15,000 per acre. The yield also comes out significantly,” said Rao. Attracted by his paddy cultivation methods, KCR asked Rao to come to his farmhouse as a guest and explain his methods. KCR spoke to the farmer for around 10 minutes, before he invited him over. “I will send a car to your village, please come as my guest and have lunch with me and tell me about the methods,” KCR was quoted as having said to him. Rao mostly uses organic manure for farming. “Agriculture allied with diary industry can help farming sector revival,” he said. Rao said he hailed from a very modest background and when he was studying in class 10 his dad sold off almost all land except for two acres and couldn’t buy even clothes for festival. “When I told him, I want to do agriculture he hugged me and wept. From that day I was determined to take up cultivation and worked hard,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-farmer-gets-surprise-call-from-kcr-over-best-farm-methods-lunch-invite/articleshow/79830185.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Gold worth Rs 19 lakh seized at Hyderabad airport||HYDERABAD: Customs officials intercepted a passenger who arrived from Dubai at Rajiv Gandhi International (RGI) Airport on Saturday and seized Rs 19 lakh worth gold from his possession. Acting on specific information, Customs sleuths intercepted a passenger who arrived in Air India’s flight (AI 952) from Dubai on Saturday. The accused opted for green channel at the customs check area indicating that he was not carrying any dutiable items. However, during the inspection of his baggage, Customs sleuths found 373 grams of gold. “The gold rods were concealed in the metal rollers of currency counting machines he was carrying in the baggage. The value of the seized gold was Rs 19.14 lakh and a case was booked against the smuggler under the Customs Act,” said a Customs official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gold-worth-rs-19l-seized-at-rgia/articleshow/79830689.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Singhu Border: This salon is grooming farmers for protest||NEW DELHI: Farmers at Singhu border got a pleasant surprise after a temporary salon was started by Sonu Vartia, a 26-year old man from Pehowa in Kurukshetra. The beauty parlour is offering a range of services, including shaving, haircut, grooming, etc, free of cost. Vartia has been in the business for the past 10 years. He said while no one in his family currently tills agricultural land, his ancestors were farmers. The parlour, Crazy Beauty Salon, which is functioning from 9am to 9pm, got a lot of customers till afternoon, primarily to get their beards trimmed or shaven. Vartia and six of his staffers got the chairs and other equipment required for the salon, which is for both men and women. “I thought of coming here as the protesting farmers are getting all facilities, except grooming. Our lives are nothing without farmers and it’s because of them that our future generations will survive. On the first day on Wednesday, around 200 people came to get groomed. We don’t keep a record of our seva and attend to people as and when they arrive. We will continue to be here for them,” said Vartia. Kanwaljeet Singh, a farmer from Haryana who has been at the protest site for the past 10 days, was one of the first few who went to the salon to get his beard trimmed. “Due to our day-to-day activities, I was unable to trim my beard. I’m happy that Sonu is doing this service for us. It really feels good to get groomed after so many days,” he added. Abhishek, an 18-year-old working at the salon, said, “I started working a year ago. When I got to know that the salon owner was coming for seva at Singhu border, even I decided to serve the people here. I think everybody should do their bit for the farmers as they play an important role in everyone’s life.” Watch Farmers' delight: This salon at Delhi's Singhu Border is grooming farmers for protest||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-salon-is-grooming-farmers-for-protest/articleshow/79829211.cms||Sakshi Chand
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Uncared-for green belt in Sarabha Nagar turns barren||Ludhiana: Located near municipal corporation’s Zone D office in Sarabha Nagar, this green belt presents a picture of neglect.The previous year, trees and plants were cultivated in the belt. But today, most of the plants have dried up. It was equipped with an open gym, too. It was, however, never thrown open to the public and remains closed till date. Development of a waterfront at Sidhwan Canal left the belt in ruins.The MC officials said they have hired a contractor to develop the belt. But due to some reasons, the work has been stopped. It might resume in February, they added. It is a long belt starting from one corner of the road that ends near a hospital in Sarabha Nagar. A part of the belt is earmarked for a static compactor and the remaining area is in a mess.Sarabjit Singh, a resident of the city, said, “On one side, we have the developed tracks and green area of Sidhwan Canal waterfront and on the other, this abandoned green belt along the road. The authorities should give attention to green belts, as the industrial hub lacks these.”Another Ludhianvi Gurdeep Singh said, “The green belt offers entry to Sidhwan Canal waterfront and the two present a contrasting picture, with one uncared-for and the other developing. If this green belt too is developed, then the entire area will look beautiful and attract more people.” MC bridges and road department executive engineer Raman Kaushal said, “We have stopped development of this green belt for some time, as a firm is laying sewerage pipes under the road. This work will be completed by next month and then we will start developing the green belt. In February, plantation will take place along with civil work and it will be completely developed by March.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/uncared-for-green-belt-in-sarabha-nagar-turns-barren/articleshow/79828171.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Missing Class-10 girl found in Mt Abu||AHMEDABAD: A Class-10 girl who went missing on Thursday morning after her parents scolded her for excessive use of cellphone was traced from Mount Abu on Saturday night. Officers of Gujarat University police said that the girl, 15, was sexually harassed by a youth from Maninagar who took her to Mount Abu in an SUV with another friend. The accused was identified as Yash Barot, 19, and his friend Nilay Shah, 19, both of Maninagar. A police officer said that the girl’s parents had approached them saying that their daughter left home after dropping a note that she was leaving home as her parents constantly scolded her for using cellphone. Police checked CCTV footage of nearby areas and found the girl was last seen boarding an SUV car. When they traced the car, they found that it had gone towards Rajasthan. Further inquiry revealed it was Yash’s father’s car. A team of Gujarat University police reached Mount Abu and found the missing girl who was taken back to Ahmedabad city. Police booked and held the two youths under charges of elopement and POCSO. A police officer said the girl has been sent for medical examination. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/missing-class-10-girl-found-in-mt-abu/articleshow/79829207.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Mother recalls hard times as Ludhiana girl wins boxing gold||LUDHIANA: “Every medal won by my daughter is a reply to those who ridiculed me for encouraging her for boxing and giving wings to her dreams. I took their barbs silently, but my daughter is replying to them with her achievements,” said Rajpal Kaur, mother of boxer Simranjit Kaur from Chakar village in Ludhiana district. Simranjit Kaur won a gold medal in the Boxing World Cup, Cologne, Germany, under the 60kg weight category on Sunday. Her win has increased expectations from her of bagging a medal in the Tokyo Olympics, for which she has already qualified. The bout was scheduled for 2am on Sunday and after winning the gold, she at first texted her mother. Rajpal said, “Words are failing me as I try to express my feelings. I got her text in the evening and congratulated her. Now we all are hoping she will win a medal in the Tokyo Olympics and create history. She would be reaching Ludhiana by Monday evening. We all are ready to give her a warm welcome.” Rajpal, a single mother, faced many hurdles and financial strains in raising Simranjit after her husband passed away years ago. Rajpal said, “When a family goes through a financial crisis, they kill the dreams of their children and push them to work and earn a living. But I encouraged Simranjit to go for boxing. Several people ridiculed and discouraged us, but I just ignored them. Now Simranjit’s achievements are speaking aloud. I believe girls should be independent and all mothers should encourage them irrespective of the hard times they are facing. Simranjit says all these tournaments will give her the experience and confidence to win at the Olympics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mother-recalls-hard-times-as-chakar-girl-wins-boxing-gold/articleshow/79828176.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 24-year-old jumps into Durgam Cheruvu, dies||HYDERABAD: A 24-year-old unemployed man from Vizag ended his life by jumping in Durgam Cheruvu. Locals alerted police about the body in the lake under Durgam Cheruvu Bridge on Sunday. “Our patrolling team fished out the body and found an Aadhaar card with name Sk Bilal Hussain, 24, in his pocket,” Madhapur inspector P Ravindra Prasad said. “We have confirmed that the deceased was Bilal Hussain from Vizag. An IndiGo flight ticket was also found on the victim indicating that he travelled from Vizag to Hyderabad on December 18. Family members said that he left a letter at home, bidding goodbye. He was upset about not getting a job after the completion of B.Tech. We are waiting for the family members arrival to gather more details,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/24-yr-old-jumps-into-durgam-cheruvu-dies/articleshow/79830704.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||It was fun Sunday for residents at Sidhwan water front||Ludhiana: Sunday became a perfect day for many families of the city to spend some quality time while participating in health and fitness activities organised by various NGOs and fitness institutes. As people did not get much time to move out in the past few months due to Covid-19, so, on Sunday, they gathered at the Sidhwan canal water front and enjoyed various fun activities. Activities like zumba dance, bhangra, cycling, jogging, drawing competition among many others were organised for the people. These activities continued for almost three hours. The children had a gala day as they got the opportunity to draw and fill colours using their imagination. There was a separate session for yoga and other fitness activities. The residents who reached the spot appreciated the move and said such public-involving activities should be organised on regular basis. People were reminded about the ‘Raahgiri’ events, which used to take place in Ghumar Mandi market and people used to enjoy a lot. On this occasion cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairman Raman Balasubramanium also took part in these activities. Ashu said they had developed this water front so that residents could enjoy a healthy atmosphere as there was a provision of jogging and cycling. He said on the pattern of Rakh Bagh they would provide a separate stand for cycles so that people could come here and paddle. He also said that the second phase of this project, starting from Pakhowal road till Gill road, would also start shortly as the detailed project report (DPR) had been prepared. He also assured that more such projects for the betterment of residents would be started in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/it-was-fun-sunday-for-residents-at-sidhwan-water-front/articleshow/79829212.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Man undergoes rare surgery for back pain||Hyderabad: After suffering back pain for 10 years and becoming totally bedridden over the last three months, a 45-year-old male patient working in a software company was finally treated trough a computer guided neuro navigation surgery.  Being confided confined to the wheel chair, the patient had presented with unbearable pain and had difficulties in standing, walking and even while sitting. After a ‘tumour board meeting’ of doctors a bone tumour (Lumbar L4 osteolytic lesion) was diagnosed. “Based on an oncology work up with a bone scan/PET and was found to have solitary benign osteochondroma. While it was decided that a surgery was required to extract the tumour, it ideally required a complete surgical excision with a fixation procedure as the primary modality of treatment,” said Dr Sreekanth Reddy, who headed the team of doctors. “This condition requires timely diagnosis with high precision and definitive treatment. Hence any chronic long standing back pain gradually worsening requires proper evaluation by experts and treatment accordingly. While the multi-disciplinary approach led to the right diagnosis, the planned project of computer guided neuronavigation was executed properly and this led to a great outcome,” added Dr Reddy, neurosurgeon Medicover Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-undergoes-rare-surgery-for-back-pain/articleshow/79829197.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Tibba Road man dies in freak accident||LUDHIANA: A 55-year-old cyclist died after his head hit against a roadside grille on Ludhiana-Amritsar National Highway near Subhash Nagar crossing on Sunday morning. Police said Inderjit Singh, a resident of Grewal Colony, Tibba Road, was running with his cycle to avoid collision with a car when the accident took place. Tibba Road police station ASI Sukhdev Singh said, “Inderjit’s daughter works at SPS Hospital. After her night shift, she was on way home and Inderjit had gone to pick her up from Subhash Nagar crossing. Inderjit was crossing the road, when a vehicle took a sharp turn to escape collision with a stray animal. Inderjit thought the vehicle was coming towards him. He ran in the opposite direction and lost balance. His head hit against the roadside grille, killing him on the spot.” As Inderjit fell on the road, a truck jammed on the brakes to avoid running into him. As its driver lost balance, the truck turned over. The driver, however, had a narrow escape. Inderjit’s daughter, who was on the other side of the road, rushed to her father. She then called up her family. The police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tibba-road-man-dies-in-freak-accident/articleshow/79828173.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kanpur||Muslim girl weds Hindu boy in Auraiya with kin’s blessings||KANPUR: In a rare case of inter-faith marriage in hinterlands of Uttar Pradesh, a Muslim woman married a Hindu man at a temple in Auraiya district with her parents’ consent and blessings after having an affair for over two years. The Muslim woman, Reshma, a native of Delhi, married a Hindu man named Aman, a resident of Barahar village in Bidhuna area of the district. The marriage was solemnised at a Shiv temple on Saturday night in presence of the parents of the bride and the bridegroom. Aman had met Reshma in Delhi where he works for a living and the two fell in love and decided to marry after knowing each other for two years. Reshma said she had decided that she would marry only Aman and that too with the consent of her parents. She said her husband’s family also liked her and accepted her wholeheartedly. Speaking to reporters after the wedding, Reshma’s father Salim said the marriage was solemnized with the consent of both families. “I did not think about different religion or faith. For me, my daughter’s happiness is most important. She knew Aman for a long time. Both are mature and took the decision after two years of courtship,” Salim said. “We decided to come here for the wedding since I wanted to see whether Aman’s family agrees and accepts her or not,” he added. Reshma is overjoyed and gloated over her father’s liberal approach. “We all should have a liberal mindset. Humanity is above all religions,” she said. The locals of the region thronged the Shiv temple to witness the rare and unique marriage which, they said, would definitely send a strong message across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/muslim-girl-weds-hindu-boy-in-auraiya-with-kins-blessings/articleshow/79829502.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Internal squabbles in Telangana BJP unit||HYDERABAD: State BJP unit on Sunday showed signs of internal wobbles. Party Mahbubnagar district president, former MLA Erra Sekhar resigned from the party and then withdrew it in the night. BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar is currently touring the district and Sekhar was upset with protocol issues during his visit. At a meeting of BJP key leaders in at Lalaguda, Taranka division senior leaders expressed unhappiness over the protocol again. Meanwhile, Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday alleged that the chief minister is playing a game of hide and seek. Addressing party activists in Mahbubnagar, he said, “Why did he go to Delhi, if loves farmers he should have gone to farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/internal-squabbles-in-state-bjp-unit/articleshow/79830724.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘47% of mall visitors don’t go for shopping’||Ahmedabad: Just how do Amdavadis prefer to travel to their favourite mall hangouts? An elaborate study of visitors at the city’s largest mall at Vastrapur was conducted by a transport research team, to understand modes of transport and other aspects of the traffic that visits malls. The study found that after work trips, shopping trips have the next highest share of trips to a destination in the city. At one of Ahmedabad’s largest malls in Vastrapur, a research team from the department of civil engineering of LD Engineering led by professor Rena Shukla and Kavisha Shah found that nearly 47% of the more than 919 persons surveyed at a Vastrapur mall, had visited for other purposes than shopping. while more than 70% of mall visitors used private vehicles for convenience, a majority of them, 50.94% used their private four-wheelers. The research also found that nearly 31% of the total visitors travelled between 5 to 10km while an almost equal portion of visitors, 33%, travelled 2-5km to reach the mall. “There are 211 units within the mall and amongst these, 76% are for shopping purpose, 17% are for dining, 2% for gaming zones and entertainment while 0.9% are for movies and 4.3% are for spas, salons,” claims the research paper. A crucial aspect of the study was calculating the probability of choice of transport if visitors were given a choice to visit the mall. Almost 65% of mall visitors prefer to visit the malls on weekends rather than on weekdays. Also, the preferred time of visit to the mall for 35% of visitors is between 4pm and 8pm. followed by 30% of visitors who prefer the time between 12pm and 4 pm. “Women , especially housewives prefer to visit during noon, which they can spare easily from their daily chores. It was found that about 61% of mall visitors belong to the age group of 18 to 30 years, and that 75% of total mall visitors had income greater than Rs 50,000,” claims the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/47-of-mall-visitors-dont-go-for-shopping/articleshow/79829217.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: PM’s surprise visit to gurdwara catches security off-guard||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi surprised Delhi Police personnel, and the traffic and security units on Sunday morning when he visited Gurdwara Rakabganj to pay tributes to Sikh saint Guru Tegh Bahadur, without having any security route laid out for him. Usually, Delhi Police’s PM security has advance information about any movement from Lok Kalyan Marg, the PM’s residence. For a visit like Sunday’s, three routes would have been planned by Saturday night and sanitised. The deployment would be ensured at least from 6am with traffic cribs kicking in at various intersections just before the PM left the residence. However, on Sunday, most of the security apparatus, including local police and traffic personnel, came to know about the visit only when Modi’s carcade reached the barricades outside the gurdwara around 8.30am. Sources said that just one or two people in the police brass may have received an alert when the carcade left Lok Kalyan Marg, that too without any specific information about his destination. As the PM got off his vehicle outside the gurdwara, the police apparatus went into a tizzy with wireless sets ringing across ranks. Local police of New Delhi district and traffic cops swung into action in the next 15-20 minutes, but the PM had left by then. Modi, it has been learnt, even returned without a secured route. Sources said that though SPG may have been alerted about PM's movement early morning, Special Protection Group (SPG) did not communicate to the police to have a route laid out. “The PM often prefers to move just with close security cordon and has often asserted to avoid traditional deployment so that the public is not inconvenienced,” a senior security official explained. Sources in the security establishment said that Modi has been particular about not having any unnecessary curbs after an incident of 2015 when schools were shut in Chandigarh for a day to facilitate his movement. In Delhi, the police department has a dedicated unit for exclusively manning PM’s route and coordinating with his security. For Modi's security, Delhi Police has three routes for his movement. The route to be taken by the PM is decided only at the last moment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pms-surprise-visit-to-gurdwara-catches-security-off-guard/articleshow/79829265.cms||Raj Shekhar
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||78-year-old man succumbs, 57 contract coronavirus in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: A resident of Ludhiana and five outsiders succumbed to Covid-19 here on Sunday. Besides, 57 residents and 13 outsiders tested positive. As per the local media bulletin, the 78-year-old man of Barewal Awana, who had hypertension, died at a city hospital. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally was 949 and that of outsiders 434. To date, 5,14,691 persons have been tested. Of the 57 new cases, 22 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 14 positive cases’ contacts, 13 from OPD, and eight through tracing process. The Ludhiana case count was 24,379 and that of outsiders 3,572. So far, 22,785 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.46% of the total cases. There are 642 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 2,029. On Sunday, 106 persons were quarantined and 2,316 samples collected.  There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at CMCH. Ten patients, including two Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/78-year-old-man-succumbs-57-contract-virus-in-district/articleshow/79828185.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s Walter White was paid Rs 5 crore a year to make drugs||HYDERABAD: The PhD holder in Chemistry turned drug manufacturer, Srinivasa Rao, who was recently arrested by the DRI, has made over Rs 5 crore in the span of a year by cooking Mephedrone single-handedly for a Mumbai-based gang. Srinivasa Rao, 45, completed PhD in Chemistry from JNTU. DRI officials said that Rao even has a Post Doctoral degree. Rao worked in various pharmaceutical industries, including some prominent companies. He mostly worked in the field of antibiotics, a DRI official said. Baffled with the academic and employment record of Rao, DRI sleuths tried to find out what forced him to venture into the narcotics manufacturing business. “Rao’s wife works as a teacher in a prominent private school and they have three children. Rao clearly said that he did not have financial problems and he ventured into drug manufacturing as he felt that his talent was not adequately rewarded by the pharma industry,” said an investigator. About two years ago, Rao quit a pharma company and registered his own private laboratories in Hyderabad. But investigators found that he had not produced anything from the new company. During this period, about a year ago, a Mumbai-based drug peddlers’ gang contacted Rao and convinced him to manufacture Mephedrone to export abroad. The gang used to supply raw material from Mumbai and collect Mephedrone made by Rao. “Rao leased a small lab in Jeedimetla industrial area saying the owner wanted to produce pharmaceutical products. For every 100 kilos of raw material, Rao used to produce about 20 kilos of Mephedrone. As he was operating alone, he used to produce only 3 to 4 kilos per batch,” DRI official said. Rao told the DRI team that when he was working at the pharma companies, his monthly salary was about Rs 1 lakh but the Mumbai gang paid him about Rs 5 lakh for each kilo of Mephedrone. In the past year, hesaid he had delivered over 100 kilos of contraband to the gang. Along with Rao, DRI team also arrested a member of Mumbai based gang, Md Ashraf, who was in the city to pick up Mephedrone from Rao. Now, the DRI teams are working on the leads to nab Mumbai gang members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citys-walter-white-was-paid-rs-5cr-a-yr-to-make-drugs/articleshow/79830720.cms||Mahesh Buddi
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Soon, relief from jams near Pakhowal Road rail crossing||LUDHIANA: The New Year can bring some respite from traffic jams near Pakhowal Road railway crossing, as one side of the under-bridge is likely to be opened in three months. For the past 15 years, the residents have been raising the demand of a railway over-bridge at the crossing from where many trains pass during the day, leading to long queues of vehicles. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, after inspecting the project on Sunday, claimed that in the next three months one side of the under-bridge would open. The Pakhowal Road railway crossing falls on the busy Ferozepur-Ludhiana rail line near a convent school. The crossing has been a bugbear for the commuters. At this crossing, one rail over-bridge (approximately 839.83 metres in length) would be constructed from Sidhwan Canal side towards Hero Bakery Chowk along Pakhowal Road over the existing rail track. Two railway under-bridges (RUB) are being constructed out of which one (of 458.20 metres in length) will be from Hero Bakery Chowk towards Sidhwan Canal side along Pakhowal Road under existing railway track. The second RUB (1,018.46 metres in length) will start from Ishmeet Road towards Rotary Club Road. Total cost of the project is Rs 120 crore. Surjeet Singh, a resident of Pakhowal Road, said, “It will provide much-needed relief to the residents because there are two railway crossings, one at Pakhowal Road and the other near Shastri Nagar. When these railway crossings get closed for movement of a train, long queues of vehicles cause jams. Even emergency vehicles cannot pass.” Ashu claimed that he was personally monitoring the progress of the project and has asked MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal to hold a meeting with railway authorities at the earliest for an early completion. The project The project was announced in 2007-08, but got an impetus when it was included in the list of Smart City mission projects. On September 6, 2017, then local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu had laid its foundation stone and since then it has been caught in the rigmarole of approval and tendering processes, which jumped the cost from Rs 62 crore to Rs 120 crore. Traffic diversions The authorities plan to close the Pakhowal Road railway crossing to complete the work of railway under-bridge. It will add to traffic chaos in colonies like Model Town and Sarabha Nagar. The officials concerned have been directed to make necessary traffic diversions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/soon-relief-from-jams-near-pakhowal-road-rail-crossing/articleshow/79828191.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Poachers from Hyderabad arrested in Nizamabad||HYDERABAD: The vigilance and anti-poaching officials of Telangana Forest Department arrested five persons involved in poaching of wild animals in Nizamabad on Sunday. Officials raided a rice mill at Jokora village near Varni in Nizamabad district and intercepted a poaching gang headed by prime accused, Luqman Affendi, and four others. After a thorough search of the area, the forest officials found a Black Naped Hare, which was hunted and skinned. The black-naped hare is a protected species under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act. The officials also seized two rifles with a telescope and silencers, searchlights, binoculars, knives, torch lights and a Tata Safari vehicle used for hunting. On enquiry by DFO Vigilance M Rajaramanareddy, Luqman Affendi stated that he had gone for hunting to the nearby forest areas and farmlands to hunt blackbucks but when he couldn’t find them, he ended up hunting a hare, which he came across.  Forest officials simultaneously conducted raids Affendi’s residence at Gudimalkapur at Mehdipatnam in Hyderabad and found meat, suspected to be of a wild animal, packed in plastic bags and stored in deep freezer. They also found two rifle butts. “We seized the rifle butts and sent the meat samples to CCMB Hyderabad for identification of the animal. We have arrested five offenders involved in poaching of wild animals in this case. They will be produced before the Judicial Court for remand for hunting and other violations of Wildlife Protection Act 1972,” said Sunil S Hiremath, divisional forest official, Nizamabad district. What came as a revelation to the forest officials during the investigation Affendi is a habitual hunter who used to invite his friends from the city to Nizamabad to consume meat of wild animals. The five persons arrested include Affendi (47), his brother Imran Affendi (50), Shaik Raaz Ahmed (43), Mohammed Jameel (61) and Mohammed Shahrukh (23).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poachers-from-hyd-arrested-in-nzb/articleshow/79830728.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||No bright future as promised, it’s all black||Nagpur: While coal mining certainly generates profit, the tall promises of socio-economic development of the affected communities and stakeholders are just a myth. The ‘myth of mining’ was dispelled during a spot visit to Shivapur (Bandar) in Chimur tehsil, one of the 41 coal blocks that was listed for auction by the union coal ministry on June 18. The block was close to the world-famous Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Chandrapur district and, hence, was rejected twice. While the opinion was divided between the haves and the have-nots on whether to allow coal mines in Bandar or not, the villagers of Murpaar in the backyard of Bandar, where underground coal mine came up 32 years ago, had a tale of miseries to tell. A visit to Murpaar on June 25, along with proposed Bandar coal block in dense forests spoke volumes of shocking mining aftermath. Villagers were crying for drinking water and basic amenities, and the youth was largely unemployed. The ‘Kala paani’, a perennial nullah that got its name after its water turned black due to coal mining, greets people at the entrance. The polluted water flows into the forest and is consumed by wild animals and cattle. There is no bridge on the Khorda nullah which is flooded during rains. Murpaar and Minzari villages, which allowed mines for betterment, are ruing their mistake. The six big wells constructed by the gram panchayat are completely dry. A small water body in Murpaar is the only source for farming and cattle. Due to underground mine water drains out. Last year, people protested when the village lake went dry. “Water table has depleted to over 160 feet. Over 1,200 people of Murpaar are dependent on one bore well. Similar is the fate of Minzari, 2km from Murpaar. On September 6, a solar pump installed on a bore well from Rs6.50 lakh from WCL has provided permanent drinking water solution,” says Bharat Jambhule, a resident. But Jambule adds that issues like absence of a doctor, no public health centre, street lights, public transport and a bus stop still persist. “The only school here is in a shambles,” he says. “While inviting mines, politicians and project proponents lure locals with developmental promises only not to fulfil them. Those who benefit are farmers whose land is procured for mining. I tried to get a job in the coal mines but failed. Now I work as a farmhand,” says Sachin Chaukhe, an ITI pass out. “Farming is not a profitable venture as people are dependent on natural rains. Crop damage due to wildlife is also a big issue,” says Santosh Dohtare. Devidas Shrimane from Bandar feels villagers should think thousand times before welcoming such projects. “Chandrapur district is the worst sufferer of pollution due to mines,” he says. The Bandar coal block was withdrawn after the state government opposed it. Though it was a big victory for greens, local MLA and MP still pitched for Bandar but Tadoba tigers proved powerful than politicians. (When its about saving forest and wildlife, Vijay Pinjarkar doesn’t pull any punches)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-bright-future-as-promised-its-all-black/articleshow/79830188.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Soon, mechanical sweeping in LIT colonies||Ludhiana: After receiving complaints of poor sanitation in colonies maintained by Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT), the authorities plan to replace manual sweeping with the mechanized in these areas.Mechanical sweeping will start from Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, as a number of its residents complained against poor sanitation. It will then cover colonies like Rishi Nagar, Rajguru Nagar and Sant Ishar Singh Nagar.The LIT will float tenders for hiring an agency to do the job.LIT officials said due to scarcity of manpower, sweeping remains a major concern. “We have received many complaints from residents of colonies about poor sanitation. We will hire a firm for mechanical sweeping in these colonies at a rate of Rs 625 per km,” they added. LIT engineer Boota Ram said, “We have taken permission to stop manual sweeping and introduce the mechanical one in the colonies. Shortly, tenders will be floated, so that work can begin.”Arvind Sharma, a resident of SBS Nagar, said, “No attention is paid towards sweeping and garbage lifting in our area. Mechanical sweeping is a good idea, but it should be done regularly. Also, the authorities should keep a tab on the working of the firm, as earlier MC, too, had hired a company and it stopped working after some time.” A demonstration of mechanical sweeping was given in Rishi Nagar market to cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. The machine has been brought on trial basis by civic body, as it too will purchase it under national clean air programme for which the Punjab Pollution Control Board has given funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/soon-mechanical-sweeping-in-lit-colonies/articleshow/79828190.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad cop to face action for beating citizen||AHMEDABAD: Police are all set to take action against constable Ramesh Bharwad who had battered a mask-less man with a lathi. An inquiry report has been submitted by assistant commissioner of police, H Division, P M Prajapati. The report concludes that Bharwad was at fault. Police had swung into action after the video of the assault went viral on December 16. Senior police officials said the incident occurred near Swaminarayan Apartments in Narol when Bharwad was on a patrol with a “She” team. Bharwad saw a man talking over the cellphone without the mask on. Bharwad then began beating the man. Deputy commissioner of police, Zone-5, Achal Tyagi said: “The constable was deployed in Khokhra. So the first question is, what was he doing in Narol?” Tyagi added: “He should have informed the police control room and Narol police could have taken action against the man for not wearing a mask. There was no need to beat the man.” Tyagi went on to say: “We will surely take action against the constable because the inquiry report has been filed.” Tyagi also mentioned a case which occurred in Ramol on December 17; the video of the incident went viral the next day. A youth had been caught without a mask. “Another person tried to shoot a video to record a woman constable whose mask had slipped down her nose,” he said. “Ramol police intervened. The woman constable was taking the fine from the youth. The inquiry report in that case has also been filed and appropriate action will be taken against the police personnel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-to-face-action-for-beating-citizen/articleshow/79829222.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Allahabad||Saints and seers demand more land from Magh Mela authorities to follow Covid protocols||PRAYAGRAJ: With the land allotment work for seers, saints, kalpwasis and other spiritual and religious organisation beginning from Monday, saints and seers associated with Dandi Bara and Dandi Swami Nagar on Sunday demanded Magh Mela authorities that adequate space be allotted to saints and seers for the strict following of Covid protocol. The Magh Mela authorities would allot land to seers and organisations wanting to set up camps on the Magh Mela ground from December 21. The land allotment process would be completed between December 21 and January 5. Magh Mela will commence from January 14, 2021. The land allotment for Dandi Swami Nagar and Dandi Bada Marg will be held on Monday and Tuesday. President of Akhil Bharatiya Dandi Sanyasi Parishad, Swami Birhamashram Maharaj said that adequate land should be allotted to saints and seers who would be observing month-long kalpwas on the banks of river Ganga during Magh Mela. “As saints and seers are going to set up their separate camps, we need adequate space to maintain social distancing,” he said. Saints and seers associated with Dandi Bada have demanded around 90 Beegha land to set up their camps with the claim that there would be adequate space between two camps. The saints have insisted land between Mori road and GT road for setting up their camps. “Elderly saints and seers from different parts of the country are coming to Magh Mela to observe kalpwas since ages and as per the tradition,” said Swami Birhamashram. “We have asked all seers and saints to take maximum precautions to check the spread of the covid infection,” he added. Interestingly, seers and saints associated with various groups and organisations have started flocking the Sangam campus a day before the allotment of land. Once the land is allotted, saints and seers would be performing the bhoomi pujan. After Dandi Bara and Dandi Swami Nagar, the land would be allotted for Chak Chowk area on December 23-24. On December 25-26, land allotment work for Acharya Bara will be held. On December 31, the land would be allotted on Lower Sangam Marg, Upper Sangam Marg, Saraswati Marg, and Mahavirji Marg. On January 2, 2021, land allotment work on Tulsi Marg and GT road will be completed. Land along Triveni Marg, Kali Marg and Sector 1 and 2 (Parade, Shastri Gata, Kabir Nagar, Samudrakoop Marg and Ramanuj Marg) would be allotted on January 3, 4 and 5 respectively. Swami Premanand said, “As we all aware of the deadly virus, we would be certainly following the Covid protocol during our stay”. He, however, said, “demand for adequate space for setting up camps and shivir by the seers and saints should be heard on a priority basis. Saints and seers have also demanded other essential facilities, including the supply of potable water, power supply and proper sanitation facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/saints-and-seers-demand-more-land-from-magh-mela-authorities-to-follow-covid-protocols/articleshow/79829528.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Some reason to cheer: Covid cases doubling at slower pace||LUDHIANA: Here is a bit of good news for Ludhiana on Covid-19 front. The doubling rate of the district has improved after witnessing a fall around the festival season. The doubling rate is the number of days it takes for cases to double based on the last seven-day growth rate. As per the state media bulletin released by the health department on Saturday evening, the doubling rate for Ludhiana was 252. The data shows that Ludhiana’s doubling rate is the highest after November 10, when it was recorded at 204. A day after November 10, doubling rate for Ludhiana had dropped to 181 before falling further to 150 on December 2. After that, it increased gradually before reaching the present value. An analysis of the data for the last few months shows that the doubling rate witnessed a gradual increase since July 9 till October-end, with intermittent falls. The rate for Ludhiana was 15.7 days on July 9. It increased to 18 days till July 17 and dropped to 12 days on July 31. The state health department data shows that the rate increased to 16 days from 13 days from August 1 to August 15 and rose from 18 days on August 17 to 28 days on August 31. It increased further from 37 days on September 2 to 39 days on September 15, then reached 55 days on September 25 and was recorded at 100 days on October 7. The rate remained 106 days from October 8 to October 21 and reached 270 days on October 22 before settling at highest value of 301 days on October 31. It then dropped to 150 days on December 2 before reaching the current value. Meanwhile, the latest bulletin suggests that with the doubling rate at 252, Ludhiana is at 15th position among the districts of the state. Barnala is at number one position with the rate of 910 days. Tarn Taran is at number two spot with the rate at 842 days and Ferozepur at third position with it at 700 days. Ropar has the lowest doubling rate of 116 days. Besides the doubling rate, the health department authorities say there is improvement in many aspects related to Covid-19. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga says, “It is good that doubling rate has improved. As of now, many indicators suggest that the Covid situation is improving. But people must be cautious and follow all the pandemic rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/some-reason-to-cheer-covid-cases-doubling-at-slower-pace/articleshow/79828209.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||‘We suffered due to negativity against Akali Dal’||Even as the BJP leaders are facing severe criticism from all political parties due to the ongoing farmers’ protests against the farm laws, BJP district president Pushpinder Singal believes that the party is in favour of farmers and truth will come out victorious, but it may take time and farmers will realise that the laws are for their benefits. He said political parties like the Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal are using farmers to find their lost ground among voters. Here are a few excerpts from the conversation between Singal and TOI correspondent Nidhi Bhardwaj. Q-- How the BJP leadership will reach out to farmers to make them understand the farm laws, especially when Union ministers have failed in doing the same? A- Leaders at different levels are trying to convince the farmers in favour of the farm laws. The Union ministers tried at their level and conducted meetings. Even Union home minister Amit Shah met the farmer leaders. The government offered that it would give in writing that MSP and mandi board would remain there. And cases could be shifted from the SDM court to the main court. These were the basic demands that the farmers had raised earlier and the government had assured them of fulfilling these, but still farmers are agitating, so anybody can guess who are behind these protests. The political parties are using farmers to fulfil their selfish means, which is not right. Certain anti-national powers are backing these protests because they want to spoil the peaceful atmosphere of the country, but they will not let this happen at any cost. Q- The BJP is running a parallel campaign through social media for convincing the farmers about these laws. But even there it is facing criticism. What you have to say about it? A-We are trying at every platform, whether social media or personal meetings, to convince the farmers. We are trying to put up the government’s side by clearing doubts about the farm laws. As far as criticism is concerned, it is everywhere. There are certain people in society who are born to oppose and in this case also a similar thing is happening. Parties like the Congress and even Akali Dal are trying to achieve their selfish means and they have nothing to do with farmers or their welfare. People are criticising PM Modi so that he should stop, but it is not going to happen as he will continue with his policies. The farmers had not asked for Rs 6,000, but Modi started putting money in the account of farmers. The Congress is the party that had announced to end MSP and mandis completely, but the BJP was assuring that these would stay and even after the laws were passed the crop was purchased at MSP and it happened through mandis. Q- The BJP leaders are trying their best to make farmers understand these laws. Don’t you think all these efforts should have been done before passing these? A-It is not right. The attempts to bring these farm laws were being made some 20 years ago when the Congress was in power. A video of Congress leader Kapil Sibbal is also going viral, where he announced to bring these laws and end MSP as well as mandis. And as far as discussion in the House is concerned, when its draft was under consideration everything was in the knowledge of Akali Dal and even former CM Parkash Singh Badal had announced that these farm bills were in favour of farmers. But when Akali Dal saw the Congress using farm laws for its benefit, Akali leaders thought that these would prove harmful for them in Punjab, so they took a U-turn. Q- Seeing the scenario, what will be the BJP’s fate in the upcoming assembly polls, especially when Akali Dal has also broken ties with you. And on what ground the BJP will contest the elections? A-We will contest all seats independently and for that our workers are working at the ground level. As far as Akali Dal and our alliance is concerned, it was due to negativity against the Akali Dal that we suffered. There are many issues to be taken in elections. All promises made by the congress in 2017 were never fulfilled, whether employment to youth, drugs, smart phones, pension schemes, shagun schemes, etc. Moreover, during the pandemic, the Congress government forced the migrants to go back to their native places because party leaders could not distribute ration among the needy. Development is a major issue, especially for Ludhiana, and all works which are going on at the moment are funded by the central government. The Union government has released Rs 26 crore under the National Clean Air Programme. The Congress should tell what it has done for the people during these years. So, we will take up all these issues with the voters. Q- This time, along with the Congress, you will have to fight against the Akali Dal as well. How prepared are you for the same, especially when Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal called the BJP ‘tukde tukde gang’? A-Our party workers are enthusiastic to fight any situation and it is for this reason that we are strengthening our base. When time will come, we will fight against the Akali Dal as well and we will give better governance here in Punjab unlike the Congress, where CM Amarinder Singh remained busy in fighting with Navjot Sidhu and voters did not get anything. Moreover, the BJP has never done wrong with parties associated with it for a long time. As far as Sukhbir Badal’s comment is concerned, I think he wanted to say that Akali Dal got distributed in pieces and by mistake he called BJP ‘tukde tukde gang’. Q- Do you feel insecure while staying in Punjab, especially after some attacks on BJP leaders?A-I do not think there is any kind of insecurity for BJP leaders. No doubt, protests are going on and some of our leaders also faced resentment. Their houses were gheraoed, but we have been given security by the administration and we are moving freely as we were doing earlier. Whenever there is any protest, security is provided near our office as well. Though it was provided a little late, but it is there with us.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/we-suffered-due-to-negativity-against-akali-dal/articleshow/79829220.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bapu warns of indefinite fast||Gandhinagar: Former chief minister Shankersinh Vaghela said on Sunday that he will sit on an indefinite fast at Raj Ghat in Delhi if the Union government does not accept the demands of farmers over the newly enacted farm laws. Extending his support to the agitating farmers, the Praja Shakti Morcha convener said that support for the agitating farmers is growing in Gujarat and despite farmers protesting on the outskirts of Delhi for 25 days, the government is not willing to accept their demands. “If the government does not accept the demand of the farmers by December 25, which is Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, I will sit on an indefinite fast at Raj Ghat,” Shankersinh Vaghela said on Sunday in Gandhinagar. Vaghela said the newly enacted farm laws will spell disaster for farmers, especially the marginal and small farmers. “These new farm laws will have to be repealed if we have to save our farmers,” the former CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bapu-warns-of-indefinite-fast/articleshow/79829254.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Allahabad||UP: HC grants bail to man arrested for offering namaz in Mathura temple||PARYAGRAJ: The Allahabad High Court has granted bail to Faisal Khan, the man who was arrested for offering Namaz in the Nand Baba temple premises in Mathura district, but directed him not to use social media till the conclusion of the trial. Justice Siddharth allowed the bail application observing, “Having considered the material on record, larger mandate of the Article 21 (Protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution of India and the dictum of apex court in the case of Dataram Singh Vs. State of U.P. and another, reported in (2018) 3 SCC 22 and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, let the applicant be released on bail.” In Dataram Singh’s case, the Supreme Court had held that grant of bail is a general rule and putting a person in jail or in a prison or in correction home during trial is an exception and presumption of innocence, i.e. person is believed to be innocent until found guilty, is fundamental postulate of criminal jurisprudence. It is not necessary to go into the correctness or otherwise of the allegations made against the accused as this is a subject matter to be dealt with by the trial judge. On November 1, 2020, an FIR was registered against Faisal Khan under Sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups) and other sections of Indian Penal Code at Barsana police station of Mathura district. It was alleged that Faisal Khan and co-accused Chand Mohammad had offered Namaz inside the temple without the consent of the priest and the photographs of the incident were made viral on social media to show disrespect for the religious feeling of Hindu community and with intention to disturb communal harmony of the society. It was also alleged that Faisal Khan was receiving foreign funds. Khan’s counsel argued that the applicant is a renowned social activist, who has revived Khudai Khidmatgar movement of India and is working for maintaining communal harmony for the last 25 years. In this connection, he undertook yatra for visiting temples. He was offered ‘prasad’ and lunch by the temple’s chief priest who also bestowed blessings on him as is clear from the photographs in dispute. “The applicant had no intention to disturb the communal harmony of the society and he did not enter the sanctum sanctorum of the temple, rather he offered Namaz outside the temple with the permission of the priest as is clear from the viral photographs,” the counsel added. After hearing arguments, the court granted bail and directed Faisal Khan to cooperate in trial and not to tamper with prosecution witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-grants-bail-to-man-arrested-for-offering-namaz-in-mathura-temple/articleshow/79829583.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Retired employee of co-op society booked for embezzling Rs 12.57 lakh||LUDHIANA: The Dehlon police on Saturday booked a retired employee of a cooperative society for embezzling Rs 12.57 lakh. The matter came to light during an audit. Accused Jagdev Singh of Butahari village was secretary of Butahari Co-operative Agriculture Multipurpose Society. In his complaint to the police, Sangram Singh, assistant registrar of the society, said after Jagdev Singh’s retirement on April 30, 2019, inspector of the co-operative society Harjinder Singh scanned the records and found that the accused had not made entries for fertilisers bought and distributed among farmers from April 1, 2018, to April 2019. Following this, an internal investigation was ordered, which revealed that the accused had siphoned off Rs 12.57 lakh. On December 3, he gave a complaint to the police for lodging of an FIR. Investigating officer from Dehlon police station ASI Bheesham Dev said a case under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant) of the IPC and Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been lodged against the accused, who would be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/retired-employee-of-co-op-society-booked-for-embezzling-rs-12-57l/articleshow/79828212.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur shivers as min temp dips to 4.2C, no respite from chill||KANPUR: After dipping to 5.6 degrees Celsius on Friday, minimum temperature fell to a new low of 4.2 degree Celsius, making Saturday night the coldest night of the season. It was 3.5 degrees below the normal value. The day temperature was also below the normal value. The temperature recorded was 20.6 degrees which was 1.3 degrees below the normal value. On Saturday also, the day temperature had remained below normal. The temperature recorded was 21.2 but Sunday daytime was colder than the previous day. The icy winds that blew across the city at a speed of 3.2 km/hour made people shiver even during the daytime. They were seen wearing heavy woollen stuff to beat the chilly weather. The wind speed on Sunday was about five km/hour. The dip in both day and night temperatures has been happening for the past four days. Gradually the night temperature also came down to a record low of 4.2 degrees Celsius. According to the Met department, icy weather conditions will continue to prevail in the coming days. Harsh weather conditions will keep giving tough time to people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/city-shivers-as-min-temp-dips-to-4-2c-no-respite-from-chill/articleshow/79829512.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Uncared-for green belt in Sarabha Nagar turns barren||LUDHIANA: Located near municipal corporation’s Zone D office in Sarabha Nagar, this green belt presents a picture of neglect. The previous year, trees and plants were cultivated in the belt. But today, most of the plants have dried up. It was equipped with an open gym, too. It was, however, never thrown open to the public and remains closed till date. Development of a waterfront at Sidhwan Canal left the belt in ruins. The MC officials said they have hired a contractor to develop the belt. But due to some reasons, the work has been stopped. It might resume in February, they added. It is a long belt starting from one corner of the road that ends near a hospital in Sarabha Nagar. A part of the belt is earmarked for a static compactor and the remaining area is in a mess. Sarabjit Singh, a resident of the city, said, “On one side, we have the developed tracks and green area of Sidhwan Canal waterfront and on the other, this abandoned green belt along the road. The authorities should give attention to green belts, as the industrial hub lacks these.” Another Ludhianvi Gurdeep Singh said, “The green belt offers entry to Sidhwan Canal waterfront and the two present a contrasting picture, with one uncared-for and the other developing. If this green belt too is developed, then the entire area will look beautiful and attract more people.” MC bridges and road department executive engineer Raman Kaushal said, “We have stopped development of this green belt for some time, as a firm is laying sewerage pipes under the road. This work will be completed by next month and then we will start developing the green belt. In February, plantation will take place along with civil work and it will be completely developed by March.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/uncared-for-green-belt-in-sarabha-nagar-turns-barren/articleshow/79828210.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gandhinagar man cheated with lure of work in Canada||Ahmedabad: Viral Patel, 24, from Mansa town in Gandhinagar filed a complaint against two travel agents on Saturday alleging that they had cheated him with the lure of work permit visa in Canada last year, but sent him to Armenia instead. In his complaint with infocity police, Patel, a resident of Patelvaas in Mansa, accused two agents, Swapnil Rami and Nisarg Rami, of cheating him of Rs 30 lakh. Patel said that a resident of his village had introduced him to Swapnil and Nisarg who have an office in Infocity and promised to send him to Canada through Armenia. He said they took him and two others to Armenia where they kept them in a flat. Swapnil met him and two others and took the money from his parents telling them that Patel was about to reach Canada. Patel said that later they sent him and others back to Delhi from where Swapnil, who was travelling with them, took him to Ahmedabad. But as they landed at city airport, Swapnil fled from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gandhinagar-man-cheated-with-lure-of-work-in-canada/articleshow/79829232.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Goa||Opposing projects a fad these days, says Isidore||Poinguinim: Hitting out at protesters opposing infrastructural projects in the state, deputy speaker of the state legislative assembly Isidore Fernandes on Saturday said that opposing projects has become a fad in Goa in recent times. “The government is always for development of society. Opposing projects has become a fashion nowadays. Despite difficulties and adversities, chief minister Pramod Sawant hasn’t budged from development and developmental activities,” said Fernandes, while speaking on Goa Liberation Day, after unfurling the tricolour at Canacona. “The present government doesn’t harp on past achievements, but its mission is to carry on the growth of the state and the nation. Its mission is to bring about improvement in the lives of the downtrodden and the needy,” said the Canacona MLA. Fernandes recalled the sacrifices of freedom fighters and the atrocities they suffered at the hands of Portuguese rulers. He lauded the people of Canacona for their battle against the Covid pandemic, while commending the authorities, NGOs and individuals at the forefront of the war against Covid-19. Deputy collector Satish Prabhu, mamlatdar Vimod Dalal, Canacona municipal council administrator Jhonson Fernandes, Canacona police inspector Pravin Gawas were among those present. Prizes and certificates were presented to winners and participants of an online competition conducted by the Canacona mamlatdar on Covid awareness. Freedom fighter Pushpa Kankonkar was present at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opposing-projects-a-fad-these-days-says-isidore/articleshow/79830768.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Allahabad||UP: High court warns jailer for not releasing inmate on order||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad High Court has warned the superintendent of district jail, Siddharthnagar, to be careful in future in the matter of release of applicants on orders passed by the court. The jail superintendent had kept a man in illegal confinement for eight months as his middle name, Kumar, was missing in the bail order. As per the earlier direction of the court, Siddharthnagar District Jail Superintendent Rakesh Singh appeared before it and filed an affidavit stating the applicant has been released from prison on December 8, 2020. The court took the affidavit of compliance on record. Justice J J Munir said, “This court has perused the affidavit filed by the jail superintendent. The explanation furnished for non-compliance of this court’s order, and, in consequence, delaying release of the applicant is reluctantly accepted. The personal presence of jail superintendent is exempted. He is warned to be careful in future.” The applicant’s name in bail order was mentioned as ‘Vinod Baruaar’, whose bail application was earlier rejected by Siddharthanagar additional sessions judge on September 4, 2019. Hence, he filed a bail application before the high court. On April 9, 2020, the high court directed his release on bail. But he was not released from jail, as the jail authorities refused to comply with the release order passed in this case because the name mentioned in the release order was ‘Vinod Baruaar’, whereas in the remand sheet his name is ‘Vinod Kumar Baruaar’. Earlier, while hearing a name correction application moved by the applicant, the court took serious note of non-release of applicant on small technicality and directed release of applicant. The court summoned the jail superintendent/ jailer of Siddharthnagar district jail observing, “It is on small technicality that the jail superintendent/jailer has flouted the bail order of high court by refusing to release the applicant.” The court directed that after complying with the order, the jail superintendent/jailer shall appear before this court and explain why appropriate departmental inquiry may not be recommended against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/court-warns-jailer-for-not-releasing-inmate-on-order/articleshow/79829553.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 21, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Cops bust gang rigging exam in Varanasi; nab 4, seize cash||VARANASI: Crime branch sleuths caught four persons and seized solved papers of the police recruitment exam for jail warder, fireman and cavalry constables from Shivam Inter College, Block B Maniyaripur of Gangapur area on late Saturday afternoon. All arrested persons were produced before the court on Sunday and sent to jail. SSP Amit Pathak said police have begun investigation to ascertain if more people were involved in the recruitment test rigging racket. All agencies concerned have been alerted in this regard, he added. As per reports, during the second shift of recruitment examination on Saturday, Mirzapur crime branch sub-inspectors Uday Pratap Yadav and Ravikant Mallik spotted a candidate Govind Kumar, with role number 2059120589, in room-7 of the Shivam Inter College copying answers from a chit containing solved answers. The SIs caught him and in questioning, Govind revealed the assistant centre in-charge Shailendra Kumar Singh had charged Rs 90,000 from him to arrange solved answers of question papers in B series through room invigilator Rohit Singh. During further investigation, it came to light that Rohit had arranged a duty slip for his accomplice Kuldeep Kumar Patel by deploying him as an electrician and bringing solved answersheet from outside. Rohania police arrested Govind, Shailendra, Rohit and Kuldeep and seized Rs 90,000 in cash, four mobile phones, question paper (381642), answer sheet (356073), admit card and photocopy of the solved answersheet. They were booked under Sections 420, 409, 120B, 411, 34 of IPC, 9/10 UP Public Examination (prevention of unfair means) Act, 66 IT Act and sections of Prevention of Corruption Act. SSP Pathak said, “Detailed investigation could not be started on Sunday as police force was busy in examination duty on the second day. But, the matter would be probed thoroughly to find out if a bigger racket was involved.” In view of the recruitment examination, district administration and police had ensured tight security arrangements in and around all exam centres, and had installed help desks at all railway stations, bus stands, prominent roads to assist the aspirants in reaching their centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cops-bust-gang-rigging-exam-nab-4-seize-cash/articleshow/79833763.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Allahabad||UP: Cops bust gang rigging exam in Varanasi; nab 4, seize cash||VARANASI: Crime branch sleuths caught four persons and seized solved papers of the police recruitment exam for jail warder, fireman and cavalry constables from Shivam Inter College, Block B Maniyaripur of Gangapur area on late Saturday afternoon. All arrested persons were produced before the court on Sunday and sent to jail. SSP Amit Pathak said police have begun investigation to ascertain if more people were involved in the recruitment test rigging racket. All agencies concerned have been alerted in this regard, he added. As per reports, during the second shift of recruitment examination on Saturday, Mirzapur crime branch sub-inspectors Uday Pratap Yadav and Ravikant Mallik spotted a candidate Govind Kumar, with role number 2059120589, in room-7 of the Shivam Inter College copying answers from a chit containing solved answers. The SIs caught him and in questioning, Govind revealed the assistant centre in-charge Shailendra Kumar Singh had charged Rs 90,000 from him to arrange solved answers of question papers in B series through room invigilator Rohit Singh. During further investigation, it came to light that Rohit had arranged a duty slip for his accomplice Kuldeep Kumar Patel by deploying him as an electrician and bringing solved answersheet from outside. Rohania police arrested Govind, Shailendra, Rohit and Kuldeep and seized Rs 90,000 in cash, four mobile phones, question paper (381642), answer sheet (356073), admit card and photocopy of the solved answersheet. They were booked under Sections 420, 409, 120B, 411, 34 of IPC, 9/10 UP Public Examination (prevention of unfair means) Act, 66 IT Act and sections of Prevention of Corruption Act. SSP Pathak said, “Detailed investigation could not be started on Sunday as police force was busy in examination duty on the second day. But, the matter would be probed thoroughly to find out if a bigger racket was involved.” In view of the recruitment examination, district administration and police had ensured tight security arrangements in and around all exam centres, and had installed help desks at all railway stations, bus stands, prominent roads to assist the aspirants in reaching their centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cops-bust-gang-rigging-exam-nab-4-seize-cash/articleshow/79829435.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Dehradun||With Christmas season nearing, roadside parking, vendors congest Mall road||Mussoorie: With the tourist rush of Christmas and New Year, Mussoorie has also seen an increase in encroachment. Makeshift shops selling clothes and keepsakes have cropped up along the Mall road and cars, belonging mostly to tourists, line the road. Residents and local businessmen said that this caused congestion and frequent traffic jams. “Long queues of street vendors always appear on the Mall Road at this time of the year, causing inconvenience for tourists and loss for local businesses and also spoil the beauty of the road,” said Jagjeet Kukreja, secretary of Mussoorie Traders Association. “A number of street vendors are also selling eatables with questionable hygiene. Such shops pose health risks, especially during a pandemic,” Kukreja added. “Often, vehicles are parked on both sides of the road and police and administration do not take any action. Tourists must not be allowed to park on the Mall road and they must be made aware of this,” said Vinod Semwal, a former member of Mussoorie Municipal Council (MMC). Speaking to TOI, chairman of MMC Anuj Gupta said that an additional traffic force would be constituted by MMC and police to take care of the issues of roadside parking and traffic snarls. As for the street vendors, Gupta said that efforts are on the relocate them. “We have already prepared plans for developing a vendor zone for street vendors. It is expected to be ready by summer and hopefully, we will be able to vacate the Mall road,” Gupta assured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-christmas-season-nearing-roadside-parking-vendors-congest-mall-road/articleshow/79828250.cms||Anmol Jain
December 21, 2020||Dehradun||Nearly 1L Covid tests conducted last week in Uttarakhand, infection rate remains at 3.9%||DEHRADUN: The cases of novel coronavirus breached the 86,000-mark in Uttarakhand on Sunday with the state recording 464 fresh cases of the virus. Last week (between December 13 and 19), the 40th week of the pandemic in the state, Uttarakhand tested 99,925 Covid-19 samples, the highest count in a week so far. “Even with the weekly tests rising to 99,000, the number of new cases and recoveries remained linear. The state also witnessed the lowest weekly deaths in the last one month,” said Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation, an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state. Uttarakhand recorded 3,914 new Covid-19 cases last week while 3,904 people recovered from the infection. According to the health department, the infection rate in the state remained at 3.9%, lesser than last week. Meanwhile, among the fresh cases, the maximum of 188 new cases were reported from Dehradun on Sunday. “As many as 22 new cases were recorded in Almora, 18 in Chamoli, 31 in Haridwar, 73 in Nainital, 17 in Pauri Garhwal, 42 in Pithoragarh, 16 in Rudraprayag, 11 in Tehri Garhwal, 19 in Udham Singh Nagar, 18 in Uttarkashi, five in Champawat, four in Bageshwar,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Apart from fresh cases, 347 people recovered from Covid-19 infection on Sunday, taking the tally of cured cases to 77,673. Also, five more fatalities took the toll of the virus to 1,413 in Uttrakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nearly-1l-covid-tests-conducted-last-week-in-ukhand-infection-rate-remains-at-3-9/articleshow/79828257.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 21, 2020||Dehradun||No respite from cold: Homeless forced to sleep along roadside in lack of night shelters||Rudrapur/Haridwar/Nainital/Dehradun: Even as the mercury level is slipping below 5 degrees Celsius across the state in the wake of a cold wave gripping North India, the homeless are forced to sleep out in the open along roadsides as several cities lack functioning night shelters. Further, only a few bonfire arrangements have so far been made to provide some respite to these people from the prevailing cold weather conditions. In Rudrapur, the homeless can be spotted shivering near the bus stand and the railway station. Some of them have set up temporary huts on roadsides to guard themselves from the biting cold. The local traders’ association has also raised its concern over the issue. “We are arranging bonfires for the homeless from our own pockets. In absence of any government facility, they are forced to burn garbage piles to get some respite from the cold,” said Ashish Bhasin, a trader at the city’s main market. Rinku Bisht, commissioner of the Rudrapur Municipal Corporation, told TOI, “At present, we have a ten-bed night shelter near Gandhi Park. It is a temporary arrangement and we are looking for land to establish a bigger and sophisticated night shelter. The facility near the bus stand was demolished during the national highway expansion.” When asked about the bonfire arrangements, Bisht said that all identified public places and slum areas will be equipped with arrangements in the next couple of days. In Haridwar also, several homeless people are forced to sleep outdoors due to absence of night shelters. City locals claim that beggars can be found sleeping along the banks of Ganga and in nearby areas. When queried on the issue, city magistrate Jagdish Lal told TOI that the district administration is providing shelters and blankets to the homeless. He also urged locals to help the people in need. The scenario is somewhat better in Nainital where a sum of Rs 5 lakh has been released by the local administration to arrange bonfires and blankets for the homeless. “We have arranged bonfires at all major locations like railway stations, bus stands, major city squares, and others. Further, the NGOs as well as police are also asking people to shift to night shelters to brave the cold,” said an official. Meanwhile, the officials of Dehradun Municipal Corporation and the district administration told TOI that adequate arrangements like bonfires and night shelters are being ensured for the homeless and blankets are being distributed to the people in need. It is worth mentioning that the Supreme Court, in its order (dated February 10, 2010), had directed that all cities with more than five lakh residents must provide one night shelter-per lakh population and that these shelters should be equipped with basic facilities such as electricity, water, toilet facilities, sanitation arrangements and beddings, including blankets, mattresses, and jute mats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-respite-from-cold-homeless-forced-to-sleep-along-roadside-in-lack-of-night-shelters/articleshow/79828261.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Kundli industry sends out SOS, DC says bear with us||CHANDIGARH: Having seen a slowdown during the Covid-19 lockdown, export houses and manufacturing units of Kundli are among those who claim to have been badly hit by the farmers’ stand-off with the Centre. As farmers are camping on national highways connected to Kundli industrial area, non-movement of containers has emerged as the main issue for businesses, especially export houses. According to information, there are 1,800 industries in Kundli. Of them, around 500 are of export and import houses for stainless steel housewares, autoparts, office automation, edibles and modular kitchen manufacturing or assembly units etc. As the containers bound for Gannaur, New Delhi, and Mumbai are not able to move, exporters have to depend on small vehicles to ferry furnished goods to international container depots. Similarly, raw material from other states has to be unloaded away from the unit and transported in small vehicles. “We are bound by commitment of delivery of goods and there is a fixed schedule for the movement of containers and the process to be followed for sealing and dispatch of containers.Hence, we are being forced to pay exorbitant freight charges for use of smaller vehicles. Since 40-foot containers cannot move in narrow lanes, our work is hit. We have nothing against farmers, as they too are fighting for their livelihood. We only request government to look for some way out, so containers could directly reach us,” said Pawan Kansal, president of Kundli Stainless Steel Houseware Association having 50 such export units. It is alleged that small vehicles, which had been charging Rs 3,000 for a trip, were charging up to Rs 8,000 due to blockades en route through narrow roads connecting Kundli with New Delhi through alternate route of villages. Dheeraj Chaudhary, who heads an auto parts ancillary unit, said even domestic suppliers had been hit. “For auto parts unit, unfinished and raw material comes from Amritsar and other cities. Even we have to unload goods faw away and then use small vehicles. There is a shortage of workers too, as most of them either don’t reach on time or don’t come,” said Dheeraj Chaudhary, another office-bearer of Kundli Industries Association. He said they had requested the local administration to facilitate movement of material. “We have not even mentioned how the Covid lockdown has affected client visits. We don’t hold a grudge against farmers as they have not blocked alternate routes, but local administration should ensure smooth passage there,” he added. Sonipat deputy commissioner (DC) Shyam Lal Poonia said they had done their best and even deployed policemen in villages to manage traffic from industrial area. “Container movement is certainaly an issue. We are hopeful of an early solution of agitation. Till then, exporters will have to bear with us,’’ said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kundli-industry-sends-out-sos-dc-says-bear-with-us/articleshow/79830279.cms||Manvir Saini
December 21, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard kills two women in 48 hours, cage installed to trap it||PITHORAGARH: In two separate incidents, two women were killed in leopard attacks within 48 hours in Pithoragarh. Swinging into action, the forest department has installed a cage to trap the leopard and sent a request to the chief wildlife warden to declare it a man-eater. On Saturday night, a leopard killed Leela Devi (45) in the district’s Rasaipata village. The attack took place when she was heading towards the cow shed to feed cows. “By the time the villagers could rescue her, the leopard killed the victim. Earlier on Thursday, another woman Saruli Devi (35), from Muddi village, was killed by a leopard when she was coming home from the forest with fodder. In yet another incident, 59-year-old Maya Pandey had sustained injuries in a leopard attack in Agar village,” said Dinesh Joshi, forest ranger, Pithoragarh. The official added that a cage has been installed at Muddi village to trap the leopard. The forest officials believe that the same leopard was involved in all three attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-kills-two-women-in-48-hours-cage-installed-to-trap-it/articleshow/79828280.cms||Prem Punetha
December 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar keeps raising demand for Satluj-Yamuna link||CHANDIGARH: Even as thousands of farmers continued their protest against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws around Delhi, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday continued to raise the demand for Satluj-Yamuna link (SYL) canal and asserted Punjab will have to give up its stance on the issue. Addressing the BJP’s Jal Adhikar Rally in Narnaul — which is being considered as a desperate move by the saffron party and its government to counter the farmers’ protest — Khattar questioned the mode of protest by farmers from Punjab and Haryana. “In democratic countries, states cannot work on their own. Punjab will have to give up its stubborn attitude on SYL. The Supreme Court has already given the verdict in favor of Haryana and chief ministers of both the states were told to sit together. But Punjab has not agreed to part with Haryana’s water share. Now we shall have it when the Supreme Court gives its final verdict,’’ said Khattar. “In a democracy, there is a way to protest before the house or media, but certainly not by obstructing ways. Such agitations are in violation and spirit of Constitution, as created by B R Ambedkar,” he added. Khattar yet again said he would give up politics if the three agriculture laws had any impact on MSP or grain markets. “MSP exists; it is there and will continue to be there. Government here is planning to give beyond MSP. Some people with a political motive are on the agitation path and they are certainly not the wellwishers of farmers. Our farmers must speak to the those brothers from Punjab over the issue of SYL,” said Khattar. He also hit out at his predecessor Bhupinder Singh Hooda, saying his government had, in 2010, suggested measures to improve condition of farmers and farm produce. “Now, the same set of people is misleading farmers and provoking them against the measures,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khattar-keeps-raising-syl/articleshow/79830291.cms||Manvir Saini
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Virtual hiring, WFH new normal for engg grads||Kolkata: Most engineering graduates set to pass out in 2021 are likely to be recruited ‘virtually’ and start working from home which is now the new normal, say recruitment officials and college authorities. Most recruiters in the IT-enabled services domain have not curtailed the number of on-campus offers while many of the core companies are waiting for January slots to recruit from the technological institute campuses of Bengal. At the Heritage Institute of Technology, among a batch of 900 students of the 2021, between 20% and 25% have already opted out of the process to enrol in higher education, begin an entrepreneurship journey or study abroad. “Till now, we have 543 offers. The number of offers has remained more or less similar over the past few years,” said Pradip Agarwal, CEO of the Heritage Group of Institutions. The highest offer at the institute is expected to be Rs 30 lakh which is the same as last year. “We usually complete the process within December but for the 2021 batch it may get extended by a few months. We are expecting some of the core companies like ITC and Godrej to recruit in January,” added Agarwal. Some of the highest number of offers have been given by TCS, CTS and DSQ Softwares. At the Techno Main Salt Lake campus, 95% of the 700 students are opting to join the placement process. “We already have received 450 offers and the big ones are Cognizant and Tata Consultancy Services among others. We have noticed that the WFH has been well adopted by the recruiting firms. Students who will graduate in 2021 may join their positions immediately in the same mode while working from home as it offers flexibility,” said Amit Adhikari, director and CEO, Techno India Group. He is hopeful that several companies like Deloitte and Microsoft Corp are also likely to allow students to join offices in foreign locations, after initial training. The highest package offered at Techno is Rs 22 lakh. The campus placement record of the IEM-UEM Group has seen an upward trend. Some of the students have even found international placements. The number of students registered for campus placement is 1,453 while 2,373 job offers have been made by 168 companies visiting the campus. The highest package offered is Rs 72 lakh while the average is Rs 5 lakh. IEM-UEM Group director Satyajit Chakrabarti said, “Campus placements happened online even during the Pujas. The IT-based firms have come up with lucrative offers .” At the Om Dayal Group of Institutions, placement coordinator Sudeshna Seal said 43 students are participating in the recruitment process this year. “This year, around 540 students are eligible for placement in BTech from Narula Institute of Technology and 410 students are eligible for placement in BTech, JIS College of Engineering,” said Taranjit Singh, MD of the JIS Group. In the two institutes, more than 350 positions have been offered to the students and over 25 firms have already conducted virtual campus drives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virtual-hiring-wfh-new-normal-for-engg-grads/articleshow/79829325.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 21, 2020||Dehradun||Monkey menace on rise in Rajpur: Scared to step out, say locals||Dehradun: The incidents of monkeys invading homes and snatching away food have become a daily affair in the Rajpur area of Dehradun, say area residents. Talking to TOI, Babita Goyal, a general store owner, said, “People are forced to remain caged in their houses while the monkeys are roaming around freely. Recently, a monkey entered my shop and snatched a pack of rusks. When I tried to resist, he attacked me. My fingers got hurt in the process.” Another area resident Shabnam Naaz complained, “I can’t even go on my routine walks because of monkeys occupying the road. It has become difficult for us to dry our clothes in the open or just sit in the garden.” She alleged that her daughter was recently attacked by a horde of monkeys on their terrace. In a similar vein, Reshma Akhtar, a local resident, said, “Any sapling that we plant is destroyed by the monkeys. I have purposely fenced my whole house with blades but it hardly prevents them. They run wild and destroy whatever comes their way. I don’t know what the forest department is doing.” Some residents alleged that the forest department only listens to complaints from people residing in posh colonies. “The forest department catches monkeys from localities where the CM or the governor live. However, the department has not even sterilised the monkeys running wild in Rajpur Road locality. The area residents are paying a hefty price for this differential treatment,” said Bahauddin Ansari, a local. Meanwhile, district forest officer (Dehradun) Rajiv Dhiman told TOI, “We are regularly working on operations to catch monkeys since April. We have also hired teams from Haridwar and Mathura for this task. They catch and release the monkeys in the forest of Dehradun and Haridwar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/monkey-menace-on-rise-in-rajpur-scared-to-step-out-say-locals/articleshow/79828278.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Chennai||Anonymity at stake as AA meetings go online, members keep away||CHENNAI: “I am so happy to have finally met you all,” said Raja*. He was addressing a group of 20 men who had come to Santhome to celebrate the eighth anniversary of their Rainbow Group, Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). Raja’s voice choked a little as he shared his experiences of staying sober during the lockdown months. Since the lockdown, AA meetings have moved online to ensure members remained in touch, but not everyone is at ease with it. “Anonymity is crucial here. And I am apprehensive that our conversations could be recorded and leaked online. So I don’t attend,” said Raja. Like Raja, several stayed away due to privacy concerns while a few others did not have gadgets to attend the meetings. The support meetings have dwindled gradually as a result. “Before the pandemic, we used to host 80 meetings a week. Now we hardly have 10,” said Mani* another member of the AA who has been helping others recover for over two decades now. Alcoholics Anonymous is the oldest support group in the world, meant to help members overcome alcoholism. Chennai alone has more than 200 AA groups with at least 10,000 members. Each group has at least 15 home group members and over 35 visiting members who attend the meetings regularly. The homegroup organises meetings, sponsor new members, carries out the responsibilities of the AA and also foster relationships in the groups. However, due to the lockdown, only around 20 members from a group attend the meetings. Since most prefer in-person meetings, the home members try and meet a few in coffee shops or food stalls. They also follow up with them through phone calls and messages. “They feel insecure to express their feelings at home and find this more effective,” said Babu a home member*. He said they have been scouting for new venues to organise small gatherings, but most are shut. “We need venues in localities that can be accessed by most. That is a struggle,” he said. Earlier, the members would reach out to people who want to recover through their contacts in hospitals or neighbourhoods. But due to Covid-19 restrictions, they are unable to. “We used to see at least ten new members a week. But we haven’t had newcomers the past few months,” said Babu, a home member an AA group. The members are, however, certain to work things out. “If not groups, we are ready to meet one-on-one and support people. We just want them to know we’re here for them,” said Babu. For assistance call - 7397337397||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anonymity-at-stake-as-aa-meetings-go-online-members-keep-away/articleshow/79829357.cms||Aditi R
December 21, 2020||Goa||‘Allegations false, will challenge SDM’s order’||Panaji: Parish priest of Chicalim church, Fr Bolmax Pereira and Captain Viriato Fernandes, who asked the police to detain them so that three busloads of youth could be released on Saturday, said they will challenge the sub divisional magistrate’s (SDM) order directing them to report to the police station for the next six months. “We are challenging it because the allegations are not true. We are not criminals and are not a threat to society or to the peace of society. There was no massive protest organised during the President’s visit,” Pereira said. “It’s ridiculous that Goan youth were rounded up and prevented from celebrating Liberation Day,” he said. Capt Viriato said police “went overboard”. “Our freedom fighters lost their lives. This is our struggle for a second liberation against corruption, crimes and vices of our elected representatives involved in destruction,” he said. “This cannot be a national security issue. They didn’t require permission as they were not on the street but in private property on the steps of the Immaculate Conception Church,” Pereira said. The youth requested the office of the president for an audience and they got a response that this was not possible, which they accepted, he said. “The youth planned a simple programme ‘Liberate Goa for a Future Full of Forests’ and wanted to sing songs, dance and do a street play. How is this a threat to national security? They eve brought forward the time of their programme from 4 pm to 2 pm so that they wouldn’t clash with the president’s visit,” Pereira said. Pereira said the government should not make youth scapegoats and should target them directly if don’t agree with what they are saying. After taking the three busses of youth from Panaji to Ponda police station the police took down all the names and addresses of the youth after which they were allowed to leave. Fr Pereira who came to Ponda police station to help them and Capt Viriato who was escorted near Panaji Church while questioning police on rounding up the youth, was later taken to Ponda police station. They told TOI they asked the police to let the youth go and agreed to be detained instead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/allegations-false-will-challenge-sdms-order/articleshow/79830827.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 21, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Homage paid to those who died during stir||BATHINDA: Homage was paid across the state on Sunday to the farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing protests against the central agriculture laws. According to news reports, 31 protesters have died due to various reasons so far. The events were organised on a call given by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. Farmers, including women, assembled in large numbers at various places where protests are going on in the state, apart from the ongoing protests at Delhi borders. At every place, the flex posters of those who have died were put at stages and the protesters showered flower petals on the pictures. Protest marches too were taken out at some places after paying tributes to the departed souls. At Barnala, protesters marched from railway station to the freedom fighter Bhagat Singh’s statue and pledged to continue the protests with renewed vigour. Farmer organisation BKU Ekta Dakonda state committee member Balwant Singh said, “It is 80 days now since protests started at various places across the state. We have been at Barnala railway station all this time. The number of those coming to protests is increasing by the day despite the weather.” BKU Ekta Ugrahan Bathinda secretary Harjinder Singh Bangi said farmers remembered those who have lost lives and vowed to further intensify the struggle. The activists sitting at toll plazas art Lehra Bega and Jeeda also held prayer meetings. Similar protests were held at Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, and Faridkot districts and tributes were paid to the departed souls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/homage-paid-to-those-who-died-during-stir/articleshow/79830308.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Till Nov this year, Kolkata's air quality better than that of 2019: PCB report||KOLKATA: A report published by West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) recently has made clear how lockdown and some measures taken by the board have done miracle with the air quality of the city. Though the air quality in the month of December raised concerns among environmentalists, it was found to be better till November compared to 2019. Track the pollution level in your cityThe report said that there were 148 good days in 2020 compared to 85 in 2019 in the city. Poor days were reduced to 40 in 2020 from 45 in 2019. In Kolkata, very poor days were reduced from 29 in 2019 to two in 2020. In Howrah, very poor days were reduced from 36 to seven. “Apart from lockdown, some of our measures based on scientific studies, including the source-apportionment study, have started yielding results. Spraying of water to stop road dust resuspension, shifting to cleaner fuel by roadside eateries, action against waste burning have started giving results. But the meteorological factors play a huge role. Cloud cover, low wind velocity and fog in winter can suddenly turn ambient air very foul. However, we need more studies in some unknown areas to understand the transborder flow of pollutants to fight it more effectively,” said WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra. The 2019, trend showed that Kolkata and Howrah had faced bigger challenge with more days in very poor category and above. About 10% of days in 2019 (till November) in these two cities were in very poor category. In Kolkata, this includes five severe days as well — the worst category. The transitory improvement in air quality in these cities this year so far is a result of the halting of the economy as well as activities during the summer lockdown. “But this should be taken as an opportunity to push implementation of the clean air action plans to prevent rebound effects and retaliatory emissions that are expected to increase with the reopening of the economy,” said air pollution expert and executive director of Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), Anumita Roychowdhury. In Kolkata, around 45% of days in 2019 (until November) had exceeded the daily standard, whereas in 2020, it is around 35% — both in Kolkata and Howrah, said Roychowdhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/till-nov-this-year-kol-air-quality-better-than-that-of-19-pcb-report/articleshow/79829343.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 21, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP cancels event in Jind village after local farmers say stop it||JIND: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had to cancel an event at a village in Haryana’s Jind district on Sunday after opposition from local farmers who said they would not allow the party to hold any programme until the three contentious agri laws were repealed. A police official confirmed that the incident took place in Gatauli village, near Julana town. Julana police station SHO Surender Singh said BJP workers were holding a programme in the village, but farmers opposed them. “No untoward incident took place as BJP workers cancelled the event and left the village after facing the wrath of farmers,” he said. Earlier, when they were told of the event, the farmers rushed to the venue and created a ruckus. Heated arguments took place and farmers threatened BJP workers not to hold any programme in the village in future until the three laws were repealed. BJP Jind district president Rajkumar alias Raju Mor said a training programme of the party in Gatauli was interrupted by local farmers. “The way they stopped us is gunda gardi (hooliganism) which should not happen,” he added A video of the incident was being circulated on social media, in which farmers could be seen saying to BJP leaders that farmers were in distress but the party was organising events. The protesters also asked BJP functionaries not to come to the village again. On getting news of the ruckus, police also reached the spot. To pacify the farmers, BJP functionaries agreed to cancel the event. Farmers continued raising slogans against BJP and of inqulaab zindabad (long live revolution) until BJP workers left the village. Farmers and khaps have announced they will not allow BJP leaders in the area or any programmes in support of the government. Earlier, farmers had shown black flags to former Union minister Birender Singh, whose son is a BJP MP, and Bhiwani BJP MP Dharmbir Singh, who reached Jind a few days ago to attend an event. Even khaps have announced to socially boycott Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and rest of the Bangar area leaders who are supporting BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-cancels-event-in-jind-village-after-local-farmers-say-stop-it/articleshow/79830326.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Metro returns to old Sunday normal||Kolkata: It was just like a pre-pandemic Sunday on the Metro. The timings were almost same. The first trains left stations at 9am. The last trains chugged out at 9.30pm instead of 9.45pm, like they would till the Covid-induced lockdown on March 22. The number of Sunday services were almost doubled — to 102. Frequencies were reduced from 20 minutes to 15. With only 68 services, last Sunday’s ridership was 43,586. This Sunday, it was 47,325. No e-passes were needed to access any of the 24 stations of the north-south corridor on Sunday. In its bid to inch towards the old normal, Metro on Saturday waived the e-pass norm for the whole day. Sundays, too, have become e-pass-free days. The e-passes were mandatory to access the north-south stations to limit the passenger count per rake at a time to 400. From Monday to Friday, e-passes are needed to be booked only from 8.30am to 11am and 5pm to 8pm. The only difference with the pre-pandemic era is that tokens are still not being issued. Around 5pm, Arko Chatterjee and his wife Tanya Dasgupta were headed for Park Street from the terminal Kavi Subhas station. “We planned our trip when we learnt no e-passes need to be booked on Sundays from today. It’s just like old times on the Metro, except for the masks,” smiled Dasgupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-returns-to-old-sunday-normal/articleshow/79829364.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||9,000 raptors of 17 species flock to Bikaner’s Jorbeer for winter feast||JAIPUR: The Jorbeer area of Bikaner is teeming with hundreds of voracious raptors, including vultures, which migrated to Rajasthan from South East Asia for the winter feast. It is music for the ears of bird lovers as the migration at this Important Bird Area (IBA) site is at its peak. Nearly, 9,000 raptors of 17 species can be seen at this carcass dumping site, highest in the country and Asia, according to the experts. Kushal Kharti, who is perusing M.Sc in Zoology and an ardent birdwatcher, said, “At present, six vulture species and 11 other raptors can be seen at Jorbeer. More birds are expected in January,” he said. The six vulture species include Eurasian Griffon (Gyps Fulvus), Himalayan Griffon (Gyps Himalayensis), Cinereous Vulture (Aegypius Monachus), Egyptian Vulture (Neophron Percnopterus), Long Billed Vulture (Gyps Indicus) and Red-headed Vulture (Srcogyps Calvus). The other raptors include Steppe Eagle, Tawny Eagle, Laggar Falcon, Kestrel, Long-legged Buzzard, Shikra, Black Kite, Black Shouldered Kite, Tawny Eagle, Imperial Eagle. Environmentalists say that as Jorbeer is the largest vulture site in Asia and falls that migratory route of raptors from Eurasia and Mongolia, but it still failed to draw attention of the Centre and the state forest department. International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) member Dau Lal Bohra said, “Despite having the highest population in Jorbeer, Rajasthan was not included in the Centre’s action plan for Vulture Conservation in India (2020-2025). The birds of prey in Jorbeer, the preferred vulture habitat, are alarmingly falling prey to two medicines, Aceclofenac and ketoprofen administered by veterinarians in cattle. Moreover, mortality continuously occur due to electrocution. A conservation plan for this site should be prepared,” he said. Last month, after the death of seven raptors of three different species, including Black Kite, Egyptian Vulture and Steppe Eagle were recovered from the carcass dumping site, located nearly 12km away from Bikaner, environmentalists had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the state chief wildlife warden to ban two drugs to treat livestock. Shagufta Qureshi, another wildlife lover, said, “The PMO had forwarded the letter to the Centre’s animal husbandry department which later was sent to all the states for examination. Taking a serious note, the Goa government banned these drugs, but nothing has been done in Rajasthan till date,” Qureshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/9k-raptors-of-17-species-flock-to-bikaners-jorbeer-for-winter-feast/articleshow/79830359.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala records 5,711 Covid positive cases, 30 deaths||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Sunday reported 5,711 Covid-19 positive cases. Of these, 5,058 persons – including 41 healthcare workers – have contracted the virus through local transmission and sources of infection in 501 cases were unknown. The day also saw recovery of 4,471 patients from the virus. With the confirmation of 30 recent deaths as Covid-related, the toll in the state has reached 2,817. As many as 53,858 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the test positivity rate is 10.60%. A total of 73,47,376 samples have been sent for testing till now. So far, 6,41,285 people have recovered and at present, there are 61,604 patients undergoing treatment for the same. Kottayam reported the highest number of cases (905) followed by Malappuram (662), Kozhikode (650), Ernakulam (591), Kollam (484), Thrissur (408), Pathanamthitta (360), Thiruvananthapuram (333), Kannur (292), Alappuzha (254), Palakkad (247), Idukki (225), Wayanad (206) and Kasaragod 94. The highest number of locally transmitted cases were reported from Kottayam (853), followed by Malappuram (623), Kozhikode (621), Ernakulam (437), Kollam (478), Thrissur (389), Pathanamthitta (297), Thiruvananthapuram (240), Kannur (249), Alappuzha (239), Palakkad (125), Idukki (216), Wayanad (202) and Kasaragod (89). The infected healthcare workers include nine from Ernakulam, six each from Pathanamthitta and Kozhikode, five each from Thrissur and Kannur, three from Thiruvananthapuram, two each from Palakkad and Wayanad and one each from Kollam, Kottayam and Kasaragod. The count of patients who tested negative in the district-level: Thiruvananthapuram (315), Kollam (298), Pathanamthitta (182), Alappuzha (433), Kottayam (415), Idukki (97), Ernakulam (499), Thrissur (279), Palakkad (267), Malappuram (641), Kozhikode (684), Wayanad (164), Kannur (160) and Kasaragod (37). Meanwhile, 111 of the newly infected cases had come to the state from outside. Two new hotspots were declared on Sunday while two areas were excluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-records-5711-covid-positive-cases-30-deaths/articleshow/79828310.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||KMC docs won’t join tax campaign||Kolkata: Doctors of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s health department won’t get involved in a campaign that the civic body is about to start against the city’s habitual property tax defaulters. According to the plan, the KMC medical officials were supposed to take part in the campaign against the defaulters, along with the civic body’s revenue department officials. However, the civic top brass did a rethink on the issue and decided to exempt the medical officials and borough executive health officials from the campaign. “As medical officials have been fighting with the pandemic as frontline Covid warriors, we have come to a conclusion that we need to exempt them from the campaign,” said a senior official of the KMC health department. According to a notice issued recently by a deputy chief health officer and an OSD of the KMC health department, the medical officials were supposed to hire auto rickshaws for conducting a ward-wise campaign against property tax defaulters and asking them to apply for the ongoing 100% interest waiver scheme on outstanding property tax. However, as some medical officials expressed their reservation against such a plan, citing their busy schedule as Covid-19 frontline workers, the health department decided to issue another notice revoking the earlier order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-docs-wont-join-tax-campaign/articleshow/79829366.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Cost of carrots will continue to drop in the week ahead||CHENNAI: Cost of carrots is expected to continue to drop this week while drumstick is set to grower dearer. Cost of carrots, which shot up to Rs 90 a kg at the wholesale market two months ago, started dropping last week and was Rs 30-Rs 40/kg. According to Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) sources, it is likely to drop by another Rs 10 to Rs 15 a kg this week. Drumstick is going to cost Rs 60/kg due to drop in arrivals. Cost of other veggies is expected to remain stable in the week ahead. V R Soundararajan, former member of Market Management Committee of KWMC and a wholesale trader, said drumstick prices shot up to Rs 60 to Rs 70 per kilogram last week as arrivals dropped by half from Tirupur, Perumbalur and Theni districts. Heavy rains last month has caused extensive damage to drumstick plantations and yield, he said. Cost of other vegetables including staples potato, onion and tomato will remain stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cost-of-carrots-will-continue-to-drop-in-the-week-ahead/articleshow/79829367.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||BSF IG meets jawans, inspects border areas in Jaisalmer dist||Jaisalmer: BSF Rajasthan frontier IG Ayushmani Tiwari visited Shahgarh Bulj area in Jaisalmer district to boost the morale of jawans. He took stock of operational activities and suspicious activities across the border. He also oversaw the progress of construction work at border outposts. Jaisalmer sector south DIG Anand Singh Takshat was with him during the visit. IG Tiwari reached Jaisalmer on Friday on a five-day visit. 149 BN BSF Commandant Shivanand Yadav briefed IG Tiwari about the security scenario at the Indo-Pak border in Jaisalmer. The IG appreciated the troops for performing their duties in difficult and adverse situations. He briefed the troops about utilization of modern technology for augmentation of security management. He informed the troops about various kinds of welfare schemes available for them and their wards. He also inspected deployment of women jawans and officers at the border, their housing and other basic facilities. Besides, the IG carried out foot patrolling and plantation activities. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-ig-meets-jawans-inspects-border-areas-in-jaisalmer-dist/articleshow/79830371.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala govt sanctions Rs 20 crore for Travancore devaswom board||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has provided Rs 20 crore for the smooth conduct of the Makaravilakku festival at Sabarimala. The amount was sanctioned as the Travancore devaswom board (TDB) is staring at a severe financial crunch stemming from the pandemic. As temples remained closed for months its revenue streams had been severely impacted. Sabarimala is the main source of revenue for TDB and Covid-19 restrictions had placed a cap on the number of devotees visiting the temple during the Mandalakala-Makaravilakku festival. TDB found itself struggling to provide even for salaries and pensions of its employees and had sought the support of the government. This is the second time in the last six months that the state government has approved funds for TDB. It had earlier infused Rs 30 crore. The board has issued a directive to temples emphasizing on strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols during rituals and festivals. Avoiding crowds and elephant processions are among the key stipulations. Makaravilakku fest from December 31 The Makaravilakku festival will begin at Sabarimala on December 31 and the temple will be open till January 19. RT-PCR test is mandatory for those visiting the temple, including employees on duty from December 26. Only those with a RT-PCR test negative certificate will be allowed to trek the hill shrine. Others will have to take the test at Nilakkal. The board has also decided to reduce the number of employees at Sabarimala in view of the increased spread of Covid-19 among them. As many as 299 positive cases were reported at Sabarimala after the temple opened in November. Of these, 245 are employees of various departments who were on duty at Nilakkal, Pampa and Sannidhanam. After Sabarimala temple was opened in November, the health department noted a 31% jump in Covid-19 cases in Pathanamthitta and an 11% rise in Kottayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-govt-sanctions-rs-20cr-for-tdb/articleshow/79828302.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Chennai||Greater Chennai Corporation projects to leave a greener trail||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation’s mega projects such as construction of buildings and lake restorations will now be a step greener with use of ecofriendly building material such as fly-ash bricks, geo fabrics and bio-fences. According to senior officials in the civic body, funding agencies such as Asian Development Bank (ADB) have insisted on using at least 50% of such green materials for projects. For startes, GCC will begin eco-restoration of the 132-acre Kadapakkam lake in Manali and turn it into a camp-trail spot for North Chennai. “Grant for the project has been given under the green climate fund and under it, it is mandatory to use green material. We are using such material in all projects under the Chennai smart city programme,” said L Nandakumar, chief engineer (general), GCC. The other green aspect of the Kadapakkam lake restoration would be the use of solar powered lights, Nandakumar said. In the construction industry, items such as fly-ash bricks, bamboo or even old wooden doors and windows are used in green buildings. The idea is to decrease use of concrete which is not biodegradable and also consumes a lot of fossil fuel to manufacture. Old-style clay bricks and tiles are also considered green material. Fly-ash is a waste from power plants or waste incinerators and is dumped in water bodies or the sea causing pollution. It is now being used in manufacture of bricks and cement. Mark Selvaraj, consultant to GCC, said while restoring ponds, geo fabrics are used to avoid slippage of soil. “Grass grows on this easily and it prevents erosion,” he said. Another example is that of bio-fencing instead of steel fences, bamboo shoots are used to fence, Selvaraj said. Other green elements include fly-ash pavers, geo textiles for bund stabilisation, drip irrigation techniques, sprinklers, solar-lit bollards and grass pavers. Internationally, material such as straw bale, grasscrete, recycled plastic and ferrock cement are acknowledged as green construction material. Green buildings also incorporate recycling of grey water and double windowed air-conditioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-corporation-projects-to-leave-a-greener-trail/articleshow/79829381.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
December 21, 2020||Chennai||It’s dead man walking again in Tamil Nadu||Early in his election campaign, Kamal Haasan got what he wanted: attention from not just the voters, but his political rivals too. If inciting chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was Kamal’s idea, he did it with elan. “Many present-day ministers wouldn’t have seen the bright face of MGR,” the MNM leader told gatherings in Virudhunagar and Tuticorin past Tuesday. “But I have grown up on MGR’s lap; he greeted me whenever I achieved something big or small.” EPS retorted: “The AIADMK was founded by MGR, and we are the only party that can claim his legacy.” Kamal isn’t the first one this season to allude to MGR. Speaking at the MGR University in Chennai in March 2018, Rajinikanth had said: “I am not MGR, but I can give a pro-poor government like his. Once when I was hospitalised, MGR used to call regularly to inquire about my wellbeing.” Rajini, too, got an acerbic treatment from the AIADMK. Even the BJP tried to appropriate the fur-capped darling of the Tamils, using his image along with that of BJP state president L Murugan and comparing MGR with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The AIADMK asked its overambitious ally to behave. Those were only trailers of a suspense – even comic – thriller that will play out for five months before the assembly election. What’s striking is that 33 years after his death, MGR continues to be at the centre of public memory and political machinations. The AIADMK can indeed claim MGR’s legacy, primarily because of retaining the name – despite two episodes of rebellion the party survived – the founder chose. Nobody could match the pro-poor and humane spirit of MGR, the governments under J Jayalalithaa and EPS had tried to keep welfare measures on their priority list, though their intentions were more political than philanthropic. Rajini and Kamal will have personal anecdotes to share about MGR’s kindness and warmth, but projecting themselves as the new-age MGRs will be preposterous. For, MGR was much more than the sum of all that his legacy claimants try to appropriate. Why can’t the recent star entrants in politics match MGR? Here is reproducing a part of what I wrote in 2002 when the AIADMK turned 30: He (MGR) was just the hero Tamil Nadu badly wanted in real (life). He never played a negative role. On screen, MGR never smoked or drank and always treated his women with respect. Superstar MGR was the harbinger of hope, the warrior of the oppressed and the messiah of the masses. He had sparkling eyes, till those trademark dark glasses hid them. He was fair. How much of that were Rajini and Kamal on the silver screen? As for the transition from the decked-up film sets to the dust bowls of politics, MGR’s was a gradual manoeuvre, unlike that of the new stars. While being the glamourous messenger of the DMK’s ideologies to the masses, MGR was being politically educated, so much that when he rebelled and launched his own party, the ADMK, on October 17, 1972, he could hit the ground running. The socio-political fabric, too, was conducive. More from the 2002 story: The DMK was being seen as a party predominantly of such castes as mudaliars and vellalars. Other castes such as kallars, mukkulathor and dalits were getting an inferior treatment in the DMK and it was only natural for them to rally behind the ADMK (which became the AIADMK on September 12, 1976). For MGR, turning his fan clubs into party units was a breeze. It may not be so for Rajini or Kamal. arun.ram@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/its-dead-man-walking-again-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79829373.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Leopardess spotted with two cubs in Jhalana forest||JAIPUR: Jhalana reserve forest, where the country’s first Project Leopard was launched two years ago, is turning into a nursery for leopards in the state. On Saturday, leopardess Leela was spotted with two cubs. This is the sixth leopardess to give birth in the park since January and now the population stands at 22 adults and 12 cubs, according to a forest official. The official said, “The forest department had installed camera traps to locate female leopardess Leela as it was not sighted for long. On Saturday night, it was captured with its two cubs. After the pictorial evidence, security arrangements have been stepped up in the forest area. The forest department officials are monitoring the movement of the new cub.” In May, leopardess Jalebi was captured on trap camera with its cub. Similarly, leopardess Flaura was sighted with three cubs in the beginning of the year. The other three female leopards LK, Mrs Khan and Sharmili gave birth to cubs subsequently resulting in an increase in the young population. It is believed the leopard count has been steadily increasing in this particular forest area, mainly due to efficient monitoring as well as significant efforts to provide a protected environment to the wildlife. Although, the population increase is good news for wildlife lovers, sources at the park involved in its management claimed that Jhalana has more leopards than its capacity. Currently, there are approximately 35 leopards, including the offsprings, in the safari park which means less than one square kilometre per animal, once they grow up, claimed experts. “Jhalana is spread over 22sqkm and the big cat population is higher than its carrying capacity. There are four dominant males (Rambo, Bahadur, Bagheera and Sultan) in Jhalana and two (Bluethunder and Prince) in Galta region. The young leopards do not have any territory and possibilities of straying into residential areas are high,” said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopardess-spotted-with-two-cubs-in-jhalana-forest/articleshow/79830382.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Amritsar||Bathinda: Back from stir, man kills self over debt||BATHINDA: On a day tributes were paid to those who died during the ongoing farmers’ protests against the three central agriculture laws, 23-year-old Gurlabh Singh, from Dyalpur Mirjha village in Bathinda district, committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance. He had returned from the farmers’ protest at the Delhi border on Friday. His family owes nearly Rs 6 lakh to bank and money lender. His maternal uncle Harnek Singh said, “Gurlabh was not happy with the way government was responding to the farmers’ struggle. He kept saying we may not be able to repay the debt and consumed a poisonous substance.” According to police, Gurlabh took the poison on Saturday and was taken to a private hospital at Bathinda where he breathed his last the next day. The reason behind the suicide is yet to be ascertained, the police said. BKU Krantikari’s Bhagta block president, Baljinder Singh said Gurlabh was another victim of farmers’ protest and demanded compensation for the bereaved family. “As many farmers have died during the struggle, the government must sense the gravity of the situation and repeal the laws at the earliest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/back-from-stir-man-kills-self-over-debt/articleshow/79830370.cms||Neel Kamal
December 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||2021 polls: EC starts officer scrutiny drive||Thiruvananthapuram: Initiating the process of assembly elections in four states, including Kerala and a Union Territory, the election commission of India (ECI) has instructed the states to ensure that government officers connected directly to the conduct of elections and who completed three years in the same district are transferred from their respective posts. As per ECI’s transfer policy, officers who complete three years on or before May 31, 2021, will also have to be transferred from the respective districts. In the letter by senior principal secretary of ECI Narendra N Butolia to the chief secretaries and chief electoral officers of the states going to polls, it has been instructed to ensure that officials connected to the conduct of elections should not be posted in their home districts. ECI said that officials against whom the commission had recommended disciplinary action in the past and which is pending or which has resulted in a penalty, or who have been charged for any lapse in any election or election-related work in the past, should not be assigned any election-related duty. However, officers posted on the recommendation of the commission during Lok Sabha elections last year should be exempted from the transfer policy. The commission has asked all the states to ensure strict compliance of the policy. On the basis of the instruction from the commission, the state government has begun taking the list of officials who meet the aforesaid criteria of the commission. It is reliably learnt that there may be a change in district collectors as Palakkad and Pathanamthitta collectors are in the category of officials who have completed three years in the same district. Sources said that there would a reshuffle in the police top brass as well. While a couple of senior officials on the field will have to be transferred as they are natives of the district where they are posted, transfers will have to be made as promotions of senior officers are effective from January 1. While Thiruvananthapuram rural, Pathanamthitta, Palakkad and Malappuram will get new SPs, Thiruvananthapuram city and Ernakulam city would get new commissioners. Police nodal officers  for elections Meanwhile, on the instructions of the commission, three senior police officials have been appointed as police nodal officers for elections. ADGP (armed police battalion) K Padmakumar will be the state nodal police officer for central armed police forces (CAPF), ADGP (headquarters) Manoj Abraham will be the state police nodal officer and IG (headquarters) P Vijayan will be the nodal officer for election expenditures. The term of the existing government in the state would come to a close on June 1 next year. Similarly, Tamil Nadu (term ending on May 24), West Bengal (May 30), Puducherry (June 8) and Assam (May 31) are also going to the polls next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/2021-polls-ec-starts-officer-scrutiny-drive/articleshow/79828319.cms||KP Saikiran
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jail manual archaic, needs overhaul: HC tells state govt||Jodhpur: The high court has asked the state government to apprise it of the proposed steps it plans to take for the complete overhauling of the prison manual after observing it to be plagued by archaic and derogatory caste system which the Constitution pledged to eradicate. The court has also directed the state to ensure that prisoners were not forced to indulge in menial jobs like cleaning toilets merely on the basis of their caste and also that no undertrial is forced to perform such jobs in the prison. Listing the matter for next hearing on February 4, the court has sought a detailed response from the AAG regarding these directions. A division bench of Justice Sandeep Mehta and Justice Devendra Kachhawaha gave these directions while taking a suo motu cognizance of a report based on a research paper of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiatives (CHRI) while hearing some petitions pertaining to prison reforms on Friday. The report, while affirming the existence of caste-based work assignments system in prisons in Rajasthan, stated, “The arrangement was clear – those at the bottom of the caste pyramid did the cleaning work; those high above handled the kitchen or the legal documentation department. And the rich and influential did nothing; they only threw their weight around. These arrangements had nothing to do with the crime that one was arrested for or his conduct in prison. “Sab kuch jaati ke aadhar par tha (It was all based on caste).” Expressing displeasure and awe over the citations of the report about the caste system in jails, the bench said that it was a shocking finding that till date the archaic Prison Manual, which was a gift of the British Rule, is prevalent in the prison system of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jail-manual-archaic-needs-overhaul-hc-tells-state-govt/articleshow/79830379.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: 20% learners don’t seek permanent driving licences, fear of stringent test among reasons||PUNE: Close to 20% applicants, who have given the online test and got their learner’s licence, never apply or attempt to get a permanent licence, according to deputy RTO Sanjay Sasane. Data from the Regional Transport Office (RTO) from April to November this year indicates that while every month saw a large number of people getting their learner’s licence, the number of those given permanent licences was very few. In June, while 1,093 learner’s licences were issued by the Pune RTO, the number of permanent licences given stood at 619. Similarly, in July, while the RTO issued 4,459 learner’s licences, just 2,755 permanent licences were issued. In August, September, October and November, the numbers were much higher. As many as 10,847, 25,230, 25,523 and 24,570 learner’s licences were issued in these four months, respectively. But permanent licences handed out were 3,924, 7,371, 6,685 and 6,864, respectively. One reason for people not opting for a permanent licence is that they are prospective vehicle buyers. There are cases when a person decides to buy a vehicle and gets a learner’s licence. However, the person cancels the plan to buy a vehicle and he/she doesn’t find the need to go for a permanent licence, an RTO official said. “There are others who are not confident about passing the driving test as they could not practice enough and they drop the idea. Another reason is that there is one vehicle in the family, but more members are using it. Being diffident about a driving test, and the knowledge that a learner’s licence can be procured for any number of times at six months’ intervals, are basic reasons for not seeking a permanent licence,” the official added. The RTO holds tests for permanent licences at its Alandi Road facility and the Institute of Driving, Training and Research in Kasarwadi. The tests for a learner’s licence is held at the Pune RTO’s main office, near the Sangam bridge. Aundh resident Arun Bhede, 23, who got his learner’s licence 10 months ago, said he was not yet ready for the final test. “I was learning to drive and the classes were going on fine until the lockdown hit and everything shut down for months’ together. Now, even though the driving schools have opened up, I will wait for some more time and then start training again. I don’t want to rush into things as the risk of getting infected with Covid-19 is high. Meanwhile, I have applied for an appointment to get a fresh learner’s licence,” Bhede said. Another RTO official said driving with a learner’s licence is permitted. “It is a legal document. However, the person driving has to ensure that the letter ‘L’ (learning) is visible on their vehicles. Regulations say that while driving a four-wheeler with a learner’s licence, a person who is a permanent licence holder has to be present in the vehicle. However, many do not follow the regulations. The police can take action against a learner’s licence holder if the letter ‘L’ is not visible on the vehicle. The offender will not come under ‘not carrying a licence’ category,” the official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/20-learners-dont-seek-permanent-driving-licences-fear-of-stringent-test-among-reasons/articleshow/79830378.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 21, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP’s fasts for SYL cruel joke: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||CHANDIGARH: Haryana former chief minister (CM) and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday countered chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar saying the BJP’s move was an attempt to break the unity of farmers. He said BJP’s fast on SYL canal issue is a “cruel joke” on farmers. “The ruling BJP has always put its political interests above the interests of Haryana. Had BJP really been serious about getting water to Haryana, the state would have got SYL water by now. But the BJP government never dealt with the interests of Haryana,” hesaid. “The present government, while in power for six years, never tried to get SYL water to Haryana. The decision of the Supreme Court came in favour of Haryana three and a half years ago. At present, the aim of the BJP is only to derail the farmers’ movement and to divide the solidarity of the farmers,” Hooda added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjps-fasts-for-syl-cruel-joke-hooda/articleshow/79830381.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kochi||Shigella infection in Kozhikode under control: DMO||KOZHIKODE: The shigella infection reported in the Kozhikode corporation limits has been brought under control, said district medical officer Dr V Jayasree. She said that the health department had intensified preventive measures as soon as the first infection was reported from the area which helped in controlling the spread of the bacterial infection. Meanwhile, the community medicine department of Kozhikode Government Medical College has submitted a preliminary report stating that the source of shigella infection at Kottamparamba and nearby areas in Kozhikode corporation limits could be through contaminated water. Associate professor of the department Dr Jayakrishnan T said that a team from the department would visit the area as part of the investigation before submitting the final report. It is suspected that the shigella infection could have been spread through water served to people who attended the funeral of a 11-year-old boy who had died last week following the disease. Apart from the deceased child, six persons who had attended the funeral or had contact with the house had tested positive and 34 others in the area have been identified as suspected cases. The test results of water samples taken from five wells in the area are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dmo-shigella-infection-in-koz-under-control/articleshow/79828314.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kochi||Retro actors’ namesakes part of Alappuzha municipality||ALAPPUZHA: Naseer, Madhu and Jayan are among the most favourite and evergreen names in Mollywood. These three names of our yesteryear actors will also have important roles in the administration of Alappuzha municipality this time. Naseer, Madhu and Jayan are new LDF councilors in the municipality. Though the three men have been active in politics from a very young age in CPI, this is the first time they contested elections. “Since we filed nomination papers as candidates of CPI, we have seen many interesting posts in social media related to our names. We have contested from the sitting seats of LDF. Though we contested for the first time, we could retain the seats, thanks to all our voters. Now it is time to keep our promises given to them. We will work hard to fulfill it at any cost,” said 52-year-old Naseer, who won from Valiyakulam ward of Alappuzha municipality. Madhu won from Arattuvazhi ward of Alappuzha municipality and Jayan from Chathanad ward. Among them, Madhu bagged the highest majority of 157 votes, while Naseer and Jayan gained a majority of 113 and 57 votes, respectively. Naseer is the CPI Ambalappuzha mandalam assistant secretary, Madhu is the CPI’s Alappuzha mandalam assistant secretary and Jayan is AIYF district joint secretary. Though these men have the names of yesteryear film stars, Madhu and Jayan did not have any connection with films. But Naseer had a small role in a film named Sathyaprathinja released in 1991. He played the role of a contractor. This time, LDF wrested Alappuzha municipality from UDF. Of the 52 wards, LDF secured 35 seats and UDF could obtain only 11 seats. Of the 35 seats secured by LDF, nine seats belong to CPI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/retro-actors-namesakes-part-of-alpy-municipality/articleshow/79828324.cms||Sajimon P S
December 21, 2020||Goa||Tejas Express to Goa delayed by 7 hours as utility train derails||MUMBAI: Commuters headed for Goa for Christmas holidays on Mumbai-Goa Tejas Express were put to inconvenience as the superfast train was delayed by over seven hours. The delay was caused by the derailment of a mini train that was deployed to maintain the tracks near Ratnagiri on the Konkan Railway. No one was injured, said officials. Tejas Express was on its first run after its service resumed on Sunday. The return train from Goawas also delayed by seven hours. Its departure scheduled at 2.40pm from from Karmali was rescheduled to 9.40pm said Konkan Railway spokesperson GirishKarandikar. “The delay was due to a front axle of the utility track vehicle derailed between Diwankhavti and Khed stations in Ratnagiri at 6.57am,” said Karandikar. Work to put it back on track was completed by 3.47pm, he said. Six trains on the same route were stopped at a certain point before their destination. The railways have announced that Tejas Express will now run five days a week — except Mondays and Thursdays. The train will leave CSMT at 5.50am to reach Karmali at 2pm. The return journey will start at 2.40pm and it reaches Mumbai at 11.15pm the same day with halts at Dadar, Thane, Panvel, Chiplun, Ratnagiri and Kudal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/derailment-of-utility-track-vehicle-delays-tejas-express-by-7-hours/articleshow/79831389.cms||Somit Sen
December 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Breadwinner keeps testing +ve as family struggles||THRISSUR: The Covid-19 crisis has severely disrupted the financial and social lives of many families in the state. The tragic plight of a 35-year-old woman from Pariyaram, near Chalakkudy, who has tested positive four times in the last two-and-a-half months, is a case in point. Her husband is undergoing treatment for kidney failure and her daily wages were the sole financial support for the family consisting of two children and her elderly parents. According to her mother, she had spent the first one-and-a-half months, after testing positive for Covid-19, in her house. She was subsequently shifted to the first-line treatment centre (FLTC) at St James Hospital Academy, Chalakkudy. Taluk hospital superintendent Dr Sheeja, who is also the nodal officer of the FLTC, said her health parameters remain normal. “We conducted all tests, expect for HIV, and the results show no abnormalities. But she keeps testing positive for Covid-19,’’ Dr Sheeja said. Dr Noel, a physician at the taluk hospital who also examined her, said she has no immune-compromising issues. “We have now conducted an RT-PCR test, as per the request of the family, and the results are awaited,’’ Dr Sheeja said. Health authorities say an HIV test will be conducted, but only after the RT-PCR results come through. The mother said authorities have informed her that her daughter will be discharged soon, as she has no other symptoms. However, the family is worried that her positive antigen test results will prevent her from returning to work. “My son-in-law has to undergo dialysis thrice a week and we will not be able to sustain unless we get some support,” the mother said. Health experts say detailed studies must be conducted to determine why some persons are repeatedly testing positive for the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/breadwinner-keeps-testing-ve-as-family-struggles/articleshow/79828321.cms||T Ramavarman
December 21, 2020||Chennai||Why it’s not easy being a trans man||CHENNAI: For anyone wrestling with their sexuality and gender dysphoria at a young age, the knowledge that there could be a community out there for them makes several hard choices easier. But when M Selvam walked out of home with the birth of the millennium, he was 15 years old, third of the five children born to labourer parents from Theni and with no information access the way we have it now. But there was something that made his choice more daunting than any of these factors did; the fact that he was assigned female at birth. “Good thing for me, I believed I had a disposition that could make anyone nervous. So, in all the odd jobs I worked – at brick kilns, construction sites and factories – I pre-empted danger from heterosexual men that could follow questions like, ‘why is your body curvy, or why is your voice thin,’ and evaded them with the kind of sharpness I believe every trans person must possess." READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+: Why it's harder being a trans man||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-its-not-easy-being-a-trans-man/articleshow/79829380.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
December 21, 2020||Mumbai||Tejas Express to Goa delayed by 7 hours as utility train derails||MUMBAI: Commuters headed for Goa for Christmas holidays on Mumbai-Goa Tejas Express were put to inconvenience as the superfast train was delayed by over seven hours. The delay was caused by the derailment of a mini train that was deployed to maintain the tracks near Ratnagiri on the Konkan Railway. No one was injured, said officials. Tejas Express was on its first run after its service resumed on Sunday. The return train from Goawas also delayed by seven hours. Its departure scheduled at 2.40pm from from Karmali was rescheduled to 9.40pm said Konkan Railway spokesperson GirishKarandikar. “The delay was due to a front axle of the utility track vehicle derailed between Diwankhavti and Khed stations in Ratnagiri at 6.57am,” said Karandikar. Work to put it back on track was completed by 3.47pm, he said. Six trains on the same route were stopped at a certain point before their destination. The railways have announced that Tejas Express will now run five days a week — except Mondays and Thursdays. The train will leave CSMT at 5.50am to reach Karmali at 2pm. The return journey will start at 2.40pm and it reaches Mumbai at 11.15pm the same day with halts at Dadar, Thane, Panvel, Chiplun, Ratnagiri and Kudal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/derailment-of-utility-track-vehicle-delays-tejas-express-by-7-hours/articleshow/79830848.cms||Somit Sen
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Jupiter-Saturn great conjunction: Rare celestial delight wows Kolkata skygazers||KOLKATA: Two giants of the solar system, Jupiter and Saturn, shone bright on Sunday night and were visible even to the naked eye. Just to the left of the moon, the two were seen like this for the first time after 794 years. For the next such “Christmas Star” moment to happen, one will have to wait till 2080. The celestial event brought many sky enthusiasts, especially students, to terraces with mini telescopes. The Birla Industrial and Technological Museum too saw the turnout of many students who participated in the special viewing of the event and attended the lectures by experts. The special viewing for the people started on Saturday and will continue till Monday when the Great Conjunction, as this rare celestial event is being called, will peak.  “Though the peak is at 11.50pm on December 21, we are lucky to watch the planets come close on the night sky for some days now. Though in 1623 a similar conjunction happened, that was not visible. The last observable conjunction was in 1226,” said VS Ramachandran, director of BITM. Though the conjunction happens in about 19 years, it was visible this time because of the alignment. “I could see the two planets clearly through the telescope,” said Anonya Roy, a Gokhale Memorial School student. “Accompanying lectures made it even more interesting,” said Arghyaraj Pan of Apeejay School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rare-celestial-delight-wows-kol-skygazers/articleshow/79829383.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: 14 break-ins in 2 hours leave Lullanagar residents shaken||PUNE: Four masked men broke into 13 flats in three housing societies located close to each other, besides an independent bungalow, in Lullanagar between 2am and 4am on Sunday, causing panic and concern among local residents. The burglars stole cash and gold ornaments, the police said. All the flats and the bungalow, which houses a multimedia studio, were locked when the burglars struck. A witness at one of the societies saw the masked men moving suspiciously and leaving the place in a car, but he provided the information to the police only when they came to his society to investigate the matter. Of 13 burgled flats, seven were in Aristocrat housing society and three each in Sona Apartments and Alishaan Corner Society. Panicked local residents have demanded that the Pune Municipal Corporation install CCTV cameras and street lights in the area. They said the burglaries also raised a serious question about the policing effort in the area considering that the masked men were moving around from one society to another for two hours without the cops getting a wind of suspicious activity. Residents complained of lax night patrolling by the police in the area. Inspector Shabbir Sayyad of Kondhwa police station, “A building resident did hear some noise in a neighbouring flat and noticed four masked men leaving in a car. He did not alert the police control room. The intruders made off with Rs10,000 and gold ornaments from the three flats. They were in the area between 2am and 4am. They travelled in lane numbers 1, 3 and 4 near Mount Carmel Convent High School in Lullanagar.” The thefts came to light in the morning when neighbours noticed the broken locks and started informing the owners as well as the police control room. In lane number 1, the burglars broke into three flats in Sona Apartments. They stole a gold ring from one of the flats. The suspects also broke into LMB Studio located in a bungalow. There were laptops and other gadgets in the studio. The suspects, however, only stole Rs5,000 petty cash from the first floor of the studio. In lane number 3, the suspects broke into three flats each in two wings of the Aristocrat Society and Alisha Corner Society. The suspects stole Rs5,000 and gold ornaments from two flats. In lane number 4, the suspects broke into a flat in the H-wing of Aristocrat Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/14-house-break-ins-over-two-hours-leaves-lullanagar-residents-shaken/articleshow/79830386.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 21, 2020||Kochi||Tribute to Rajan Pillai: A fund to create 25 global brands from India||KOCHI: It’s almost 25 years since the untimely death of Kerala-born ‘biscuit king’ Rajan Pillai. As a tribute to his business acumen and legacy, Rajmohan Pillai, his younger brother and trustee of Rajan Pillai Foundation is setting up Beta Project 25, on Rajan’s 73rd birthday. Beta Project 25 aims to create global brands from India in the next 25 years. “The idea is to fund ventures and startups, and so any industrialist or a startup entrepreneur could qualify for this. We want to launch the project on his birthday because he himself was an international businessman, and he did in 1987 what people are only planning but couldn’t do even now,” Rajmohan, who is also the chairman of Beta Group, said. According to him, Rajan transformed Britannia, which had till then manufacturing facilities only in India, Pakistan, Malaysia, Singapore, New Zealand and Hong Kong, into a truly global one by forging joint ventures for manufacturing in Africa, Middle East and elsewhere. Rajan also had 500,000 hectare of cashew plantations in Australia called Wildman River Plantations. “India will have a future only if we have global brands. If a global brand comes to India for manufacturing their phones here, it will have only a limited effort here, because they are basically looking for the internal market and very little will be exported. But if we can create a similar international brand, we can go all over the world,” Rajmohan said. Rajmohan’s own Beta Group has come up with ventures in sports, IT and cluster of businesses, and they are the first three ventures to be funded by the project. “Between these three projects, we have already invested Rs 100 crore and most of it went to BAT Academy,” he said. The academy looks to revive the legacy of the original BAT Academy that created sports stars like Leander Paes and Somdev Devvarman. PaceHiTech and Cosmopolitan Chamber of Commerce & Industry (CCCI) are the other two ventures from the group. “We are now looking for 22 other ventures that could go global,” Rajmohan said. The selected startups will receive help from the Beta Group, right from validating business plans, mentoring and finally attracting investors. Veterans of Indian origin serving multinational corporations like Fedex, IBM or Nabisco are expected to join the project as advisers. Rajmohan is planning to get educational institutions, industry and the government to work together to create a favorable environment for growing ventures that could go global from India. Hari Krishnan Nair, past president CII-Kerala and vice-president, TiE-Kerala, said, “Most Malayali businessmen use their wealth to perpetuate their own businesses or invest in the stock market or real estate. Therefore, Kerala’s startups have not had enough access to angel and VC funds to make it a hot startup hub. Rajmohan’s announcement is very positive because backing from HNIs with his network and business experience will help startups scale beyond boundaries.” Mathew J Manimala, former professor for organizational behaviour at the Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore (IIM-B), had a different view. Growing a global brand from India might be difficult, he said. “That is because of our past experiences: our attempts to create an indigenous car brand wasn’t successful,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tribute-to-rajan-pillai-a-fund-to-create-25-global-brands-from-india/articleshow/79828393.cms||Shenoy Karun
December 21, 2020||Kochi||P J Joseph faction got more seats than Jose group in Idukki||IDUKKI: P J Joseph faction of Kerala Congress (M) has fared better than Jose K Mani group in local-body elections to grama and district panchayats in Idukki districtThe Joseph faction won 107 seats in the district while the Jose group could get only 70, according to figures in the elections. The Joseph faction won 84 seats in grama panchayats while Jose group got 47 seats. In block panchayats, the two factions got 12 seats each and in district panchayat, the Joseph faction got four seats while the Jose division only one. In Thodupuzha municipality, Joseph and Jose factions won two seats each. The two UDF rebels there will decide the ruling front as UDF has 13 seats, LDF 12 and NDA 8. In Kattappana municipality, the Joseph faction got three seats and the Jose group two. Jose faction leader Jose Palathinal said, “The support of Kerala Congress paved the way for LDF rule in many panchayats, including Kamakshi, Vandanmedu, Biosonvalley and Adimali. After 38 years and for the first time, Christian votes went to LDF in local-body elections after Kerala Congress joined the front. LDF won majority in panchayats containing Kerala Congress-stronghold areas. We hope the trend will continue in the next assembly elections,” Palathinal said. Joseph faction district president M J Jacob said: “Jose group has lost influence in their stronghold areas. Jose faction had claimed that Kattappana municipality is their stronghold, but they won only two seats there,” Jacob said. “Rebel candidates had posed a threat to the party candidates and in panchayat level, Congress leaders openly worked for them. This resulted in the defeat of five Joseph faction candidates,” Jacob said. After the election, discord within the Congress has come to the fore with local-level leaders burning in effigy district-level leaders. They pointed fingers at the leadership for the failure of the party. In Thodupuzha, the local leadership burnt leaders in effigy and fauled the leadership for the defeat of UDF candidates in Thodupuzha municipality. DCC president Ibrahimkutty Kallar said, “The district Congress leadership will study the defeat of the party in Idukki. The rebel candidates had posed threat to the party candidates and it was our failure to solve the rebel threats. We will take corrective measures in coming days.” “Those who burnt leaders in effigy will be expelled from the party,” said Kallar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-congress-joseph-group-won-more-seats-than-jose-k-mani-faction-in-idukki-/articleshow/79828372.cms||Sandeep Thomas
December 21, 2020||Kochi||Nearly 100 melam artists perform for a normal 2021||THRISSUR: In the first public melam in nine months, a nearly 100-strong team, led by Peruvanam Kuttan Marar, performed at the Peruvanam temple, here, on Sunday morning. According to organizers, this was the first public performance after a long break. Melam artists are usually busy throughout March, April and May. But due to the pandemic most temples had cancelled festivals, including the Thrissur pooram. “There has been no performance since March 20. Today’s melam was held after a nine-month break and involved 100 artists. We hope to encourage the resumption of poorams and temple festivals in the coming year,” Peruvanam Satheeshan Marar told TOI. “Our income is derived from the two-month-long festival season. Nearly 2,000 persons depend on melam in Thrissur district alone. But when festivals were called off our sole means of survival was impacted,” Marar said. “We hope the government will take steps to conduct festivals, including Thrissur pooram, in the coming year,” he said. “Most artists are facing enormous financial stress and won’t survive without any income next year,” Satheeshan Marar said. Arattupuzha Pooram on March 26: A meeting of the Cherpu Bhagavathi cultural and festival committee on Saturday decided to conduct the Arattupuzha and Peruvanam poorams in 2021.  The Arattupuzha pooram is scheduled for March 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nearly-100-melam-artists-perform-for-a-normal-2021/articleshow/79828337.cms||Sandeep Thomas
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Here’s why Delhi’s wildlife may be on its own in the new year||NEW DELHI: The forest department won’t have a single wildlife inspector by the end of this month. While the lone officer is set to retire this month, the department is yet to get an approval for hiring a retired wildlife inspector on a contract basis. After the retirement of this officer, all seven posts of wildlife inspectors, who are mainly tasked with preventing smuggling and carrying out rescue operations, will remain vacant. Of the total posts, two are under promotion quota and appointments can happen on only five posts. An official said five posts have been lying vacant for over six years. A senior forest department official said, “Wildlife inspectors collect intelligence, conduct surveillance, raids, seizures, arrest those involved in smuggling artefacts and prosecute offenders by filing complaints in court. These officers have to make cases watertight by producing witnesses and other evidence and attend regular court hearings. Besides, they have to attend to complaints of wildlife sightings, conduct rescue operations and release of animals. As the department is currently understaffed, we take the help of NGOs for rescue and release of wildlife.” Data shows that 17 cases were registered under Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, in 2019. However, less than 10 cases were lodged this year. “The second wildlife inspector retired on September 30. We are operating with just one, who is also about to retire. We are awaiting the government’s approval for hiring a retired officer on contract based on their last payroll, excluding pension,” said the official. A status report filed by the forest department in National Green Tribunal in November this year mentioned that a written examination was conducted in November 2019 for appointment of wildlife inspectors on three posts. In all, 51 candidates cleared the exam for two vacant posts. They have to appear for the second round of the exam. “The process of permanent appointments will take a few months. But even after joining, they will have to undergo 18 months of training as the post has statutory power,” the official said. The report added that one assistant conservator of forests was appointed through deputation, while applications had been sought for three more posts. “The final result of the written exam and physical test is in process for four posts of forest ranger. However, posts of six deputy rangers and five forest guards under promotional quota have been filled,” it said. Other posts have also been lying vacant in the department for years. While earlier there were 108 posts, NGT created 290 new ones last year. Of these, 66 foresters, one veterinarian, two compounders and one legal advisor have to be recruited for the first time for which rules are still being framed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heres-why-delhis-wildlife-may-be-on-its-own-in-the-new-year/articleshow/79829393.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: PWD looks to widen Adyar river course||CHENNAI: The state PWD is looking at various options to save excess water from the Chembarambakkam reservoir and plans to take measures to reduce inundation in residential areas along the Adyar river course after the monsoon. During heavy rain, a senior PWD official said, excess water released from the Chembarambakkam reservoir through the surplus course joins the Adyar in the Tiruneermalai area. At this confluence point, the existing course is unable to take large quantities of water released from the reservoir and many low-lying areas along the stretch get inundated. To be able to take in an adequate quantity of water, the PWD authorities said, the existing course needs to be widened by at least 60m and a swathe of land along the stretch had to be acquired. Widening the surplus channel will help avoid flooding in the surrounding residential localities and will also leave access to the industrial estate in Tirumudivakkam unaffected. This has been a long-time request of residents in the area, said the official. As far as saving excess water from the Chembarambakkam reservoir is concerned, there is a possibility to store it. A sluice channel to take the excess water to the Sikkarayapuram quarries exists, but a covered channel needs to be laid, he said. A Metrowater official said the existing channel was able to only take a small quantity of excess water to the quarry. To be able to execute the two projects, the PWD plans to take up a three-month study before approaching the state government for financial sanction. Once begun, the two projects can be completed in a year, said the official. Copious rain from the ongoing northeast monsoon has not only left the four reservoirs supplying the city brimming, it has also increased the groundwater level considerably. With the fifth reservoir at Thervoy Kandigai more than half full, water managers believe the residents can enjoy proper supply through the summer. The city gets more than 60% of its annual rainfall during the northeast monsoon that runs from October to December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pwd-looks-to-widen-adyar-river-course/articleshow/79829390.cms||P Oppili
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||In a first, two GIBs lay two eggs each at one go in Jaisalmer's Desert National Park||JAISALMER: Possibly for the first time in the history of Desert National Park, two female GIBs have laid two eggs. Generally, they lay only one egg at a time. It is said that the GIBs fed on locusts during the last few months which led to favourable breeding situation. These days, a large number of GIB chicks are being seen at DNP, which is a good sign. Also due to setting up of new closures, more than 16 chicks and eggs were seen. Around three days back, the officials deployed at DNP saw two eggs each of GIBs at Sudasari and Chauhani areas through a camera trap. DNP in Jaisalmer is considered to be the most protected area where there are around 70 closures which has been favourable for breeding. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-a-1st-two-gibs-lay-two-eggs-each-at-one-go-in-dnp/articleshow/79830393.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Pune||No in-person civic GB meeting for another month||Pune: The in-person general body meeting of the Pune Municipal Corporation would not be held for one more month at the civic body’s headquarters as the state government was yet to give permission for the same. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has not conducted an in-person general body meeting in nine months now because of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, after the unlock phase had started, the PMC had attempted to conduct a general body meeting in June. Around 100 elected members had attended it. The meeting was adjourned as a precautionary measure to avoid any spread of the virus. “The options of online meetings have been explored, but are not proving to be viable. Conducting at length discussions on issues is not possible. The civic body has approached the state government for permission, which has not come yet. So, the general body meeting would not be held in person,” the mayor Murulidhar Mohol said. According to PMC officials, the general body was the highest decision making body of the civic administration. Majority of the financial decisions and all the policy decisions were taken in the meeting of the general body. “Instructions have been given to use online mode to conduct the general body meeting because of the spread of the Covid-19. The meeting will be held in the PMC hall after the green signal comes from state,” a senior PMC official said. The civic officials said general body meetings were stopped ever since the lockdown was declared in March. As per the rules, conducting a general body meeting per month was mandatory for the civic body. If the meeting was not conducted or any elected member remained absent for three consecutive months, the corporators could lose their membership. As financial approval and policy decisions were taken during these meetings, conducting them was a smust. The committees that conduct weekly meetings include standing committee, women and child welfare committee and the law committee. At least one general body meeting has to be conducted per month, but the PMC would hold general body meetings twice or thrice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-in-person-civic-gb-meeting-for-another-month/articleshow/79830394.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Change in ER track layouts for more safety||Kolkata: Armed with modern technology, Eastern Railway (ER) is correcting layout of tracks by using state-of-the-art equipment such as the T-28 machine. This allows the speeding up of trains, greater safety and comfort for passengers. “Our Asansol division used this technology to correct layout of tracks between Asansol and Burdwan. The corrections have taken place at Galsi, Paraj and Mankar. This is a congested section and the move has resulted in improvement in train running,” a senior ER official said. The zone has taken up 13 layout corrections. Crossovers across several tracks are cumbersome and drivers are forced to reduce speed to a crawl.  Even then, derailments occur. Passengers also suffer as the ride gets bumpy at such crossings. Indian Railways has taken up such work at several locations to increase capacity and reduce travel time. These changes will be of greater importance when private trains start operating and have to be given an unhindered path with few obstructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/change-in-er-track-layouts-for-more-safety/articleshow/79829387.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 21, 2020||Pune||Heavy vehicles must stick to left lane of Pune-Mumbai expressway, NH4||PUNE: The highway safety patrol (HSP) has started a special drive to discipline heavy vehicles on the Pune-Mumbai expressway and on the National Highway 4 (NH4). Heavy vehicles will have to ply only on the left lane of the expressway as well as the highway. Movement of heavy vehicles in the middle and first lane, which is closest to the median, causes serious traffic jams on the expressway, especially in the ghat section. Officers of HSP, Pune, are taking action against heavy vehicles, such as trucks, multi-axle vehicles and others, for violating lane discipline on the expressway as well as on the Pune-Kolhapur stretch of NH4 under the Operation Safety On Highways programme. Additional Director General of Police (traffic) Bhushankumar Upadhyay launched the programme in the state. Over the last two days, the HSP team has fined as many as 2,535 heavy vehicle drivers for not following lane discipline. Superintendent of police (HSP) Sanjay Jadhav said, “As per road traffic norms, heavy vehicles are required to move on the left lane of highways, including on the expressway. They cannot travel in the middle or first lanes. It has been observed that heavy vehicles were causing serious traffic jams at the Bhor and Khandala-Lonavla ghat sections of the expressway. Heavy vehicles tend to occupy all lanes of the expressway. Now, we are asking heavy vehicles to move only in the left lane. This will help avert traffic jams,” Jadhav said. Similarly, light commercial vehicles (LCVs) and passenger vehicles can move on the expressway and highways in the first or middle lane. “Trucks or heavy vehicles can move to the middle lane only if they want to overtake another heavy vehicle,” the senior officer said. “The first and middle lane are used by LCVs or passenger vehicles travelling at high speed. If the first lane is occupied by slow moving heavy vehicles, LCVs move into middle or third lanes. In such a situation, many accidents have taken place,” Jadhav said. Additional superintendent of police Pritam Yavalkar said, “The police have installed public address systems at Panvel, Khalapur and Urse toll posts. Police are making continuous announcements on the microphone urging truck drivers to follow lane discipline. Also, patrolling vans have public address systems installed on them and policemen are asking truck drivers to move to the left lane,” he said. “Even after so many measures, heavy vehicle drivers have been fined for breaching road rules. A fine of Rs200 is imposed on the driver for not following lane discipline,” Yavalkar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/heavy-vehicles-must-stick-to-left-lane-of-eway-nh4/articleshow/79830392.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||CGST team detects fake firms in Jaipur and Bhiwadi, four arrested||JAIPUR: The anti-evasion team of CGST (Central Goods and Services Tax), Alwar, on Saturday busted a racket of fake firms worth Rs 1,300 crore to avail and utilize Input Credit Tax (ITC) amounting to Rs 210 crore. The team arrested four persons involved in the racket of putting up fake firms and bills to avail ITC and have unearthed a tax evasion of Rs 210 crore. Acting on information, a probe was initiated in which six major firms were identified in Jaipur and Bhiwadi. “It was found that these firms had no business operations at the premises declared as principal place of business in GST registration. To bust this racket, 15 major firms located at Jaipur and Bhiwadi were identified by anti-evasion team of CGST, Alwar,” said a senior officer. The teams conducted simultaneous search operations at declared business places of firms and at residences of directors of these firms in Delhi (with the assistance of officers of Delhi-west commissionerate). “After the searches, we exposed a racket of fake firms worth Rs 1,300 crore which resulted in detection of availing of fraudulent ITC of about Rs 210 crore,” he added. The team has arrested four accused identified as Ramesh Kumar Jain, Sanjeev Jain, Bhaskar Jangid and Sumit Dutta. All were produced in court and were sent to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cgst-team-detects-fake-firms-in-jaipur-bhiwadi-4-arrested/articleshow/79830410.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Pune||Rural cops probe witchcraft allegations||Pune: The Narayangaon police in rural Pune registered an offence on Friday against unidentified persons suspected of damaging onion saplings at a farm in Kandali village in Junnar taluka, around 105km from here, after performing witchcraft rituals. Assistant inspector Dattatray Gund of the Narayangaon police said, “For now, we have registered a case of mischief and will soon invoke provisions of the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act.” Police said the farm land belongs to a local resident Hirabai Phulawade (62), who has given it for cultivation to another local villager, Balaji Rakhode. The latter planted onion saplings in the farm. Police said for the past few days, Rakhode was observing some persons visiting the farm and performing ‘karni pooja’ (witchraft) during the night. Initially, he neglected it. But, on Thursday night, the unidentified persons once again performed the pooja there. This time, they also wrote a prayer on a paper praying for damage of the crop. They kept lemons, eggs, coconut and imitation jewellery at the site in a section of the farm. The suspects had put haldi-kumkum on all these articles. The suspects also sprayed weedicide on the crop and some portion of the crop was damaged. Police said the suspects also damaged a section of the water pipeline in the farm. “As the suspects have damaged some crop and also damaged the water pipeline, we have invoked Section 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified persons,” Gund said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-cops-probe-witchcraft-allegations/articleshow/79830409.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Pune||Youth dies after bike crashes into median, friend injured||Pune: A 22-year-old man from Somatane was killed after the motorcycle he was riding on with two others crashed into the median of the Pune-Mumbai highway near Talegaon Dabhade late on Friday night. The Talegaon Dabhade police have registered an offence against victim Sonu Kedari’s minor friend for rash driving. Their friend, Ajay Agivale, was injured. Police said on Friday, Kedari, Agivale and their 17-year-old friend were driving triple seat on motorcycle. In an attempt to overtake a truck, the minor lost control and the vehicle crashed into the median of the highway. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-dies-after-bike-crashes-into-median-friend-injured/articleshow/79830417.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Three from Ghaziabad die in road accident near Bikaner||JAIPUR: Three friends who were on their way to Bikaner from Ghaziabad were crushed to death in a head-on collision between a mini-truck and a car near Naurangdesar village on Bikaner-Jaipur road on Sunday. All the three friends were coming to Bikaner to crack a deal on solar plant.  According to the police, the incident took place in the morning on Sunday when a rashly driven mini-truck collided with a hatchback car. “The deceased were identified as Akhlaq, Manish Kaushik and Devendra Singh. It was a fatal collision as all the three died on the spot. Metal cutters and other things were used to bail out the trapped bodies in the car,” said a senior police officer. The trio had left from Ghaziabad late on Saturday evening and on Sunday morning they were to meet someone to crack a solar plant deal. “The driver of the truck managed to flee from the scene. A case of death due to negligence has been registered against him. The families of the deceased have also been intimated,” said a senior police officer.  Their families reached Bikaner at 4pm on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-from-ghaziabad-die-in-road-accident-near-bikaner/articleshow/79830407.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Multiple cases no ground for denying bail, Delhi court gives relief to riot accused||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has granted bail to a man accused in a case related to northeast Delhi riots, stating that he was facing multiple cases — as submitted by the prosecution — wasn’t a ground to deny him bail. “This court is conscious of the fact that besides the present matter, the applicant, Rashid, is also an accused in several other cases of riots, but that cannot be a ground to deny him bail in the instant matter, as the present bail application has to be decided in the context of the present FIR and the investigation so concluded,” said additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav. Rashid’s counsel Salim Malik had sought bail stating his 23-year-old client ran a shop in the area. He was allegedly at his shop when the violence broke out and had no other option but to stay inside it. “The shop is Rashid’s only means of livelihood and he had no other option, but to stay there in order to protect it, risking his own life and as such, he took a baton in his hand, as anticipated self-defence,” the lawyer submitted. Special public prosecutor D K Bhatia argued that Rashid was part of the riotous mob, which was armed with “stones, sticks, petrol bombs, acid bottles, etc”. He argued that the accused could be seen carrying a stick in his hands at the crime scene indicating his “active role” in rioting. The prosecution highlighted that Rashid was involved in 10 other cases related to the violence and though a chargesheet had been filed but the investigation was still in progress. Seeking dismissal of his bail plea, the prosecutor argued, “There is every chance that if released on bail, the applicant may threaten the public witnesses, who are residents of the same locality.” The court noted that Rashid had neither been named in the FIR nor there was any specific allegation against him. “The prosecution in this case is opposing the bail application of the applicant on the strength of his categorical identification by public witnesses… as also by beat officers…,” it said. The court pointed out that the identification by policemen was of hardly any consequence when they could have reported the matter earlier instead of waiting till April 7, 2020. “Being police officers, what stopped them from reporting the matter then and there in the police station or to bring the same to the knowledge of higher officers. This casts a serious doubt on the credibility of aforesaid two police witnesses,” it observed. It also come on record that Rashid was not arrested from the spot, but on April 15 — after a lapse of about 55 days from the date of incident — in Mandoli jail, where he was lodged in another case related to the riots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/multiple-cases-no-ground-for-denying-bail-court-gives-relief-to-riot-accused/articleshow/79829412.cms||Aamir Khan
December 21, 2020||Trichy||Activists seek action on more bldg plan violations in Trichy||TRICHY: After the Trichy Corporation recently sealed an unauthorised building functioning from a congested commercial street, activists who exposed similar building plan violations have sought action against such buildings in Trichy. Due to lack of enforcement, even the new residential properties violate the mandatory parameters under the Tamil Nadu combined development and building rules, 2019. Violations such as deviation from the plan approved by the local planning authority and buildings constructed without approved building plan were identified in 27 commercial properties in the city. Similarly, shopping complexes in commercial hubs have illegally converted their basement parking lot into shops to collect additional rent. “Deviation from the approved building plan is not only a monetary loss for the government but the practice put the lives of common people. Even though the violations have been exposed through RTI appeals, no decisive action have been taken,” RTI activist Allur K Srinivasan said. Congested commercial areas including Chathiram bus stand and Rockfort vicinities were identified to have the buildings that committed decade-old violations under Tamil Nadu town and country planning Act, 1971. “Corporation claimed that a stop-work notice was given to the building in Puthur Agraharam that has deviation from the approved plan, but the civil work is still progressing,” N Prasanna, a resident of Puthur added. He added that officials despite aware of the violations are turning a blind eye to enforce the rules. The corporation sources said that the violators are using legal provisions to evade enforcement. “Soon after we issue the lock and seal notice, the violator goes for an appeal with the housing and urban development department or relevant authority challenging our notice. Until the appeal gets rejected, we cannot enforce,” a senior official with the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/activists-seek-action-on-more-bldg-plan-violations-in-trichy/articleshow/79829410.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 21, 2020||Trichy||MSP will stay, farmers being misled: Union min VK Singh||THANJAVUR: Reiterating the Centre’s stand that minimum support price (MSP) will not be taken off, Union minister of state for road transport and highways General V K Singh (retd) has said that it is a misconception being spread among farmers. Singh was interacting with farmers in Thanjavur on the second day of the BJP’s campaign in delta districts on the theme “Modi is farmer’s friend” on Sunday. “Real farmers all over India are very happy with what has been done for them in the last six years. Government wants the farmers who feed the nation to feel protected and the Prime Minister has the highest regard for them. That is why various schemes have been launched which will help the farmers. So, they must understand that there are people who mislead them,” the minister said while addressing reporters along with party state president L Murugan. The ongoing protest in Delhi is motivated and actually more political than about farmers. “The first bill which was passed is to free the farmers from mandis. What it says is that the farmers are free to sell their produce anywhere they want. With India being one market, farmers can benefit by way of getting better price unlike mandis where the price is decided by middlemen,” Singh added. The bill says MSP will stay and MSP for the coming crop was declared even before the bill was passed, he further said. “MSP is given as per the gradation of the crop for all produces procured by government, mainly paddy and wheat. It is not that all the crops that come to the market get the same price. If the crop is good and within the specification it will get the MSP. A misconception has been created that MSP would be taken off,” he clarified. In the case of contract farming, it has been going on India for the last 25 to 30 years. When a farmer is going for contract farming, the land will not be included in the contract. If there are any issues everything can be sorted out at the district level, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/msp-will-stay-farmers-being-misled-union-min-v-k-singh/articleshow/79829414.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Varanasi||CM to visit Varanasi today, review development projects||VARANASI: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will arrive in the city on Monday and preside over a meeting of BJP cadres from the four districts of Varanasi division to look into the issues of coordination between the party and government officials. The CM will also review progress of the ongoing development works. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI on Sunday, “As per the itinerary of the CM’s visit received by the district administration, the CM will hold a meeting with BJP leaders at circuit house for around two hours from 4pm. After the meeting, he will review progress of around 20 ongoing development projects.” The CM will review the projects which are on the verge of completion and would be launched and dedictated in the first quarter of 2021 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he added. The international convention centre Rudraksha project, sewage treatment plant being constructed at Ramna, flyovers, railway over bridges and bridges, including the ones on Babatpur-Kapsethi road and Ashapur railway crossing, building being constructed by CPWD on BHU campus and hospital upgradation work will be included in the review list of the CM. He said the CM would also conduct spot inspection of some projects before leaving at 9pm. BJP Kashi region president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava said all MPs, MLAs, presidents of district, city and divisional units of the party from Varanasi, Jaunpur, Ghazipur and Chandauli will attend the meeting with the CM at circuit house. “The meeting will focus on the coordination between the party and government. The public feedback on already completed projects would also be collected from the representatives and party office-bearers,” he added. Before reaching Varanasi, the CM’s chopper will land in Mau, where he will attend a function for inaugurating development projects and will also hold a meeting with party workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-to-visit-city-today-review-devpt-projects/articleshow/79833771.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Deendayal’ clinics for urban poor||AHMEDABAD: Days after the Aam Aadmi Party replicated its successful ‘Mohalla Clinic’ model in Gujarat, promising to provide essential health services in urban areas, the BJP government on Sunday announced setting up of Deendayal Clinics for urban poor residing in densely populated areas like slums and shanties. The announcement comes even as urban local body elections are to be held in six municipal corporations and 55 municipalities of the state in February next year. The ‘Deendayal’ clinics will be started on priority in areas which are thickly populated. The state health department, municipal corporations and municipalities have been directed to shortlist such localities, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said on Sunday. “MBBS or AYUSH doctors will treat OPD patients and give medicines free of cost between 4pm and 6 pm every day,” Patel said after visiting Ramdev Pir Tekra locality in Ahmedabad on Sunday. “More than five ‘Deendayal’ clinics will be started in the locality of Ramdev Pir Tekra in Ahmedabad which has a population of around 30,000,” he said. Patel said the Deendayal Clinics scheme was announced in the state budget for 2020-21, but could not be implemented because the entire health department machinery has been engaged in fighting the pandemic since March. “The ‘Deendayal Yojana’ is a permanent scheme of the state government which will help poor people get treatment near their houses”, Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deendayal-clinics-for-urban-poor/articleshow/79829436.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Trichy||Rain destroys shallots on 8K acres in Trichy||TRICHY:Intermittent showers received in Trichy district have destroyed shallot cultivation on about 8,000 acres in and around Thuraiyur block. Farmers in the area have demanded that the district administration assess crop damage and issu compensation. Farmers in Thuraiyur, Uppiliyapuram, Mannachanallur, T Pettai and Pullambadi blocks raised shallots on about 8,000 acres while others cultivated on about 1,000 acres. However, the entire crop was damaged, farmers said. “The 70-day crop was ready for harvest in 15 days. However, rain damaged the entire crop. I have spent Rs 80,000 to raise it. Now everything has gone,” said V Rajini of Moolaikkadu who raised shallots on two acres. Another farmer from Keerambur, G Rajasekaran, who cultivated shallots in five acres, told TOI that this was the second consecutive year they faced such a loss due to rain. “We spent Rs 7,500 for seed onion alone besides spending on fertilizers and labour ,” he added. Meanwhile, scientists from Horticulture College for Women in Trichy and officials of the horticulture department inspected the affected fields at Nagalapuram, Keerambur and Maruvathur villages in Thuraiyur block. According to officials, all the farmers have adopted close spacing, which is over and above the recommended spacing for shallots. Growth of green algae was noticed in the first field due to lack of proper drainage facilities, which caused yellowing and tip drying, they said. Severe purple blotch disease was also noticed because of the proliferation of fungus alternaria porri and the bulbs are exposed outside because of shallow planting and this has caused lodging of leaves, which had led to further rotting by saprophytes and subsequent drying in the third field, they said. “Farmers are advised to improve drainage facilities to aerate the soil, prevent contact of leaf base with saprophytes from the soil, which also causes rotting at the base of onion leaves. Hot weather coupled with intermittent rain has caused an outbreak of the above diseases,” a senior official from the horticulture department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rain-destroys-shallots-on-8k-acres-in-trichy/articleshow/79829421.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||41-year-old man killed, body dumped at isolated spot in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Unknown assailants murdered a 41-year-old man and dumped his body in a vacant plot situated at New Transport Nagar under Harmara police station area in the city on Sunday. After spotting the body, locals intimated the police. A case of murder has been lodged against unknown assailants. Panic prevailed in the locality when locals spotted the body in a pool of blood with various injury marks on Sunday morning. Police control room was intimated. Thereafter, a team of senior police officers along with the experts of Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) rushed to the spot. The body was sent to the hospital for postmortem. "Blood was oozing out from the head of the deceased which gives an impression that the murder may have taken place during midnight. Grave head injury indicates that a tool like hammer or iron rod was used in the crime," said a senior police officer of Harmara police station. The deceased was identified as Bhuvna Ram, a native of Nagaur. "Reportedly, he was working as a labourers. We spoke to the locals where the body was found to get some more details," the officer added. The deceased was identified with an ID card. "We have also spoken to his family members to know if he had dispute with anyone," the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/41-yr-old-man-killed-body-dumped-at-isolated-spot/articleshow/79830421.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Allahabad||CM to visit Varanasi today, review development projects||VARANASI: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will arrive in the city on Monday and preside over a meeting of BJP cadres from the four districts of Varanasi division to look into the issues of coordination between the party and government officials. The CM will also review progress of the ongoing development works. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI on Sunday, “As per the itinerary of the CM’s visit received by the district administration, the CM will hold a meeting with BJP leaders at circuit house for around two hours from 4pm. After the meeting, he will review progress of around 20 ongoing development projects.” The CM will review the projects which are on the verge of completion and would be launched and dedictated in the first quarter of 2021 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he added. The international convention centre Rudraksha project, sewage treatment plant being constructed at Ramna, flyovers, railway over bridges and bridges, including the ones on Babatpur-Kapsethi road and Ashapur railway crossing, building being constructed by CPWD on BHU campus and hospital upgradation work will be included in the review list of the CM. He said the CM would also conduct spot inspection of some projects before leaving at 9pm. BJP Kashi region president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava said all MPs, MLAs, presidents of district, city and divisional units of the party from Varanasi, Jaunpur, Ghazipur and Chandauli will attend the meeting with the CM at circuit house. “The meeting will focus on the coordination between the party and government. The public feedback on already completed projects would also be collected from the representatives and party office-bearers,” he added. Before reaching Varanasi, the CM’s chopper will land in Mau, where he will attend a function for inaugurating development projects and will also hold a meeting with party workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cm-to-visit-city-today-review-devpt-projects/articleshow/79829419.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Trichy||9 PG courses of BDU deemed ‘equivalent’||TRICHY: Bharathidasan University has finally managed to remove a bottleneck that has been preventing graduates in some of its innovative programmes from getting into government service. A government order dated December 15 has granted equivalence to 35 postgraduate programmes across state universities, including nine from BDU, which have been found to be similar to conventional programmes. This means programmes like master of computer application (MCA), MSc information technology (IT) and MSc software technology have now been deemed equivalent to MSc computer science. Many similar innovative programmes started by universities in recent decades were termed as not equivalent to conventional programmes leaving graduates in these courses ineligible to get into government services, especially teaching jobs. A GO (no 195) passed in August 2018 had declared a total of 33 professional courses non-equivalent to conventional courses. The non-equivalent tag has affected admission to some of the popular programmes like MSc IT and MCA in many colleges, said principal of Jamal Mohamed College Trichy, S Simail Mohideen. No doubt that these professional programmes have value in private sector but students who wanted to get into teaching and take up PhD were getting affected, he said. BDU registrar G Gopinath said they requested Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education (Tansche) to remove the bottleneck and put forth their justification for it. “All the chairpersons of the equivalence board in the BDU gave strong recommendations stating equivalence of the subjects and we forwarded the same to Tansche,” he said. The issue came up during the direct recruitment of over 2,331 assistant professors in government arts colleges in the state in 2018. Many candidates who graduated in these professional programmes had applied for the post and were on the verge of getting rejected. The new order giving equivalence to these programmes have now made them eligible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/9-pg-courses-of-bdu-deemed-equivalent/articleshow/79829418.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 21, 2020||Pune||Action against illegal power connections||Pune: Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has intensified action against illegal power connections across Western Maharashtra. Acting Pune regional director Ankush Nale directed MSEDCL staff to find illegal connections especially from the agriculture sector. Nale asked MSEDCL officials to ensure power pressure for all consumers be maintained. At a review meeting, Nale said MSEDCL is under tremendous financial burden due to pending power bills yet to be paid by consumers from all sectors. He asked to intensify action on power lines that are showing more leakage and act against culprits using illegal means. He said, “The Rabi season in Western Maharashtra for Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Solapur and Pune districts is important. Hence, power supply for agriculture pumps should be seamless. Transformers on agriculture power lines should be surveyed and illegal power connections should be removed at the earliest by December 31.” He added to lower pressure on transformers, agriculture pumps should be installed with capacitors, which would result in seamless power supply. Nale warned officials if power supply is found to be interrupted quite often, transformers should be repaired on priority and if problems still persist, then the respective official will be held liable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/action-against-illegal-power-connections/articleshow/79830422.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Goa||Gundu Rao to take stock of leadership turmoil in Goa||Panaji: Just days after Girish Chodankar abruptly stepped down as the state Congress president, Goa desk in charge Dinesh Gundu Rao is expected to come to Goa on a two-day visit. While officially Rao is coming to meet the ZP candidates and MLAs, the turmoil over the state leadership and the disarray within the party is the main thing on his agenda. Chodankar took the entire Congress organisation by surprise when he chose to resign after the ZP election debacle. Though Chodankar said that he was stepping down by taking moral responsibility for the decimation in the elections, where Congress won just four out of the 38 seats it contested, senior party officials were baying for his blood even before the elections were held. “AICC incharge of Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao will visit Goa on December 22 and 23. He will meet various MLAs, party office bearers and ZP candidates at the Congress offices at Panaji, Mapusa and Margao,” said Chodankar in a tweet. Rao will be holding a series of meetings to try and find a way out for the party which finds itself struggling to remain relevant among voters. South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha has been vocal in his criticism about the way Chodankar has steered the party in the last few years since taking over from former Rajya Sabha MP Shantaram Naik. While Chodankar appears firm in his decision to resign, those close to him say that he should continue. This is the second time that Chodankar has offered to step down. In July 2019, Chodankar had resigned as the state Congress president after the Lok Sabha elections due to “moral reasons” following the resignation of Rahul Gandhi as the party’s national president. However, his resignation was rejected and Rao had said that the uncertainty over the state party president was no longer there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gundu-rao-to-take-stock-of-leadership-turmoil-in-goa/articleshow/79830923.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Interfaith couple wants to leave past behind, start afresh in Delhi||NEW DELHI: It all began in 2017 when a 21-year-old Hindu woman from Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur met a 25-year-old Muslim at a coaching centre where both of them studied. They kept their affair under wraps for some time. The man’s family accepted the girl, but the woman’s family did not approve of the relationship. Fearing they would be killed or a case registered against them under the new law or inter-religion marriages in the state, the two fled to Delhi. They approached Dhanak, an NGO that works with people seeking marriage under the Special Marriage Act, and then approached Delhi High Court, which granted them protection while directing the couple to stay in a safe location provided by the NGO. A week in Delhi and the two plan to make the city their home. TOI spoke to the couple. The woman recalled her curiosity being piqued by the youth asking so many questions during classes at the coaching centre. “We started talking and our friendship grew and then turned into love,” she said. “I met his family and they accepted me as their daughter-in-law. My family, however, did not approve of our relationship. Whenever my younger brother saw me using my mobile phone, he would tell my suspicious parents. So, they started looking for a groom for me though I told them I did not want to marry.” The suspicious parents often took away her phone and confined her to a room. “My family also thrashed me,” she said. “Since my friend, who was looking for employment in Delhi, was aware that my family members weren’t supportive, he understood things were amiss whenever I did not message him. Once, while alone in the room, I came across a phone without a SIM card and since my family ran a cybercafe, the Wi-Fi network was available and I connected with him through Facebook and told him I had decided to leave home.” The 21-year-old told her mother that she was going for a job interview on December 11, but met her friend at the bus stand. “My mother probably realised what was up and asked me to immediately return home. I was scared about what they could do to him, so both boarded a bus and reached Delhi,” she said. The woman revealed that she had started checking online to see how couples were joined in inter-faith weddings and came across Dhanak and contacted it for help. The young husband said he knew she was confined to a room and also beaten up. “It was not the best situation to be in but we both loved each other and want to live together,” he said. “She also wants to study and has a keen interest in computers. We will get married under the Special Marriage Act and start a new life in Delhi. My parents agreed to our marriage but hers opposed it, so the best decision was to move away from our families.” Asif Iqbal, co-founder of Dhanak said, “The government must do away with the need for a notice period of 30 days in the Special Marriage Act. The rules for marriage solemnisation/registration should be based on Aadhaar card, irrespective of jurisdiction. Also, the opening of safe houses and special cells for affected couples as per the directions of the Supreme Court will stop their harassment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/interfaith-couple-wants-to-leave-past-behind-start-afresh-in-delhi/articleshow/79829416.cms||Sakshi Chand
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Man commits suicide over wife’s affair in Sriganganagar||JAIPUR: A 35-year-old man hanged himself from a telephone pole at Anoopgarh town in Sriganganagar district on Sunday. Police have recovered a suicide note in which he said his wife was having an affair and he could not tolerate it. According to police, some passersby spotted a man hanging from a pole near Anoopgarh industrial area towards the highway. After athey informed the cops, a team of senior police officers along with FSL officials rushed to the spot. “He was brought down and rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. We have found a suicide note on him,” said a senior police officer. The deceased, identified as Sukhdev Singh Bazigar, claimed that his wife was having an affair with another man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-commits-suicide-over-wifes-affair-in-sriganganagar/articleshow/79830425.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru schools gear up for classes, seek parents’ views||BENGALURU: With the government according permission, private schools in Bengaluru are gearing up to conduct on-campus lessons for class 10 and 12, although students are expected to join only on January 4, after the Christmas break. Many school managements have written to parents, seeking their opinion on students returning to campus. A majority of schools hope to conduct practical classes, doubt-clearing sessions and lessons that require face-to-face interaction when students return. The state government has allowed schools to reopen from January 1 next year, but since a weekend follows immediately, schools are likely to reopen only in the following week. It’s a challenge to conduct both online and regular classes, say CBSE schoolsMany institutions have written to parents seeking their opinion on children returning to campus after the state government allowed the schools to reopen from January 1, 2021. But students are likely to return to classes only after Jan 4. “Most ICSE schools are prepared to reopen,” said Jean George, president, Karnataka ICSE Schools Association. “As the council for Indian School Certificate Examination has observed, we require at least two months of regular classes for board exams and most parents seem willing. The only issue now is the exact date to reopen.” Managements of Independent CBSE Schools Association (MICSA) said it will continue with online classes irrespective of schools reopening for classes 10 and 12. “It’ll be challenging to conduct both online and on-campus classes,” association secretary Mansoor Ali Khan said. “We do not know yet how many students will come to campuses, so we must meet both requirements.” Deen’s Academy’s Shanthi Menon said they have sent out a ‘Google doc’ asking parents for their views on sending children back and use of school transport. “We have mandated a Covid-19 negative certificate along with the usual protocol of distancing and sanitisation,” Menon said. Karnataka Unaided School Management’s Association (KUSMA) and Karnataka Association of Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools (KAMS) said their schools would reopen for students. “A meeting with the parents’ body has been convened. Given that online classes can be done remotely, most students and teachers are out of station and need time to return. We also have NRI and international students whose return will depend on laws of their land,” said Jyothis Mathew, Treamis World School, while Sarada Chandrashekhar of Whitefield Global School said the reopening will be subject to parents’ willingness. Schools are putting in place Covid-19 safety measures on campus, besides preparing to get students acclimatized to regular classes. Nooraine Fazal, founder, Inventure Academy said: “Students must get used to pen-and-paper tests again. We’ll also introduce sensorbased faucets, doors etc.” However, some others say giving students the option of choosing between online and regular classes is bound to stir confusion. “As per announcements, it isn’t mandatory for students to attend,” said M Mariasunder, Lourdes High School, Nandini Layout. “Since they have an option, some parents will want online classes to continue leaving teachers shouldering the burden of conducting both online and regular classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-schools-gear-up-for-classes-seek-parents-views/articleshow/79831134.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
December 21, 2020||Bengaluru||BS Yediyurappa, HD Kumaraswamy spike talk of merger, say joined hands to oust Prathap Chandra Shetty||BENGALURU: Days after BJP and JD(S) came together with the common objective of ousting Prathap Chandra Shetty as chairman of the legislative council, chief minister BS Yediyurappa and his predecessor HD Kumaraswamy on Sunday spiked reports of any possibility of a merger of the parties. In a statement, Yediyurappa said there was no question of admitting JD(S) legislators into BJP or working for a merger of the parties and added that the understanding with JD(S) was limited to a one-off event to dislodge Shetty. “There is no occasion for any such development,” the statement read. He said opposition expressed by JD(S) to the controversial anti-cow slaughter legislation has forced the BJP to look at the ordinance route, suggesting that the state party cannot be an ally on issues central to the BJP. “Next assembly elections are 2.5 years away, and media reports are far from the truth,” he added. Speculation has been rife in the past few months that Yediyurappa, if asked by BJP to resign as CM, may float a party with help from the JD(S) in his bid to remain in power. Will never think of merger: HDKKumaraswamy, in a near-coordinated exercise on Sunday, sent out a series of tweets to put the party’s identity above narrow political gains and said it’s “a party of Kannadigas with self-esteem and will never think of a political merger. The party will never display such stupidity. At most, we may extend issue-based support to the BJP.” “I don’t foresee a situation (where ‘a suicidal merger’ would have to be considered) that’s gripping us in future too,” he said. Reports of a merger have rankled the rank and file of both parties. JD(S) MLA S R Srinivas said, “Kumaraswamy may have plans, but he must abide by (suggestions of patriarch HD Deve Gowda). We will request Gowda to put an end to this confusion.” BJP MLC Lahar Singh Siroya said “hobnobbing with JD(S) is not in our interest” and added BJJP can count on JD(S) on certain issues and in larger interest of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bsy-hdk-spike-talk-of-merger-say-joined-hands-to-oust-shetty/articleshow/79831136.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board plans new plants to tackle high ammonia levels in Yamuna||NEW DELHI: Over the next 12 months, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) will be quadrupling the ammonia treatment capacity at its plants. Even though the time during which water usually gets contaminated is yet to come, the city has already faced three prolonged periods of increase in ammonia levels in the Yamuna, which has affected water supply over the past one and a half months. Every year, the capital witnesses frequent instances of increased levels of ammonia and industrial pollutants in the Yamuna, leading to shutting down of operations at Chandrawal and Wazirabad treatment plants that supply a quarter of the city’s drinking water. DJB has repeatedly argued that the source of these pollutants lies 85km upstream in Panipat Industrial Area, which is outside Delhi’s jurisdiction. While the demand for shutting down the dying units in Panipat is repeated every few months, no permanent solution has been found to the problem till date. A senior DJB official said the new ozonation units would equip the city to deal with 90-95% of ammonia-hike episodes. “We will be able to treat raw water with ammonia levels up to 4ppm. Currently, we can only treat water up to 0.9ppm ammonia levels. The chlorination process beyond 0.9ppm leads to formation of toxic compounds like chloramines after which plants need to be shut. The usual maximum ammonia levels observed are 2-3.5ppm,” added the official. According to Bureau of Indian Standards, the upper limit of ammonia in raw water should be 0.5ppm. Chandrawal and Wazirabad plants, which supply 230 million gallons per day (MGD) of the total 930 MGD of the city’s water, are being upgraded. “The ozonation chambers will be made first. The capacity of Chandrawal plant is being increased from 95 to 105 MGD. While the new plant will take two and a half years to be completed, the ozonation units will be made within eight months. The tender for the new plant at Wazirabad will be issued soon and the ozonation unit will be ready in 12 months,” said the official. DJB’s letters to pollution control boards for a crackdown on the sources of pollution have not led to the desired results. Panipat drains 1, 2, 6 and 8 are particularly vulnerable. In the past, DJB had also demanded reinforcement of the kuccha wall between drain 6 in Panipat, which carries industrial waste, and drain 8, which carries raw water towards Delhi. However, Haryana Pollution Control Board and Haryana irrigation department have repeatedly denied that untreated industrial waste was being released in the drains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-plans-new-plants-to-tackle-high-ammonia-levels-in-yamuna/articleshow/79829429.cms||Paras Singh
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Tablighis feel vindicated, say they will stay dedicated to their work||NEW DELHI: The stinging criticism of the authorities by city courts while acquitting foreigners accused in the Tablighi Jamaat case has brought new hope for scores of others who have quietly suffered both the pandemic and the ignominy. But people associated with Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid — where the gathering had happened in March — are seeing it as an “incomplete victory”. “Yes, we are happy about the verdict, but this happiness is incomplete without the guilty being punished. We want action against chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as it was his government that first filed an FIR and opened the door for all this negativity,” said Shahid Ali, spokesperson of Nizamuddin Markaz. He also demanded strict action against certain sections of the electronic media that had run a smear campaign against Tablighi Jamaat, insinuating that it had indulged in some sort of a “corona jihad”. Calling it a blot on India’s pluralistic ethos, Ali said that the country’s name had been besmirched. “This is a country that takes pride in ‘Atithi devo bhavaha’ (guest is god). These people came from so many different countries. What ‘atithi devo bhavaha’ did we show?” he asked. Author Ziya Us Salam wrote in his recent book, ‘Inside the Tablighi Jamaat’, that since its inception, this was really the first time that the Jamaat had landed in trouble. “For almost 100 years, Tablighi Jamaat, a self-effacing apolitical body, engaged in the spiritual renewal of Muslims, had worked assiduously and quietly. Unknown to most beyond its immediate circle, it ruffled no feathers, held no marches, hosted no press conferences,” Salam writes, adding that it had also escaped the Emergency unscathed when Jamaat-e-Islami Hind and Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind had not. “When the Muslim community was stirred into action during the Shah Bano debate in 1985, the Tabligh expressed no views…Neither matters of Muslim personal law, nor masjid shook them, not even the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992. The large-scale anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat in 2002 failed to goad the body into action…when Delhi witnessed anti-Muslim violence in February 2020…The Tabligh members…remained occupied with their respective mosques, focusing on internal cleansing to benefit the individual first and the larger Muslim ummah at a later stage,” Salam writes. Advocate Arif Ali Khan, also associated with the Tablighi Jamaat, explained this by saying that the Jamaatis have nothing to do with worldly affairs. “They live above the ground and under the sky. They prepare themselves for the afterlife because that’s the real life for us Muslims. They are not interested in this mortal life. They never try to convert people, never take money from people, buying their own tickets, their own food. Even the poorest Jamaatis will pay for their own expenses. And yet, they were accused of being paid agents of Pakistan. Can you imagine how hurtful that is because it’s so different from the lives they lead?” said Khan who is an advocate at the Delhi high court. Nadeem Saifi, who owns an ironworks in the capital and is from the Tabligh, was a little hesitant to speak to this correspondent. “Bohot bura huwa (we were wronged)” was all that he said. But his brother, who identified himself as Salim, was more vocal. Expressing deep anger about the bad press, Salim said it didn’t need a court verdict to convince him about the work of the Tabligh. “We were wronged. The entire Muslim community was made the scapegoat. The portrayal of us was so evil that common people started hating us. Is that fair? Tabligh has always confined itself to the community. They don’t trouble anyone,” Salim added. Has the court verdict brought closure? “Tabligh ka kaam qayamat tak rahega. Namaaz ada kiya jayega, deen ka kaam hoga. Rukega koi nahin (Tabligh’s work will be till Judgment Day. We will offer namaaz and serve our faith. Nobody will stop),” Salim said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tablighis-feel-vindicated-say-they-will-stay-dedicated-to-their-work/articleshow/79829426.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
December 21, 2020||Trichy||By Feb, Viralimalai temple will become accessible for elderly, disabled people||TRICHY: Sri Subramaniaswamy temple at Viralimalai in Pudukottai district will be accessible to elderly and people with disabilities by February next year as the work on laying a road, elevator and other facilities has reached the final stage. The approach road will ensure that all passenger vehicles including cars and buses reach atop the 110-feet tall hillock taking devotees, which will increase the footfall to the temple significantly. At present, devotees have to climb 207 steps to the temple. They were also using a narrow pathway leading to the temple through the sparsely spread green cover on the hill. Many elders and people with disabilities were unable to visit the temple in the absence of a road. Health minister C Vijaya Baskar, who is also the MLA from Viralimalai, laid the foundation stone for the project in March last year. The work is being carried out at a cost of Rs 3.08 crore with funds from the tourism department besides Hindu religious and charitable endowment (HR&CE) department. The work includes laying a 7-metre wide road for 360 metres from the foot hill, besides an escalator and parking space to accommodate at least 10-15 vehicles. A safe gradient was chosen to lay the road after taking a contour survey of the hill. The road reaches up to Idumbar Sannidhi of the temple. As devotees have to scale 30 steps more to reach the sanctum sanctorum, an escalator will take devotees to a height of 15 metres. M Ravichandran, assistant engineer, state highways department, said that the facility is most likely to be functional by February as it is planning to finish the work by the end of January. “The work could have been finished a few weeks earlier if not for the delay induced by the Covid-19 lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/by-feb-viralimalai-temple-will-become-accessible-for-elderly-disabled-people/articleshow/79829433.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Trichy||BJP only team, no B or C teams, says Murugan||Thanjavur: BJP state president L Murugan stated that there is no B team or C team for his party and BJP is the only team, he said. When asked whether actor Rajinikanth and actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan were the B team for BJP, Murugan said that his party grew due to policies with a focus on party volunteers. So, there is no need for anything like the B team or C team. The BJP is the only team, he said while addressing the reporters on the second day of the BJP’s campaign in delta districts with a theme of ‘Modi is Farmer’s friend’ here on Sunday.While alleging the DMK’s double stand on farm laws, he said that during the 2016 assembly elections, the DMK had stated in its election manifesto that a separate body would be set up to sell agricultural produce without intermediaries. However, now Stalin has been spreading false propaganda with an ulterior motive that the PM should not get a good name, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-only-team-no-b-or-c-teams-says-murugan/articleshow/79829428.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Migration & job loss impact ITIs, intake just 36% this year||PUNE: Admissions in the Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) in Maharashtra this year have fallen this year. Only 36% of student who sought entry have been confirmed at the end of third round. Admissions started in August and till Saturday, the state directorate of vocational education and training (DVET) had completed three rounds and only 53,886 seats had been accepted by the students. As compared to the previous year, the admissions are at least 15-20 % low this year. Last year, after the third round, the admissions were double than 2020. Educators said migration and parents’ job loss could be the reasons. There are nearly 1.4 lakh ITI seats in institutes across Maharashtra. The directorate that conducts admissions in the state had launched a cellphone application for admissions this year for the convenience of students. According to the DVET admissions figures, in the first round, over 88,000 seats were allotted, but only 30% students confirmed their seats In the second round, 72,733 seats were allotted and 18.80% confirmed while in the third round 63,820 seats were allotted and 20.89 % students confirmed the seats. Senior officials at DVET said they were hoping the admissions will pick up in the next two rounds. Officials also said the coronavirus pandemic forced many families to move to their hometowns which had affected the admissions. The uncertainty over Maratha reservation quota had also impacted the situation in ITIs. There are 93,220 government ITIs and 55,036 private ITIs in the state. Since the past two years, the ITI has seen a rise in demand due to work opportunities as mechanics, electricians and allied trade services. A guaranteed apprenticeship after completion of the course has raised the bar for ITIs in Maharashtra. The fees for ITI courses is in the range of Rs15,000 to Rs16,000 for government-run institutes whereas private institutes charge around Rs25,000. The fees is far more affordable as compared to those charged for engineering courses, due to which students prefer ITIs over engineering degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/migration-job-loss-impact-itis-intake-just-36-this-yr/articleshow/79830427.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 21, 2020||Kochi||Youths held for harassing actor in Kochi||KOCHI: Kalamassery police have taken the two youths, who had allegedly sexually harassed an actor in a mall in Kochi, into custody from Cusat Junction, reportedly while they were on their way to surrender before the police at around 8.45pm on Sunday. The duo was identified as Irshad and Aadil, natives of Perinthalmanna in Malappuram. Police said that they would soon record the arrests. The incident took place on Thursday and the police registered the case on Friday after the actor wrote about the incident in her Instagram story. After the CCTV footage of the suspects got circulated on social media, the suspects released a video on Sunday claiming innocence. The suspects said that they might have unintentionally brushed past the actor who visited the mall with her mother and sister and that it was not their intention to harass her. The suspects added that initially they didn’t know that she was an actor and approached her after realizing that she was one. The duo said that they didn’t have any bad intentions and were ready to apologize to the actor. According to the suspects, their visit to Ernakulam was work related and they went to the mall to kill time. The duo claimed in the video that they couldn’t go out of their homes ever since their CCTV footage became public. The case pertains to the incident that took place on Thursday which the actor described with anguish on social media. As per the actor’s Instagram story, at a mall which was barely crowded one of the two men who walked past her touched her inappropriately. “Because it caught me off guard I couldn’t react immediately. I wanted to give him the benefit of doubt but you know when something is just not right, you feel it. My sister saw this very clearly as she was standing not so far away. She came to me and asked if I was okay. I was clearly not. The fact that it looked deliberate even for her made it clear that I was not imagining this,” she had written in her post. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/actor-harassment-suspects-taken-into-custody/articleshow/79828392.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Stop misuse of vellalar tag’||COIMBATORE: Members of various communities staged a protest in the district on Sunday, objecting to certain communities appropriating the ‘vellalar’ tag. The protest was organized under the aegis of Nanku Thisai Vellalar Sangam to draw the government’s attention. Protesters said there was an attempt by ‘non-vellalar’ communities to appropriate the tag. “The Union and state governments are also entertaining such requests with an eye on electoral gains,” they said. The protesters, led by Nanku Thisai Vellalar Sangam president Kongu K Devaraj, said traditionally communities like gounder, chettiar and pillai were using the umbrella term of vellalar to denote their caste group. “However, there is a concerted effort by certain communities to lay claim on the term now. The state and central governments should not entertain such requests, as the term vellalar is unique to our communities,” Devaraj said. The term Vellalar, he said, also determines reservations in jobs and education, which might also get diluted if other communities start using the tag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stop-misuse-of-vellalar-tag/articleshow/79829417.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mercury drops to 12.2°C on Sunday, temperature to rise again||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD’s) Shivajinagar observatory, which covers a major portion of the city, recorded a night temperature of 12.2°C on Sunday, a drop from Saturday’s 13.3°C. However, the met officials have predicted a rise in night temperature during the days ahead owing to a change in wind pattern over Maharashtra. Anupam Kashyapi, head of IMD’s weather forecast division, told TOI on Sunday, “The wind pattern over the state during the next 24 hours would be Easterly and South Easterly. This would lead to the night temperatures going up by two to three degrees Celsius. The existing fall in temperature is because of the Northerly winds that have penetrated all regions, including Pune, in Madhya Maharashtra. However, the Northerly winds are coming via central India and hence the city’s night temperature didn’t fall drastically or drop below 10°C in the last few days.” The night temperature had started falling in Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories from December 18. On December 17, the Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 15.8°C and 16.7°C at night, respectively. But on the night of December 18, Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 13.8°C and 15.8°C, respectively. “The city recorded a fall in temperature during both the day and the night on December 19 and 20. A similar trend was recorded on Sunday as well. The Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded maximums of 28.2°C and 28.5°C, which were below normal by 0.6 and 0.5 degree Celsius respectively. There was fall in minimum temperatures as well. Shivajinagar and Lohegaon recorded 12.2°C and 14°C, respectively,” said the met official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mercury-drops-to-12-2c-on-sunday-temp-to-rise-again/articleshow/79830432.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Decision on reopening of colleges at today’s meet||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will discuss the reopening of colleges in its management council meeting on Monday. The university’s administration has communicated its intent to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to allow colleges to reopen in January. The PMC had decided to keep educational institutions shut till January 3. The Covid-19 tests of teaching and non-teaching staff, hostel facilities and other related logistics will be discussed in Monday’s meeting. Vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar told TOI on Sunday that communication with the PMC is going on. “We had to do the same communication for SET exams. We are hoping to reopen in the first or second week of January." College hostels also need to be ready following all safety norms for which the colleges would be given time to prepare. Principal of Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce in Shivajinagar, Rajendra Zunjarrao, said "Temperature check, oxygen check and santiser stands are in place in the college’s departments. At present, even if the students not on the premises, we clean every classroom and lab thrice a day. We are prepared for offline teaching with safety measures in place." Principal of BMCC C N Rawal, said they were prepared to reopen for students and restart offline teaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/decision-on-reopening-of-colleges-at-todays-meet/articleshow/79830429.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 21, 2020||Trichy||Trichy architects bag national award for canal revival proposal||TRICHY: Trichy Common Network, a community development project involving the revival of the 1,000-year-old Uyyakondan canal, passing through Trichy, has received a national award from Charles Correa Foundation (CCF). The proposal submitted by two Trichy-based architects,S Vijayakumar and Kapilan Chandranesan, featured the joint efforts of a citizen movement and government departments in restoring the canal and reclaiming the adjacent land. The proposal was recognised for inducing a sense of ownership among the locals and combating pollution. The Goa-based CCF founded by Charles Correa, a Padma Vibhushan awardee architect, comprises international urban planners working on improving the condition of urban settlements in India. For the year 2020, the foundation conducted a national competition with the theme ‘you and your neighbourhood’ inviting urban planning proposals. The two architects submitted the proposal ‘Trichy Common Network’ that involves restoration of Uyyakondan canal and ongoing reclamation work in 20,000 square feet of land in Duraisamipuram situated along 1.2 km stretch of the Uyyakondan canal that faces pollution threats. The project documents the activities of Citizen For Uyyakondan (CFU), a civic group revamping the canal for about two years along with Trichy corporation and PWD while taking the inputs from the local community. Under the project, rainwater harvesting mechanism is being installed in a temple, church and mosque adjacent to the canal from where the surplus water will be diverted to Uyyakondan. A waste recycling plant is planned on the canal bank to recycle domestic waste collected from residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-architects-bag-natl-award-for-canal-revival-proposal/articleshow/79829446.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 21, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP seeks to end war of words with AIADMK||COIMBATORE: State BJP vice-president K Annamalai on Sunday sought to end the exchange of words between the party and AIADMK leaders over the ruling party’s chief ministerial candidate announcement, stating that the statement of L Murugan in this regard was misunderstood. He told reporters here that since the party national high command was busy, there was a delay in making an announcement on the chief ministerial candidate. Annamalai said all misunderstandings would be cleared when BJP national president J P Nadda visits the state. While the AIADMK had announced that Edappadi K Palansiwami (EPS) would be the chief ministerial candidate of the alliance for the 2021 assembly elections, Murugan had been repeatedly maintaining that the chief ministerial candidate of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Tamil Nadu would be announced by his party high command. “What Murugan intended to say was the crucial announcements on the alliance could only be made by the BJP national high command. His statements have been misconstrued,” Annamalai said and urged AIADMK functionaries to be cautious while criticizing allies. “Our friends in the AIADMK should understand this. They should understand that we have never criticized the chief minister,” he said and lauded EPS for his governance. He reiterated that the BJP and the AIADMK were part of the NDA in Tamil Nadu. Annamalai said neither was BJP creating any confusion in the alliance nor was there any confusion in the alliance. When AIADMK leaders declared that the alliance with BJP would continue in the state during Amit Shah’s visit to Chennai, the latter did not make a similar comment as he was not the BJP president, he said. The state BJP vice-president said the leadership role would be played only by the powerful party in an alliance. “You know which is the powerful party here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-seeks-to-end-war-of-words-with-aiadmk/articleshow/79829422.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Brother duo, their sister held in teen rape case||AHMEDABAD: Isanpur police on Sunday held three accused, including a woman in the alleged rape of a 19-year-old girl from Haryana. The girl has lodged a complaint of rape against Sumit Utpal, 25, and of abetment of rape against his elder brother Sunny Utpal and their sister. Inspector K B Sankhla of Isanpur police said the complainant is six months pregnant. Sankhla added that they are hunting for two more accused who abetted the crime.  The rape survivor has alleged the accused had confined her at a house in Bareja located on the outskirts of the city and threatened that if she didn’t accede to their demands they will turn their attention to her sister. The girl, originally hailing from Haryana, got a job in a private company located at Isanapur at Rs 8,000 per month in 2019. “She has claimed that the accused’s sister pressurized her to succumb to the demands of her brother, Sumit. In August 2019, the accused raped her in the company premises and threatened to stop her salary if she opened her mouth,” said a police official. According to the complaint, due to harassment by the accused the girl left the job in November 2020 with her salary pending from December 2019 to March 2020. On December 11, 2020 the accused called her up and asked her to take her pending salary. “The girl has alleged that at that time Sumit’s brother and her former boss Sunny told her that she will have stay with his brother for six days. They also took away her cellphone and switched it off and took her to a house in Bareja. The girl has alleged that here also the accused raped her and then released her after six days,” said a police official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/brother-duo-their-sister-held-in-teen-rape-case/articleshow/79829450.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Naked’ black hole: Search for the brighter side||AHMEDABAD: How do you distinguish between a black hole and a naked singularity? The much-sought answer seems to lie in the accretion disks formed around a collapsing star or super-massive galactic centre. A recent research paper titled ‘Accretion disks around naked singularities’ shows that the luminosity formed by the accretion disc around a naked singularity is much brighter than around a black hole. These findings have been published in Classical and Quantum Gravity, a reputed science journal from the UK. “This means that gamma ray bursts (GRB) or exploding stars observed by us in outer space, at the rate of almost one per day, is most likely to be nothing but naked singularities. One such GRB, which lasts for a few minutes, radiates energy equivalent to what our sun would radiate in its entire life timespan (of about 10 billion years),” explains Pankaj Joshi, founder of International Centre of Cosmology, Charusat University. Such a singularity can generate much larger amount of energy as compared to a black hole, he adds. Joshi has authored the paper with Ramesh Narayan of Harvard Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Jun-Qi Guo from School of Physics and Technology, University of Jinan, China and Lin Zhang of College of Mathematics and Statistics, Chongqing University, China. The four researchers have compared Schwarzschild black hole with a Joshi-Malafarina-Narayan (JMN2) model in which matter distribution has a finite outer boundary and the density inside is an inverse square function of the radius, and hence it is singular at the centre. The origin of GRB has been a mystery that has puzzled astrophysicists and cosmologists for many decades now. Despite a lot of efforts, there has not been a successful model that can explain these extraordinary sources of energy and cosmologists have been direly searching for novel effective sources that can supply this enormous energy powering a typical gamma ray burst, according to Joshi. The stranger than fiction black holes are a consequence of Albert Einstein’s theory of general relativity. According to his equations, if a star, at the end of its life cycle when it runs out of fuel, were to collapse on itself, its gravity will just shrink it further until it crushes into an infinitely tiny point. This point is called a space-time singularity where all the laws of physics fall apart. The gravitational pull of a singularity is infinitely strong and objects can be pulled towards it at a speed closer to the speed of light. The theoretical physicists have here, using mathematical formulas, investigated the thermal properties of accretion disks in space-time for some galactic density profiles in spherical symmetry. “The matter distributions have a finite outer radius with a naked central singularity. The luminosities of the accretion disks for some density profile models are found to be higher than those for a Schwarzschild black hole of the same mass,” it says. A naked singularity is an exploding fireball or a black hole without an event horizon – this means the singularity is no longer hidden from the view. As a result, observable signals from ultra-dense regions near a singularity may reach faraway observers in the universe. The curvature of space-time is infinite, perhaps allowing even time travel. A research paper by four MIT physicists published recently explores the possibility of time travel near a naked singularity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/physicists-search-for-the-brighter-side-of-a-naked-black-hole/articleshow/79829496.cms||Maulik Pathak
December 21, 2020||Coimbatore||PMK to fight hard for 20% reservation for vanniyars||Coimbatore: Paattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) founder S Ramadoss has called on his party cadres to protest in front of municipal offices on December 23, demanding 20% reservation for vanniyar community members. In an open letter to the PMK cadres on Sunday, he appealed them to assemble in front 528 municipalities in large numbers. Terming the party’s ‘massive protests’ from December 1 to 4 in front of Tamil Nadu Public Service commission office in Chennai and then 12,621 village administrative officers’ offices across the state an ‘achievement’, Ramadoss said the turnout for the December 23 protest should break the earlier records. Ramadoss said the protests demanding 20 % reservation was justified, as members of the vanniyar community were deceived by rulers for ages and deprived of growth. “Most of the people who live in huts in the state are vanniyars. They have been forced to do menial jobs.” The PMK founder said petitions should be submitted before municipal offices, pressing the demand and bring the issue before the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pmk-to-fight-hard-for-20-reservation-for-vanniyars/articleshow/79829443.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Trichy||Outfit’s plea to Rajinikanth on party name||TRICHY: Akila Indhiya Makkal Sevai Iyakkam (All India Makkal Sevai Iyakkam), an Ariyalur-based organisation working for farmers, has appealed to actor Rajinikanth not to name his new political party as Makkal Sevai Katchi saying it is similar to their movement’s name. The organisation has sent letters to Election Commission of India in this regard. At a high-level meeting of the organisation at Ariyalur on Sunday, the organisation’s founder-president Thanga Shanmugasundaram said they have come to know about the name of Rajinikanth’s party ‘Makkal Sevai Katchi’ through media reports. “We have participated in several protests across the country for farmers’ rights. If the actor’s party is allotted the name that resembles that of our organisation, our movement will be overshadowed,” he said. Stating that Makkal Sevai Iyakkam is propagating pesticide-free farming, the association urged the actor to respect the sentiments of farmers. The outfit pointed out that it has participated in the Delhi farmers’ protest a few years ago and hosted a slew of protests in delta districts against hydrocarbon exploration in the past. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/outfits-plea-to-rajinikanth-on-party-name/articleshow/79829447.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Trichy||Plea to retain outgoing HR&CE official||Trichy: A people’s rights organisation has put up wall posters condemning the decision to transfer a Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department (HR&CE) official from Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple here saying he has brought several laurels to it. Thiruvarangam basic rights and people welfare protection organization president M Thiruvenkadam Yadav said joint commissioner P Jayaraman, who worked at the temple for six years, was instrumental in the temple securing Unesco certificate of merit in 2017 for renovating the premises without altering its heritage, and in conducting the consecration in 2015. The organisation has urged HR&CE to revoke his transfer to Chennai.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plea-to-retain-outgoing-hrce-official/articleshow/79829453.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Trichy||Make transfer certificate must to shift, private schools tell govt||TRICHY: Tamil Nadu Private Schools’ Welfare Association has asked the state government to make transfer certificate (TC) mandatory for children to migrate from one school to another. They said that many parents who have fees pending in private schools have migrated to government schools as transfer certificate is not mandatory and it has caused losses to private schools during the pandemic. “The state government gave flexibility to parents to get their children admitted to government schools. While this has been used by government school teachers to get students, this has hugely impacted private schools as many students migrated to government schools without paying the fee in private schools,” said S Venkatesan, president of Tamil Nadu Private School Welfare Association. “If the transfer certificate is made mandatory for admission, parents will be accountable to the school. This will help the school collect pending fees,” he said. “We have asked the state government to restrict the access to the education management information system (EMIS) - a central repository of the data pertaining to school students. While respective schools must update the details of students in EMIS, the data of a student from a school can be accessed by other schools which is leading to confusion,” he said. The association has also asked the state government to reopen schools in January considering the welfare of students and the livelihood of teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/make-transfer-certificate-must-to-shift-private-schools-tell-govt/articleshow/79829471.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Students master new trades during Covid pandemic, prove their mettle||COIMBATORE: Tarunika Jagadeesh and Divea Kabilan, who were pursuing BTech in fashion technology at the PSG College of Technology, were a little disappointed when the lockdown was imposed. They feared the pandemic situation would delay their plans to launch a new apparel brand. However, they utilized the time for an online course on styling and brand management and studying the market. Once they gained the confidence, the 19-year-old girls presented their plans before their parents in July and the latter supported them with an initial investment of Rs 25,000 each, which they said had to be returned in a year. But the girls earned enough to return the amount in a little more than a month. That isn’t all! They have sold products worth more than Rs 5 lakh till date. Pointing out that they had long been planning to unveil their own brand, Divea said they had been waiting for the right opportunity. “The lockdown provided us ample time to study the market. We surveyed more than 600 people to know the current trend and spoke to many experts, stylists and celebrities, in addition to spending time at textile stores observing people’s choices. In the end, we decided to design and produce bottom wears, as there weren’t many brands and varieties in that segment.” Inspired by the French series and the movies of the 1960s and 80s, their products sport a vintage look. Divea’s friend Tarunika said they would produce only 100 pieces of a design, which won’t be on offer later. “If people like the design, they have to go for it immediately. Otherwise, they would miss that for ever. We have designed 12 varieties of bottom wears for men, seven for kids and 25 for women so far.” It isn’t an isolated venture of its kind. In fact, several school and college students have utilized the lockdown period effectively to do something their own. Nineteen-year-old M Bharathkumar, a student of PSG College of Arts and Science, is one among them. He has designed and manufactured an automatic hand sanitizer machine on his own. He has made 10 machines that are installed at his college and Bharathiar University, among other places, so far. Bharathkumar said, “The idea to design the automatic hand sanitizer machine struck me during the lockdown. On a trial and error basis, I designed it using things like pic microcontrollers and minute sensor. The life of the machine is much higher than that of similar products available in the market. I have also applied for a patent.” Meanwhile, M Santhosh, a Class IX student of St Paul’s Matriculation Higher Secondary School, has learned juggling from his magician cum juggling father Magic Maha during his free time and started doing independent shows. The 14-year-old said, “About three months ago, I learnt to juggle with rings and balls, and on rola-bola from my father. Last month, I performed during a birthday party. Now, I have agreed to do two shows on the New Year eve.” His father said they were getting several inquiries from event managers, who specifically asked for Santhosh’s appointment. “While I wasn’t interested in juggling earlier, I started liking it when I learned the techniques behind it. I am also learning several other techniques from my father. I practice at least for 1.30 hours a day. Recently, I had entered the Indian Book for Records for juggling balls on a wave board for a minute,” Santhosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/students-master-new-trades-during-covid-pandemic-prove-their-mettle/articleshow/79829430.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 21, 2020||Kozhikode||CPM twisted my words on Hagia Sophia: Panakkad Syed Sadiq Ali Shihab Thangal||KOZHIKODE: IUML high-power committee member Panakkad Syed Sadiq Ali Shihab Thangal said that his article of Hagia Sophia in ‘Chandrika’ daily was misinterpreted by CPM to turn the Christian community against UDF in the run-up to the elections to local bodies. Thangal told TOI he had only narrated the history of Hagia Sophia in Turkey which was a mosque for 500 years and before that a church for 900 years. “But the CPM, with the help of some extremists, made it a controversy in the elections,” he said. Thangal’s article on the conversion of the structure, which was preserved as a museum during the time of Kamal Pasha, was cited to be one of the reasons that distanced the Christian community from the UDF in the just-concluded elections to the local bodies. The article was interpreted as the celebration of the conversion and IUML was endorsing the act by Turkey President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. In the article published in July this year, Thangal said that even while disagreeing with the decision, the Christian religious leaders had not staked a claim on the ownership of Hagia Sophia because they might have realized that such a demand would not have historical validity. He added that Russia, with a sizable Orthodox Christian population, did not intervene in the issue. Thangal added there is no freedom for Muslims to offer prayers in many secular countries that opposed the conversion of Hagia Sophia. CPM was quick to react to the article to push IUML on the defensive. The then state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said that the article showed that IUML and Jama’at-e-Islami had the same ideology. He alleged that Thangal wrote the article from the point of view of the Jama’at. Many observers pointed out that the article was one of the reasons for Christians rejecting UDF in many parts of central Kerala in the elections to the local bodies. The opinion was presented as the official stand of IUML and UDF was criticized for being subservient and not opposing the viewpoint. “After the article publication, there was a concerted effort to make it a controversy,” Thangal said. “We had many interactions with religious leaders of the Christian community after the article publication and no one believed the allegation that we discarded our secular position,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cpm-twisted-my-words-on-hagia-sophia-thangal/articleshow/79828417.cms||Prashanth M P
December 21, 2020||Erode||Erode farmers protest concreting of canal path, warn of boycotting assembly polls||ERODE: Farmers in Erode district have decided to withdraw their support to AIADMK if the state government persisted with its plan to lay a concrete base for the Bhavanisagar dam canals. The farmers say the groundwater flow would be affected by the concrete base. “We will boycott the Tamil Nadu assembly election too if the government remains adamant about its decision," they said. Farmers of Lower Bhavani canal have convened a meeting at Kadukkampalayam village near Gobichettipalayam on Saturday evening. One of the farmers, S Perumal told TOI that farmers from Erode, Karur and Tirupur districts were benefitting from Bhavanisagar dam. Lower Bhavani Canal (LBC), one of the canals of the dam, has been irrigating 2.07 lakh acres in these three districts. “The canal not only irrigates water for the crops but also used for drinking water purposes of these three districts’ people,” he said. The Tamil Nadu government recently announced plans to make concrete base for the LBC starting from the dam to its tail end at the cost of Rs 178 crore. The government had also allotted funds for the project and urged the PWD officials to start the civil work. The farmers lamented that nearly one lakh acre of lands would be affected when the entire canal formed with concrete base. “These lands were getting water from the canal through the seepage and the entire lands would be barren when the concrete base formed,” K Chenniappan, another farmer said, adding that farmers who had cultivated turmeric and coconut trees will be affected due to non-availability of groundwater. The farmers warned that they will go for continuous protests until the state government rolls back the project. “We will not allow the PWD officials to start the civil works,” the farmers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/erode-farmers-protest-concreting-of-canal-path-warn-of-boycotting-assembly-polls/articleshow/79829448.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Trichy||Hundreds witness jallikattu in Pudukottai; 6 organizers booked||TRICHY: Six people were booked for illegally organising a jallikattu defying social distancing norms near Annavasal in Pudukottai district on Sunday. The incident occurred at Parambur near Kudumiyanmalai where hundreds of people gathered in the morning. While the crowd swelled by 10am, bulls were allowed to run into the arena for the tamers. Annavasal police rushed to the spot on getting information on the event and dispersed the crowd. Police booked six people from the village for conducting the illegal jallikatu. J Arulmozhi Arasu, Illupur deputy superintendent of police, said Parambur village is notorious for such incidents in the past. Since Pongal is around the corner, people tend to let loose their bulls in the name of training them for jallikattu events. One such attempt had led to people gathering in large numbers in an hour and the news spread among people in the village, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hundreds-witness-jallikattu-in-pudukottai-6-organizers-booked/articleshow/79829487.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Pune||Christmas decor items flood markets, shopkeepers wait for sales to soar||Pune: Shopkeepers selling Christmas paraphernalia in the city have reported at least 40%-50% decline in sales as compared to last year. “People want to spend less on non-essentials like decorations or costumes. Along with Santa caps, we also have Santa masks this year, which is a big hit among customers,” Ajit Nagarkar, a gift shop owner in Salunke Vihar, said. “There has been a shortage of Christmas trees this year. We are selling the artificial trees from our stock last year. These are usually imported products. Customers are conscious about buying products that are made in India. Our sales is less than 50% of what it used to be in the previous years,” an employee of shop selling Christmas trees on MG Road said. “We still need to be vigilant about our safety as the pandemic is not yet over. Going to or even hosting a party with many guests is a strict no-no this year, and since people are not having lavish parties, there is less demand for decorations and other festive paraphenelia. Even commercial venues such as hotels and shops are keeping their decorations very low-key this time. Compared to last year, our sales have dropped by 40-50%,” Mangesh Srivastava, a decorations and gift shop owner in Gutekdi, said. Several people are making their own Christmas decorations at home. “This year we made our decorations at home. It was a good art and craft activity to keep the kids busy. We made streamer decorations, cut-outs, stringed decorations, and wreaths to put up in the house for a festive vibe. We even made some tree decorations and hung it up,” Priya Das, a resident of Fatima Nagar, said. “The pandemic has made us focus on sustainability. Many people are making their decorations by repurposing waste materials found in homes. There are many videos on YouTube that you can refer to for easy to make DIY decorations. The activity is a pleasant way to engage with your kids and indulge in the Yuletide spirit,” Samantha Agnello, a resident of Pimpri, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/christmas-decor-items-flood-markets-shopkeepers-wait-for-sales-to-soar/articleshow/79830442.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: CA scans QR codes, loses Rs 40,000 to online fraud||PUNE: A cybercrook duped a chartered accountant (CA) of Rs 40,000 on the pretext of purchasing his sofa set for Rs5,000 via an online marketplace. The fraudster sent QR codes to the CA and told him to scan them. The complainant scanned it four times and Rs 40,000 was siphoned from his bank account within half-an-hour on September 8. The CA lodged an FIR with the Nigdi police on Saturday. An officer from the Nigdi police said the complainant was shifting to Mumbai with his family for a new job. “He wanted to sell his old furniture, so he had posted an advertisement on an online marketplace,” the officer said. On September 8, the suspect, who introduced himself as Kanhaiya Kumar, contacted the CA and told him that he would like to purchase the sofa set. “The deal was finalized for Rs5,000,” the officer said. He said the man then told the complainant that he would send a QR code to him. The amount would be transferred to his account after the QR code was scanned. On December 13, a 30-year-old had lodged an FIR with the Hinjewadi police stating that suspects siphoned Rs3.5 lakh from her bank account by telling her to scan QR codes. The woman too wanted to sell her furniture online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ca-scans-qr-codes-loses-rs-40000-to-online-fraud/articleshow/79830438.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Goa||Police will be updated about latest laws: DGP||Panaji: Director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena on Sunday said Goa police has decided to have regular refresher courses for its personnel to get updates about the law. Meena also said that the ATS would get the latest equipment to fight terror. “In 2021, we will have regular courses at different locations and in different subjects,” he said, speaking at the Goa Police Raising Day Function. Meena said that the people should deal professionally with protesters and agitators. “If they violate the law, then action must be taken, and police are authorised to do so, but how much action is to be taken depends on the situation,” the DGP said. Meena also said that complaints regarding drug abuse have gone down. “I have instructed that if any intelligence is gathered with regards to drugs, we should act and have a zero-tolerance approach,” he said. He also said that the Goa police should undergo the same training as the national security guard (NSG). “If anything happens, we must be self-reliant,” he said. “If we delay, there can be lots of losses... Our boys are as competent (as NSG) but we lack equipment and training.” Meena said a training facility at Valpoi is in the offing, and that wireless network also will be upgraded. Meena said that library facilities at police stations would be improved. Panaji: Director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena on Sunday said Goa police has decided to have regular refresher courses for its personnel to get updates about the law. Meena also said that the ATS would get the latest equipment to fight terror. “In 2021, we will have regular courses at different locations and in different subjects,” he said, speaking at the Goa Police Raising Day Function. Meena said that the people should deal professionally with protesters and agitators. “If they violate the law, then action must be taken, and police are authorised to do so, but how much action is to be taken depends on the situation,” the DGP said. Meena also said that complaints regarding drug abuse have gone down. “I have instructed that if any intelligence is gathered with regards to drugs, we should act and have a zero-tolerance approach,” he said. He also said that the Goa police should undergo the same training as the national security guard (NSG). “If anything happens, we must be self-reliant,” he said. “If we delay, there can be lots of losses... Our boys are as competent (as NSG) but we lack equipment and training.” Meena said a training facility at Valpoi is in the offing, and that wireless network also will be upgraded. Meena said that library facilities at police stations would be improved. “Books will be provided and each station should have a set of books,” he said. “When police are investigating, they should refer to the old cases.” The DGP also said that regular parades are important. “I emphasise weekly parades,” he said, adding that regular firing also will be done. Meena said there’s a long list for construction of new police stations, but the Quepem station and Santa Cruz outposts would be done first. He added that plans are afoot to have an office complex at police HQ. “If we don’t have proper accommodation and infrastructure, we can’t function.” He also appreciated the state for providing funds to police for infrastructure work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-will-be-updated-about-latest-laws-dgp/articleshow/79830957.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Pune||Mundhwa godown, workshop gutted in separate fires||Pune: A furniture godown and a car showroom in Mundhwa were gutted in separate fires during the early hours of Sunday. According to the fire brigade, the entire furniture godown was gutted while the car workshop sustained huge damages. Two cars were completely charred while three other cars were partially burned. No one was injured in , the fire brigade officers said. Fire station duty officer Vijay Bhilare said the blaze at the furniture godown broke out around 12.15am and it continued till 11.30am on Sunday. The godown was spread over 6,000sqft and had a tin shed. The operator had kept old wooden and steel furniture in large numbers and an office space with a computer and electronic goods. Bhilare said the cause for the fire is not known. “We worked to put out the blaze till 11.30am,” he said. Some houses were located adjacent to the godown and all the families were shifted to safe places. Fire station duty officer Prakash Gore said, “About 100m away from the furniture godown, another fire broke out in a car workshop around 2.30am. The workshop is spread over about 40,000sqft and was covered by a tin roof. Spare parts, rubber parts, accessories, computers, and some oil tins were gutted in the fire.” Many heavy oil cans were moved to safer places, Gore added. Two cars were charred while three others were partially burned . The firemen moved eight cars to a safer spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mundhwa-godown-workshop-gutted-in-separate-fires/articleshow/79830451.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Illegal shop at Jaipur's Bapu Bazaar draws ire||JAIPUR: The area councillor along with a group of BJP members protested against an illegal construction of shop at Bapu Bazaar here on Sunday. The party members sat in the middle of the market road for a few hours and demanded action against the owner. The issue was about the alleged illegal construction of a shop above the verandas of Bapu Bazaar. According to the order of Rajasthan High Court, no construction is allowed in Walled City area so. Ward 73 councillor Amar Singh Gurjar along with former BJP city head Mohan Lal Gupta and other party workers staged the protest and demanded an inquiry. “I got the information on December 18 about the illegal construction of shop in Bapu Bazaar and complained to deputy commissioner Ram Kishore Meena. He asked me to file a written complaint, which I did. But still, no action was taken by Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Heritage, officials. Now, the construction of shop is complete and it will start functioning very soon,” said Gurjar. He alleged that everything was done with permission from local MLA Amin Kagzi and people who were constructing the shops threatened of dire consequences if he protested. TOI tried to contact Amin Kagzi for his comments but his phone was switched off. JMC-Heritage mayor Munesh Gurjar said they haven’t received any written complaints regarding the matter. “When we receive a complaint, we will take action against the culprit and seize the building. However, no such matter has come in light till now, but we will inquire it,” said Gurjar. Gupta said this encroachment was done by the Congress in connivance of local police. Gupta demanded strict action against the encroachers and people who threatened the BJP councillor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-workers-protest-against-illegal-construction-of-shop-at-bapu-bazaar/articleshow/79829504.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Pune||Rural cops probe death threat plaint||Pune: The rural police are verifying the details of a complaint application by Khed’s tehsil health officer BB Gadve stating that he received a death threat letter. “The name and address of the sender mentioned in the letter has turned out be fictitious,” inspector Satish Gurav of the Khed police told TOI. Police said the sender had kept a photocopy of the letter written in Marathi in the Khed panchayat samiti office’s letter box. Gadve, who has his office on the premises, told TOI, “The sender gave a Mumbai address and claimed to have got a contract to kill me and that he would execute the it soon.” Gadve said, “The letter claims I indulged in corrupt practices during my earlier post as medical officer in Ratnagiri, although there was never such an inquiry against me.” Gurav said, “We suspect the letter might be the work of an internal staffer. We are looking at all possible angles before taking a call on extending protection to the health officer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-cops-probe-death-threat-plaint/articleshow/79830448.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Students in practical subjects demand opening of educational institutes||Jaipur: The pandemic has severely affected the academics, especially practical subjects. Now, student bodies are demanding opening of colleges and universities in half capacity, at least for students in practical subjects.All the higher educational institutes were shut down since March after the sudden outbreak of pandemic. Although students are getting online classes, but for practical in science and other fields it is impossible to grasp anything online.Govind Malinda, a final year BSc student, said all his subjects are practical. “Chemistry, zoology and psychology are my subjects and it is not possible to continue online classes. We are given virtual practical classes, but until we practice on laboratory instruments, it is impossible to learn anything.”Last week, NSUI started an online campaign to open universities and colleges for such students. NSUI spokesperson Ramesh Bhati said, “We are receiving calls from students across Rajasthan to take up this issue seriously. At present, we have started an online campaign and next week we will start taking students’ signatures to convince authorities to at least think about opening academic institutes in half capacity.”Rajasthan University VC Rajeev Jain said the decision was taken by the government and they will follow the guidelines. Regarding opening of institutes, Jain said discussions are going on at a higher level and administration is thinking of starting laboratories in half capacity.Another important issue students are facing is internet connectivity in rural areas. Students there are not able to attend online classes. Many students in the university said that due to low turnout of students in online classes, teachers call off the classes most of the times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/students-in-practical-subjects-demand-opening-of-educational-institutes/articleshow/79829509.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt plans campaign next year to boost earnings||JAIPUR: To strengthen the financial condition of the civic agencies, the state government draws a plan to organise Prashasan Sehro Ke Sang next year. The residents who are waiting for years to procure the lease deeds of their plots will be benefited with the move. An official at urban development and housing (UDH) department said, “People living in unapproved colonies face several difficulties such as basic development, non-availability of loan for construction and many others. Along with earning revenue, the government will resolve the problems of these plot owners,” he said. Official sources said, the state government might allow the local bodies to regularise colonies developed between 1999 and 2005. Earlier, to regularise the colonies developed before 1999, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) had prepared a list. However, as matter is still pending in the court, the JDA might not regularise these colonies. “As per the JDA records, there are 1,722 housing schemes developed before 1999. Other than that, between 1999 and 2002, around 614 housing colonies were developed by the housing societies.” At present, there are approximately 800 colonies in the JDA periphery which are yet to be regularized. “Out of these colonies, regularization of around 400 colonies can be done easily, whereas it will be difficult for the JDA to regularize other colonies due to various reasons. Relaxations will be provided by the state government to regularise these colonies during the camp,” added official. The state government also plans to give rights to local agencies to sell off pasture land in their jurisdiction. Till date, these rights were only given to the development authority and urban improvement trusts (UIT) in the state. Sources said UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal has given nod to the proposal. Soon, the nod will be given to the local bodies, sources said. The UDH will also organise a meeting on Thursday to discuss the proposal of Jaipur Municipal Corporation. The Greater corporation has requested the state government to fix the licence fee, which will be imposed on vendors, hospitals, shops and other commercial establishments as per the new policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-plans-campaign-next-year-to-boost-earnings/articleshow/79829510.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Sanitation staff crunch hits road cleanliness||Jaipur: Shortage of sanitation workers is now affecting cleanliness of roads in Wards 86 and 87 in Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Greater. Since the administration has started using its own resources to start garbage collection programmes in these wards, road cleanliness drives have been affected.Residents of the wards are complaining about absence of workers on the ground and collection of garbage from roads. Currently, each ward has 20 sanitation workers out of which six are appointed for hoopers, which affects ground work.Ward 86 councillor Damodar Meena said, “I am receiving complaints every day from residents regarding dirty roads. Workers on hoopers have to do three rounds in a day compounding ground problems.”Though the JMC started the initiative to collect garbage from door-to-door, contractors were not doing it efficiently. Following several complaints by residents regarding the lethargic work of contractors, JMC tookup the matter in their own hands and let the contractors focus on other parts of the city.A group of residents recently met JMC-Greater mayor Somya Gurjar who assured them that officials were trying their best to improvise the matter.A senior JMC official said, “We just started this initiative and are planning it to extend to an entire zone. If there are problems regarding the road sanitation, we will take up the issue forward and will resolve it as soon as possible.”With the bifurcation of municipal corporations, resources in the city are yet to be divided. JMC- Greater has received around 3,000 sanitation workers who are still working as per old planning. A new plan has to be made to divide workers in more wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sanitation-staff-crunch-hits-road-cleanliness/articleshow/79829505.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Ministers reprimand dist officials for laxity in work||Jaipur: Industry minister Parsadi Lal Meena and minister of state (labour) Tikaram Jully on Sunday during the review of the implementation of various schemes of the government expressed displeasure over delay in meeting the targets in some programmes and shortcomings in a few.According to sources, Jully told the officers that any kind of laxity in implementation of the schemes will not be tolerated. He even said the officers could face transfers if laxity is found in their work. The ministers sought to know from the officials of district administration the reason behind closure of pension schemes for nearly 8,000 people including elderly persons and widows. However, the ministers were not satisfied with their replies. According to sources, minister Meena reprimanded the officials of water department for the delay in starting the Janata Jal Yojana.“Action will be taken against big businessmen as well within 15 days for food adulteration under Sudhh Ke Liye Yudhh campaign. All the left-out beneficiaries under food security will be added soon. Currently, it is 19% in Jaipur; 52% will be achieved soon,” said Meena.The ministers also unveiled a booklet - Zila Darshan - on the completion of Gehlot government’s two years. The minister also asked the officials to monitor the social security schemes. The ministers also reprimanded the officials for not able to respond to them on the status of pollution and silicosis patients due to mining in the state. The district’s agriculture department on Sunday, as a part of quality control, inspected 32 shops of agricultural inputs and notices were issued to those which were found to be closed. Two shops were barred from selling products due to irregularities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ministers-reprimand-dist-officials-for-laxity-in-work/articleshow/79829525.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Pune||Traffic offences in Pune rise by more than 150% post-lockdown||PUNE: Common traffic offences such as not wearing helmets, wrong parking, not carrying driving licences, jumping signals and and zebra crossing violations rose by more than 150% in the city right after the lockdown, figures provided by the Pune police indicate. In a recent conversation, Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta had agreed that these offences were most common after the lockdown was lifted and traffic gradually began coming onto the streets from July. During restrictions on traffic during the April-June lockdown period, the police registered around 1.17 lakh cases of helmetless driving. This figure rose to more than 3 lakh from July to September, a 150% increase. Wrong parking cases spurted from 19,855 in the April-June period to more than 68,000 from July to September. A police officer said the jump in traffic violations was alarming. “Even during the lockdown period, the traffic police identified and fined many motorists who were out on the streets in violation of the rules. Traffic offences rise 150% post-lockdownThe number of those fined then was not less but certainly on the lower side when compared to the January-March figures. However, July-September offences were almost nearing pre-Covid figures. The fact that offences like not wearing helmets and jumping signals have attracted the maximum fines is alarming and shows that a majority of people still do not take the rules seriously,” he said. Maharashtra is yet to roll out the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, 2019 more than a year after it was approved by the central cabinet and passed by both Houses of Parliament. The amended Act calls for higher fines and stricter punishment than earlier. Kondhwa resident Rajesh Bhate (58) said, “Traffic is back in full force on the streets now; it doesn’t seem that the contagion is still around. It would have been foolish to believe that driving habits would change after the lockdowns. The fact is that most people drive as they want to and don’t mind paying the fines which are on the lower side now. At Salunke Vihar Road, it is almost impossible to walk on the roads in the evenings mainly because of wrong-side driving. Police presence here is minimal.” Prashant Imandar of Pedestrians First said breaking traffic rules is considered a trivial issue and that attitude needs to change. “The increased fines under the amended MV Act should come into force in phases at least. The state government should have implemented it earlier. The message that breaking traffic rules means risking the lives of the driver and others needs to be hammered in. It’s time for strict measures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-traffic-offences-spurt-150-post-lockdown/articleshow/79830464.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Observers to oversee NEET counselling||JAIPUR: Medical education department has deployed observers for NEET under-graduate counselling for admission in MBBS courses in medical colleges, including in private medical colleges. The observers will hear the grievances of the candidates and resolve them. In case, if they do not resolve their complaints at their level, they will refer the matter to the state NEET UG Counselling Board-2020. The observers will prepare a daily report for the joining status of the candidates allotted UG seats by the state NEET UG Counselling Board-2020, said a medical education department official. The report will have a mention of candidates along with their contact numbers and details about his joining or rejecting the seat along with the reason. SMS Medical College has been directed to constitute three teams of two professors each for three private medical colleges in Jaipur which will visit their respective private hospitals daily. Udaipur, RNT Medical College has been directed to follow the same directions and constitute two-member team for five private run medical colleges in Udaipur. The observers will be of professor rank. The candidate will be allowed to fill the application form for mop-up round till December 22. The eligibility of candidates for mop-up round has also been decided. Criteria for candidates’ ineligibility for allotment in mop-up round is that if a candidate who has resigned from the seat allotted and joined in round 2 or deemed to be joined in round 2 will not be allowed to participate in mop-up allotment process even after fulfilling bond formalities at the concerned allotted college. Also such a candidate shall not be eligible to participate in subsequent rounds, said the official. A candidate who has surrendered his/her allotted/ upgraded in round 2 will not be allowed to participate in mop-up allotment process. Also such a candidate will not be eligible to participate in subsequent rounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/observers-to-oversee-neet-counselling/articleshow/79829517.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Erumadams make a comeback in Kerala's Wayanad fields||KOZHIKODE: Tree-top watchtowers or erumadams have made a comeback in Wayanad with farmers taking up the age-old practice of keeping vigil in the night to guard their crops against intruding wildlife. The tree-top watchtowers have sprung up in greater numbers in farms bordering forests in Wayanad, particularly after the pandemic, as more farm lands have been brought under cultivation this year and farmers too are desperate to save the crops to ride the Covid-related crisis. “This year more people have taken up paddy cultivation as the pandemic has sealed avenues for other alternative income. With crop-raiding by wildlife on the rise, farmers have fallen back on the erumadams. In just two wards in Thirunelly, 22 erumadams have come up this season with 11 in the Tholpetty padasekharam, spread over 80 acre,” said Sasi Kumar, a farmer at Tholpetty in Thirunelly panchayat of Wayanad near the Kerala-Karnataka border. Farmers say that erumadams are the most reliable defense against marauding wildlife as the usual wildlife-mitigation mechanisms promoted by the forest department have not been effective on the field. “My paddy field is near the forest boundary and though the forest department has installed electric fences, it is of no use as elephants have learnt to break with tree branches. Also, they know how to tackle elephant-proof trenches. So even in areas with usual mitigation mechanisms, we have to spend sleepless nights to save our crops,” said Anil, a resident of Karimad tribal colony who owns one-acre paddy field and also guards others’ 15 acre of paddy for a fixed monthly salary. Farmers stay on top of the erumadams built on top of trees or on top of bamboo poles and beat drums, blow horns or burst fire crackers if they see approaching crop-raiding wildlife. “The downside is that it makes farming a day and night affair. After toiling throughout the day, we have to stay awake in the night too,” said Sasi Kumar. Wayanad Prakrithi Samraksha Samithi president N Badusha said that erumadams springing up along the forest fringes in Wayanad is a welcome one as it offers a sustainable wildlife-mitigation strategy and raises nostalgia of a time when agriculture and conservation were not at odds. “Instead of the usual practice of paying compensation to farmers after crop loss, the forest department and the local body authorities should encourage mitigation strategies that focus on such participatory and community-based mechanisms and pay incentive for those guarding the crops on condition that they would not be eligible for crop-loss compensation,” he said. Ansa Augustine, agricultural officer at Thirunelly, said that the area under rice cultivation in the panchayat has increased from 500 hectare last year to 535 hectare this year, and farming has also picked up with respect to other crops too. “The wildlife menace in the area has increased and farmers are guarding on their own as they are left with no other option to save their crops,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/erumadams-make-a-comeback-in-wayanad-fields/articleshow/79828475.cms||K R Rajeev
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Kisan leaders blame Centre for deaths of farmers||Jaipur: The farmers’ organisations on Sunday paid homage to those farmers who died during the agitation in Delhi. Around 29 farmers have died so far during the agitation, claimed Sanyunkt Kisaan Morcha, Rajasthan. Leader of Jat Mahasabha Raja Ram Meel also attended the farmers’ protest at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border on Sunday.Raja Ram Meel of Jat Mahasabha said, “The three farm laws are harmful for the farmers. The Centre should repeal these laws. They should not mislead the farmers. The lies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been exposed. There is so much of anger among the farmers that, had Covid 19 crisis and the chilly weather been not there, nobody could have stopped them surrounding the national capital (Delhi) from all directions in three days.”On Sunday, the representatives of Bhim Army, Bawal Khap Panchayat, Rajasthan Jat Mahasabha, Rajasthan Teachers’ Association (Shekhawat) reached the protest site in support of farmers’ agitation.Meanwhile, the Jaipur-Delhi national highway (NH-8) continued to remain sealed at Shahajahanpur on Rajasthan-Haryana border owing to farmers’ agitation. The vehicles travelling to Delhi are being diverted through the Behror-Tatarpur-Khairtal route. The farmers have blocked the highway as they were not allowed to march towards Delhi in protest against the three farm laws passed by the centre.A ‘Shradhanjali sabha’ was held from 12 noon to 1 pm in memory of the farmers who died during the farmers’ agitation. “For the past 25 days, the farmers of the country on the borders of Delhi. They are fighting against the government’s conspiracy to enslave the farmers at the hands of the corporates. The government is trying to give a bad to the farmers’ movement and weaken the it,” said the farmers’ leaders during the press conference on Sunday.The three farm laws that are being opposed by the farmers of Punjab and Haryana are — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation); The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance; and Farm Services and The Essential Commodities (Amendment).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kisan-leaders-blame-centre-for-deaths-of-farmers/articleshow/79829527.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||A month after NMC letter, police yet to seal 3 lounges lacking fire safety||Nagpur: The police department hasn’t acted upon Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) fire and emergency services department’s requests made a month ago to seal three lounges-cum-restaurants. These lounges have not installed necessary fire safety systems and did not shut down despite fire department declaring their structures unsafe two years ago. NMC chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake on November 19 had written three letters to commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar requesting to seal Fionaa Lounge and Restaurant run by Scorpion Enterprises at Dharampeth Towers, V5 Restaurant, and Ice Cube Bar & Restaurant located on Mount Road at Sadar. Citing provisions of The Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2006, Uchake’s letters said these establishments failed to vacate buildings and also are in operation. He asked the police to vacate the three lounges and seal them with immediate effect. Following a fire at restaurants at Mumbai’s Kamala Mills which killed 14 people and left 55 injured on December 28, 2017, the NMC’s fire department had inspected all restaurants, bars and lounges in the city. Uchake has written to the CP that notice was issued to V5 Restaurant on January 23, 2018, Fionaa Lounge on June 4, 2018, and Ice Cube Bar on March 12, 2018, due to lack of necessary permissions and fire safety systems. Directives were given to obtain necessary permissions, install fire safety systems and comply with other directives. Following non-compliance of the notices, the fire department declared Fionaa as unsafe on December 4, 2018, V5 and Ice Cube on December 6, 2018. Directives were also given to immediately vacate the buildings. The fire department had also sought disconnection of power and water supply to the three establishments, but no action was taken. Vice-president of the state unit of International Human Rights Commission Saurebh Singh Bhardwaj told TOI, “I lost a friend in Kamala Mills’ fire. There are five lounges and restaurants in the city which witness huge footfall. Documents sought by me under RTI Act on December 18, 2019, revealed that none of them has requisite permissions and fire safety systems.” According to him, documents show that fire department did not take any action for one year after declaring the structures unsafe. “One restaurant closed down after a fire and another had to close being a rooftop one. After I demanded action against the remaining three establishments, the fire department sent letters to CP to seal them,” he said. Bhardwaj has submitted a letter to CP requesting action as per fire department’s letter. “But no action has been taken,” he said. Police chief Kumar claimed being not aware of fire department’s letters. “I will look into it and take appropriate action immediately, if needed,” he said. Ranjan Kale of Fionaa did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages. Prashant Ahirkar from Ice Cube said, “We have complied with all directives and submitted Form-B seeking fire fitness certificate. Now, there is no issue,” he said. According to officials from fire department, Ice Cube hasn’t been issued fitness certificate yet, so the letter to CP seeking action holds validity for the establishment. Representative from V5 said, “All works suggested by fire department have been completed, except for one water tank which will be done soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-month-after-nmc-letter-police-yet-to-seal-3-lounges-lacking-fire-safety/articleshow/79829542.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||83.6% of Jaipur’s Covid patients undergoing treatment under home isolation||JAIPUR: The city is currently accomodating 4,339 Covid active cases of which 708 are undergoing treatment in hospitals. The rest (3,631 active cases) are undergoing treatment under home isolation, accounting for 83.6% city’s active cases. The occupancy of beds in Covid hospitals has been reducing over the last month. On November 17, the occupancy of Covid beds in the city was 2240, which reduced to remained 1767 on December 3, 1,043 (December 12) and 708 (December 20). There are 5,502 Covid beds in hospitals. Currently, 12.8% of the beds occupied, while the rest are lying vacant. Dedicated Covid RUHS Hospital with 1,200 beds currently has 157 beds occupied, while 155 ICU beds and 888 beds in wards are lying vacant, said a health department official, adding that the number of active cases have reduced and now almost half of what the city had in first week of December. In all, 55 hospitals in the city are providing Covid treatment, out of which 48 are run by private players, while seven are run by the state government. The government-run hospitals have 209 active cases undergoing treatment, while city’s private hospitals were providing treatment to 499 Covid patients. The occupancy of Covid beds in government-run hospitals were 10.3%, while occupancy of Covid beds was 14.3%. In government hospitals, 237 ICU beds reserved for Covid patients are lying vacant, while in the same hospitals 1,572 beds in wards are occupied. In private hospitals, 644 ICU beds and 2,341 ward beds dedicated for Covid patients are lying unoccupied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/83-6-of-citys-covid-patients-undergoing-treatment-under-home-isolation/articleshow/79829529.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Goa||Goa Church wing writes to CM over meat issue||PANAJI: The Council for Social Justice and Peace (CSJP) has written to the chief minister Pramod Sawant about the ongoing shortage of beef in the state after supplies were hit owing to the new cattle anti-slaughter bill in Karnataka. “This intervention is requested on behalf of the vast majority of beef consumers as well as for the benefit of the culinary business in Goa and for the benefit of tourism in the state,” CSJP executive secretary, Fr Savio Fernandes wrote in the letter. A wing of Goa Church, the CSJP has written to the CM to “urgently intervene in the matter with Karnakaka on behalf of Goa asking it not to notify the bill in their state in order to safeguard the livelihood of hundreds of meat traders who along with their employees are totally dependent on this trade for their survival.” Recently, the Karnataka government passed the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill 2020, which bans the sale and slaughter of bulls and bullocks within the state and also prevents their transportation across the state for the purpose of slaughter. In their letter, CSJP pointed out that a similar law came into force in 2015 by the state of Maharashtra, after which Goa was left with no choice but to depend solely on Karnataka for its beef supply. “In a multi- cultural society like India, such a ban will prove to be a challenge in upholding the plurality, which is the essence of our nation. Besides, thousands of dairy farmers from Karnataka will be impacted by these new rules which prevent them from selling their cattle in the markets for the purpose of slaughter, as a result it would be extremely difficult for the vast majority of these farmers to procure new animals for agriculture purpose,” the letter states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-church-wing-writes-to-cm-over-meat-issue/articleshow/79830465.cms||Nida Sayed
December 21, 2020||World||US Congress reaches deal on Covid-19 aid package, top Senate Republican and Democrat say||WASHINGTON: US congressional leaders have reached agreement on a $900 billion package to provide the first new aid in months to an economy hammered by the coronavirus pandemic, the Senate's top Republican and Democrat said on Sunday, but it remained unclear when Congress would vote to seal the deal. "At long last, we have the bipartisan breakthrough the country has needed," Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said on the Senate floor. The package would be the second-largest economic stimulus in US history, following a $2.3 trillion aid bill passed in March. The deal comes as the pandemic accelerates, infecting more than 214,000 people in the country each day. More than 317,000 Americans have already died. Democratic Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said the package should have enough support to pass both chambers of Congress. "Finally we have some good news to deliver to the American people," he said on the Senate floor. The package would give $600 direct payments to individuals, boost unemployment payments by $300 a week and give hundreds of billions of dollars in additional aid to small businesses. It would also provide $25 billion for rental assistance, sources said. Lawmakers said they had resolved disputes over the Federal Reserve's pandemic lending authority, education funding and small-business lending. "I think it's for the most part wrapped up," Republican Senator John Thune told reporters. Congress aims to include the coronavirus aid package in a $1.4 trillion spending bill funding government programs through September 2021. Lawmakers said there may not be enough time to pass the measures before government funding expires at midnight Sunday (0500 GMT Monday), which means they would have to pass another temporary extension to keep the government operating. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the chamber's top Democrat, told reporters earlier on Sunday she wanted to give members some time to review the package before calling a vote. The bill leaves out two of the most contentious elements in the negotiations: legal protections for businesses from coronavirus lawsuits, which had been sought by Republicans, and the substantial aid for state and local governments advocated by Democrats. Sources briefed on the matter told Reuters on Sunday the deal was expected to grant US airlines $15 billion in new payroll assistance that will allow them to return more than 32,000 furloughed workers to their payrolls through March 31. It would also include $1 billion for passenger railroad Amtrak, $14 billion for public transit systems and $10 billion for state highways, one of the sources said. A further $3.2 billion would help provide broadband internet access for low-income Americans. Expect votes?The bill would have to be passed by the Democratic-led House of Representatives before the Republican-controlled Senate could take it up. If passed, it would then go to President Donald Trump to sign into law. Republican Senator John Cornyn said lawmakers might not be able to vote on the deal by midnight. "I think it's doubtful, would be my guess," he said. Senator Pat Toomey, a Republican, had insisted on language that would guarantee that the Federal Reserve could not revive emergency lending programs for small businesses and state and local governments after they expire on Dec. 31. Republicans had said the programs were an unnecessary government interference in private business. Democrats in turn accused the Republicans of trying to limit Democratic President-elect Joe Biden's options for boosting the flagging economy after he takes office on Jan. 20. The pandemic will stand as the largest crisis facing Biden's new administration, although signs of hope have emerged as the United States has begun vaccinating people against the illness. The two sides agreed on language that would not allow the exact program currently in place to renew but did not block similar programs from being created. In the 11 months since the first cases of the new coronavirus were documented in the United States, COVID-19 has put millions of Americans out of work, with unemployment rising. Economists say growth will likely remain sluggish until vaccines are widely available in mid-2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/mcconnell-says-deal-reached-on-900-billion-covid-19-relief-bill/articleshow/79831184.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Covid cases dip in Jaipur and Jodhpur but still report over 30% of daily count||JAIPUR: After the central team’s isit to the state for reviewing the pandemic situation in Jaipur and Jodhpur on December 3, Covid cases have gone down significantly in both the districts. Jaipur and Jodhpur were reporting more than 1,000 cases daily in last week of November, but that has now gone down below 400 cases per day. Though cases have gone down in the two worst-hit districts, they are still reporting more than 30% of the daily infections. On Sunday, these districts collectively reported 309 cases and accounted for 31.5% of the cases. On December 1, as many as 1,006 persons were found infected with the virus in both these districts, which accounted for 42.8% of the infections. The two disticts have reported more than 30% of the cases for a long period of time. However, daily new infections in the two districts have been reducing over the past 20 days. “The team had suggested to focus more on contact tracing and to ensure that the Covid patients under home isolation follow home isolation guidelines. We have been focusing on ensure that the guidelines are followed,” said a health department official. In the last 24 hours, nine persons died and 978 others tested positive taking the over casualty count to 2,617 and infection numbers to 2,98,996. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (199), Jodhpur (110), Kota (82), Udaipur (55), Bhilwara (48), Ajmer (40), Alwar (40), Bundi (39), Nagaur (38), Pali (35), Dungarpur (34), Tonk (33), Rajsamand (23), Bharatpur (21), Sikar (19), Banswara (18), Barmer (17), Baran (16), Sirohi (14), Bikaner (13), Churu (13), Jaisalmer (12), Chittorgarh (11), Jhalawar (10), Dholpur (8), Jhunjhunu (7), Karauli (6), Sawai Madhopur (5), Dausa (5), Pratapgarh (4), Hanumangarh (2) and Jalore (1). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 490, two persons died in Ajmer taking its toll to 215, Sikar 93rd, Jalore 49th, Jhunjhunu 48th, Bhilwara 38th and Tonk reported its 33rd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-cases-dip-in-jaipur-jodhpur-but-still-report-over-30-of-daily-count/articleshow/79829530.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid cases dip in Jaipur and Jodhpur but still report over 30% of daily count||JAIPUR: After the central team’s isit to the state for reviewing the pandemic situation in Jaipur and Jodhpur on December 3, Covid cases have gone down significantly in both the districts. Jaipur and Jodhpur were reporting more than 1,000 cases daily in last week of November, but that has now gone down below 400 cases per day. Though cases have gone down in the two worst-hit districts, they are still reporting more than 30% of the daily infections. On Sunday, these districts collectively reported 309 cases and accounted for 31.5% of the cases. On December 1, as many as 1,006 persons were found infected with the virus in both these districts, which accounted for 42.8% of the infections. The two disticts have reported more than 30% of the cases for a long period of time. However, daily new infections in the two districts have been reducing over the past 20 days. “The team had suggested to focus more on contact tracing and to ensure that the Covid patients under home isolation follow home isolation guidelines. We have been focusing on ensure that the guidelines are followed,” said a health department official. In the last 24 hours, nine persons died and 978 others tested positive taking the over casualty count to 2,617 and infection numbers to 2,98,996. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (199), Jodhpur (110), Kota (82), Udaipur (55), Bhilwara (48), Ajmer (40), Alwar (40), Bundi (39), Nagaur (38), Pali (35), Dungarpur (34), Tonk (33), Rajsamand (23), Bharatpur (21), Sikar (19), Banswara (18), Barmer (17), Baran (16), Sirohi (14), Bikaner (13), Churu (13), Jaisalmer (12), Chittorgarh (11), Jhalawar (10), Dholpur (8), Jhunjhunu (7), Karauli (6), Sawai Madhopur (5), Dausa (5), Pratapgarh (4), Hanumangarh (2) and Jalore (1). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 490, two persons died in Ajmer taking its toll to 215, Sikar 93rd, Jalore 49th, Jhunjhunu 48th, Bhilwara 38th and Tonk reported its 33rd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-cases-dip-in-jaipur-jodhpur-but-still-report-over-30-of-daily-count/articleshow/79832646.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ajmer||Covid cases dip in Jaipur and Jodhpur but still report over 30% of daily count||JAIPUR: After the central team’s isit to the state for reviewing the pandemic situation in Jaipur and Jodhpur on December 3, Covid cases have gone down significantly in both the districts. Jaipur and Jodhpur were reporting more than 1,000 cases daily in last week of November, but that has now gone down below 400 cases per day. Though cases have gone down in the two worst-hit districts, they are still reporting more than 30% of the daily infections. On Sunday, these districts collectively reported 309 cases and accounted for 31.5% of the cases. On December 1, as many as 1,006 persons were found infected with the virus in both these districts, which accounted for 42.8% of the infections. The two disticts have reported more than 30% of the cases for a long period of time. However, daily new infections in the two districts have been reducing over the past 20 days. “The team had suggested to focus more on contact tracing and to ensure that the Covid patients under home isolation follow home isolation guidelines. We have been focusing on ensure that the guidelines are followed,” said a health department official. In the last 24 hours, nine persons died and 978 others tested positive taking the over casualty count to 2,617 and infection numbers to 2,98,996. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (199), Jodhpur (110), Kota (82), Udaipur (55), Bhilwara (48), Ajmer (40), Alwar (40), Bundi (39), Nagaur (38), Pali (35), Dungarpur (34), Tonk (33), Rajsamand (23), Bharatpur (21), Sikar (19), Banswara (18), Barmer (17), Baran (16), Sirohi (14), Bikaner (13), Churu (13), Jaisalmer (12), Chittorgarh (11), Jhalawar (10), Dholpur (8), Jhunjhunu (7), Karauli (6), Sawai Madhopur (5), Dausa (5), Pratapgarh (4), Hanumangarh (2) and Jalore (1). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 490, two persons died in Ajmer taking its toll to 215, Sikar 93rd, Jalore 49th, Jhunjhunu 48th, Bhilwara 38th and Tonk reported its 33rd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-cases-dip-in-jaipur-jodhpur-but-still-report-over-30-of-daily-count/articleshow/79832647.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kozhikode||LDF & UDF cross-voted to defeat BJP, says K Surendran||KOZHIKODE: BJP state president K Surendran has said LDF and UDF have cross-voted in around 1,200 wards in local-body elections in the state to ensure defeat of NDA candidates. Surendran said in Kozhikode on Sunday that even after the elections, the UDF and LDF are joining hands in around 25 panchayats, where BJP has emerged as the largest single front, to prevent it from coming to power. Surendran said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala was behind these politically immoral tie-ups to prevent BJP from coming to power and added that the stand taken by the Congress party is going to be politically suicidal. “For instance, in Alappuzha district, in the panchayats of Kodamthuruthu, Pandanadu, Thiruvanvandoor and Chennithala, BJP is the single largest party. But UDF and LDF have now joined hands in those panchayats and are preparing to come to power together. If the two fronts are taking such a vengeful stand to keep BJP away, then it will have severe political repercussions,” Surendran said. He said if the two rival fronts are planning to scuttle the people’s mandate through such tie-ups, then the BJP will retaliate and many political bigwigs in the state won’t see the assembly after the next elections. Surendran said BJP and NDA alone has been able to make gains in the local-body elections with NDA securing 35.7 lakh votes in the polls held to district panchayat divisions and corporations. The party has been able to have representation in 300 more local bodies when compared to last elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/ldf-udf-cross-voted-to-defeat-bjp-says-surendran/articleshow/79828483.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Pune||PMC areas register sharp variations in positivity rate||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region’s weekly Covid positivity rate has been oscillating between 6% and 9% since the start of December. It currently stands at 8%. But that oscillation has been wider within PMC limits, where the daily positivity rate has been moving between 8% and 11%. Public health experts said the so-called ‘second wave’, can be definitively established only if the positivity rate holds at or above the 12% mark for a few weeks. “Weekly positivity rate has not gone above 11% since the beginning of December. It keeps oscillating between 8% and 11%,” said Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health, PMC. Experts said this is also a good time to launch seroprevalence studies — for antibodies — in pockets of the city. Epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee, said, “December’s daily positivity rates have been more encouraging than data from November. RT-PCR positivity rates from PMC limits suggest we are slowly heading towards imminent or partial, if not complete herd immunity.” Banerjee compared herd immunity in a community to a deck of cards. Shuffling or adding new cards could disturb the arrangement, he said. “In the past, people lived in relatively closed communities with less numbers of people entering or going out. These communities were like an unshuffled deck of cards — quite undisturbed. The closed communities would also reach herd immunity faster. But rapid industrialization led to increased population movement. In such a scenario, herd immunity develops in installments with intermittent spikes in a community due to entry of non-immune migrants joining the pack,” he said. According to WHO norms, for governments to consider complete reopening of businesses, the positivity rate has to remain at 5% or lower for at least two weeks. Experts said social changes such as mass migration for work and education — from rural areas to metropolises — can impact dynamics of respiratory infections like Covid-19. Any communicable disease, after it has run through a region, stabilizes after the population there has had enough incoming or outgoing migration. So these occasional spikes and fluctuations in test positivity rates will settle down as the seroprevalence of antibodies grows in the population, Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-areas-register-sharp-variations-in-positivity-rate/articleshow/79829592.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: 20% of caseload came from just two worst-hit wards||PUNE: A ward-wise analysis of Covid-19 cases within Pune municipal limits has shown that the Hadapsar-Mundhwa and Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar wards have been the worst hit by the pandemic. Between March 1 and December 17, both wards recorded 17,633 cases and 16,608 cases respectively. In comparison, the Shivajinagar-Ghole Road and Wanowrie-Ramtekdi wards reported a lower caseload during this period. Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health, PMC, said, “Newly added rural areas in the Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward — such as Phursungi, Mundhwa and Sade Satranalli — reported the maximum cases during the early stages of Covid. High testing within containment zones increased case count.” Both Hadapsar-Mundhwa and Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar wards have had 20% of the city’s cases between March 1 and December 17. In fact, the five worst-hit wards — Hadapsar-Mundhwa, Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar, Nagar Road-Vadgaonsheri, Sinhagad Road, and Warje-Karvenagar — accounted for 45% of all the city’s cases during this period. Hadapsar has also been a hotspot right since March. Its sub-wards — Mundhwa-Magarpatta, Hadapsar Gaon-Satavwadi, Fursungi and Mohammadwadi-Kausar Baug — were the most affected. “Certain pockets of Hadapsar-Mundhwa and Dhankawdi-Shakarnagar had high positivity rates. These are industrial zones that drew scores of non-immune migrants from villages,” said epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/20-of-caseload-came-from-just-two-worst-hit-wards/articleshow/79829593.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Rift in Kerala unit widens, AICC general secretary to meet senior leaders||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The party high command has finally decided to intervene as the internal revolt in the Congress has intensified following the local body election results. Amidst increasing demand for a total revamp in the party structure, AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar will reach the state to have discussions with the state party leaders. Anwar will reach the state on Saturday and has convened a meeting of KPCC political affairs committee on December 27. He will also attend a meeting of the party MLAs and MPs. Apart from this, he has also decided to meet leaders of UDF constituents. The party high command is not in favour of a leadership change in KPCC before assembly polls. The high command is of the view that jumbo committees in KPCC have not done any good for the party in the local-body elections. There is a demand for restructuring district party units where the party fared very poorly in the local body polls. Except in Ernakulam and Malappuram, the party did not perform well. However, the demand is more to revamp the district units of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Palakkad and Thrissur. But a final decision on this will be taken only after Anwar’s discussion with state leaders. It is learnt that the party high command has asked Anwar to submit a report after the discussions. Based on this report, the party high command will take a decision on how to restructure the party organization. Anwar’s mission is to collect opinions of state leaders to improve the party’s performance in the ensuing assembly polls, and also on making changes in the party structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rift-in-state-unit-widens-aicc-general-secretary-to-meet-senior-leaders/articleshow/79828494.cms||Prashanth M P
December 21, 2020||Pune||Demand for plasma at YCM hosp at all-time low||Pimpri Chinchwad: The demand for plasma to treat critical nCoV patients at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital has reduced drastically owing to a drop in Covid-19 patients over the past few months. According to the hospital’s blood transfusion officer Shankar Mosalgi, at the peak of the pandemic, demand for plasma was around 100 units, per day. However, it has now reduced to just 3-5 units. The drop in demand has been gradual, as it lowered to around 40-50 plasma units by the second week of October and reduced further by November. Mosalgi said YCM hospital has collected 1,788 plasma units and distributed 1,766 units, the highest in Pune division. Around 863 donors were involved in plasma donation and the hospital keeps a database of recovered patients, who could donate their plasma and calls them as needed. The hospital has added a second machine for plasma collection. However, the collection capacity remains the same due to staff crunch. “We used to collect plasma from more than 10 donors, which has reduced drastically,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demand-for-plasma-at-ycm-hosp-at-all-time-low/articleshow/79829595.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||Non-Covid patient inflow surges at tertiary care hospitals, waitlist at some||Nagpur: In a reversal of trend, tertiary care hostipals in city are witnessing shortage of beds due to sudden rush of non-Covid emergencies and patients who had held back elective surgeries and routine medical management thus far. Prominent private hospitals are forced to issue a waitlist of at least two days to patients coming in from with city, district places and entire Central India in the last 10 days. Private hospital doctors told TOI that generally such rush is not seen during December-end when people are in party mood or plan surgeries after the New Year vacation. As people already had a prolonged vacation period in the form of lockdown, this time is being now utilized to go under the knife. Joint and knee replacement, cardiac surgeries, hernia, cataract and other elective procedures have picked up pace. Though many hospitals are running full because of non-Covid work, doctors say the patient flow is yet to reach pre-Covid levels. This is because hospitals still have a good number of beds reserved for Covid patients though not many positive patients need hospitalization. Some hospitals are diverting vacant Covid beds to non-Covid for smooth management. Neurosurgeon and CMD of Meditirna Institute of Medical Sciences Dr Sameer Paltewar said non-Covid medical work has certainly increased but non-Covid surgical procedures have not yet reached pre-lockdown period. “I feel people are still fearful and delaying surgeries. Patients of community-acquired pneumonia, vascular thrombosis, brain stroke patients are rapidly increasing,” he said. Dr Sadashiv Bhole, one of the directors of Seven Star, said they have sufficient workforce to deal with the sudden rush. “We have over 100 non-Covid beds and workforce help manage the affairs without causing trouble to patients. Patients of abdominal pain, gynaecology and obstetrics emergencies, trauma, general surgery, urology, and ophthalmology have increased,” he said. Senior hospital administrator at Alexis Hospital Dr Tushar Gawad said all of their 120 beds are full and some patients have to be put on one or two day waitlist. “70% of our patients are from city only while 30% are from Madhya Pradesh. In last 10 days, all beds are running full,” he said. Dr Sushrut Babhulkar, director of Sushrut Hospital, said though all types orthopaedic patients are coming, people needing planned surgeries are still fearful. Dr Anup Marar, OCHRI director, said, “Patients who had till now tried their best to stay away from travel and hospitals by attending our teleconsultation services are now resuming their trips to hospitals. The maximum bed occupancy in Nagpur Hospitals is due to patients from MP and other surrounding districts.” A senior doctor at Super Specialty Hospital (SSH) said angioplasty and angiography have reached only 50% of pre-Covid level. “We expect complete resumption in next few months. Annually, we do 600 to 700 angioplasties. This year, only 350 have been done. The numbers picked up lately,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/non-covid-patient-inflow-surges-at-tertiary-care-hospitals-waitlist-at-some/articleshow/79829600.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 21, 2020||Pune||PMR: 616 new cases amid 564 discharges||PUNE: The total number of Covid-19 cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region reached 3,56,458 with the addition of 616 patients on Sunday. The number of recoveries so far has touched 3,39,021. On Sunday, another 564 people were discharged from care. But there were also eight deaths (the region’s toll is currently at 8,700). Out of the eight who succumbed, five were from areas within PMC limits. The PCMC recorded one death while two were from Pune rural. As for new cases, the PMC recorded 322, the PCMC registered 102 and the rural areas reported 146. The PMC had the highest number of recoveries on Sunday, with 228 discharged individuals. The PCMC cleared 72 and Pune rural had 198 people discharged. The district currently has 2,305 people in hospital and 6,596 isolated at home. As per PMC data, it has 839 patients on oxygen-supported beds. Its number of hospitalized critical patients was 388, with 235 on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-616-new-cases-amid-564-discharges/articleshow/79829597.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Rajkot||Two Covid patients die of mucormycosis infection||Palanpur/Vadodara: A 53-year-old man from Patan district and a 70-year-old woman in Vadodara succumbed to mucormycosis.Mucormycosis is a deadly fungal infection that spreads menacingly fast in Covid patients suffering from uncontrolled diabetes and low immunity.Patan district health officials said the victim was identified as Dinesh Patel, a gram rakshak dal (GRD) man, a native of Kamliwada village of Patan taluka. This was the first case of death due to this fungal infection in north Gujarat. Patel, who was a Covid-19 patient, died during treatment at Dharpur Civil Hospital on December 19.“We noticed blood clots on his forehead and the diagnosis confirmed that he had contracted mucormycosis. His brain and kidneys too got affected, damaging his chances of recovery,” said Dr Manish Ramavat, assistant medical superintendent of near Patan.Patel had tested positive on December 11 and was admitted to a designated private Covid hospital in Ahmedabad. From there, he was referred to Dharpur hospital on December 16 as his condition was not improving.“He was unconscious since the time he was brought from Ahmedabad hospital,” said Dr Ramavat. In Vadodara, the septuagenarian from Rajpipla taluka of Narmada district was admitted to Siddhi Hospital 10 days ago as she had developed Covid symptoms and then tested positive. “She was recovering well and was discharged three days ago,” said Dr Jayesh Rajpara of the hospital.But she returned a day after discharge with bleeding nose, breathlessness and headache. “We suspected that she may have been infected with mucormycosis and began her treatment. She died on Saturday morning and her reports that came later confirmed that she was suffering from the fungal infection. This is probably the first death due to mucormycosis in the city,” Dr Rajpara told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-covid-patients-die-of-mucormycosis-infection/articleshow/79829641.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Rajkot||10 pistols, 17 cartridges recovered||Rajkot: The local crime branch of Jamnagar police recovered 10 pistols and 17 live cartridges from bushes beside a closed complex in Jamnagar on Sunday. On seizing one pistol and two cartridges from a man named Raimal Haji Sandhi around a couple of days back, LCB sleuths were led to two historysheeters Hitubha Zala and Pravin alias Tako. Sandhi had bought the gun around a year back from them. The duo was arrested after taking their custody from Jamnagar jail. They were lodged up in jail in connection with an attempt to murder case. On interrogating Zala and Pravin, police learnt that they had hidden 10 more pistols and 17 cartridges. On digging bushes beside a closed complex in Sikka Patiya, police found the hidden arms. “We have seized all weapons and registered a case under the Arms Act at Jamnagar City B Division police station ,” said an LCB official.During the investigation, police also found out that Zala and Pravin have been arrested in the past too for attempt to murder, robbery, kidnapping, arms supply, assault and prohibition related cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/10-pistols-17-cartridges-recovered/articleshow/79827720.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||2021 polls: EC starts officer scrutiny drive||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Initiating the process of assembly elections in four states, including Kerala and a Union Territory, the election commission of India (ECI) has instructed the states to ensure that government officers connected directly to the conduct of elections and who completed three years in the same district are transferred from their respective posts. As per ECI’s transfer policy, officers who complete three years on or before May 31, 2021, will also have to be transferred from the respective districts. In the letter by senior principal secretary of ECI Narendra N Butolia to the chief secretaries and chief electoral officers of the states going to polls, it has been instructed to ensure that officials connected to the conduct of elections should not be posted in their home districts. ECI said that officials against whom the commission had recommended disciplinary action in the past and which is pending or which has resulted in a penalty, or who have been charged for any lapse in any election or election-related work in the past, should not be assigned any election-related duty. However, officers posted on the recommendation of the commission during Lok Sabha elections last year should be exempted from the transfer policy. The commission has asked all the states to ensure strict compliance of the policy. On the basis of the instruction from the commission, the state government has begun taking the list of officials who meet the aforesaid criteria of the commission. It is reliably learnt that there may be a change in district collectors as Palakkad and Pathanamthitta collectors are in the category of officials who have completed three years in the same district. Sources said that there would a reshuffle in the police top brass as well. While a couple of senior officials on the field will have to be transferred as they are natives of the district where they are posted, transfers will have to be made as promotions of senior officers are effective from January 1. While Thiruvananthapuram rural, Pathanamthitta, Palakkad and Malappuram will get new SPs, Thiruvananthapuram city and Ernakulam city would get new commissioners. Police nodal officers for electionsMeanwhile, on the instructions of the commission, three senior police officials have been appointed as police nodal officers for elections. ADGP (armed police battalion) K Padmakumar will be the state nodal police officer for central armed police forces (CAPF), ADGP (headquarters) Manoj Abraham will be the state police nodal officer and IG (headquarters) P Vijayan will be the nodal officer for election expenditures. The term of the existing government in the state would come to a close on June 1 next year. Similarly, Tamil Nadu (term ending on May 24), West Bengal (May 30), Puducherry (June 8) and Assam (May 31) are also going to the polls next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/2021-polls-ec-starts-officer-scrutiny-drive/articleshow/79828543.cms||KP Saikiran
December 21, 2020||Pune||Antigen test at Perne Phata before victory pillar event||PUNE: A stationery shop owner from Perne Phata tested positive for Covid-19 and was referred to the quarantine centre in Balewadi as the gram panchayat conducted rapid antigen tests on 201 people mostly potential superspreaders like shopkeepers and vegetable vendors. The tests were conducted as a precaution since lakhs of people visit the village to commemorate the anniversary of the battle of Koregaon Bhima every January 1. Dalit community members gather at the Koregaon Bhima victory tower in Perne to pay obeisance to those who died in the battle between the British and the Peshwa on January 1, 1818. The district administration has appealed to people for low-key programmes at the memorial this year due to the pandemic. It also announced restrictions, including a ban on outsiders setting up temporary stalls in the vicinity of the victory tower. Local traders and eateries are expected to cater to the crowd visiting the pillar. Harish Lohar, incharge of the primary health centre in Perne Phata, said, “The antigen test drive was a precautionary measure as they would come in contact with a large number of people on the day of the event.” The person who tested positive is asymptomatic. “We have carried out testing of six of his family members and they tested negative,” Lohar added. He said they have sent water samples from the village for testing to Aundh Chest Hospital on Saturday. “Testing of the water is necessary to prevent spread of waterborne diseases during the event. We will get the reports in a few days, and accordingly, measures will be taken,” Lohar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/antigen-test-at-perne-phata-before-victory-pillar-event/articleshow/79829602.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Indo-Swiss building tech to be used in housing project||Visakhapatnam: The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has come forward to offer the ‘Indo-Swiss energy efficient building technology’ for Andhra Pradesh’s housing scheme - Pedalandariki Illu (housing for poor). Under the ‘Building Energy Efficiency Project’, the BEE would also impart training on this relatively new technology to the engineers and other staff, who will work on the massive housing programme. The state government would launch the housing programme on December 25 for construction of about 28.3 lakhs houses in two phases. The first phase construction would cover about 15 lakh housing units, including 5.3 lakh dwellings in the limits of various urban local bodies. According to officials, the Indo-Swiss EE technology would reduce the temperature by about 2-4 degrees inside the houses and save about 20% electricity. Addressing a webinar with energy and housing departments of AP, organised by the BEE in coordination with AP State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) on the occasion of national energy conservation week, BEE director Saurab Diddi offered technical support for implementing energy efficiency in housing project under Indo-Swiss BEEP. Secretary for housing, Ajay Jain, said the state government has approved a unique dwelling plan, consisting of one bedroom, living room, kitchen, bath-cum-toilet and veranda. “Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy wants to ensure adequate decent accommodation. In view of this, the government has decided to incorporate energy efficient and thermally comfortable designs in the houses. With the support of BEE, the Indo-Swiss agency had already approached AP government to discuss the project. Under this programme, innovative Indo-Swiss energy efficient and thermally comfortable (EETC) technology building designs would be incorporated in the houses,” said Ajay Jain. Energy efficient design strategies would be applied in this housing project, thus complying with the Eco-Niwas Samhita 2018 (ECBC-Residential) code under BEEP. The ECBE-R will ensure adequate natural ventilation, reduced electricity consumption by a minimum 20 per cent, improve thermal comfort (cooling), day lighting and provide safe and healthier environment in buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/indo-swiss-building-tech-to-be-used-in-housing-project/articleshow/79828068.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Meerut||Dalit girl, 13, gang-raped by four men in Hapur||MEERUT: A 13-year-old girl, who was going to farm with her grandmother to assist her, was allegedly dragged into a sugarcane field by four men and gang-raped in UP’s Hapur district. The alleged incident took place on Saturday afternoon in Hapur’s Garh area, and the family approached police in the night. Based on a complaint of the father of the rape survivor, an FIR under IPC section 376-D (gang-rape), and under sections of SC/ST and Posco Act was registered against four named accused-- Rehan, Tasleem, Rashid and Abdul. According to police, all the four accused have been arrested and sent to jail. With accused hailing from the minority community, there was a palpable tension in the area over the incident. A delegation of ruling party, led by Garhmukteshwar BJP MLA Kamal Malik met the family of the rape survivor on Sunday afternoon and assured swift action in the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dalit-girl-13-gang-raped-by-four-men-in-hapur/articleshow/79827722.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Enthusiasts clean up RK Beach for breeding of Olive Ridley turtles||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to make the local beaches fit for breeding of Olive Ridley turtles, the Visakhapatnam circle of Andhra Pradesh forest department along with environmental organisation Wildlife Conservation through Research and Education (WCTRE) organised an awareness-cum-beach cleaning event at RK Beach on Sunday. While the nesting season of the endangered Olive Ridley turtles has already begun, the beach sand —which is currently littered with plastics and other waste — has acted as a deterrent for the nesting habitat of the species. This has contributed to a decline in their numbers while fishing trawlers remain another threat. Olive Ridleys arrive in large numbers from Australian shores and the Gulf of Mexico. Each female lays over 100 eggs inside the sand, closes its nest and returns. “With plastic-laden beaches all around us, it is a sad sight to see these turtles land up in the mess created by humans...It is every nature enthusiast’s responsibility to make sure they (turtles) are safe in their nesting grounds,” said WCRTE member Vivek Rathod. Several bags of plastic, bottles, disposable spoons and utensils and other waste were collected by participants on Sunday. WCTRE member B Vidya Chetan briefed them on the importance of beach cleanliness and the history behind Olive Ridley turtles nesting in Visakhapatnam beaches. This activity is the first among a series of events planned towards conservation of Olive Ridley turtles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/enthusiasts-clean-up-rk-beach-for-breeding-of-olive-ridley-turtles/articleshow/79828131.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||APSET sees 74% candidate turnout across 76 centres||VISAKHAPATNAM: As many as 26,525 candidates (74%) appeared for the Andhra Pradesh State Eligibility Test (APSET) held across 76 examination centres in the state on Sunday. A total of 35,862 aspirants had applied for this common entrance test. The exam was conducted by Andhra University (AU) on behalf of the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education. AU vice-chancellor Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy visited various examination centres in Vizag in the morning. APSET member secretary, Prof K Srinivasa Rao, said that the exam was conducted in adherence to Covid-19 safety measures. Physical distancing, staggered entry, temperature checks were ensured. APSET was conducted in 30 subjects on lines of UGC-NET. The University Grants Commission (UGC) first accredited AU to conduct three SETs (once a year) between 2016 and 2018. Subsequently, UGC granted reaccreditation to AU for three more SETs in 2019. The top six per cent candidates who appeared for the exam will be declared qualified. Eligibility in SET is considered for recruitment of lecturers and assistant professors in universities, degree colleges and other institutes of higher learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/apset-sees-74-candidate-turnout-across-76-centres/articleshow/79828108.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||Cops summon parents of youngsters found at hookah bar||Nagpur: Parents of 23 boys and six girls were summoned by Zonal DCP Neelotpal after they were rounded up on Saturday from an illegal hookah joint erected as an extension of a bar and restaurant lounge on Kamptee road. The youngsters were enjoying a special ‘Saturday Night’ organized by the bar management when the Jaripatka police led by Neelotpal raided the premises. Foreign liquor and beer worth more than Rs15,000 were seized apart from hookah pots, DJ mixers and other apparatus worth Rs49,000. The cops have arrested owner of the bar Mohit Gupta and his kin Sahil following the raid. The cops have also registered offences against the DJ player and one of the employees engaged in preparing the hookah for smoking. Neelotpal said the premises was having no permission to serve either liquor or hookah. “The interior was foggy with smoke when police team entered. The owners claimed their hookah was herbal one but we saw they having thrown away the banned flavoured tobacco outside the window. Those were also recovered and seized,” said the DCP. Neelotpal said parents of the youngsters were stunned to see them at such a joint as most of them had come without disclosing their actual whereabouts. “The parents were apologetic. Some knew their sons or daughters were going for dinner. Girls too had come with their boyfriends after parents left to attend marriage ceremony,” he said. Neelotpal had warned the youngsters urging them to refrain from visiting such places or be ready to face action. An offence was registered at Kapil Nagar police station against the four. The DCP is also planning to write to the collector for cancellation of the bar licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-summon-parents-of-youngsters-found-at-hookah-bar/articleshow/79829654.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cybercrime: Trader duped of Rs 51 lakh in Vizianagaram||VISAKHAPATNAM: The owner of a departmental store at S Kota in Vizianagaram district was the latest victim of cybercrime in north Andhra Pradesh. The trader, who was looking to buy goods for his store, has been duped of Rs 51 lakh. This is purported to be the biggest cyber fraud in the district in recent times. According to S Kota police sub-inspector K Neela Kantam, the trader was running his departmental store in S Kota for the last several years. In a bid to expand his business and procure goods of reputed brands, he went online browsing through websites. Incidentally, the trader chanced upon fake websites. Upon placing the order, he spoke to a person over the phone and sent an email about procurement. During the process, he first deposited Rs 15 lakh to one person’s account and later Rs 36 lakh to another and kept waiting for the goods. Upon having waited long enough, he realised that he had been cheated. No goods arrived and no one responded to his calls. The trader then approached S Kota police. The police said that a case was registered and investigation is on to identify the criminals. Police maintained that chances of recovery in financial fraud in case of cybercrimes are very low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cybercrime-trader-duped-of-rs-51-lakh-in-vizianagaram/articleshow/79828096.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Pune||Pandemic propels cycling boom, but it’s become hard to find bikes||A spurt in people taking up cycling has been one of the positive fallouts of the coronavirus pandemic. With even the World Health Organisation smiling upon this contactless activity and realization dawning on the need to build immunity through some form of exercise — especially since regular sport and the use of gyms and swimming pools are banned or restricted — cycle stores say they have witnessed a three to fourfold demand for bikes this year. Hearteningly, the demand remains high even after the gradual unlocking of the nation. But, ironically, cycle stores are running low on inventory, and increased demand is not the only reason. A decent, bicycle in the mid-segment (costing north of Rs15,000) is usually imported and the shutdown of factories abroad during the pandemic impacted manufacturing. The standoff with China and the Indian government putting more items in the restricted category have partly affected the import of cycles, components and accessories. Gaurav Wadhwa, whose family runs four bicycle stores in New Delhi, says he has seen cycles fly off his shelves like never before over the past six months. “However, while I currently have orders for 600 cycles in a month, I can only deliver around 30. Before the pandemic, I would sell up to 200 cycles a month,” he says. Depending on the brand, China and Cambodia sell the most cycles. Taiwan leads the way in manufacturing carbon bikes. “My new batch of Giant and Scott brand cycles is expected next month but the overall supply situation is unlikely to improve for 6-8 months. Some accessories have been coming in. However, some shipments are stuck at sea because of our policies on China,” says Wadhwa. Mihir Gogte, a cycle store owner on Prabhat road, says it has been four months since he applied for an import licence with the office of the directorgeneral of foreign trade (DGFT). Gogte is a distributor of cycles, components and accessories in the country and never had an import issue in the past. “The government has placed many items in the restricted category, for which I now need an import licence. But the DGFT is yet to issue my licence. Moreover, the licensing process has become cumbersome — I now have to specify things like brand, quantity and size. Accordingly, a licence will be issued for 18 months. I have to get my supply in that time, else my licence becomes void and I would have to reapply. Are we into liberalization or are we slipping back into the licence and inspector raj?” he wonders. The government has hiked import duties over the years, seemingly in a bid to push local manufacturing. “It hasn’t helped. Indian cycle manufacturers have been protected but they have never attempted to make cycles with better components. On the other hand, the 10% import duty of 2012 on cycles has shot up to beyond 30% now. I sold my first Bergamont cycle in 2010 for Rs18,000; the same bike today costs twice that,” says Gogte. Catering to a niche market, Chandrashekhar Wyawahare shows the way forward on largely indigenous manufacture with his customized cycles priced upwards of Rs50,000. His two-year-old start-up in Chinchwad MIDC rolls out the bespoke Convolution brand of cycles, which even takes factors in a person’s bone density, performance and muscle strength. For the past two years, Wyawahare has produced around 700 bicycles annually. This year, his stock of 500 bicycles sold out in the early months of the lockdown and he already has an order backlog of 700 bicycles. Like Gogte, Wyawahare’s import licence has been stuck. Another impact of the pandemic, says Wyawahare, is that retail cycle stores are finding it difficult to stay afloat. “Even the bigger chain stores are preferring to sell online; they are not restocking,” he says. But Trek, one of the earliest foreign brands to make an entry into India, says its brick-andmortar stores remain critical to its sales. “If we move online, human interaction goes away. In Gurgaon, we have a training centre and run a certificate course for dealers on assembling bicycles that come from abroad. We came in as a 100% subsidiary of Trek Bicycle Corporation,” says Navneet Banka, managing director, Trek India. Banka says the supply frequency of his cycles hasn’t changed during the pandemic, but demand has risen. “Supply was impacted from February to April — India went into lockdown. Supply is now the same as in pre-lockdown times, but the demand is 3-4 times higher. However, even this extra demand will be met by mid-2021,” he notes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pandemic-propels-cycling-boom-but-where-are-the-bikes/articleshow/79829657.cms||Cornelius Mascarenhas
December 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh sees dip in pesticide use as farmers go organic||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh, one of the highest consumers of chemical pesticide in the country, has seen a drastic fall in its use, nearly 40%, over the last five years. According to annual reports of from the agriculture ministry, the annual chemical pesticide consumption in the state has declined steadily from 4,050 MT in 2014-15, 2,713 MT in 2015-16, 2,015 MT in 2016-17, 1,738 MT in 2017-18, 1,689 MT in 2018-19 to 1,579 MT in 2019-20. Much of the credit for this change can be attributed to growing awareness about organic farming and safe food among both farmers and consumers, say officials of the agriculture department and field experts. They further note that Zero Budget Natural Farming (ZBNF) has been taken up in a big way by the Andhra Pradesh government and some farmer producer organisations (FPOs) in the state are also exhibiting good results. M Asha Devi, joint director of agriculture, Vizianagaram, said, “Thanks to the growing awareness around ZBNF, some farmers and FPOs have been cultivating crops without using chemical fertilizers and pesticides. They are adopting natural farming or other forms of organic farming. “Consumers, who have turned health-conscious, are ready to cough up more money for organic products and in the process protect the interests of farmers by ensuring that they get the maximum price for their organic produce,” she added. Five states, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Rajasthan, reported a decline in the use of technical grade pesticide in 2019-20, according to provisional data released by the agriculture ministry. In January this year, the Andhra Pradesh government signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Germany-based KFW to promote ZBNF in the state. As per the MoU, the state government has taken a loan of Rs 711 crore out of an estimated total of Rs 1,051 crore to be spent on ZBNF. Natural farming will be encouraged across 600 villages in the state in the next five years. Pesticide residue in drinking water was one of the reasons that led to the recent outbreak of a mysterious disease at Eluru town in West Godavari district. The incident may make way for greater focus on organic agriculture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-sees-dip-in-pesticide-use-as-farmers-go-organic/articleshow/79828083.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 21, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Two held for ferrying 78 kg marijuana||VADODARA: The special operations group (SOG) of Vadodara rural police arrested two persons with marijuana worth Rs 4.7 lakh in Dabhoi on Saturday. SOG sleuths had received information about the two accused later identified as Shantilal Barde and Naval Singh Navre transporting psychotropic substance in a car from Chhota Udepur. During a watch at Chhota Udepur-Vadodara border on Saturday cops apprehended the duo as they found several packets of marijuana hidden under seats, in the car’s bonnet and boot space under the spare wheel. The total stock weighed over 78 kilograms. When questioned, the two accused told police that they had got the stock from a man named Manish alias Manoj Narve from Dhulia in Maharashtra. They were asked to give the stock to Babu Shah Faqir in Mehsana. “They are claiming that they are just delivery persons however we are investigating their claims,” said a police official. Besides marijuana, police also seized Rs 12,600 cash, their car and two mobile phones. Offence under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was filed at Dabhoi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-held-for-ferrying-78-kg-marijuana/articleshow/79827961.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Meerut||UP: Couple tie knot in thana as cops iron out differences||MUZAFFARNAGAR: On Saturday evening, a furious Pinki, 23, landed at a police outpost to complain about her father who had allegedly beaten her over her affair with a youth of the same village in Muzaffarnagar. Little did she know that in a matter of a few hours, she would be tying the knot with the 25-year-old youth at the same outpost with their parents and families in attendance-- all smiling and cheering. But for this, policemen posted at Biralsi outpost had to do a lot of convincing, and make several calls to iron out differences between the two warring families. Village head and several locals were also roped in to persuade the families which finally agreed to the union. Pinky and Ravi worked at a brick kiln in Punjab. As the news of their affair reached home, Pinki was forcefully brought back to Muzaffarnagar. On Saturday, Pinki left home after allegedly being thrashed by her father. She reached Biralsi police outpost to file a complaint against him. After hearing the complaint, sub-inspector Anand Poswan called her family members and also the village head, Kanwar Pal. The youth and his family were also called to the outpost. At the end of an hour-long discussion, one of them stood up and rushed to a nearby shop to fetch a set of garlands. The wedding was solemnized, then and there. Sub inspector Pal said, “She (Pinki) was very angry and could have taken some wrong step. Therefore, I called everyone and they went back happy.” The village chief said, “The couple are from the same caste. So we didn’t face much problem in persuading the families. The girl’s father was not keen on this relationship, but we persuaded him also.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/couple-tie-knot-in-thana-as-cops-iron-out-differences-between-their-warring-families-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/79827719.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Subramanya Swamy Shasti celebrated in East Godavari||RAJAHMUNDRY: Scores of devotees thronged temples across East Godavari district to mark Subramanya Swamy Shasti. The festival was celebrated with fervor in all parts of the district. Large number of devotees visited Kadali Kapotheswara Swamy temple in Razole Deevi village while the famous Sri Subrahmunyeswara Swamy temple in Biccavole also saw a large gathering. Long queues were also witnessed at Sri Valli Devasametha Subrahmunyeswara temple in Rajahmundry, Parvathi Raja Swamy Valli Devasena Subrahmunya Swamy temple in Machavaram where devotees offered prayers to the 27-foot idol of Subrahmunyam Swamy.  Arrangements were made by police to control traffic along the highway along which the temple is located. In an unfortunate incident, one person died of cardiac arrest in Cheyyeru village under Katrenikona mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/subramanya-swamy-shasti-celebrated-in-eg/articleshow/79828140.cms||Samson Raj
December 21, 2020||Goa||The big Goan Christmas bash goes online||PANAJI: Christmas is a time for family reunions, and this year, the parties are bigger than usual. Three to four generations will get together across time zones and continents, rocking around their Christmas trees — but from the safety of their own homes, whether in Goa, the UK, Canada or Australia. Unlike the regular food, drink and song-binging parties, virtual Christmas parties are being painstakingly organised by the tech-savvy younger generation, to keep everyone, no matter where they may be, entertained and filled with some good cheer despite the Covid pandemic. They have certainly gotten more interesting — carol singing sessions (nobody minds the time lag), a game of housie, live music sessions with violins and keys, perhaps a magic show, Christmas craft competitions, and family history quizzes. Four generations of the Mendes and De Souza families, who live in Goa, Mumbai, Toronto, China, Dubai and Australia, are eagerly awaiting the Christmas reunion on December 26. Ninety-four-year-old ‘Big Mausu’, the oldest in the clan, will be dressing up for the occasion, along with the youngest, one-year-olds, Declan and Rudra. “This pandemic has changed our lives in so many ways,” said Canada-based Olivia Mendes e De Souza, who is organising the party with her and her husband’s side of the family. “I wanted to make this Christmas memorable and try to uplift everyone’s spirits. I believe we should try to make the best of times like these. On a positive note, this pandemic has brought the family together at least virtually.” She said the two-hour party is an open-house invite to the family. “They can come online at any time and leave at their convenience,” she said. “I’ve asked each family to do a Christmas craft activity, which will be judged during the party. Since we have talent in our family, the party will also have live performances, besides games and fun activities. One of my cousins is also a rapper, so we will hear some of his original creations too.” And it’s not just them. Over 40 members of the Rego family thoroughly enjoyed ‘The Rego Confusao’s HolidayParty’ on Sunday on Zoom. Michelle Gomes, a healthcare professional in the US, sent out formal invites well in advance and began collecting baby pictures as well as wedding photographs of her aunts, uncles and cousins in preparation for the big day, to surprise everyone. “We permitted some chaos in the beginning and allowed everyone to talk over each other,” she said. “We then had a Christmas scavenger hunt, where the cousins were divided into two teams- Santa and the elves had to go searching for Christmas decorations. This was followed by a slideshow of baby and wedding pictures of the family, leaving everyone guessing. We threw in a Christmas quiz too,” Gomes said. The party ended with a carolling session, but the family wouldn’t call it a day until they belted out ‘mandos’ to their heart’s content. Christmas can be a lonely time for older people as they’re used to big family get-togethers, and that’s why the party was put together, Gomes said. “We have also been planning a cousins’ reunion, which never materialised. The pandemic has been the best time to connect with everyone. Since nobody’s going out a lot, it’s easier to commit on a time for a reunion. Since it worked out well, we’d like to make it an annual affair.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/the-big-goan-christmas-bash-goes-online/articleshow/79830509.cms||Lisa Monteiro
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||Long exam season ahead for Std XII students||Nagpur: A long exam season lies ahead for Std XII starting from pre-boards, to boards to competitive exams. While this busy schedule itself is nothing new, this year it’s the confusion surrounding dates and syllabus which makes it worse. Pre-boards, known commonly in Maharashtra as prelims, are something about which even schools are not too sure this year. Dilip Bose, secretary of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA) said, “We have not received any directive from the state education department regarding holding prelims. In some districts the department issued notices to school for conducting semester exams. In such a scenario why would we even think of organizing any exam. Let the government give dates and we shall take it forward.” Since state education department does not interfere with academic schedule of other boards, CBSE schools will be preparing for pre-boards separately. Reena Dargan, chairperson of Nagpur Sahodaya Schools Complex said, “Every school will do it according to their convenience. There’s no common exam date for pre-boards. Schools which have reopened in physical will plan the dates.” Practical exam dates or their format has not yet been declared be either of these two popular boards. A state board school principal said, “It’s the complete failure of government to take decisive steps. They are keeping everything for the last moment and thus increasing anxiety levels.” Board exam dates too have not been finalized by authorities. Bose said his organization is strictly against jumping into board exams without physical classrooms. “HSC exams cannot be held unless and until teaching is done in physical mode for six months. That’s because online classes option is not available to everybody. You can’t expect a poor student to appear for board exams without having got a single day’s education,” said Bose. For competitive exams, the situation is not much different. Sameer Phale, a well known coaching institute owner said, “Students need minimum six months of physical class coaching to be ready for competitive exams. We are all teaching online and the syllabus is either complete or on the verge of completion. But there are many doubts which cannot be clarified unless you have the students present in physical classrooms.” Rajnikant Bondre, president of Association of Coaching Institutes (ACI) said they will be meeting civic officials soon to press for reopening. “Very soon we will seek appointment with Nagpur Municipal Commissioner and request for reopening of our institutes. Everything else has opened up, from liquor shops to cinema halls to religious places. We do not see any reason why our institutes must remain closed,” said Bondre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/long-exam-season-ahead-for-std-xii-students/articleshow/79829662.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Loan app booked for harassment||HYDERABAD: A law student lodged a complaint with Saidabad police alleging that organisers of the money lending app have been harassing him by sharing morphed photos of him and his mother, branding them as cheats after he was unable to repay the borrowed amount within the stipulated time. The money lending app organisers charged Rs 24,000 interest in one week’s time on the principal amount of Rs 30,000 and levied Rs 3,000 per day penalty for delay.  According to police, D Sai Aravind, a law student from Singareni Colony in Saidabad, initially borrowed Rs 3,500 loan from the money lending app. “After collecting details like Aadhar, PAN, bank account, email, social media accounts and phone numbers of family and friends, the app sanctioned Rs 3,500 with a condition to repay in one week. However, the app organisers only transferred Rs 2,600 to Aravind and after he repaid Rs 3,500 in one week they unlocked few more applications for him in the app, enabling him to borrow more,” Saidabad CI K Srinivas said. Second time, Aravind opted for Rs 55,000 loan and the app organisers transferred him Rs 30,000, with a condition to pay Rs 55,000 in one week.  “He was unable to repay in one week and sought two days time. But the representatives of the app did not agree to give additional time and started blackmailing him. They started sending morphed photos of him and his mother terming them as cheats, to the people in his phone contacts list. They also used to call 300 to 400 times a day and abuse him. After the app organisers imposed a penalty of Rs 3,000 per day for delayed payment, Aravind lodged a complaint with us,” the inspector said. Aravid also told police that the accused have created 10 WhatsApp groups with people in his contacts list.A case was registered under sections 384, 420, 504, 506 of the IPC and section 3 and 13 of the Telangana Money Lenders Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/loan-app-booked-for-harassment/articleshow/79829670.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: Beef starts trickling in, but traders unsure for how long||PANAJI: Over a week after pulling down their shutters, beef traders in Goa reopened their shops from Saturday. Traders, however, said that they have restarted operations only for the Christmas season. As they are just receiving only 50% quantity of beef, it is being sold only for the first half of the day. Beef supply to Goa was hit after the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, was passed. Traders in Goa are now solely dependent on suppliers from Belagavi, which has left them worried about continued supply. “We are receiving less than 10 tonne of beef from Belagavi. To meet Goa’s demand, we require 15 to 20 tonne,” general secretary of the Quraishi Meat Traders Association, Anwar Bepari said. “Currently, most of our clients are Catholics, who want to purchase the meat for Christmas” The meat is presently available in the meat markets of Panaji, Mapusa and Margao, but Bepari said that the shortage is forcing them to close shop by 1pm. The ripple effects of the shortage are starting to show on Christmas celebrations in Goa. Heather Colaco and her family have left out beef from their elaborate Christmas menu, this year. “Since ours is a large family we usually have one dish of each of the meats. There’s nothing we can do about it. We will have to do without the traditional beef rolado and beef roast,” she told TOI. A popular snack eatery in the heart of Margao has substituted traditional beef potato chops with chicken. Another Margao resident, Artemio da Silva, is banking on the chief minister’s assurance that people would get beef before Christmas. “There’s no substitute for beef and for the protein beef gives you. The traditional Christmas meal includes stew with beef and pork. If you leave out the beef it doesn’t have the same feel. I may have to stick to fish and pork this Christmas,” he said. “As long as the Belagavi market thrives, we will continue to get the meat,” a meat trader from Margao, Shabbir Shaikh, said, even as another trader from the Panaji market said that they “are not sure until when we will continue receive beef supply”. “What is in our fate after the season ends, we don’t know,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/beef-starts-trickling-in-but-traders-unsure-for-how-long/articleshow/79830515.cms||Nida Sayed
December 21, 2020||Goa||President visit doesn’t slow down Goan couple's pheras||PANAJI: Eleven months after President Ram Nath Kovind saw to it that the Indian wedding dream of a US bride did not come crashing down due to his Kerala visit, the first citizen of India repeated the gesture as he blessed and posed for photographs with a married couple during his visit to a temple in South Goa on Sunday evening. Kovind’s visit to the historic Shree Mahalasa Narayani Devalaya at Verna was scheduled at 5.40pm, his last stop before flying out of Goa from the Dabolim airport. After landing by a helicopter at Vasco, the President and the First Lady were driven to the temple. His schedule was not allowed to interfere with the marriage ceremony at the temple hall in the same premises, though located at some distance, despite the heavy security checks. Just as Kovind arrived at the temple, the married couple, as per rituals, happened to reach the deity to seek its blessings. “The marriage hall is located at some distance, and so it was not thought necessary despite the heavy security checks to disturb the planned marriage ceremony, which began in the morning on Sunday. The President arrived sharp at the scheduled time. The couple happened to enter at the same time to seek the deity’s blessings. He was not only cordial with them, he blessed the couple and posed for photographs with them,” said a witness to the events. “It is not often that the venue of a wedding in a temple coincides with the itinerary of the President at the same time and day. But this is what happened when President Kovind visited the Mahalasa Temple, Goa, today. He blessed the newlyweds, making it all the more memorable,” the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted. The couple has been identified as Aishwarya Narvekar and Deepesh Sawant. Along with the President and the First Lady, the couple got to pose in a rare frame which also included Goa and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and chief minister Pramod Sawant and wife Sulakshana. This was even more fortunate for the couple as no visitors were allowed to the temple due to the tight security protocol, further heightened due to Covid-19 pandemic restrictions. In January this year, Ohio-based Ashley Hall had her Indian wedding planned at a five-star hotel in Kerala, but she was informed 48 hours before that the wedding venue would have to be changed as the President was set to visit the hotel. A dejected Hall tweeted to the Rashrapati Bhavan appealing for help, and, to her surprise, she not only received the nod to go ahead with the ceremony as planned, but the highest office in the country conveyed Kovind’s wishes to the couple. “The President spent 20 to 25 minutes at the temple. He prayed to the deity and visited all deities in the premises. He also offered aarti and his deep devotion was (there) for all to see. The temple has a rich history, because of which the President made it a point to visit before ending his (Goa) visit, and we are grateful for it,” said Suhas Vernekar, secretary of the temple committee. President of the devasthan committee Kamalaksha Naik, along with former Goa speaker Rajendra Arlekar narrated the temple’s history to the President. “An image of the temple and a gold coin on which kantha abhishek was performed was also presented to the President, while we also had the honour of presenting a saree from the temple to the First Lady,” said Vernekar. “We are sure the President’s aim was to draw attention to the great history of this temple through his visit, and we hope that more and more will come here now to seek the blessings of the deity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prez-visit-doesnt-slow-down-goan-couples-pheras/articleshow/79830520.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 21, 2020||Bhopal||Tech education dept reopens admission process in 5 courses||Bhopal: Technical education department has once again opened admission process in five courses, including engineering. There will also be a centralised admission process in which admission will be given on vacant seats of Tuition Fee Waiver Scheme (TFW) and other vacant seats. TFW applies to the colleges where admission on 30% or above seats took place. Colleges get extra 5% seats of the total intake in such colleges as TFW. Admission is given in BE on merit of JEE. Admission is given on merit of qualifying examination results in diploma engineering. The entire tuition fee is waived for the student taking admission in this category.Officials said, admission will be given on the basis of merit of JEE Main in Bachelor of Engineering. Students who have taken admission in the counselling process of various stages held till December 5 will have to cancel the admission. They will be able to join this process after this only. On the other hand, colleges do not agree with the process to cancel the admission in these new phases. They said that due to this process, the seats previously filled may be left vacant.Recently, engineering colleges had also placed their demand in front of the Technical Education Department. However, the Technical Education Department has also fixed the time for cancellation of admission by releasing the schedule. The process of cancellation of admission was started from December 19. Last date is December 24. The registration process for the same college counselling has also started.There will be online registration in BE from December 21 and diploma in engineering will be registered from December 22. BE has 1984 seats in the TFW category. Of these, 919 seats are vacant. Similarly, out of 1,060 seats in diploma engineering, 576 seats are vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tech-education-dept-reopens-admission-process-in-5-courses/articleshow/79829658.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur second coldest in Vid at 8.6 deg C||Nagpur: It finally felt like winter in city as minimum temperature reached 8.6 deg C in the wee hours of Sunday. This was a 5 deg C drop from the minimum temperature on the previous night and the first time below 10 deg C in this season. Nagpur was second coldest in Vidarbha after Gondia which recorded 7.4 deg C. This December has been unseasonably warm due to disruption of northerly winds and cloud cover on most days. Met department has predicted minimum temperature to remain around 9 deg C for the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-second-coldest-in-vid-at-8-6-deg-c/articleshow/79829672.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmer dies as car rams his bike||Hyderabad: A 48-year-old farmer, died in a road accident after his vehicle was hit by a car in Vikarabad district. Police said that a car coming in the opposite direction rammed Ananthaiah’s bike. The deceased, who was going from Kishtapur to Tandoor, suffered a head injury and died. His bike which fell on the other side of the road caught fire and got burnt. Meanwhile, minister Sabita Reddy, who was travelling on this road stopped her convoy on learning about the mishap and took stock of the situation. Police said that a case was registered under section 304 A (negligence causing death) of IPC. In an another incident at Nampally, a car that lost control hit three different vehicles parked at a local cafe near by Niloufer hospital. Two persons were injured in the incident. The car driver was taken into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-dies-as-car-rams-his-bike/articleshow/79829673.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Bhopal||Gang of sandalwood thieves busted in Bhopal, 3 held||BHOPAL: The gang of sandalwood thieves that targeted Char Imli earlier this week was busted on Sunday, said police. Habibganj police and crime branch launched a joint operation to nab the accused. Police had received a tip off which led to the arrest of three accused Aleem Khan, 26, Sattar Khan 32, Anees Khan 23. Police said 50 kilograms of sandalwood worth Rs50,000 was recovered from the accused, apart from axe and other equipment necessary for chopping a tree. Among the tree, Sattar Khan has a criminal record. Four cases have been registered against him in Habibganj and TT Nagar police stations. Police said, the accused may have been involved in more sandalwood thefts. After the sandalwood trees were stolen from high security VIP areas, police swung into action and sought the list of sandalwood trees planted in parks and nurseries from forest department and CPA. Police barricaded Char Imlia area at night and traffic police was stationed at spots near sandalwood trees. Similar arrangement was done at Shyamla Hills near government parks and bungalows where sandalwood trees are planted. A week after an attempt to steal two sandalwood trees from minister Gopal Bhargava’s bungalow, the accused had stolen a sandalwood tree from CPA Park located in D Sector Char Imli in the early hours of Thursday. Three accused were caught on CCTV. Police said, the accused confessed to stealing the sandalwood trees. Investigation is underway to ascertain where the same gang was involved in the theft attempt at Bhargava’s residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gang-of-sandalwood-thieves-busted-3-held/articleshow/79829667.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Three lakh healthcare staff to get vaccine jab 1st||HYDERABAD: Even as the Centre is making plans to roll out the soon-to-be ready Covid vaccine, Telangana has estimated that nearly a crore people in the four different categories, identified by the central government, will have to be given the shot. In the initial phase, three lakh healthcare staff, both government and private, would be given the vaccine based on the registration of their details on CoWIN software. The registration process, going on swiftly, is facing some resistance from small and medium private hospitals. “Everything will be ready from sub-centre level for vaccine roll out We had initially estimated that a crore population in the vulnerable categories will need vaccine in the initial stage, but these are just initial preparations. We are still waiting for vaccine approval,” health minister Etala Rajender said. People aged above 60, people with comorbities like hypertension and people working in emergency areas like healthcare staff are the ones to be given priority. Officials said that while the registration of the government healthcare staff was almost complete, private hospitals, especially medium and small ones, needed persuasion from the government to provide data of their staff. In big hospitals, the government might provide a centre for vaccine roll out. Other hospital staff need to go to the government centres to get the vaccination jabs. “Some hospitals are asking for a specific number of doses and said that they will provide the vaccine to their staff, while some generally have apprehensions, especially those with wrong registrations, and want to hide their staff details,” sources said A few days ago officials sent a circular to private hospitals to complete the registration fast. “We just completed enrolling the staff of both government and private hospitals in our district. The private hospitals had conducted meetings and pursued them enter their data,” Samarjya Lakhmi, Rangareddy district medical & health officer (DMHO), said. Indian Medical Association (IMA) member Dr Raja Nasingh Rao said: “Initial resistance will be for some time, but everyone will have to take the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-1-crore-populace-in-t-in-vulnerable-groups/articleshow/79830514.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: General public may get vaccine shot only in July||HYDERABAD: While the roll out of Covid-19 vaccine for four categories of beneficiaries is set to start in the state after mid-January, the general public (healthy and those who do not fall in the beneficiary categories) will have to wait till July to get the jabs. State health authorities are expecting the vaccine to be available in the open market by July-end or early August. “For beneficiaries in the first phase, including elderly and people with comorbidities, it will be free of cost. However, the vaccine for use by general public will be available at a price in the general market (the cost is not known as of now). In all likelihood, it will be made available in the open market by end of July or August,” director public health Dr G Srinivasa Rao said, adding that Covid-19 vaccination would be administered on voluntary basis and that there was a need for creating awareness among the public. The entire cost of the first phase of vaccination would be borne by the government. However, there is no clarity yet on whether the state or Centre will bear the cost of the first phase. The vaccine would be rolled out in the first phase for healthcare workers, frontline workers of police, municipal department and panchayat raj staff. “This will be followed by vaccination of the elderly people above 60 years of age and then people below 50 years having various comorbidities. Each of these will be taken up one by one, but in quick succession. To have the desired impact, we need to vaccinate all the vulnerable people as early as possible. Also, not to have much of a time gap in making the vaccine available to the general public will be important for having an impact,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/general-public-may-get-vaccine-shot-only-in-july/articleshow/79830518.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 21, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Khap bans man opposing child marriage, 11 arrested||UDAIPUR: The Shambupura police on Sunday arrested 11 members of a Chittorgarh khap panchayat. The panchayat had ordered the boycott of an elderly man and his family for 12 years on September 30. The senior citizen had opposed criminal practices in the community such as child marriages and rituals like ‘mausar’ or ‘mrityubhoj’ (feast held on the death of a family member). The Shambupura police arrested 11 persons in connection with the arbitrary order issued against Shivlal, son of Dalla Dangi, a resident of Satkhanda, Nimbahera tehsil. The complainant, a 65-year-old man, said that the panchayat had held a meeting of its members to find out about their opinion on the continuation of age-old practices such as child marriages and mourning feast in the community in July which he had opposed strongly. Senior panchayat members warned Shivlal that whoever opposed the community decision would have to pay a heavy price. Two months later, they passed a ‘Hukka Pani’ bandh diktat against Shivlal and his family. They also imposed a fine of Rs 1.10 lakh against those who socially interacted with him and his family. The victim filed an FIR on October 3 against some 18 members of the panchayat. "Eleven of them, including Shantilal, Bhanvarlal, Heeralal, Varda, Heeralal Bherulal, Bhagwanlal, Pyarchand and Ramchandra, have been arrested during the course of investigation," said Shambhupura SHO Kailash Chandra Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/khap-bans-man-opposingchild-marriage-11-arrested/articleshow/79830529.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 590 new cases, three fatalities||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday recorded 592 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths, raising the total number of cases to 2,81,414 and toll to 1,513. The state now has 6,888 active cases, while 2,73,013 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection. The case fatality rate (CFR) remains constant at 0.53 per cent in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97 per cent, as against the country average of over 95 per cent. Also, the positivity rate in the state is among the lowest in the country at 1.1 per cent. On Sunday, 41,970 tests were conducted across the state to take the total number of tests conducted so far in the state to 64.4 lakh. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 119 of the new Covid-19 cases recorded in the state on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-590-new-cases-3-fatalities/articleshow/79830516.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Grave question on Dara Shikoh’s remains answered... or not?||NEW DELHI: After Dara Shikoh, the Vali-ahad or heir apparent to the Mughal throne, was defeated by his brother, Aurangzeb, in the battle of Deorai in 1659, he was on the run for several months before being captured and executed in Delhi in September that year. The scholar-prince was buried in an unmarked grave in the Humayun’s Tomb complex. That significant spot in Mughal history may at long last have been identified. Born on March 11, 1615, in Ajmer, the first son of Emperor Shah Jahan, he was known for his translation of the Bhagwad Gita and for books such as Majma-ul-Bahrain, or The Confluence of the Two Seas. He would have ascended the throne, but a battle for succession broke out, pitting him against his younger brothers, Aurangzeb and Murad Baksh. After his loss, according to accounts by Francois Bernier, the prince’s personal physician, Shikoh was paraded through the streets of Shahjahanabad atop a filthy elephant before being executed. Given the circumstances, it isn’t surprising that Shikoh wasn’t given a ceremonial funeral. In fact, he was interred in an unknown spot in the Humayun’s Tomb complex. Supriya Gandhi, in her book The Emperor Who Never Was, writes, “The sources are unanimous in saying that Shikoh was buried in Humayun's magnificent red sandstone tomb. But he was neither conferred the dignity of a ceremonial washing and burial rites nor granted a marked grave. No inscription identifies his gravestone.” She and most historians agree there is no consensus on the precise location of his burial. Earlier this year on February 26, the Union ministry of culture decided on the difficult task of identifying his burial site among the 140 graves in the 120 chambers of Humayun's mausoleum. The Archaeological Survey of India formed a seven-member committee for the task. Archaeologist KK Muhammed, member of the committee, has claimed to have found the grave and “submitted our report to ASI, which has forwarded it to the culture ministry”. While inaugurating the restored Khan-i-Khanan’s Tomb in Nizamuddin on Thursday, culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel confirmed that the report will soon be released to the public. The committee, Muhammed said, considered the efforts of Sanjeev Singh, an engineer with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, who studied the graves in the Humayun’s Tomb complex. “Singh has done original work, and we acknowledge him for this good work and stand by it,” said Muhammed. The municipal engineer had submitted a report earlier this year in which he claimed to have identified the grave of Shikoh in a chamber next to the graves of princes Daniyal and Murad, the sons of emperor Akbar. “I studied the architecture of the graves of the tomb and perused a number of documents to conclude that the grave of Shikoh had to be one of the three on the right side of the tomb under the dome, facing west,” Singh told TOI. Singh explained that Alamgir-Nama, the court history of Aurangzeb, mentioned Shikoh as being buried under a dome. “There are 12 cenotaphs with the mausoleum complex. In the third room of the tunnel from the third arch left of the staircase facing west, I realised that one of the three cenotaphs had a design markedly different from Akbar-era cenotaphs. This proves the grave belongs to Shikoh,” Singh said. Gandhi told TOI that she believed Singh had made a good case for his theory about Shikoh’s grave. “Textual sources do not pinpoint the exact location of the grave and cenotaph so it is difficult to be a hundred percent certain,” she added. Both Gandhi and Sunil Kumar, history professor in Delhi University, were perplexed about why it was the state that was keen on identifying Shikoh’s grave. “It is curious that the government is deciding what projects of historical inquiry should be carried out and what should be preserved and what shouldn’t,” mused Gandhi. “There are thousands of historical sites crying for protection and conservation.” Kumar was suspicious about there being “more than academic interest” in the government’s wish to identify Shikoh’s grave. “Academic interest would have led to a debate on methodologies for the exercise. But if it’s political in nature, the truth will have different values,” opined Kumar. “Of course, it is good if they do find the grave. But the doubt remains, why has the state taken such an interest?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/grave-question-on-dara-shikohs-remains-answered-or-not/articleshow/79828644.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||NMC ties up with 2 blood banks for plasma, blood donation||Nagpur: To ensure sufficient quantity of plasma and round the clock availability of blood in the city, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) in association with Dr Hedgewar Blood Bank and Lifeline Blood Bank has launched a project in which a donor will get a Covid Yoddha Card through which he/she can avail plasma or blood bag on top priority for anyone. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “We have prepared zone-wise data of Covid-19 recovered patients. We will be making available the list to the two blood banks. Their representatives will call the recovered patients to ask whether they are interested in blood and antibody tests. Blood banks will do the tests free of cost. “It will not be mandatory for recovered patient to donate plasma or blood if they go for tests. If they wish to donate, blood banks will take either plasma or blood,” he said. Joshi said there is shortage of plasma as well as blood in the city. “Patients are facing problems in getting plasma and blood. Project aims to save their lives,” he said. The blood banks are charging Rs700 per person for antibody test which will be free of cost under the project. Person who has not tested positive can’t avail free of cost test under the project. Joshi said, “Blood banks are issuing only appreciation certificate to donors. Under the NMC’s project, blood banks will issue Covid Yoddha Cards to them.” Secretary of Dr Hedgewar Blood Bank, Ashok Patki, said, “We will give plasma on top priority whenever a Covid Yoddha will approach us. We are charging Rs8,000 per bag on no-profit-no-loss basis for plasma. The same charges will be taken from beneficiary of Covid Yoddha Card. It is the cost incurred for kit, test etc,” he said. Patki said they will call patients who recovered after October 1. “Antibodies develop 20 days after recovery and remain intact for around 2.5 months. Person with sufficient antibodies is eligible for donating plasma once in 15 days depending on the count of antibodies. We will provide test free of cost if wants to get tested and donate plasma for second time or more,” he said. Dr Hedgewar Blood Bank will also take follow-up of beneficiaries. “This is to know whether plasma benefited the patient or not,” said Patki. Over 1.1 lakh patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district as of now. Of them, 47,606 patients recovered between October 1 and December 20. They are eligible to donate plasma subject to antibody count. If the project gets good response, Patki said there will be no storage issues. “Plasma can be stored for a year. We first keep it in -80 degrees Celsius and then shift to -40 degrees after a specific time period. Also, there is high demand for plasma,” he said. Activist Jaydeep Das, who has recovered from Covid and donated plasma two times, said, “Project is need of the hour and will save lives if executed properly. But NMC should first consult the recovered patients instead of handing over their names, contact numbers and address to blood banks. The NMC should give data to blood banks only if the recovered patients agree.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-ties-up-with-2-blood-banks-for-plasma-blood-donation/articleshow/79829726.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 21, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh stalls disbursement of loan to unemployed youths||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh has stalled the disbursement of loan to the unemployed youth under its various programmes including ambitious CM self employment scheme. Even the loans which were cleared and were about to be released have been stopped. The Congress said, “it is not sarkar but a circus in Madhya Pradesh”. On December 18, a secretary of the department of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) informed the convener and field general manager of State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) to stop disbursing the loans. Referring to a review meeting of the MSME department held on December 14, the government official asked the top bank official to stop disbursing the loans “till further orders”. He asked the SLBC convener to direct other banks as well to not disburse loans. Those people who applied for the loan and were to receive the amount on Monday will now not get it. The minister for MSME Omprakash Sakhlecha said, “This was done to stop confusion. All the schemes like CM swarozgar yojana, have been merged into one scheme of MSME department.” In CM swarozgar yojanaa, he said, only 15 % loan was being disbursed and including other facilities, the government support would have been 20 %to 22 %. But the new MSME scheme would have provision of up to 40 % loan. “ This is being done because the size of the MSMEs have also gone up. Now up to Rs50 cr companies come under the category of MSME,” h esaid. Former minister PC Sharma criticised the government over the issue. “ The BJP’s claim of providing employment also turned out to be hollow. The government has betrayed the youth”, he alleged. He said that the financial situation of the state was in bad shape and the government was being run only by taking loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-stalls-disbursement-of-loan-to-unemployed-youths/articleshow/79829668.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Bhopal||Pari Bazaar to pave way for ‘re-densification’ project||BHOPAL: A symbol of women empowerment ‘Pari Bazaar’ is all set to pave the way for modern construction. The area has been selected for the re-densification plan of the Bhopal Development Authority (BDA). Demolition of residential quarters in the compound has been going on for some time. “BDA has undertaken re-densification plan in many areas of Shahjehanbad area in which Pari Bazaar also falls. These are government quarters,” said Bhopal divisional commissioner and acting BDA CEO, Kavindra Kiyawat.Sentiments for the structure have come to the fore in the recent past, since activity on the ground was witnessed. It comes with calls for retaining the structure and its original purpose. “It has been two months, since we met the district collector and divisional commissioner and apprised them of the situation. Pari Bazaar has unique cultural and heritage importance. We are not against any development initiative of the government. However, the unique character of Pari Bazaar should be maintained,” said Begums of Bhopal (The Ladies Club), president, Rakhshan Zahid. Later the group was served a caveat emptor from the private builder, she added. ‘The Ladies Club’ draws name from the past. Pari Park is located near Bab-e-Aali grounds in Shahjehabad area of Bhopal. “It is a 145-year-old complex that has roots in India’s first feminist movement. The who’s who of early feminist movement of India — Sarojini Naidu (political activist and poet), Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay (social reformer and freedom activist), Kamala Nehru, Annie Besant (women’s rights activist,) and others — have all been associated Pari Bazaar,” said city historian, Sikander Malik. One of the many meetings of minds of these feminists stalwarts, lead to a historic decision in 1904. A scheme that resonates with current CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s Ladli Laxmi scheme that aims to make girls self-reliant and has been replicated across the country. The gathering noted that men would not pay for girls education. Hence, they mandated free girls education in Bhopal State. The Nawab Begum went one step further and ordered ‘free and compulsory’ education of all girls in Bhopal, said Malik. This bazaar was exclusively for women, from sellers to buyers — No men allowed. The formal name was Parween Bazaar, which was also the pen name of Nawab Shahjehan Begum. It was taken forward by her daughter Nawab Sultan Jahan Begum. The complex draws inspiration from French architecture and was developed with a layout plan, in which outsiders could not peek inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pari-bazaar-to-pave-way-for-re-densification-project/articleshow/79829690.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||20% more kids, 12% women from Vid turned anaemic in last 3 years||Nagpur: More than 74% children below 5 years of age and more than 60% girls between 15 and 19 years in Vidarbha are anaemic, says a recent result released by National Family Health Survey-5. The number of anaemic children has increased by 20% since the last survey held in 2015-16 and number of anaemic women (aged 15-49) has seen a 12% rise. Vidarbha’s anaemia percentage is higher than the state average and more than national average. According to experts, this massive jump in anaemia cases in the last three years is an indicator of poor nutritional status. “Poor diet quality may result in the lower bioavailability of dietary iron, thus increasing the risk of developing anaemia,” said endocrinologist Dr Himanshu Patil. “An overall higher prevalence of anaemia suggests the necessity of developing appropriate nutrition interventions,” he said. “One of the major causes of anaemia is not getting enough iron through diet,” said clinical dietitian Malavika Fulwani. “In recent times, our diets have changed drastically. It consists of mostly refined stuffs which are nothing but empty calories lacking all the important nutrients, especially iron,” she said. In women, anaemia can be caused due to heavy blood loss during menstruation. Also, deficiency of Vitamin B12 can be a cause of megaloblastic anaemia. In children, parasite infestation due to drinking contaminated water is responsible for anaemia. In urban areas, children eat lots of junk food and packaged food which are poor at iron supply. According to gynaecologist Dr Laxmi Shrikhande, the number of anaemic women has increased in the last three years because of more awareness and testing. “Organizations like Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India have taken it as mission to spread awareness about anaemia among women. Our efforts are gaining success as more women are now testing for anaemia,” she said. Another important reason behind the more prevalence of anaemia in Vidarbha is that the region comes under sickle thalassemia belt. Doctors said that sickle cell anaemia test is mandatory for every expecting mother in Vidarbha, hence more cases of anaemic women are reported. Experts also suggested some measures to cure anaemia.“Iron supplementation could be the immediate measure while periodic deworming, food diversification, and food fortification might be the long-term measures,” said Dr Himanshu Patil. “A person with anaemia may benefit from adding iron rich foods to the diet and some foods which help the body improve the iron absorption,” said Malvika. Iron rich non-veg foods include chicken liver, sardines, cooked turkey, salmon and tuna while vegetarian options include red kidney beans, chickpeas and split peas, all green leafy vegetables like broccoli, spinach, red and yellow peppers and kale. Family health survey data District Kids aged 6-59 months Women aged 15-49 Girls aged 15-19 2015-16 2019-20 2015-16 2019-20 2015-16 2019-20 Nagpur 44.7 70.5 46.6 53.6 51.2 57.9 Akola 53.2 77.5 38.7 52.6 42.7 60.3 Amravati 50.5 74.4 42.8 53.4 41.6 64.8 Bhandara 43.2 72.8 52.7 65.3 50.6 66.1 Chandrapur 58.8 76.6 48.7 55.5 60.7 61.7 Gadchiroli 58.3 76.6 51.7 66.2 64.4 67.3 Gondia 57.0 78.0 55.1 60.4 52.8 65.2 Wardha 48.5 71.4 42.5 60.1 43.7 63.5 Washim 60.3 70.4 35.5 56.4 37.6 53.9 Yavatmal 68.9 75.2 46.9 58.4 56.6 54.1 VIDARBHA 54.3 74.3 46.1 58.1 50.1 61.5 MAHARASHTRA 53.8 68.9 48.0 54.2 49.7 57.2 INDIA 58.6 NA 53.2 NA 53.1 NA (Haemoglobin count for children (<11g/dl), women aged 15-49 (<12g/dl). Figures for years in %) Vidarbha facts - 54.3% kids were anaemic in 2015-16 while 74.3% in 2019-20 - In 2015-16, 50% girls were anaemic, in 2019, it jumped to 61.5% - In Maharashtra, anaemic women increased from 48% to 54%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/20-more-kids-12-women-from-vid-turned-anaemic-in-last-3-years/articleshow/79829738.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana martyrs’ memorial at Lumbini Park to be ready by May||Hyderabad: The construction work of the Telangana martyrs’ memorial is being executed at a brisk pace. The six-storied structure, built on a 2.5 acre land adjacent to Hussainsagar, will resemble an earthen lamp. The memorial is coming up to honour the martryrs, who sacrificed their lives during the Telangana agitation. The cost of the structure with two basements near Lumbini Park is Rs 80 lakh. The special attraction would be the flame-like structure at 20 metres above the terrace of the memorial, a fountain and the imposing 10 metre Telangana Thalli idol at the entrance. Cascading fountain, museum, art gallery and photo gallery are the other attractions. The memorial will also have a meeting hall, restaurant and parking space that can accommodate 350 cars and 600 bikes. “We planning to serve Telangana delicacies in the restaurant which will be on one of the floors,” said an official from the roads and building (R&B) department. According to government sources, the memorial will be ready for inauguration by May. “The works will be completed in five months. We are also building a conference hall which can accommodate more than 600 people. We are planning to organise seminars frequently to further glorify the achievements, heritage and culture of our state all over the globe,” said an R& B engineer. “The first floor will have a museum, a photo gallery and an art gallery. The artwork will depict the sacrifices of people to achieve a separate statehood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-martyrs-memorial-at-lumbini-park-to-be-ready-by-may/articleshow/79829703.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC ropes in NGOs to control stray dog population||Hyderabad: To control the stray dog population, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has roped in five NGOs. Of the 30 GHMC circles, these five NGOs have the responsibility of curbing the menace of stray dogs in five circles - Serilingampally, Kapra, Mehdipatnam, Malakpet and Alwal. Sterlisation is underway in these five circles. “We have shortlisted these five circles based on the location of animal care centres in the city,” a GHMC official said. These NGOs are recognised by the Animal Welfare Board of India. To monitor the services of these NGOs an app has been developed. According to civic officials, payment will be made after checking their activities on the app. “The NGOs need to go around the circle looking for strays, sterilise them and ensure that they are left at the same spot. All the details should be uploaded in the app,” said GHMC chief veterinary officer Abdul Wakil. As per central government norms, Rs 1,600 should be paid per each dog to the NGOs for sterilisation. However, as the NGOs are using kennels owned by GHMC they will be paid only Rs 1,500. “The civic officials and NGO members are sharing the best practices and a healthy competition has started. Both the stake holders are trying to sterilise as many strays as possible,” said a GHMC official. A survey to identify the number of strays was done six years ago and the number of stray dogs in GHMC limits stood at 7.5 lakh then. “A survey is underway to identify the exact number of stray dogs in the city, the exact number will be rolled out within 10 days,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-ropes-in-ngos-to-control-stray-dog-population/articleshow/79829732.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 21, 2020||Ajmer||Congress bags 36 municipal boards, BJP 12 in Rajasthan local polls||JAIPUR: In a major boost to Congress after a relatively poor show in the recently-concluded panchayat polls, the party won 36 municipal boards of the 50 where elections to the posts of chairpersons concluded on Sunday. While Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will form boards in 12 municipal bodies, independents have secured two. In Jaipur district, the Congress party swept nine of the 10 municipal boards where elections took place, with an independent winning the Bagru municipal board. Congress secured municipal bodies in Chaksu, Chomu, Jobner, Kishangarh Renwal, Kotputli, Phulera, Sambhar Lake, Shahpura and Viratnagar. In Ganganagar (8), Congress and BJP won four municipal boards each. In Alwar (6), BJP secured four municipal bodies and Congress won two. In Baran (2), Congress won both the municipal boards. In Bharatpur and Dausa (11), Congress swept all the municipal bodies securing eight and three bodies, respectively. In Dholpur (3), Congress won two and independents secured one. In Jodhpur (2), Congress and BJP won one municipal body each and in Karauli (3), Congress won all the three municipal bodies. In Kota (2), too, Congress and BJP won one municipal board each. Reacting to the victory, state congress president Govind Singh Dotasara tweeted: “Today, after the end of elections for the posts of chairpersons in Rajasthan’s 50 municipal bodies, the Congress party formed boards in 36 bodies and BJP with 12 boards could secure only 24% of them. Thanks once again to all Congress workers and leaders for this result, which was expected.” Earlier, Congress had won 619 of the 1,775 wards in 12 districts, independents won 595 wards and BJP secured 549 wards. Congress party is likely to form boards in 41 municipal bodies with the support of independents. Among other parties, the BSP won 7 wards, the CPI-M and CPI won two wards each, while the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party secured one ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/congress-bags-36-municipalboards-bjp-12-in-local-polls/articleshow/79831620.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Suspicious death of software professional||Hyderabad: A 26-year-old employee of Accenture company died under suspicious circumstances at his friend’s room in KPHB Colony on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as M Kiran Kumar (26), a software professional. Kiran Kumar’s father, Sammaiah (54) is working as special police officer (SPO) in RGIA police station. Sammaiah in his complaint stated that Kiran went to his friend Deepanshu’s room in the Lake View Colony, KPHB on December 17 to a spend few days. At 6 am on December 20, Deepanshu called Sammaiah informing him that Kiran collapsed in the bathroom and died. The body for postmortem. A case was registered under section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suspicious-death-of-software-professional/articleshow/79829745.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Teacher breaks ranks over 4-year UG programme||NEW DELHI: Discontentment has begun at Delhi University over the implementation of National Education Policy. A teacher at Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) resigned after the implementation committee stressed upon the four-year undergraduate programme. However, other members of the panel said that the programme was a part of NEP, so the university didn’t have many options regarding it. In a letter to the chairperson of the committee, the teacher, Rajiv Jha, said there should be efforts to provide greater multidisciplinary under NEP instead of batting for a four-year degree as the flagship programme. “Even the students who want to pursue an MA degree may prefer a multidisciplinary three-year BA with a two-year MA. We do not have to completely ape the American system; a modified and comprehensive three-year degree would probably serve the interests of the undergraduate students just as well,” he added. Jha stressed for more participation by undergraduate teachers and that reforms should not be pushed through a small panel. The NEP implementation committee consists of 42 members. Earlier, too, when the four-year programme was implemented in DU in 2013, teachers had alleged hasty implementation without consultation. It was ultimately scrapped in 2014. SP Agarwal, principal of Ramanujan College, a member of the committee, said, “The panel is only devising a way to implement the four-year programme that has been specified by NEP. The committee is looking at the course structure to ensure flexibility with multiple entry and exit options.” “After the completion of the first year, students will get a certificate degree, diploma degree after two years, bachelors’ after three and an honours or major degree after four,” added Agarwal. Another member of the committee had the concern if students would even stay for four years. “In NEP, there are both one-year and two-year masters courses. So, why would a student stay for four years to get an honours’ degree,” she said on the condition of anonymity. “With the kind of structure now being suggested, there will be an issue with the workload and academic rigor that will affect the current students due to changes in the core papers,” she added. She also highlighted that with the changes in the structure, language courses like Sanskrit and Bengali may not find many takers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teacher-breaks-ranks-over-4-year-ug-prog/articleshow/79828653.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||Pensioners get tech savvy, most generate life certificates online||Nagpur: Pensioners under the Employees’ Pension Scheme (EPS-1995), which largely includes lower income workers of private sector, appear to have quickly adapted to the new normal. Despite restrictions on allowing visitors to the office, by middle of December, 57,000 pensioners have submitted their life certificates in Nagpur region. This is more than half the pensioners in the region. In most of the cases it has happened using online methods. Earlier, even to get an online certificate pensioners used to come down to the EPFO office, said officials. The EPS is managed by Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO). There are 1.04 lakh pensioners in Nagpur region, which covers districts of eastern Vidarbha. The certificates submitted so far are hardly 10% fewer than the progress in same period last year, said EPFO officials. This means that the pensioners have adapted to the situation. Given the Covid situation, the postal department had begun doorstep service to upload the life certificate. Going by the figures, it appears that pensioners have also gone for modes other than the post office service. This includes self-filing by pensioners too. The postal department has generated over 30,000 certificates in entire Maharashtra. As against this 57,000 have been submitted to Nagpur region of EPFO alone. The pensioners can also get the certificates from their banks or upload on their own if they have the gadget to take iris scan and finger print, said the source. Each year, the pensioners have to submit a life certificate by December 31 as proof that they are still alive and can draw pension. Digital Life Certificate (DLC) had to be given even before. Pensioners used to crowd the EPFO office earlier, however, to get their DLCs prepared. Special camps were held as vehicle loads of pensioners came from far off places like Gondia and Gadchiroli just to get the life certificate done. This year the date has been extended to February 28. Covid, however, put a brake on the practice. The activity almost came to a standstill as all the restrictions had to be followed. As a result only a small number of DLCs were submitted initially. The pension cannot be continued if the certificate is not submitted. In November, the department of posts came up with a new service for generating the certificate at pensioners’ doorsteps. Postmen were given the task to reach the pensioners’ homes with a gadget to get their finger print and iris scan, and directly upload the certificate. Under this the postman comes to your doorstep and the service can be availed by download from the postinfo app. Otherwise the service can be availed at the post office too, said a postal department official. Vikas Kumar, EPFO’s regional commissioner, said the progress so far is close to that in any normal year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pensioners-get-tech-savvy-most-generate-life-certificates-online/articleshow/79829769.cms||Shishir Arya
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Motorists suffer as RTA online services face technical glitches||Hyderabad: To reduce the rush at their unit offices during the pandemic, the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) has expanded the portfolio of its online services in September to make the process hassle free for applicants. However, there seems to be no end to the woes of citizens who want to apply for driving licenses or renew their existing driving license in the state, as the process is getting delayed inordinately due to technical glitches. While some vehicle owners say that they are forced to wait for at least 15 to 20 days to book a slot, many are not able to download or submit certain forms and certificates through the online system. M Naresh Kumar, a resident of Nagole said, “Earlier we were able to book the slot on the same day we wanted to apply for a service or the next day. But now, despite the services going online, we have to wait for several days.” Another applicant, B Pranitha, who recently booked a slot for license renewal said, “After waiting for almost two weeks to book a slot, I was unable to submit my medical certificate. I had to go the RTO despite the online system and re-apply physically. The uploading of other documents and pictures also takes a lot of time online,” she added. In its efforts to go cashless and put an end to motorists approaching middlemen to get their work done, the transport department had launched all the 56 online services in August 2016. After the Covid-19 lockdown, to ensure safety precautions, it started change of address in driving license, endorsement of hazardous license, new learner license in place of expired learner license, learner license for addition of class of vehicle and issue of learner license for expired driving license. According to sources, around 2000 persons have applied for the renewal of their driving licences alone since the launch of the online facility. Meanwhile, P Ravinder, RTO, Uppal said, “All the services are now accessible through the online facility. There are a few technical glitches once in a while due to which applicants might be facing some problems but otherwise, the online system seems to be working fine. Also, we did increase the number of slots post Covid-19 lockdown but we haven’t been able to increase the number of slots to what it was before the pandemic. That’s the reason why the slot booking is sometimes taking 15 to 20 days time but it will improve eventually.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/motorists-suffer-as-rta-online-services-face-technical-glitches/articleshow/79829763.cms||Moulika.KV
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Cops focus on 30 trouble zones to reduce accidents in city||Kolkata: Lalbazar has decided to go beyond naka checks and enhanced prosecutions 48 hours after Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma asked the traffic department to take every possible measure to stop accidents. In an important decision, cops have decided to concentrate on at least 30 spots in the city, which will need both police, civic body intervention and traffic re-engineering to try and bring more discipline among motorists and pedestrians and put a stop to accidents. Joint CP (Traffic) Santosh Pandey had on Saturday left a hint that the places have already been identified. On Sunday, Vidyasagar Traffic guard — that has trouble spots such as Hastings and a portion of Strand Road under it — said they are holding necessary consultation with civic agencies to set up more street lights on the Kidderpore Road. “This road recently saw back to back accidents in a span of two hours that left a cabin crew of an airline dead and three others seriously injured,” said an officer. Similarly, at the Thakurpukur crossing, the traffic police wants proper lanes and means to cut down on speed right before the 3A bus stand. “The necessary changes have been proposed and sent to Lalbazar,” said an officer from the local guard. The area has witnessed three fatal accidents on November 30, December 6 and December 18. In other important decisions, each traffic guard has been provided specific spots, where sergeants have to work all through the night to reign in rogue bikers and drivers. A review of the anti-crime naka checks this weekend is also expected on Monday. “Each traffic guard has been asked to assign two sergeants every night. They must rush to the spot after learning about an accident. They will also keep their body cameras on at all times while on duty so that Lalbazar can note the actual situation at night. This was the practice in the pre-Covid period. We are merely re-introducing the concept,” said an officer at Lalbazar. “We want to send out a message that despite the pandemic or the festivals, we are sincere about cutting down on accidents. We ensured that all traffic violators were pulled up. Special focus was on securing the approaches to flyovers,” said an officer at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-focus-on-30-trouble-zones-to-reduce-accidents-in-city/articleshow/79829783.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Congress bags 36 municipal boards, BJP 12 in Rajasthan local polls||JAIPUR: In a major boost to Congress after a relatively poor show in the recently-concluded panchayat polls, the party won 36 municipal boards of the 50 where elections to the posts of chairpersons concluded on Sunday. While Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will form boards in 12 municipal bodies, independents have secured two. In Jaipur district, the Congress party swept nine of the 10 municipal boards where elections took place, with an independent winning the Bagru municipal board. Congress secured municipal bodies in Chaksu, Chomu, Jobner, Kishangarh Renwal, Kotputli, Phulera, Sambhar Lake, Shahpura and Viratnagar. In Ganganagar (8), Congress and BJP won four municipal boards each. In Alwar (6), BJP secured four municipal bodies and Congress won two. In Baran (2), Congress won both the municipal boards. In Bharatpur and Dausa (11), Congress swept all the municipal bodies securing eight and three bodies, respectively. In Dholpur (3), Congress won two and independents secured one. In Jodhpur (2), Congress and BJP won one municipal body each and in Karauli (3), Congress won all the three municipal bodies. In Kota (2), too, Congress and BJP won one municipal board each. Reacting to the victory, state congress president Govind Singh Dotasara tweeted: “Today, after the end of elections for the posts of chairpersons in Rajasthan’s 50 municipal bodies, the Congress party formed boards in 36 bodies and BJP with 12 boards could secure only 24% of them. Thanks once again to all Congress workers and leaders for this result, which was expected.” Earlier, Congress had won 619 of the 1,775 wards in 12 districts, independents won 595 wards and BJP secured 549 wards. Congress party is likely to form boards in 41 municipal bodies with the support of independents. Among other parties, the BSP won 7 wards, the CPI-M and CPI won two wards each, while the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party secured one ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/congress-bags-36-municipalboards-bjp-12-in-local-polls/articleshow/79831618.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Udaipur||Congress bags 36 municipal boards, BJP 12 in Rajasthan local polls||JAIPUR: In a major boost to Congress after a relatively poor show in the recently-concluded panchayat polls, the party won 36 municipal boards of the 50 where elections to the posts of chairpersons concluded on Sunday. While Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will form boards in 12 municipal bodies, independents have secured two. In Jaipur district, the Congress party swept nine of the 10 municipal boards where elections took place, with an independent winning the Bagru municipal board. Congress secured municipal bodies in Chaksu, Chomu, Jobner, Kishangarh Renwal, Kotputli, Phulera, Sambhar Lake, Shahpura and Viratnagar. In Ganganagar (8), Congress and BJP won four municipal boards each. In Alwar (6), BJP secured four municipal bodies and Congress won two. In Baran (2), Congress won both the municipal boards. In Bharatpur and Dausa (11), Congress swept all the municipal bodies securing eight and three bodies, respectively. In Dholpur (3), Congress won two and independents secured one. In Jodhpur (2), Congress and BJP won one municipal body each and in Karauli (3), Congress won all the three municipal bodies. In Kota (2), too, Congress and BJP won one municipal board each. Reacting to the victory, state congress president Govind Singh Dotasara tweeted: “Today, after the end of elections for the posts of chairpersons in Rajasthan’s 50 municipal bodies, the Congress party formed boards in 36 bodies and BJP with 12 boards could secure only 24% of them. Thanks once again to all Congress workers and leaders for this result, which was expected.” Earlier, Congress had won 619 of the 1,775 wards in 12 districts, independents won 595 wards and BJP secured 549 wards. Congress party is likely to form boards in 41 municipal bodies with the support of independents. Among other parties, the BSP won 7 wards, the CPI-M and CPI won two wards each, while the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party secured one ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/congress-bags-36-municipalboards-bjp-12-in-local-polls/articleshow/79831619.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Jaipur||Congress bags 36 municipal boards, BJP 12 in Rajasthan local polls||JAIPUR: In a major boost to Congress after a relatively poor show in the recently-concluded panchayat polls, the party won 36 municipal boards of the 50 where elections to the posts of chairpersons concluded on Sunday. While Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will form boards in 12 municipal bodies, independents have secured two. In Jaipur district, the Congress party swept nine of the 10 municipal boards where elections took place, with an independent winning the Bagru municipal board. Congress secured municipal bodies in Chaksu, Chomu, Jobner, Kishangarh Renwal, Kotputli, Phulera, Sambhar Lake, Shahpura and Viratnagar. In Ganganagar (8), Congress and BJP won four municipal boards each. In Alwar (6), BJP secured four municipal bodies and Congress won two. In Baran (2), Congress won both the municipal boards. In Bharatpur and Dausa (11), Congress swept all the municipal bodies securing eight and three bodies, respectively. In Dholpur (3), Congress won two and independents secured one. In Jodhpur (2), Congress and BJP won one municipal body each and in Karauli (3), Congress won all the three municipal bodies. In Kota (2), too, Congress and BJP won one municipal board each. Reacting to the victory, state congress president Govind Singh Dotasara tweeted: “Today, after the end of elections for the posts of chairpersons in Rajasthan’s 50 municipal bodies, the Congress party formed boards in 36 bodies and BJP with 12 boards could secure only 24% of them. Thanks once again to all Congress workers and leaders for this result, which was expected.” Earlier, Congress had won 619 of the 1,775 wards in 12 districts, independents won 595 wards and BJP secured 549 wards. Congress party is likely to form boards in 41 municipal bodies with the support of independents. Among other parties, the BSP won 7 wards, the CPI-M and CPI won two wards each, while the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party secured one ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-bags-36-municipalboards-bjp-12-in-local-polls/articleshow/79830541.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||TDR proves GHMC’s lifeline in tough times||Hyderabad: Despite fund crunch and pandemic denting Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation(GHMC) coffers, transfer of development rights (TDR) turned out to be the biggest revenue saviour for the city and ensured infrastructure projects were executed. Civic body had saved over Rs 1,400 crore due to TDR and executed infrastructure projects, especially slip roads and flyovers. The scheme turned into a win-win situation for property owners, builders/developers and government, especially amid Covid-19 pandemic.  Though the TDR concept was introduced a decade ago, the government had issued a GO in 2017 and extended more benefits for property owners. Till mid-2019, over a decade, only 115 TDRs were issued. However, property owners opting for TDRs increased along with increase in the city’s infrastructure works. Till date, 721 TDRs pertaining to 13,06,416 sq yards, which sums up to Rs 1421.68 crore, were issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tdr-proves-ghmcs-lifeline-in-tough-times/articleshow/79829782.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 21, 2020||Madurai||If officials can’t comply with govt orders, how can citizens: HC||Madurai: Madras high court has sought the state government’s response on the effective implementation of the government order (GO) with regard to fixing accountability on government servants at every level. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the state government had accepted certain recommendations of the administrative reforms committee chaired by retired high court Justice A K Rajan to ensure corruption-free and transparent administration. One such recommendation was fixing accountability on every government servant at every stage and at every level, for which a GO was passed in 2010. Though the government had requested heads of departments to issue necessary orders, none of the departments has taken effective steps to implement it. “Every government servant is expected to act in accordance with the Acts, Rules and the GOs issued by the government then and there. If the secretary-level officers have not complied with the orders of the government, how can we expect a common citizen to comply with the orders,” observed the judges. They said if the government servant does not comply with the government’s orders, it can be treated as misconduct warranting initiation of appropriate departmental proceedings. It appears that the government had sent reminders to the departments for implementation of the GO only after the directions of this court. Despite this, only a few departments responded with circulars or instructions in a vague manner without implementing the GO in letter and spirit. Hence the judges observed that they expect a positive response from the government on the possibility of amending the existing relevant government Service Rules for effective implementation of the GO. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by advocate A P Suryaprakasam, a resident of Chennai, who sought a direction to the state government to establish sufficient procurement centres across the state to procure paddy from the farmers without any delay. The case was adjourned to Tuesday for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/if-officials-cant-comply-with-govt-orders-how-can-citizens-hc/articleshow/79830542.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 21, 2020||Rajkot||Surat: Special cell to crack down on economic fraud offenders||SURAT: Now, Surat city will have a special team of police officials to crackdown on economic offenders operating in an organised fashion and targeting the trade and business community in the textile and diamond sectors. Sources said that economic offences to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore are reported every year in the Diamond City. The economic offence (EO) cell has been formed specifically to investigate cheating cases among the business and trade community in the city. The state government has approved staff of 50 for the cell which will be headed by an officer of the rank of an assistant commissioner of police (ACP). Currently ACP, crime branch will be holding charge of the cell. The cell will have three inspectors, six sub-inspectors and 40 assistant sub-inspectors, head constable and constables. Presently the cell has started operation with 16 cops including two inspectors. “The fraudsters are functioning in an organised manner. They operate like gangs dealing in organised crime. The EO cell will prove a deterrent for these elements,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. “Salabatpura police station alone registered 202 economic offences, mostly related to textile trade, this year. Now, serious offences will be investigated by the EO cell,” Tomar added. City police stations like Puna, Khatodara, Pandesara, Udhna, Varachha, Katargam and Kapodra also large number of complaints of cheating in the textile and diamond industry. In most cases, the buyers disappear without making payment for the purchase. A specialised cell for probing cheating cases was a long pending demand of the textile and diamond industry. “In local police stations, these cases did not get priority. But with a dedicated team to investigate economic offences, the frauds can be kept under check,” said Dinesh Navadiya, president of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/special-cell-to-crack-down-on-economic-fraud-offenders/articleshow/79828703.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
December 21, 2020||Delhi||AAP to go door to door, tell people about corporation ‘scam’||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party functionary and municipal corporation in-charge Durgesh Pathak on Sunday said that the party will take out ‘padyatras’ in all the 272 municipal wards in the capital on Tuesday to create a mass movement over the alleged misappropriation of Rs 2,500 crore in the BJP-led North Delhi Municipal Corporation. “You all must have seen that the BJP-led civic body misappropriated Rs 2,500 crore. This was Delhiites’ tax money and is a loss to the public exchequer. Last week, when North, South, and East Delhi Municipal Corporations released their budgets, this misappropriation came to the forefront,” he alleged. Pathak said that AAP is fighting for a CBI investigation into the matter. “Our volunteers will enlighten people in all wards about this scam. This is the money that could have been utilised to pay the salaries, TAs, DAs and bonuses of our sanitation workers, front-line workers and doctors,” he said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor termed AAP’s plans to organise mass programmes as “shameful” and said the party is trying to “spread a canard” regarding the scam. “If chief minister Arvind Kejriwal allows his party to spread propaganda after the denial of the north corporation’s official, he does not have iota of respect for a constitutional civic body,” Kapoor said. “The purpose of the daily propaganda by AAP leaders is to malign the image of BJP. The AAP leaders themselves know that there has been no scam and that is the reason why the Kejriwal government has not written to CBI yet for an inquiry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-to-go-door-to-door-tell-people-about-corpn-scam/articleshow/79828690.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Indore||Indore, Bhopal report more Covid cases than most states||BHOPAL: While Covid-19 cases seem to be on the decline in the state, what is alarming is that two major towns of the state — Indore and state capital Bhopal — are cumulatively reporting more positive cases every day than a majority of the states of the country. There are 17 states in the country which have so far cumulatively reported more than 2 lakh positive cases. If official figures of the cases reported on a day-to-day basis of these states is considered, then Indore and Bhopal are cumulatively reporting more cases per day than at least six of these states. If compared with all the states, Indore and Bhopal are cumulatively reporting more cases than at least half of the states of the country on a day-to-day basis. For instance, on December 19, Indore and Bhopal cumulatively reported 576 new cases. On the same day, entire Andhra Pradesh — which has so far reported the second highest number of positive cases in the country — reported only 479 positive cases, Odisha 356 and Assam, which has also reported more than 2 lakh cases till now, reported only 92 cases. Similarly, on December 18, while 645 new cases were reported from Indore and Bhopal, Andhra reported only 534 new cases, Odisha 351, Telangana 509, Bihar 588, and Assam reported only 106 new cases. If daily figures of new positive cases reported from entire Madhya Pradesh are considered, nearly 60% of the cases are being reported from Indore and Bhopal alone, i.e., if officials are to be believed, these are of the residents of Indore and Bhopal alone and not of the people coming from other districts to these cities as that figure is counted in the cumulative Covid-19 positive count of the concerning district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-bhopal-report-more-covid-cases-than-most-states/articleshow/79831565.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 21, 2020||Madurai||Court seeks govt response on using aadhaar to identify unclaimed bodies||Madurai: Madras high court has demanded response from the central and state governments in a plea, which sought police to ascertain the identity of unclaimed unknown dead bodies using their aadhaar details. A division bench comprising Justice N Kirubakaran and Justices B Pugalendhi passed the order, while hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Muthukumar, a lawyer from Madurai district. The petitioner stated that police personnel are facing difficulties in identifying unknown people who are found dead. This causes difficulties to the legal heirs of the deceased in obtaining legal heir certificates and also claiming insurance. This apart, it also affects the rights of the deceased to get a decent funeral as per their religious custom. He stated that police personnel could contact the UIDAI for the aadhaar details in order to obtain relevant information using the finger prints of the dead people in order to ascertain their identity. By sharing the aadhaar details, no prejudice would be caused to the secrecy of information maintained by UIDAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-seeks-govt-response-on-using-aadhaar-to-identify-unclaimed-bodies/articleshow/79830543.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Indira Park steel bridge project may miss 2022 deadline||Hyderabad: The city’s second steel bridge, proposed between Indira Park (near NTR Stadium junction) and Nagamaiahkunta (Nallakunta), may likely be delayed. Officials had planned to complete the project by 2022, but that appears unlikely now. Reason: The project is facing major hurdles in acquiring land from earmarked properties between the two points. Over half-a-dozen property owners knocked the doors of GHMC and urged it to relook at their pleas on land acquisition. The state government has proposed a bi-directional steel bridge at a cost of Rs 350 crore and notified properties to be acquired for the project. GHMC would need land from Bus Bhavan, VST, two pharma companies and another 25 private properties located en route Indira Park, VST (Azamabad area) and a slum, Nagamaiahkunta. After completion of earmarking properties, GHMC officials had even served notices to acqurie land. A few firms have approached GHMC and asked the authorities to consider their pleas. “They pleaded that they established their units five decades ago and it is difficult to relocate to other areas. Also, it will hurt their business worth crores,” sources in GHMC engineering wing told TOI. On the other hand, a reputed pharma firm located near Ramnagar X Road requested the civic body to reconsider its land acquisition proposal. The pharma company has suggested GHMC officials acquire land on the opposite side of the stretch instead of the earmarked one. The management raised objections that their key assets like cooling towers and other infra would get affected and it might be a major setback to their firm, the official said. The GHMC officials have taken their pleas to the notice of municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) authorities and MA&UD minister to take a final decision. As per schedule, the GHMC has to complete land acquisition process by December-end and hand it over to the firm concerned, which is building the steel bridge and an independent flyover, but the acquisition process is slightly behind schedule, the officials confirmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indira-park-steel-bridge-project-may-miss-2022-deadline/articleshow/79829798.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 21, 2020||Bhopal||Indore, Bhopal report more Covid cases than most states||BHOPAL: While Covid-19 cases seem to be on the decline in the state, what is alarming is that two major towns of the state — Indore and state capital Bhopal — are cumulatively reporting more positive cases every day than a majority of the states of the country. There are 17 states in the country which have so far cumulatively reported more than 2 lakh positive cases. If official figures of the cases reported on a day-to-day basis of these states is considered, then Indore and Bhopal are cumulatively reporting more cases per day than at least six of these states. If compared with all the states, Indore and Bhopal are cumulatively reporting more cases than at least half of the states of the country on a day-to-day basis. For instance, on December 19, Indore and Bhopal cumulatively reported 576 new cases. On the same day, entire Andhra Pradesh — which has so far reported the second highest number of positive cases in the country — reported only 479 positive cases, Odisha 356 and Assam, which has also reported more than 2 lakh cases till now, reported only 92 cases. Similarly, on December 18, while 645 new cases were reported from Indore and Bhopal, Andhra reported only 534 new cases, Odisha 351, Telangana 509, Bihar 588, and Assam reported only 106 new cases. If daily figures of new positive cases reported from entire Madhya Pradesh are considered, nearly 60% of the cases are being reported from Indore and Bhopal alone, i.e., if officials are to be believed, these are of the residents of Indore and Bhopal alone and not of the people coming from other districts to these cities as that figure is counted in the cumulative Covid-19 positive count of the concerning district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/indore-bhopal-report-more-covid-cases-than-most-states/articleshow/79829779.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 21, 2020||Coimbatore||TPDK pays homage to farmers who died in Delhi protests||COIMBATORE: Members of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) in the city on Sunday paid homage to 33 farmers who have lost their lives during the ongoing protests against the central government’s three controversial farm laws near Delhi. TPDK general secretary Ku Ramakrishnan and members of the organization placed a banner with the photographs of the deceased farmers in front of Periyar Study Centre at Gandhipuram in the city on Sunday. They raised slogans against the central government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for bringing in anti-farmer laws. The members also raised slogans against two corporate companies stating that the central government had brought in the controversial laws to support these companies. The protesters paid homage to the farmers by lighting candles. Speaking to reporters, Ramakrishnan. “We observed homage to the martyred farmers. The central government should withdraw the anti-farmer laws. Otherwise, we will lose hundreds of farmers,” Ramakrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tpdk-pays-homage-to-farmers-who-died-in-delhi-protests/articleshow/79829800.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Encroachments galore as Coimbatore corpn looks other way||COIMBATORE: The struggle of residents of VNR Nagar in Vadavalli to retrieve the open space reservation (OSR) land in the layout is 25 years old. Even after getting a high court direction in their favour in 2015, the residents are yet to enjoy the benefits of the land. As nine out of 12 OSR sites are still encroached, the residents want the city corporation to initiate action against the encroachers. “Following the HC order that OSR sites should be used only for the approved purpose,s the city corporation demolished two houses constructed in a land and fenced the area. The civic body also issued eviction notices to the encroachers and inspected the site several times. But the corporation officials took no steps to evict the encroachers. It is contempt of court and we had issued a notice regarding it to the corporation and the district administration early this year,” said Joseph Antonyraj, president of VNR Nagar Residents Association. “If the corporation fails to take any action, we would move the court.” Once the encroachments are removed, the residents plan to set up parks for children and senior citizens. “Also, several government departments like post office and electricity board are looking for space to set up buildings in Vadavalli area. We are ready to give them space,” Antonyraj said. This is not a lone case. Over 150 OSR sites in the corporation limit are encroached, with the corporation remaining a mute spectator, said city-based activist S P Thiyagarajan. He had submitted a petition regarding the issue to corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian recently. “The civic body had identified 150 OSR sites in 1,355 layouts. As much as 25 acres have been encroached. While the civic body has all the details like extent of encroachment and the kind of encroachment, what is stopping it from removing the encroachments?” Thiyagarajan said, “The corporation had identified an encroachment at the OSR site of SRP Nagar near Saibaba Colony that has a private school building. After realising that it was OSR land, the buyer had come forward to hand it over to the corporation. But the corporation failed to take steps to retrieve it,” he added. The corporation commissioner promised to take measure to retrieve encroached lands. “I will conduct a meeting with officials next week and take steps to remove encroachments,” Pandian told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/encroachments-galore-as-corpn-looks-other-way/articleshow/79829814.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Shoppers make most of last weekend before Christmas||Kolkata: People put away their Covid blues and went out for shopping this last weekend before Christmas and second last before the year end. New Market was the favourite hotspot but people also flocked Gariahat and Lake Market to stock up on cakes, Christmas trees, decorations and winterwear. However, an element of caution, too, was in the air as shoppers were spotted with masks on, many even wore gloves and even roadside hawkers offered sanitisers to their customers. The cake shops inside New Market were the favourite draws for shoppers. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation had given instructions to all cake shops not to display and sell cakes from outside their shops so that the passages were left free and there is no overcrowding. Shops have also been told to maintain social distancing inside the shops and also in queues in case they form outside shops. “There are many buyers, who are booking their cakes in advance so that they don’t have to face overcrowding from Christmas eve onwards. Usually, there is a mad rush from December 23 but this year many chose to stock up from this weekend,” said T K Halder of Nahoum’s. Ritesh Kohli, a marketing executive had ordered on the phone and on reaching the market, he waited at a spot outside the shop where he got them delivered. This year, the KMC has not allowed the Christmas bazaar at the centre of the market to avoid overcrowding and has allowed the sellers to set up stalls on the terrace outside the market. These too saw a huge turnout on Sunday. “I have shopped for the raw materials for the cakes I baked from New Market like previous years. Christmas trees and baubles are available elsewhere also but I always come to New Market because it’s part of memory bank,” said 70-year-old Marguerite Gasper. A large number of saree and garments stores have announced huge discounts to attract year-end shoppers not only in New Market but also in Gariahat. “The whole year has seen poor business because the pandemic has kept people indoors. Even during the pujas, we have done limited business, which is why so many of us have decided to give year-end discounts. We have given bigger-than-usual discounts keeping our profits minimal,” said Swapan Kundu of Traders’ Assembly. The Gariahat stores, however, said that they have stayed afloat because of the wedding business that they managed to get.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shoppers-make-most-of-last-weekend-before-christmas/articleshow/79829810.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Krishna water pipeline repaired, supply restored||Hyderabad: After a 16-hour long marathon operation, the leakage of the Krishna drinking water pipeline was rectified at Langer Houz and water supply was restored on the wee hours of Sunday. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has demanded the Bhagyanagar Gas Limited (BGL) to pay the cost of damages towards the 1,000 mm diameter water pipeline and a million gallons of water. “We learnt a few things from this incident. As both water lines and gas pipeline systems are linked underground both these departments have to work together. In this case the BGL neither approached us nor had taken prior permission to lay the underground gas pipeline,” HMWS&SB general manager (O&M Division-I), Hari Shankar told TOI. In this incident, BGL took up excavation works just 10 feet away from the water pipeline. The water board officials made it clear that they will not withdraw the police complaint against BGL until the latter pays compensation. being taken up by earth excavation works just 10-feet distance to the water lines. It is dangerous to both utilities in case any untoward incidents like gas pipeline leakage and water supply line leakages and both departments will also face heavy damages. To prevent these incidents, both departments have to take certain measures, he said. The BGL has to submit blueprints to the Water Board while proposing the laying of gas lines along with Krishna/Godavari drinking water supply projects, to avoid inconvenience to lakhs of drinking water consumers. It is mandatory that both utility departments have to make joint inspection, advised Hari Shankar. The water board official also made it clear that the police complaint lodged with Langer Houz police against BGL will be withdrawn, unless they paid the cost of the damages. Till then, no earth excavation works will be not allowed at the site. The cost of the water lines damage and quantity of water, which water board loss, will be assessed on Monday, replied the official. Surprise is, the BGL officials did not contact the water board, even after the complaint was lodged with police and incident. //end//||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/krishna-water-pipeline-repaired-supply-restored/articleshow/79829822.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 21, 2020||Madurai||HC appoints panel to inspect encroachments on waterbody||Madurai: Madras high court has appointed an advocate commissioner to ascertain whether there are encroachments on a channel flowing through Dindigul district. A division bench comprising Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice B Pugalendhi appointed Veeravel Pandi as the advocate commissioner to carry out an inspection in this regard. The judges directed the advocate commissioner to submit a report on the following queries: Whether the property in question is a waterbody or water channel, whether the properties have been encroached upon, and name of the encroachers and the extent of the encroachments made by them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-appoints-panel-to-inspect-encroachments-on-waterbody/articleshow/79830546.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Coimbatore||NGOs collect 1,000kg garbage from Anaikatti Road||COIMBATORE: Members of non-governmental organizations Tamilnad Wildlife Organization and Nature and Animal Conservancy on Sunday collected 1,000kg garbage from the Anaikatti Road between Mangarai forest check post and Thaneerpandal near Chinna Thadagam. The NGOs have been conducting the cleanliness drive every month. “During the drive on Anaikatti Road, which is frequented by wild elephants, we collected plastic bags, tumblers and liquor bottles. These might injure elephants and affect the environment. We collected only non-biodegradable items,” said Tamilnad Wildlife Organization chairman N Arun Kumar. “We handed over the garbage to Thadagam panchayat officials. Over 25 NGO members participated in the drive aimed at creating awareness.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ngos-collect-1000kg-garbage-fromanaikatti-road/articleshow/79829811.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Foundation stone laid for Kadukuttai water tank project||COIMBATORE: Municipal administration minister SP Velumani laid the foundation stone for a project worth Rs 4.76 crore at Kadukuttai near Podanur Chettipalayam on Sunday. As per the project, recycled water from Ondipudur sewage treatment plant will be taken in a pipeline to fill Kadukuttai tank and 27 other tanks and irrigate 10,000 acres. Podanur Chettipalayam, Peedampalli and Pattanam were notified as drought-prone areas in the district. As the tanks remain bone dry, farmers have been demanding to make alternative arrangements to fill the tanks. As a result, the water resources organization (WRO) of the public works department decided to pump 5mld (million litres per day) of treated water through pipeline from Ondipudur sewage treatment plant (STP). Ondipudur STP has a capacity to treat 60mld of sewage a day. The WRO department will construct a tank with a capacity of 2.60 lakh litres at Ondipudur STP premises where 5mld treated water will be drawn and pumped into Kadukuttai tank. The department will lay ductile iron pipes for a stretch of 4.5km from Ondipudur to Kadukuttai tank and 5mld of treated water will be pumped from the Ondipudur STP to the Kadukuttai tank daily. According to WRO officials, Kadukuttai tank has a capacity of 2.6 million cubic feet and the tank would be filled in 15 days by using the treated water from Ondipudur STP. Once the Kadukuttai tank is filled, water will be released to 14 small tanks at Chettipalayam, nine small tanks at Peedampalli and four small tanks at Pattanam. The 27 small tanks have a capacity of 10 million cubic feet. After laying the foundation stone for the project, Velumani said, “Around 10,000 acres of agricultural land will benefit due to the project and water level will be increased at the wells and borewells. Agriculture in the area will be developed and around 30,000 farmers will get benefit and this project would create jobs for the villagers also.” Collector K Rajamani, AIADMK MLAs Ettimadai Shanmugam, VP Kandasamy, corporation officials and PK Selvaraj, secretary, Athikadavu- Kousika river development association took part in the event. WRO officials claimed that the project will be completed within a period of three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/foundation-stone-laid-for-kadukuttai-water-tank-project/articleshow/79829809.cms||A Subburaj
December 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Stalin will enter Fort as CM after poll: Mutharasan||CPI state secretary R Mutharasan said DMK chief M K Stalin would enter the St George Fort as chief minister after winning in the 2021 assembly election in the state. “Similarly, AIADMK will face a huge disaster,” Mutharasan, who paid homage in Salem to farmers who died during the ongoing protests in Delhi, said. Talking to reporters, Mutharasan said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has betrayed farmers by supporting the central government’s new controversial farm laws. “The chief minister has also supported NEET exam, electricity reform bill and agriculture bills,” he said, adding that the Tamil Nadu people would teach a lesson to Palaniswami in the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stalin-will-enter-fort-as-cm-after-poll-mutharasan/articleshow/79829847.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Poll chariots get a plush makeover at Koyas & Sons||COIMBATORE: They might be bitter rivals, but political leaders down south have one thing in common. All of them use election campaign vehicles upholstered and refitted by a city firm. Mechanics at Koyas and Sons on Dr Nanjappa Road were busy refurbishing the caravan used by DMK chief M K Stalin when TOI met them. They are also working on deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam’s campaign vehicle, which they remodelled last year. P V Hassan had set up the shop here in 1969, said his son P V Mohamed Riaz, managing partner of the firm. “We initially manufactured only car mats, door beading and upholstery. Koyas became a brand after we did upholstery in the Ambassador car owned by late Kerala chief minister K Karunakaran. Late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, who travelled with Karunakaran, was impressed by the upholstery work. Rajiv airlifted two Ambassador cars from Delhi to Coimbatore and we refitted them. Armed guards kept watch while we worked in the garage.” Passenger comfort is the top priority, Riaz said. “For political leaders on whirlwind campaign, a caravan becomes a second home. They spend as much as 10 hours in the vehicle and want the vehicles to be comfortable and functional. The vans will have fresh upholstery, plush seats and sofas, microwave oven, refrigerator, a toilet and an audiovisual system for campaigning.” Politicians from Kerala, Andhra and Karnataka also send their campaign vehicles to the firm for modification. “We were working on chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s caravan. We gave the vehicle a new look and returned it to AIADMK leaders three days ago,” Riaz told TOI. Stalin’s caravan, which was refitted at the firm 10 years ago, will get a fresh coat of paint and new seats. “We just received three new Tempo Traveller vehicles from a political party, which need to be refitted. Late CM M Karunanidhi, J Jayalalithaa, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader Thol Thirumavalavan, MDMK chief Vaiko, PMK leader Ramadoss and Makkal Needhi Maiam leader Kamal Haasan are using vehicles rejigged here,” he said. “We also have several businessmen as our customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/poll-chariots-get-a-plush-makeover-at-koyas-sons/articleshow/79829835.cms||A Subburaj
December 21, 2020||Aurangabad||64 monkeys nabbed in Upali village||Aurangabad: As many as 64 monkeys — of the over 200 monkeys that are wreaking havoc in Upali village of Sillod tehsil— were trapped by a professional roped in by the forest department The plush green village with several orchards, is surrounded by Anjana, a tributary of Purna river on three sides, making it a favourable spot for the monkeys. Samadhan Giri, (34), who for years has been into the profession of catching monkeys and other animals, said, “These monkeys have multiple groups. We have managed to nab one of the groups comprising around 64 monkeys, and they have been released in Gautala wildlife sanctuary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/64-monkeys-nabbed-in-upali-village/articleshow/79827826.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Minor among 4 held for raping teen in Delhi's Greater Kailash||NEW DELHI: South district police have apprehended four people, including a minor, for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl on Saturday night. The incident was reported from Greater Kailash, DCP (south) Atul Thakur said. The girl and the minor accused used to work at a house in GK-I, but the accused had quit the job last month. Police have also booked the house owner for employing a minor. On Sunday, cops received a PCR call about the incident. The girl’s statement was recorded in which she said that she had been working as a help at a house in GK-I since last four months. She and the minor accused became friends while working and remained in touch even after the boy left the job. On December 19, the minor accused called her at his friend’s place of work in GK. Three others were present there as well, she said. The three people were identified as Shivam, Harishankar and Mangesh, police said. “The juvenile allegedly raped her with the help of his associates,” said an officer. An FIR was registered for gang rape and illegal confinement and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against all accused persons. While the three major accused were produced before a court and sent to Tihar in judicial custody, the minor was produced before the juvenile justice board and sent to a reformation home. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minor-among-4-held-for-raping-teen-case-filed-for-child-labour/articleshow/79828755.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Madurai||15 PT members held for disrupting protest||Madurai: Tense moments prevailed in Alanganallur as members from Puthiya Tamiligam created ruckus against members of VOC Peravai who were peacefully protesting at Gatukadai on Sunday morning. Police said that members of VOC Peravai, belonging to Pillaimar caste, were protesting against the ruling government and Sholavandan MLA K Manickam in connection with the move by the government to bring seven subsects of Scheduled Caste, including Pallar, Kudumbar, Pannadi, Kaaladi, Kadayar and Vadhiriyar, under Devendra Kula Vellalar. The protesters said various subsects of Pillai are called Vellalar and it would be confusing if Scheduled Caste communities are called as Devendra Kula Vellalar. 15 members from Pallar community from Puthiya Tamilagam party from Madurai city, led by the party’s district secretary Ravikumar, went to the protest venue and created unrest. As the police tried to shift them from the place, one of them threw a stone which landed on a woman among the protesters. Following this, members of VOC Peravai staged a road block at the same place. SP Sujit Kumar rushed to the spot and spoke to the protesters. They withdrew the protest after two hours at 1pm. Sujit Kumar told TOI that a case was registered against the members of Puthiya Tamilagam and were arrested, adding that VOC Peravai took prior permission for the demonstration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/15-pt-members-held-for-disrupting-protest/articleshow/79830567.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Aurangabad||AIS officers who are 40+ yrs need not file health report||Aurangabad: Citing the outbreak of Covid-19, the Union government has exempted All India Service (AIS) officers, who are aged 40 years or more, serving in the state, from filing health certificates with their annual Performance Appraisal Report (PAR) for 2019-20.The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) had extended the date to submit the health certificates twice for the AIS officers, that include officials for Indian Police Service, Indian Administrative Service and Indian Revenue Service among others.India has a total of 6,396 sanctioned posts of IAS, 4,802 posts of IPS and 3,157 posts of IFS.As per the DoPT, it mandatory for the AIS officers to submit their PAR along with their medical fitness certificate by March 31 every year. However, due to the outbreak of the pandemic, the date to submit the health certificate was extended till June 30. After things failed to improve, it was followed by the second extension till December 31, 2020. A senior official from General Administration Department said, “Over four dozens IAS and IPS officers serving in the state, including some of the senior serving at the state secretariat and director general of police’s office, were infected with the contagion. Considering this situation and the guidelines by DoPT, the decision to exempt AIS, who are 40 years old and above, has been taken.”A couple of months ago, a 32-year old Tripura-cadre IAS officer, who had been to his hometown in Parbhani, succumbed to Covid.As per the guidelines, the AIS officers have to undergo complete body screening apart from undergoing different blood tests, stress test, and submit the same along with the PAR. Failing to do so, results in holding of certain allowances of the officials.The move has come as a relief to the officials, who had started rushing to the hospitals. “The situation has remained bad to the extent that the fear of one getting infected by merely visiting the hospital, kept many of us away from undergoing the tests,” said an officer.However, another officer said she along with some other officers from her district was already done with the medical screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ais-officers-who-are-40-yrs-need-not-file-health-report/articleshow/79827840.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 21, 2020||Madurai||Thirumalai Naicker Mahal spruced up, but surroundings reek of urine||Madurai: Thirumalai Naicker Mahal, a popular tourist spot in Madurai, was renovated at a cost of Rs 3 crore and thrown open to the public last week after being shut for nine months due to the pandemic, but the area surrounding the monument is strewn with garbage and in a pathetic state. As Madurai is limping back to normal from the pandemic-effect, people have been looking for places to visit. As most of them are still closed, the mahal, built in the 17th century, has become sought after among local and other tourists. “The interior of the mahal is beautiful, but the streets around it should also be kept neat and clean, there is so much muck around it,” said S Karmegam, of Vilangudi. Textile shops around the mahal also use the compound walls of the mahal as a common dumping ground. “We generate more waste from packing and have to dump it in these dumper bins on Panthadi 1st Street, a reason why they always look like they are overflowing,” said a trader. A urinal in the corner of the Mahal Vadampokki Street is never used and load-persons, who come to unload goods in the shops, continue to urinate in the open. As a result of this, there is a perpetual stench in the area and something should be done to address this, said K Sundaram of Simmakkal, a regular visitor to the mahal. There are four garbage bins in Panthadi 1st Street, which need to be moved to some other place because they are an eyesore, said a few visitors. Sources at the Mahal said they had now done their bit to maintain and spruce up the mahal, but maintenance of the the outer surroundings came under the corporation’s jurisdiction. When contacted, corporation authorities said they will take it up soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/thirumalai-naicker-mahal-spruced-up-but-surroundings-reek-of-urine/articleshow/79830584.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Chennai||TNRERA directs buyers, developer to clear their dues||CHENNAI: Faced with complaints from a developer and two independent homebuyers against each other, the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has directed the opposing parties to pay the dues pending against them. While the homebuyers demanded compensation for delay in handing over the units, the developer complained that dues collectively amounting to nearly Rs 45 lakh from the buyers were pending despite the flats being delivered. The realty regulator awarded compensation, besides slapping a penalty of Rs 8 lakh on the developer for causing mental agony to the homebuyers and directed them to pay the remaining payment to the developer with 9% interest. The issue pertains to ‘The Metrozone’ developed by Ozone Projects Private Ltd. on Pilliyar Koil Street, Anna Nagar. The two homebuyers, in separate complaints, said there was a delay of about four years and charged that there were threats to disconnect power and water connections causing mental stress. The threats ceased only after a complaint was lodged with police and a RERA order was issued, they said. The developer said compensation could be paid only in the event of the homebuyers fulfilling their obligations under the construction agreement the essence of which is making milestone payments. The two homebuyers collectively owed Rs 45 lakh, the developer said. TNRERA adjudicating officer G Saravanan said that when the stage-wise progress of construction was not as per any time schedule to be adhered to provide the flat within the date fixed in the agreement, the builder cannot expect the complainant to make payment as per the demand notice. “Where promises are reciprocal, each party has the option to perform his/her part of the contract but cannot insist on the other party performing his part without himself performing what was agreed,” the order added. Noting that the homebuyers and developer were eligible to compensation and pending dues, it said they were at liberty to adjust the amounts due to them from the other party. The balance amount shall be paid by the respective party, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tnrera-directs-buyers-developer-to-clear-their-dues/articleshow/79828778.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad cops bust sex trade; nab 4, seize Rs 75,000||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad city police busted a flesh trade racket and nabbed four people, including a woman suspected of operating the racket as well as a man from Nanded who is a caterer by profession. Following the raid on the upscale Amazon Apartment in the Devanagri area of the city, the police also seized Rs 75,000 in cash and 10 mobile phones from the accused. The racket was busted on Thursday night and accused have been remanded in six-day police custody ending on December 23. In all, four victims, who had been pushed into the flesh trade, have been rescued. A case has been registered at the Osmanpura police station against the woman, an agent and two customers. The arrested accused have been identified as Kavita Latte, a 32-year-old from Bidkin and currently a resident of Amazon Apartment, Devanagari; agent Kalpesh Vaikos, 29-year-old from Johariwada in Gulmandi; customers Tausif Ahmed Siddiqui (30), a resident of Mustafa Park, Vaijapur, and Mohammad Nasrulla (45) of Chaufala in Bramhapuri of Nanded district. Police said that though Nasrullah, alias Khan Baba, operates the JK catering services in Nanded, he has been caught as a customer here. However, it is suspected that he has been involved in such activities for long. Inspector Dilip Tare said, “We have been informed about his alleged activities and we are trying to dig out more details about his connection to the racket.” The officer said that even the call detail records of the accused are being scanned to identify others involved in the flesh trade as operators or customers. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-cops-bust-sex-trade-nab-4-seize-rs-75000/articleshow/79827854.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||Air quality turns ‘severe’, Lucknow second most polluted||LUCKNOW: As air pollution soared to ‘severe’ level with the drop in temperature and wind velocity in the past 24 hours, the city on Sunday became the second most polluted one in the country. As temperatures started declining, the Air Quality Index (AQI) of the state capital witnessed an alarming rise over the past four days from 198 (moderate) on Thursday to 406 on Sunday. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, Lucknow’s AQI was second to Muzaffarpur in Bihar that recorded AQI of 453. These two cities were the only ones of the 124 monitored by CPCB with AQI above 400 (severe) levels. Total seven UP cities figured in the top 10 most polluted, but their air quality was in “very poor” category. The AQI of Moradabad was 391, Varanasi 358, Kanpur, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad 346 each and Noida 333. Experts said formation of smog, a combination of fog and air pollutants, coupled with wind velocity dip is responsible for rise in AQI. “Fog formation increased as mercury dropped gradually in the past three days. Simultaneously, high speed winds were dispersing air pollutants earlier but have slowed down. This led to the increase in centration of pollutants in the air,” they said. The state capital had witnessed similar high air pollution levels in December first week also with AQIs being 420, 441 and 414 on December 3, 4 and 5 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/air-quality-turns-severe-city-second-most-polluted/articleshow/79830589.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Barrel blast: Shop owner booked for culpable homicide||Aurangabad: Two days after a chemical explosion took place at the godown of a hardware and plywood shop in Beed city, which killed one and seriously injured two, the police have booked the shop owner on the charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder on Sunday.Based on the complaint lodged by police naik Ramrao Aghav, an offence has been registered against the owner, said the police.R Raja, the superintendent of police, told TOI, “An offence under section 304-A of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the shop owner and we are awaiting the forensic report in this case before further action is initiated.”A barrel containing chemicals exploded in the godown of Champavati hardware and plywood shop in Masarat Nagar area on Mondha Road, on Friday at 11.30 am. Police said the blast was so strong that 32-year-old staffer Anirudh Panchal, who was a resident of Selu in Gevrai tehsil, was killed on spot after sustaining serious injuries. The injured have been identified as Pandurang Mune (40) and Sudhir Jagtap (35). Mune, an autorickshaw driver, is battling for his life at present. The incident left at least two vehicles completely damaged while several window panes of the houses in the vicinity were shattered.Following the incident, police have asked the traders to ensure the guidelines are followed and they should have proper clearance from the authorities concerned for storing and trading flammable articlesRaja said those violating the guidelines will face action. Sources said the special branch will be tasked with screening of the required clearances by such shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/barrel-blast-shop-owner-booked-for-culpable-homicide/articleshow/79827850.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Can’t infer suicide abetment in absence of intention: HC||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has quashed and set aside an abetment to suicide case against three final-year computer engineering students, holding that an “inference of abetment cannot be drawn in absence of intentional instigation on the part of the accused”.One of the three students had a break-up with a girl who was their course-mate and the girl committed suicide on May 24, 2019 by hanging herself in her house. Three days later while searching her articles in the house, the girl’s father found a suicide note on the basis of which he lodged an FIR against the three students.It was argued in the court that the girl had a feeling that her ex-boyfriend and his two friends may have hacked into her electronic devices and circulated her pictures.The HC bench of justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar referred to evidence on record and observed that expert examination of her devices revealed no hacking nor it was the police’s case that the girl’s pictures were circulated.The bench observed, “…it can be said that the allegations are made on the basis of so-called perception of the deceased that her devices were hacked but nothing objectionable of that kind was found with applicants. When everything is based on perception of the deceased, she had a feeling that applicant was not with her and he might have developed a relation with other girl, it is difficult to infer that there was abetment from applicants to commit suicide.”The bench further noted that the girl had lost the job she was assured during campus interview as she could not clear one of the subjects.“For committing suicide, there can be many reasons for persons like the deceased. For making out case of abetment, it is necessary to show that there was intentional instigation as mentioned under section 107 of IPC from the accused to deceased to commit suicide. Even if aforesaid circumstances are accepted as they are, it cannot be said that there was intention of the applicants to instigate the deceased to commit suicide,” the bench added.The HC said, “The applicants (accused students) are also young and their future will be destroyed if they are asked to face trial for aforesaid offences on the basis of material discussed above.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cant-infer-suicide-abetment-in-absence-of-intention-hc/articleshow/79827875.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Two booked on charge of illegally selling diesel get relief from high court||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has said that people cannot be asked to face trial for an offence only on the basis of inference or possibility. The high court quashed and set aside a case against two men who were booked by Yermala police in Osmanabad district under the provisions of Essential Commodities Act merely because they were standing in the vicinity of a facility suspected of illegally selling diesel, during a raid at Khamkarwadi on April 1, 2017. Balaji Thorat and his cousin Shirkant, both hailing from village Massa of Kalamb taluka in Osmanabad, were taken into custody from the site that was raided. They were among a total four people booked on the charge of illicit trade in diesel and the police suspected the duo of carrying diesel cans on their motorcycles. The other two were a woman and her son who had gained notoriety for illegal diesel trade and had several past offences to their name. The duo managed to run away during the raid and the Thorat cousins landed in police custody. Later, lawyer Vikram Dhorde-Patil filed a writ petition on behalf of the Thorat cousins challenging the police action. The bench of justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar referred to the evidence and observed in a ruling on December 15, “The learned APP (additional public prosecutor) submitted that the aforesaid lady and her son are involved in criminal activities and many offences were registered against them in the past. He submitted that there was information against the lady to police and so the action was taken. In the (written) say also similar contentions is made.” The bench added: “Thus, nothing was found in possession of the present two petitioners (the cousins). They were found in the vicinity of aforesaid place and due to that police believed that the petitioners were there to carry diesel that was with the aforesaid lady. Many inferences can be drawn in such situation and one of them can be as suggested by police. Only on the basis of such inference or possibility, persons cannot be asked to face the trial for the aforesaid offences.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-booked-on-charge-of-illegally-selling-diesel-get-relief-from-high-court/articleshow/79827923.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 21, 2020||Madurai||Bhoomi puja performed for check dam in Virudhunagar||Madurai: A bhoomi puja was performed on Sunday for a check dam to be constructed across the Gundaru in Virudhunagar district at a cost of Rs 10.11 crore. Minister for milk and dairy development K T Rajendra Bhalaji and district collector R Kannan attended the function. The minister said that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was doing everything possible for the welfare of farmers by taking efforts to maintain water resources and enhance groundwater levels. Agriculture was affected in Gundaru basin in Tiruchuzhi and Panthanendhal in Kariapatti block because tanks in the region did not have sufficient supply. The farmers in the region made a request for constructing a check dam across the Gundaru and the chief minister passed a government order for it. The check dam will have 85 meters length and 2.45 meters height. As many as 56.37 acres of land will be irrigated through the Panthanendhal tank and 488.92 acres through the Tiruchuzhi tank once the check dam is constructed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bhoomi-puja-performed-for-check-dam-in-virudhunagar/articleshow/79830600.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow cops bust fake job site in Atal’s name||LUCKNOW: A man was arrested by Hazratganj police on Sunday for running a fake job website in the name of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The accused, Sanjitmal, had floated advertisements of government jobs in newspapers which came to the notice of government officials who informed the police. SHO, Hazratganj, Shyam Babu Shukla said it was found during investigation that the website being run by the accused was not owned by government and was hosted by a web server. The accused man used the photos and videos of the former PM to make it look authentic. “A logo of Digital India was prominently placed on the website while also had links of various government websites,” said Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fake-job-site-in-atals-name-busted/articleshow/79830605.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Surat||GPCB to scan Sarigam GIDC ground for more toxic waste||SURAT: A day after Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) sleuths unearthed three drums filled with hazardous chemical waste that a chemical manufacturing firm had clandestinely buried in its factory premises, officials are now planning to use ground scanning technology to detect more such cases in Sarigam GIDC. “The area is huge and we suspect more chemicals to have been buried into the land. This technology will help in scanning the ground easily rather than digging the entire area,” said a GPCB official. Earlier on Saturday, GPCB officials raided Survival Technologies Pvt Ltd in Sarigam GIDC in Valsad district and found the three drums in the ground. “We will expose this hazardous modus operandi of dumping chemical waste in the ground and polluting ground water as well as the environment. Action will be taken against the company as per the prescribed law,'' said an official. For now, the environment watchdog is trying to assess the volume of chemical waste that has been buried underground as well as scanning for more in the trench area around the factory to trace any pipeline that may be dumping chemical waste somewhere else, the official added. Sources said that the three drums appear old and seems to have been buried for quite some years now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gpcb-to-scan-sarigam-gidc-ground-for-more-toxic-waste/articleshow/79828825.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt okays Rs 75 crore for Agra Metro||LUCKNOW: The UP government has set the ball rolling for construction of Agra Metro rail project by sanctioning the first tranche of Rs 75 crores to kick-start the ambitious project which was flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this month. Of Rs 75 crores, Rs 50 crores would be wheeled in by the state government as a share capital, while the remaining Rs 25 crore would be pooled in for the land acquisition from the subordinate loan head. According to a detailed order issued by the housing and planning department, the allocation would be made available to the UP Metro Rail Corporation, nodal agency executing the project. State government has made an allocation of Rs 138 crores as a share capital for year 2020-21. The order said that the subordinate loan would be interest free and would have to be paid back in equal instalments over a period of 10 years. As per due guidelines laid down by the state government, the UPMRC will take a technical sanction before starting the project. The housing department said that the UPMRC will ensure quality of construction besides completing the project within a set time frame. The corporation would be pooling in funds in a staggered manner and as per the requirement and the fund will not be kept in any bank deposit. The funds would be spent as per guidelines laid down by the state government, especially those which were issued before the pandemic triggered lockdown was imposed on March 24. The department said UPMRC will ensure that no budgetary sanction has been made in the past and none of the works have been incorporated in any other work plan. The corporation will have to adhere to the standard of financial propriety, wherein the amount of allowances granted to meet expenditure of a particular type, should be so regulated that the allowances are not on the whole a source of profit to the recipient. UPMRC will be required to take legal as well as environmental clearances before starting the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ball-gets-rolling-for-agra-metro/articleshow/79830623.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 21, 2020||Goa||Neura sluice gate auction deferred||Panaji: In a boost to farming in a part of Neura khazan, the Tiswadi mamlatdar has kept in abeyance the auction of a sluice gate of Dhamada, as farmers have shown interest in continuing with agricultural activities for a second season. Large stretches of cultivable area in Neura, Dongorim, Mandur, Azossim and Carambolim have been flooded for many years due to broken bundhs and farming activities have been abandoned in most areas. But last season, after nearly two decades, a group of farmers on the Neura-Dongorim border cultivated their paddy fields. The bountiful harvest, a few weeks back, had brought to cheer to the local community. The annual auction of the sluice gates of the Dhamda Khazan Tenants Association was scheduled on December 21. But the mamlatdar, Rahul Desai, heeding to the farmers’ request for help in boosting farming activities, has deferred the auction, in an order recently. “More farmers would like to join farming activities,” the association’s chairman had urged the mamlatdar. “Higher auction (bid) of sluice gate results in releasing more saline water in the field and causing damage to bundhs,” the chairman stated. Pisciculture activities have been flourishing due to flooding of fields. Non-maintenance of bundhs is a major problem, as the ancient system has become weak over the years and repairs are labour and capital-intensive while neglect is another factor that has ruined the protective network. The mamlatdar has also directed the chairman to submit a detailed report and action plan regarding the farming activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/neura-sluice-gate-auction-deferred/articleshow/79830635.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Training for 30k health workers begins||Hyderabad: With three rounds of training at the national, state and district level for the roll-out of the Covid vaccine being wrapped up, training at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) level begins in the state. The training is meant to prepare 30,000 healthcare workers in the state for the roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccine. Some countries have already approved a vaccine and administering them to their citizens. While the entire training module is scheduled to be completed by December 22, the roll-out of the vaccine in the first phase for healthcare workers will begin any time after mid-January. For the roll-out, it is not just managing the entire cold chain, transport and administering of the vaccine that is required, but also large-scale awareness drives have to be carried out at the village and district levels. Since the vaccine is meant to be administered to people who come forward voluntarily, creating awareness will play a major roll in driving the importance of the vaccine to the masses for enrolment of beneficiaries. “We need to tell people that it is important for the elderly and vulnerable population, especially the ones with comorbidities and that the vaccine will up their chances of survival. In remote areas, there is a need for educating people on the importance on the need for the vaccine. Unless we vaccinate a large chunk of the vulnerable population, it will not have the desired impact. Therefore, our training is putting a lot of stress on the awareness part,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/training-for-30k-health-workers-begins/articleshow/79830602.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy to launch land survey today||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the comprehensive land survey at Takkellapadu in Krishna district on Monday. The resurvey was completed in Takkellapadu on a pilot basis and the CM would hand over land records to owners to launch the programme across the state. The state government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Survey of India to take up resurvey of all private and public land including agriculture fields and urban properties. The survey is expected to bring land disputes to an end. The state government has decided to carry out land and property registration process at ward, village secretariats after the land survey. The chief minister has directed officials to start the process of registrations in village, ward secretariats in a phased manner wherever the land survey gets completed without waiting for the completion of the project. A QR code-based smart title card will be issued to land owners after the survey. The programme has been named YSR-Jagananna Saswatha Bhu Hakku-Bhu Raksha. The state survey and land records department is readying digital records of land and property in such a manner that no person can tamper with them in the future. A hard copy of the land title will be issued to the title owner. The land title card will be issued only after the completion of the survey. The land title card would carry the property owner’s name, and have a unique ID, photo and QR code to ensure that all future transactions are safe and secure. The survey department is readying digital maps for villages and wards along with details of title owners. “The survey stones will be fixed after completing the survey error-free,” Nirabh Kumar Prasad, chief commissioner and land administration (CCLA), said. Prasad also said that a digital property register, title register and a separate register for enrolling complaints and grievances should be kept ready in village and ward secretariats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-wide-comprehensive-land-survey-to-begin-today/articleshow/79827918.cms||Samdani MN
December 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Cops to take 5 Afghan nationals on remand to probe terror links||PATNA: The five arrested Afghan nationals are to be taken on police remand for interrogation after initial probe hinted at their connection with sleeper cells of a Bangladesh based terror outfit active in Seemanchal and Mithilanchal region of Bihar. The foreign nationals are currently lodged in Purnia jail. The five — Md Dawood, Md Kamran, Md Fazal Khan, Md Raza and Ghulam Mohammad — from Sharan district under Paktika province in Afghanistan were arrested from their rented accommodation at Choudhari Tola under Town police station in Katihar last week. One foreign national, identified as Alman Khan, and house owner Md Monazir had managed to escape. Cloned domicile certificates, Aadhaar cards, PAN cards, 15 mobile phones, Rs5 lakh and four motorbikes were seized during the raid. Katihar SP Vikas Kumar on Sunday said, “Legal formalities are being completed to take the foreign nationals on remand for further questioning. Besides, raids are on to nab the two others. An SIT has been set up for the purpose.” Though Vikas refused to share more details on the plea that it was related to the nation’s security and would also affect the investigation, he admitted that evidences of money laundering by them in several districts in Bihar and West Bengal have been found during the preliminary investigation. “Transaction of over Rs1 crore has been detected by the intelligence agencies. In addition, the arrested foreigners admitted to have visited Pakistan and Nepal on several occasions. Three of them had come to India on tourist visa about five years ago,” an investigating officer said. Kamran reportedly told the interrogators they used to earn Rs10 lakh per year through money lending in Katihar, Kishanganj, Purnia and Araria districts in Seemanchal and Darbhanga, Madhubani and Samastipur in Mithilanchal region. Kamran revealed that he had visited Guwahati before he finally settled in Katihar where he met Dawood, Fazal, Raza and Ghulam, who were staying in Choudhary Tola. Kamran had visited Katihar Town police station on December 15, which alerted the special branch of the state police. The SP said experts of the antiterrorism squad (ATS) of the state police quizzed the five and gathered some important clues. The sleuths of the central agencies also interrogated them. “They have been booked for violating Indian Foreign Act and forging documents related to Indian citizenship,” the SP told this newspaper over phone. Purnia deputy jail superintendent Mritunjay Kumar said the five Afghan nationals have been kept in separate cells due to security reasons. Authoritative sources said Katihar was on the radar of the intelligence agency following the arrest of one Md Abdul Basir, stated to be a close aide of LeT operative, from Signalpur under Kadwa block in Katihar district in 2013. Basir was evading arrest in 1998 Delhi bomb blast case and was also involved in fake currency deal in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. In 2011, Aftab Alam, an Indian Mujahideen operative, was arrested from Jalalgarh in Purnia district for his involvement in the Delhi high court bomb blast case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-to-take-5-afghan-nationals-on-remand-to-probe-terror-links/articleshow/79827913.cms||Ramashankar
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||UGC tells colleges to refund full fee||Hyderabad: In a relief to lakhs of undergraduate and postgraduate students, the University Grants Commission (UGC) has instructed colleges and universities to refund the full amount of fee collected in case students have withdrawn their admissions or have migrated till November 30, 2020. With the admission process under way in several institutions, many students are keeping their options open and cancelling their admissions if they secure seats in better institutions. Following this, the UGC received several complaints, public grievances and court cases with respect to non-refund of fee by universities/institutions in violation of UGC guidelines. “Most of these complaints have come from the students who have taken admission in private or self-financing universities and deemed to be universities and later opted out for one or the other reasons,” stated the UGC in a letter issued to all the higher educational institutions (HEIs) . ln order to ovoid financial hardship being faced by parents due to lockdown, the UGC has instructed has instructed colleges to refund the full fee on account of all cancellation of admission/migration of students up to November 30, 2020 for this session. “To be crystal clear, the entire fees including all charges be refunded in totality (zero cancellation charges)… Thereafter, on cancellation/withdrawal of admissions up to December 31, 2020, the entire fee collected from a student should be refunded in full after deduction of not more than Rs 1,000 as processing fee,” read the letter. The UGC has reiterated that all HEIs have to follow guidelines issued and those found to be violating the guidelines and refusing to refund the fee by giving its own interpretation of the guidelines shall be liable for punitive actions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ugc-tells-colleges-to-refund-full-fee/articleshow/79830617.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Surat||Surat: Compensation for domestic violence victim hiked 20 fold||SURAT: Finding it ‘unbelievable’ that a contractual employee of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) earns less than minimum wages, the sessions court has ordered a 20-times hike in compensation to his estranged wife, increasing the amount from Rs 1,000 to Rs 20,000. The court of additional sessions judge, Anil Malik, also ordered him to pay Rs 3,000 as maintenance for his wife, Rs 1,500 as house rent and increased the maintenance amount for her daughter from Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 a month. Earlier, the trial court had ordered the one-time compensation of Rs 1,000 for the woman and Rs 1,500 as maintenance for the daughter. The woman had challenged this order in the sessions court, which delivered its verdict on December 19. The woman, Femiksha Patel had lodged a complaint against her husband Siddharth in August last year, alleging domestic violence. The couple got divorced in 2010 after three years of marriage. The trial court had held that she was earning around Rs. 12,000 per month which was more than her husband’s salary which was between Rs. 6,000 to Rs.7,000 and therefore, she was not entitled for any maintenance from him. However, the sessions court said that the trial court had erred in noting his salary. Records show that her husband is working with SMC and earns Rs 20,000 a month. She has lived with her husband and would have knowledge regarding his, though she may not have any documentary proof, the court noted. “It’s unbelievable that wife working in a private firm as a daily wager is earning Rs 12,000 as minimum wages, whereas her husband working in SMC, a semi-government organization, is earning Rs 4,500 per month as claimed by him in his affidavit which is less than minimum wages. “He must not get less than minimum wages as SMC is governed under statute,” the court stated while observing that he has a more secured job than his wife, who is dependent on the mercy of her employer. Femiksha has been working as a sweeper with a private firm since May 1, 2018. The court also noted that Siddharth’s father used to work in Dubai and his mother had received Rs. 90 lakh from the sale of a property belonging to her. “Therefore it is concluded that her husband has no other financial responsibility except his wife and daughter,” the court said in its judgment. Noting that she is entitled to as much amount to maintain her standard of living which she was accustomed to while living with her husband, the court stated: “By keeping in view the income of the husband as Rs. 20,000 per month, his wife is entitled to be paid Rs. 3,000 per month by her husband as maintenance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/compensation-for-domestic-violence-victim-hiked-20-fold/articleshow/79828860.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
December 21, 2020||Kolhapur||2 poll officials to guide KMC in ward reservation||Kolhapur: Two officials of the state election commission have arrived in Kolhapur and they will assist Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) in the process of fixing ward reservations that is to take place on Monday. Last year, the process, considered a key step before the commission announces the election schedule and model code of conduct, had to be carried out for the second time after mistakes made in the first sitting. This time, the KMC does not want any mistakes. Nikhil More, the KMC deputy commissioner, said: “We held a mock process on Friday. The election officials we called will confirm each step of the process. We have planned to start the process exactly at 11 am and expect to wrap up by 4 pm.” The KMC authorities will announce the reservations through loudspeakers and display them on an LED screen as well. However, no public intervention will be allowed. The process is going to take place at Keshavrao Bhosaler Natyagruha. Out of the 81 wards, the lots will be drawn for 57 wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-poll-officials-to-guide-kmc-in-ward-reservation/articleshow/79827940.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur dist crosses 1.2 lakh Covid-19 cases, 1.1L recover||Nagpur: Nagpur district, which accounts for nearly 50% of the Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha region and more than 60% deaths, surpassed the 1.2 lakh-mark on Sunday. On the other hand, recoveries from Nagpur crossed 1.10 lakh. Cases in Vidarbha are nearing 2.5 lakh while recoveries reached 2.28 lakh on Sunday. The overall recovery rate of Vidarbha is constant at 93.1%, close to the state average. Despite the region reporting 20 deaths, the case fatality rate reduced to 2.61%. Deaths were reported from Nagpur (8), Bhandara (4), Chandrapur (4), Gondia (1), Akola (1), Yavatmal (1) and Buldhana (1). Out of 8 deaths reported in Nagpur, 3 were from Nagpur city, 2 from Nagpur rural and 3 from other state/district patients. The Vidarbha toll is 6,412. December had started with more recoveries and less cases initially, but since last five days, it has been constantly observed that the number of new cases has increased while recovery count has gone down. Still, number of recoveries in December at 19,080 is more than new cases of the month at 17,752. This difference is narrowing daily which may be a cause for concern. Number of recoveries remained less than the number of new cases even on Sunday. Total 868 new cases were reported. These include Nagpur (433), Amravati (68), Bhandara (56), Akola (53), Chandrapur (51), Buldhana (49), Gadchiroli (42), Wardha (39), Yavatmal (29), Washim (27) and Gondia (21). On the other hand, 683 Covid-19 patients recovered in a day. Recoveries came from Nagpur (296), Bhandara (69), Wardha (66), Chandrapur (51), Gadchiroli (50), Amravati (49), Yavatmal (36), Gondia (21), Akola (17), Buldhana (15), and Washim (13). Bhandara: Four deaths on Sunday took the toll to 286. The district also reported 56 new cases while 69 patients recovered. Now, the district has 11,962 cases, 11,090 recoveries and 586 patients under treatment. Gondia: 21 new cases were detected, while 21 patients recovered on Sunday in Gondia. This took the total number of cases in the district to 13,347. including 12,862 recoveries. One death was reported on Sunday which took the toll to 177. An 84-year-old from Tirora succumbed to the virus. Now, the district has 308 patients under treatment. Buldhana: Out of more than 950 reports received, 49 tested positive in Buldhana. On the other hand, 15 patients recovered. One death was also reported. This took the total cases in the district to 12,136, including 11,637 recoveries and 146 deaths. Total 353 patients are under treatment in the district. Akola: The district reported above 50 new cases for the second time in December. Total 53 patients were added to the count which took the total caseload of the district to 10,169. With 17 patients recovering, 9,067 have recovered till date. A 67-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital, died during treatment. This took the toll to 311. Now, 791 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 27 new cases while 13 patients recovered on Sunday. Washim now has 6,520 cases, including 6,125 recovered and 148 deaths. No death was reported on Sunday. Total 246 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: Total 42 new patients were reported while 50 patients recovered from Gadchiroli on December 20. As no deaths were reported, the toll remained unchanged at 96. Now, the district has 8,804 cases, 8,375 recoveries and 333 patients under treatment. Recovery rate of Gadchiroli is more than 95%. Wardha: On Sunday, 39 patients tested positive while 66 were discharged. The total number of patients is now 8,689 while recoveries are 8158. Active positive patients under treatment are 266. Amravati: Sixty-eight new cases on Sunday took the district's caseload to18,991. Though there was no deaths, 49 recovered to take the total to 18,180 (95.73%). This left 418 active cases, including 254 in home isolation. Yavatmal: A 60-year-old man from Wani died. Out of 251 test reports, 29 were positive. Currently, 299 active positive patients are undergoing treatment. Out of the 12,228 positive, 11,541 have recovered, including 36 on Sunday. Chandrapur: While there were 51 discharges, an equal number tested positive on Sunday. The total has now climbed to 21,852, while recoveries stands at 20, 809, leaving 692 active patients under treatment. Three deaths were registered, taking the toll to 351.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-dist-crosses-1-2-lakh-covid-19-cases-1-1l-recover/articleshow/79829919.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||Lascar butterfly, rare in the region, sighted at Gorewada||Nagpur: A previously not reported genus of a butterfly — Pantoporia, commonly called Lascar— was recently spotted by a team of nature enthusiasts at Gorewada Biopark. The butterfly was sighted last week by young naturalists Shamali Khalatkar, Sheetal Choudhary, Shubham Chhapekar, and Aadesh Shendge at the Gorewada nature trail. “It took time to cross-check records, hence we declared it late. The butterfly appears black with dark yellow or orange markings on the upper side. Its colour pattern is similar to that of a tiger and Nagpur being the Tiger capital of the country, its aesthetic significance cannot be denied. Publications on butterfly diversity in and around Nagpur city and diversity of Gorewada do not make a mention of this butterfly,” claimed Chhapekar. “The butterfly has been earlier reported from Chandrapur and Gadchiroli regions along with reports from the Western Ghats and North-East. This is the first report of the Pantoporia butterfly from Nagpur,” confirmed Raju Kasambe, assistant director, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), Mumbai. Further work on species identification is underway. Pandurang Pakhale, range forest officer (RFO), Gorewada project, said, “Gorewada reserve forest is a biodiversity-rich area and is home to around 90 butterfly species and more than 200 species of birds and animals, including leopard, blue bull and sambhar.” Earlier, the same team had recorded the common banded peacock butterfly, reported in the city after many years. RFO Kalpana Chinchkhede stated that the first sighting or rediscovery of butterflies in Nagpur is an indication healthy habitat and ecology which needs to be conserved. This may be due to conservation measures undertaken by the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lascar-butterfly-rare-in-the-region-sighted-at-gorewada/articleshow/79829922.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Three sent to jail in a dowry death case||PATNA: Police on Sunday forwarded three persons, including two women, to jail for allegedly torturing a woman for dowry, which forced her to commit suicide at Trilok Nagar under Agamkuam police station area in Patna City. Agamkuan police station SHO Abhijeet Kumar on Sunday said the deceased, identified as Kanchan Devi (24) hanged herself from the ceiling fan with her scarf inside her rented accommodation on Saturday. “Her husband Sanjeev Kumar’s father Umesh Singh and mother also lived there. However, Sanjiv lived at Samastipur as he worked there and used to come on weekends,” he said. Kumar said Umesh, his wife and one of the maternal aunts of Sanjeev were arrested for dowry death and forwarded to judicial custody on Sunday. The SHO said Sanjeev was evading arrest. Kumar said that Kanchan was from Miyabigha Krishnapur at Hilsa in Nalanda district. “She got married with Sanjeev two years back. The couple didn’t have any child yet,” he said. The SHO said Kanchan’s father Dinanath Singh has lodged an FIR against Sanjeev and 15 other family members, including his parents, alleging that they used to torture her for dowry. “Though he has not mentioned any amount but accused Kanchan’s husband and in-laws of torturing her for a car as dowry,” he said. Kumar said police had to use force to open Kanchan’s bedroom door. He said the body was handed over to family members after post mortem and further investigations were going on in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-sent-to-jail-in-a-dowry-death-case/articleshow/79827933.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt initiates steps to foster logistics sector||LUCKNOW: The state government on Sunday announced appointment of additional chief secretary, infrastructure and industrial development, Alok Kumar as state nodal officer for developing an integrated logistics plan for the overall development of logistics sector in the state. The government will also set up a State Logistics Coordination Committee under the chairmanship of chief secretary to monitor the implementation and progress of the logistics plan. The move comes in the backdrop of CM Yogi Adityanath issuing directions to further improve the industry ecosystem and build a robust logistics infrastructure in the state. Kumar will head the newly-created State Logistics Cell to function in sync with national logistics division for development of supply chains and warehousing facilities for industry. Departments like planning, transport, civil aviation, revenue, PWD, Export Promotion Bureau, UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) will be the key members on board, and nodal officers from central agencies like National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Airports Authority of India (AAI), Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI), etc. will be special invitees to the cell. Industry minister Satish Mahana said an integrated plan would ensure coordinated action and focused attention on logistics and supply chain issues in the state. ACS, infrastructure and industrial development, Alok Kumar said in addition to granting ‘industry status’ to the logistics sector, the government has made numerous new provisions to give impetus to this sector. So far, six proposals worth approximately Rs 438 crore investment have been received in the logistic sector. The UP government had launched its incentive policy for warehousing and logistics in 2018. Moreover, recently the state government has rationalised its land use policy to facilitate land for the logistics sector at lower prices and conversion fees. Accordingly, the development authorities are amending their zoning regulations, master plans and bylaws to apply industrial land use and industrial land use conversion charges for logistics parks and units besides lowering the eligibility limit from 50 acre to 25 acre for setting up logistics parks in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-initiates-steps-to-foster-logistics-sector/articleshow/79830631.cms||---
December 21, 2020||India||Call on CAA only after Covid vax rollout: Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday any decision on implementing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act would be taken only after a Covid-19 vaccine reached the people. “Rules for CAA have not been framed as yet. Let the vaccine come out first,” he said after a roadshow at Bolpur in Bengal’s Birbhum district. CM Mamata Banerjee has been a vocal opponent of CAA and NRC, vowing not to allow either in her state. There are 331 refugee colonies in the state housing 1.5 lakh families who had crossed over from neighbouring Bangladesh 40-50 years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/call-on-caa-only-after-covid-vax-rollout-amit-shah/articleshow/79831207.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kolhapur||1,181 property owners in Kolhapur owe Rs 35-crore tax||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has revealed that as many as 1,181 property owners owe about Rs 35 crore towards property tax. The civic body has released the ward-wise list of the properties along with the amount due. As per the list, in ward number 1, there are 131 owners owing Rs 2.9 crore, while in ward 2, 100 property owners are yet to pay Rs 2.5 crore. The highest number of property tax offenders are in ward 3 where as many as 800 property owners owe the civic body Rs 16.8 crore, while in ward 4, 150 property owners are yet to pay Rs 13.2 crore. According to a civic official, most of these properties are either commercial or big residential properties. Vinayak Aundhkar, assistant commissioner of KMC and acting head of property tax department, said, “We have issued seizure notices to the owners and tenants of these properties. If they fail to pay the dues, we will have to seal the properties and auction them to recover our dues.” Since civic chief Kadambari Balkawade took charge as the administrator of KMC, she is emphasising more on improving the tax collection. While the financial year is going to end in another three months, various departments of the KMC are lagging behind their collection targets. So far, around Rs 25 crore has been collected by the property tax department as against a target of Rs 75 crore. Balkawade has asked the tax superintendents to find out new untaxed properties and bring them under the tax net to increase the tax collection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1181-property-owners-in-kolhapur-owe-rs-35cr-tax/articleshow/79827948.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Vijayawada||MBA student's death: Circumstantial evidence points to suicide, say police||VIJAYAWADA: While police are yet to call it a suicide, evidence collected so far in the case of the death of the physically challenged village volunteer and MBA student Ummaneni Bhuvaneswari suggests that she may have immolated herself with petrol. The 22-year-old died under mysterious circumstances at Ongole in Prakasam district on Friday night. Bhuvaneswari’s mobile phone, police believe, holds the key to confirming whether her death was suicide or a murder. Just before her death, Bhuvaneswari updated her WhatsApp status to “it is going to be my last status message and please don’t call me again”. Police also located her messages on another application, Hago, over the last 15 days. On this app, Bhuvaneswari updated a message that read “15 days to go” and went on to update the message every day, in a countdown. The latest evidence collected by the police has been CCTV footage from near Bhuvaneswari’s house. Police noticed that she left home in a handicapped tricycle with a bottle of petrol and headed towards the place of incident. The footage shows a man acquainted with Bhuvaneswari who purchased petrol and handed it over to her about an hour before the incident was reported. The man has claimed that Bhuvaneswari asked him to buy petrol for her as she needed it for making a YouTube video. Speaking to TOI, Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal said that while all circumstantial evidence points to suicide, “however, we are neither ruling out anything nor confirming anything at this point in time as there are still some dots to be connected before coming to a conclusion. We are yet to retrieve the data from her phone as she has sent multiple messages and there are some incoming messages as well. As the phone was also burnt along with her to the level that the physical memory cannot be retrieved, we are trying to recover data from the cloud.” Apart from digital data, police are also waiting for the postmortem report to come to a conclusion. Another motive that points to suicide is that Bhuvaneswari had no disputes with anyone in the village. As a village volunteer, she was on good terms with everyone and helpful to the elderly and beneficiaries of government schemes. In the days preceding her death, Bhuvaneswari showed signs of depression, such as a message on social media that said, “what is the worth of life and what is the value of life”. While her friends did not anticipate her death, they recalled her messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/circumstantial-evidence-points-to-suicide-say-police/articleshow/79827944.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 21, 2020||Bareilly||Tractor –trolley laden with forest grass seized on PTR||Pilibhit: A tractor-trolley laden with dry grass illegally collected from the core forest area of Deuria forest range of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) was seized by a flying squad under officiating field director Javed Akhtar on Saturday evening. The action was taken after he received a tip-off. The forest produce was seized by the flying squad headed by the sub divisional forest officer of Puranpur circle. Akhtar has called for an explanation of the range officer, Girish Chandra, for failing to protect the core area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tractor-trolley-laden-with-forest-grass-seized-on-ptr/articleshow/79827952.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 21, 2020||Bareilly||Delhi woman called to Moradabad for ‘job interview’, raped by 2||BAREILLY: A 23-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by two men from Uttarakhand who offered her a job in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad. The woman, a resident of Delhi’s Mithapur, claimed that she was in contact with one of the accused who had offered her job and called her to Moradabad for an interview. The woman was sent for medical tests and the accused are in police custody. An FIR was registered early on Sunday under the IPC’s sections 376d (gang rape), 327 (voluntarily causing hurt to constrain an illegal act), 328 (intoxicating someone with intent to cause hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Both the accused belong to the minority community and a few right-wing members along with the woman’s family asked the police to add sections of anti-conversion law as well in the FIR for “introducing themselves with fake names”. A video of the right-wing members purportedly putting pressure on the cops inside the police station to add the section of new ‘love jihad’ law has also surfaced. According to the police, the woman, a graduate, came in contact with one of the accused through social media. The accused introduced himself as the manager of an online export company and called her for an interview to Moradabad. The woman arrived here on a bus and the accused along with a friend met her at the bus stand on Saturday. Thereafter, they took her to a hotel in Budh Vihar locality under the jurisdiction of Kotwali police station where they booked a room for her stay. The woman alleged that she was given a drink laced with sedatives, after which she lost consciousness. Later, she found that she was sexually assaulted and the accused were missing. The hotel staff were also not able to tell anything about the accused. The woman informed her parents and lodged a complaint with police. Police swung into action and thoroughly questioned the hotel staff and checked the CCTV footage. The accused were identified as Raja and Ehtesham. At midnight, the woman’s family members along with some right-wing activists went to the police station and asked circle officer Indu Siddhartha to also include sections under the new anti-conversion law. The officer rejected their demand. Kotwali SHO Ashok Kumar told TOI, “The accused are from Kashipur in Uttarakhand. One of them works as a sales manager for an online company and he was in touch with the woman for the past few days. We have registered an FIR under the relevant sections. The members of Hindu Jagran Manch accompanied the family members and were asking us to include the sections of the new anti-conversion law, but there was no such offence. The FIR was registered under appropriate sections. The woman was sent for a medico-legal examination and her statement was recorded.” Moradabad SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary said, “The accused were arrested the same night and sent to jail on Sunday. The woman will be produced in the court for recording her statement under section 164 CrPC.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/delhi-woman-23-called-to-moradabad-for-job-interview-gang-raped-by-2-men-from-ukhand/articleshow/79827964.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur rural reports 111 cases while city adds 23||KOLHAPUR: The rural parts of Solapur district reported 111 fresh Covid cases and one death due to the infection on Sunday while Solapur city reported 23 cases and no deaths. The number of active cases in the city has increased to 279 while the rural parts have 960 active cases Solapur rural has registered 37,556 patients, of them, 1,105 have succumbed to Covid. While the city reported a total of 10,791 patients. Of them, 577 have died due to the infection. 83 active cases in Kolhapur The number of active patients in Kolhapur district dropped to 83 as 13 patients were discharged after recovering on Sunday. The district also reported 12 fresh cases of Covid and one death. Of the fresh cases, Kolhapur city reported five cases. The district has recorded 49,384 Covid patients so far, of them, 1,697 have succumbed to the infection and 47,604 have recovered. Of the 83 active patients, four are in home isolation while the rest are in Covid hospitals. Sangli reports 12 cases Sangli district reported 12 fresh Covid cases and no deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 47,388. The death toll has now risen to 1,726. As many as 45,415 have recovered from the contagion while 247 are currently undergoing treatment. Satara reports 82 cases Satara district reported 82 fresh cases of Covid and one patient succumbed to the infection. The district has reported 54,088 cases, of them, 1,791 patients have succumbed to Covid, 50,965 patients have recovered and 1,332 patients currently undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-rural-reports-111-cases-while-city-adds-23/articleshow/79827957.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||Cloth trader posing as cop held||Nagpur: 32-year-old cloth trader Mehtab Alam Rafiq Khan was arrested by Yashodhara Nagar police on Saturday for posing as a cop and extorting money from passers-by. Khan extorted Rs500 from tea-kiosk owner Samliya Sahu last week when the victim had gone to get milk on his bike. Posing as a traffic cop in civilian clothes, Khan demanded to see the documents of his bike. Despite Sahu’s compliance, Khan demanded Rs500 and sped away from the place after pocketing the money. On the following day, Khan ran out of luck after he was spotted by Samliya’s son Jagdish at Itabhatti Chowk, checking motorists posing as a cop. Jagdish summoned his father at the spot, who immediately identified Khan as the cop who had extorted the amount from him a day ago. Jagdish alerted cops from Yashodhara Nagar police station, who immediately rounded up Khan and placed him under arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cloth-trader-posing-as-cop-held/articleshow/79829975.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Surat||VNSGU asked to take actions on complaints against Gupta||Surat: Registrar of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University has been instructed to take appropriate actions in serious allegations levelled by syndicate member Sanjay Desai. Desai had filed four complaints with the Gujarat governor in connection with the operations of the university in 2018 and 2019.These had been immediately forwarded to the education department for required action, but after a delay of several months the varsity has now been told to take actions on it. Desai had alleged that the former vice-chancellor Shivendra Gupta’s behaviour was unlawful and vindictive and that his actions diffused the atmosphere of restlessness and fear among academia. Other complaints were also about his alleged violation of act and statutes of the university and of the injustice done to scholar professor M G Timol. “To stop harm to the university system and higher education sector in south Gujarat I approached the governor office in 2018 and 2019. The applications were sent to the education department immediately but no action was taken on it then,” Desai told TOI. “After Gupta’s tenure ended as VC now the education department has asked the VNSGU registrar to take action. Now the university needs to correct the wrongs done by the former VC,” said Desai. The three years tenure of Gupta as VNSGU VC remained controversial with multiple issues. Gupta’s qualification is also challenged in court and the university did not give reply to many RTI applications seeking documents of Gupta’s qualification. Gupta’s appointment as VC was also challenged owing to his tainted track record as an employee of the Roads and Buildings Department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-asked-to-take-actions-on-complaints-against-gupta/articleshow/79828904.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Bareilly||Chargesheet against Azam for'remarks on Amar Singh's family'||Rampur: Rampur police have chargesheeted Samajwadi Party leader and Lok Sabha member Muhammad Azam Khan for his alleged remarks against late Rajya Sabha member Amar Singh's family.Amar had lodged an FIR against Azam at Gomtinagar, Lucknow, police station in 2018. The case was later transferred to Azeemnagar police station in Rampur as the incident took place at Jauhar University.According to the police officials, in 2018, during an interview at the private university, Azam had allegedly threatened to throw acid on Amar's family. In the complaint, Amar had alleged that Azam said communal riots would stop in the country if people like Amar were eliminated. Such statements stoke communal tensions, Amar had stated in his complaint.On Sunday, Azeemnagar SHO Ravendra Kumar said, "Azam Khan has been chargesheeted under the charges of promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion, making comments against national integration, deliberate and malicious act intended to insult the region or beliefs of certain class of citizens, defamation and criminal intimidation."Notably, more than a hundred criminal cases have been registered against Azam at different police stations of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/chargesheet-against-azam-forremarks-on-amar-singhs-family/articleshow/79827970.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Bariatric surgery reduces obesity in 33-year-old||Vijayawada: City doctors performed a rare and complex bariatric surgery on a 33-year-old patient who was suffering from a non-alcoholic fatty liver. Doctors from Manipal Hospital performed the surgery, saving the patient who was also suffering from obesity and weighed around 124 kilos. Explaining the details, teams of doctors from Manipal Hospitals said the patient had been suffering from obesity since 2009. His weight increased drastically and he experienced difficulty in breathing and was unable to manage his daily activities. Speaking at a conference, Dr Murali Krishna Ganguri, consultant diabetes and endocrinology, Manipal Hospital, Vijayawada, said “Once he was diagnosed as NAFLD cirrhosis with obesity, the team of doctors had decided to offer the patient bariatric surgery and explained how this was going to help him lose weight and save his liver. Doing bariatric surgery in a cirrhotic liver is be challenging because of bleeding tendency, technical difficulties during surgery due to presence of large blood vessels, anaesthesia. Accumulation of fat in the liver can cause liver failure. But we managed to perform the surgery successfully.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bariatric-surgery-reduces-obesity-in-33-year-old/articleshow/79827972.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||For Ahmedabad, cases down by 32% in 3 weeks||AHMEDABAD: The post-Diwali surge recorded in the city in the latter half of November accounted for 2,281 Covid cases from November 23 to 29 — showing 326 daily cases in Ahmedabad. The cases were down to 1,562 between December 14 and 20 amounting to, on average, 223 daily cases. That is a reduction of 31.5%. It was slightly better than Gujarat’s drop of 30% in weekly Covid cases. The reduction is starker in Covid mortality for the city. Against 77 deaths between November 23 and 29, the December 14-20 period registered 37 deaths, a slide of 52%. The drop in mortality numbers of the city was sharper than that of the state — which recorded a reduction in mortality by 42% in the same period, from 110 to 64. An analysis of the post-Diwali period reveals that eight municipal corporations accounted for 55.6% of the weekly cases from November 23 to 29. The share increased to 57.7% indicating a better reduction in the non-corporation areas. Experts, however, pointed at the reduction in the daily tests as one of the factors. Between November 23 and 29, the state carried out, on average, 74,936 daily tests. Compared to that Gujarat recorded, on average, 54,886 tests over the past seven days. That is a dip of 26.7%, corresponding with the reduction in the positive cases which also indicates a nearly uniform positivity rate (positive cases per 100 tests) of 2%. Ahmedabad and Surat cumulatively recorded 308 deaths over the past four weeks, which accounted for 82% of the 376 deaths in Gujarat. That is, of every 10 deaths in the state in the past 30 days, eight were from Ahmedabad and Surat (accounting for 78% and 22% of the deaths respectively).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/for-abad-cases-down-by-32-in-3-weeks/articleshow/79830072.cms||Parth Shastri
December 21, 2020||Patna||Develop Guwaridih in Bhagalpur as historical site: CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday visited the archaeological site at Guwaridih village in Bihpur block of Bhagalpur district and said the area would be developed as a place of historical importance. A mound at Guwaridih, which is near Jairampur and located between Ganga and Kosi rivers, specifically on the southern bank of Kosi, had recently yielded several items belonging to the pre-historic and ancient periods, from as far back as the copper age down to the Maurya, Gupta and post-Gupta periods forming a historical continuity. The exhibits on display that the CM inspected included terracotta figurines, copper items, ‘kadhai’ designer handle, jewels, clay ‘manka’ (beads), copper coins, bone fossils, tools, implements, vat, pitchers with tap, pottery, stone slabs, triangular bricks and copper pottery. Nitish told mediapersons that Bihpur MLA Shailendra had informed him about the place and the archaeological items found there. “I decided to personally visit the place,” he said. As the area faces threat due to erosion caused by the Kosi, the CM said a detailed project report would be prepared to divert the course of the river and link it with its main channel. As to the finding of a Buddha idol belonging to the Pala period from Shahkund in Bhagalpur, the CM said a team of experts had been sent to prepare its report on it. Bihar Heritage Development Society (BHDS) executive director Vijay Kumar Choudhary and other senior officials accompanied the CM. As Choudhary explained to the CM, the items found belonged to the copper age, Mauryan, Kushana, Gupta and post-Gupta periods, which reflected continuity from the pre-historic to the historical periods. Further, Choudhary also said Guwaridih on the north of the Ganga and ancient trade centre at Champa on the southern bank of the river on the outskirts of Bhagalpur town might have enjoyed some kind of trade and cultural relations in the ancient period. Accordingly, the CM told mediapersons that a team of experts had submitted its initial report, which pointed to Guwaridih being a historical site. “After visiting the site, I also feel that it is a historical place whose roots go down to the ancient period,” he said, adding that its historicity makes it around 2,500 years old. Nitish said he would ask experts to visit the site again and prepare a detailed report on it, besides pointing to the possible extent of the area of its connections and influence in the vicinity, so that archaeological excavation and the reading of its findings could be conducted to throw further light on its significance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/develop-guwaridih-in-bpur-as-historical-site-says-nitish/articleshow/79828023.cms||Abhay Singh
December 21, 2020||Madurai||Corpn finds 700 potholes to repair in Madurai, allots Rs 40 lakh||MADURAI: Madurai corporation has identified roughly 700 potholes, including around 100 on various bus routes in all four zones of the city, which it intends to repair. This will provide temporary relief to commuters, who are aggrieved by the pathetic condition of roads in various parts of the city which was aggravated by the monsoon. With complaints pouring in from various quarters, the civic corporation has decided to carry out repair works. “Corporation commissioner S Visakan instructed all AEs to sort out pothole problems at the recently held meeting. The work will start in a day or two,” an official from engineering wing of Madurai corporation said. Sources said the commissioner has allotted Rs 40 lakh, at Rs 10 lakh for each zone, for the work. He also instructed the AEs to ensure roads dug for excavation works are closed as and when the work is over. Many of the interior roads have been excavated by the corporation to carry out work on laying drinking water pipelines and underground drainage. Bitumen will be used for repair works on main roads and bus routes while debris will be used to fill potholes and close road excavations for the time being in interior roads. Roads will be laid wherever required. Some of the potholes and damaged roads in Masi Streets, where smart city works are being carried out, have been repaired. Other roads including damaged Veli Streets would be covered now. Meanwhile, residents have complained that it takes weeks and even months for repair works at excavated roads. V R Ramkumar of Mahal Pandhadi said, “Many of the roads which were dug for laying pipeline are yet to be closed although works were completed two months ago. Officials do not attend to repair works. As they drag their feet, commuters face various difficulties,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-finds-700-potholes-to-repair-in-madurai-allots-rs-40l/articleshow/79830649.cms||V Devanathan
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man-eating tiger throws forest staff off the track||KAGAZNAGAR: While tracking a man-eating tiger is a challenge in itself, the Telangana forest department has not made much headway in either identifying or tracking the big cat in Kagaznagar Tiger Corridor (KTC). For that matter, there is no clarity — if there are two tigers or one that were involved in both Digida and Kondpalli incidents. The forest department continues to be in a denial mode that it is not a man-eating tiger and both were accidental kills. Of the eight tigers believed to be inhabiting KTC, the forest department has not been able to pinpoint which big cat has turned into a man-eater. Nawab Shafath Ali Khan of Wildlife Tranquil Force told TOI that it is a false assumption that once a tiger turns a maneater, it will eat only humans. “It kills other animals too, but prefers human meat. Avni tigress used to kill four cows a day even after killing humans. As a thumb rule, a tiger hunts once in a week and 52 times year. Asifabad area has a low prey base due to which a tiger hunts once in two weeks or more. It lives a life of starvation in a low prey base area.” It is one of the primary reasons that it is attacking human beings, he reasoned. “Due to starvation, stress, displacement from the original territory and due to physiological changes in the animal, a tiger turns into a man-eater,” he explained. Maharashtra has a dedicated tiger protection force and Telangana needs a similar force with trained trackers, tranquilisers, wildlife biologists and veterinarians, experts said. Forest officials said several teams are hot on the trail of the maneater-tiger. Kawal Tiger Reserve chief conservator Vinod Kumar said the staff are trained in Chandrapur in tiger tracking and deal with conflict. “We have set up three cages in Kondapalli and one in Digida. Camera traps have also been set up,” he said. U Sanju, sarpanch of Digida village, however, said there is no clarity from the forest department as to which tiger among the eight big cats is a maneater. Nawab said when tracking a maneater-tiger, one has to think like a big cat. “Tiger is usually a nocturnal animal that moves in the night. During the day, it sleeps in bushes or near water bodies. Extensive scouting should be done in a 10km radius of human kill area. Trackers on foot patrolling should look out for carcasses, bones, claw marks on trees, pugmarks and scat,” he said. He said, “Tiger does not kill a human. It will not even come close to a human. Tiger is an animal of high forest. But, if it turns a maneater, it will come close to human habitations and agriculture fields.” He said a team led by a tiger-tracker should be equipped with a stopper rifle. “Otherwise, he would not have the courage to go after the dangerous maneater-tiger.” Also, tamed elephants should be pressed into service to hunt the tigers. In Telangana, they are not available, he said. "After firing a dart, there is an induction period of 15 to 25 minutes before the animal goes down. The animal can charge on the tranquiliser effect or get into a water body or run into the village. We need to get 20-25 metres close to tiger to aim a tranquillizer gun," said Nawab Shafath Ali Khan, Wildlife Tranquil Force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-clues-man-eating-tiger-throws-forest-staff-off-the-track/articleshow/79831011.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 21, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Half of Majha’s adult population not active’||CHANDIGARH: More than half of adult population of Majha region in Punjab – Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, and Pathankot – does not do enough physical activities to stay healthy as recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and are also not eating healthy, says a new study. The joint study has been conducted by two universities of Punjab and a foreign university. Work status, residence, middle-level household income, high smartphone screen time, obesity and having a history of raised blood pressure, diabetes and cholesterol emerged as significant predictors of insufficient physical activity among adults residing in the region. To construct a physical activity profile of the adult population of the region, researchers used WHO’s STEPwise approach, a framework for non-communicable disease (NCD) surveillance, for collecting data for different variables such as physical activity levels, demographic characteristics, behavioural parameters — daily screen time, fruit intake/week, and vegetable intake/week — physical characteristics and self-reported history of cardiovascular diseases, raised blood pressure, diabetes, and raised cholesterol. A total of 1,130 adult participants aged between 18 and 64 years comprising both genders, from rural, urban, and different sociodemographic backgrounds from the four districts participated in the study. Of the total participants, 56.81% were not sufficiently active as per WHO’s moderate- to vigorous-intensity recommendations. Among women, 59.1% were found not doing enough physical activities, while 54% of male failed to meet criteria. The age group of 30 to 40 years reported the highest inactivity of 60.45%, while 53.6% of participants in the age group of 18 to 29 years were least inactive. Obesity and overweight was a problem in 40.2% of the participants. On an average, male participants reported using smartphones for 113.91 minutes per day, while women had 68.87 minutes of smartphone screen time per day. Their weekly consumption of fruits and vegetables was lower than the WHO’s recommendations. Of total participants, 20.4% reported a history of high blood pressure, while high cholesterol level was reported by 7.61% and 6.8% had cardiovascular disease. The findings of the study titled ‘Physical activity levels among the adults of Majha region of Punjab, India: A cross-sectional study’ have been published in the American Journal of Human Biology. The study done by a team led by Harmandeep Singh of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, Punjab; Sukhdev Singh and Amandeep Singh of Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; and Julien Baker of Hong Kong Baptist University, Kowloon Tong, has indicated that the epidemic of NCDs (non-communicable diseases) and their risk factors such as physical inactivity, overweight and unhealthy diet is growing in sections of Punjabi population. “Worrying facts have come to fore. Urgent interventions from central and state governments are required to achieve the objectives of WHO’s global action plan on physical activity 2018 to 2030 and NPCDCS,” said Harmandeep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/more-than-half-of-majhas-adult-population-not-sufficiently-active-study/articleshow/79830017.cms||Vinod Kumar
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Covid swinging from west to east||AHMEDABAD: In the second week of December, active corona cases rose in the western part of the city; but in the third week, cases in the east began to rise. Experts were surprised by the spurt of 32 active cases in the Central Zone, or the Walled City area, between December 13 and 20 alone. Official AMC data reveals that between December 13 and 20, the eastern part of the city had reported an increase of 74 cases, while the western part recorded a decline of 99. However, in the period between December 6 and 13, there was an increase of 53 cases in the west and a plunge of 110 in the east. AMC officials said that in the third week of this month there was a sharp dip in cases in Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota, Ghatlodia, and Chandkheda in the North West Zone. Navrangpura, Paldi, Naranpura, Vadaj, and Sabarmati in the West Zone too reported a drop in cases. A slide was also registered in Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Sarkhej, and Maktampura in the South West Zone. The officials said that the Walled City area had been showing a decline in the number of cases over the past few weeks. They said that by mid-December, the number had gone down to 227. However, on Sunday, the cases in the area crossed the 250-mark. The officials said that according to the data, most Covid patients from both parts of the city belong to the educated class. The swelling of case numbers in the Walled City indicated increase in the movement of people . Officials said that they are examining the movement data of Covid patients. It is clear that the movement of Covid-positive people is more pronounced in areas such as Jodhpur, Bodakdev, Satellite, Vastrapur, the Walled City, and Maninagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-swinging-from-west-to-east/articleshow/79830061.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Experts put T-cells under scanner||Ahmedabad: The results of a recent sero survey carried out by the AMC showed that antibodies were not developed uniformly among those who had encountered the Covid-19 virus. While some could develop resistance, others got infected more than once, typically after a gap of about four or five months. Thus, along with studying the immune response of the body in the form of immunoglobulins (Ig), experts are now emphasizing the need to understand the role of T-cells. That will reveal the cell-level response against any foreign body detected by the immune system and help understand how the body remembers the Covid-19 infection and what happens when the system contracts it again. Dr Amit Prajapati, a city-based critical care specialist, said that the rate of re-infection is relatively very low. “We have observed that IgG are very much present in the majority of the patients who are coming for follow-ups after six months,” he said. “In one case where the re-infection did occur, it was in a milder form. It could be the immune response.” Dr Prajapati went on to say: “But overall, the rate of infection is relatively lower in the general population. One theory explaining it points to T-cell immunity.” Dr Kamal Sharma, a senior city-based interventional cardiologist, had earlier said that interventions such as the BCG vaccine aim at boosting T-cell mediated immunity. A similar approach is explored in understanding immunity against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/experts-put-t-cells-under-scanner/articleshow/79830069.cms||Parth Shastri
December 21, 2020||Surat||SGCCI submits EOI for setting up EPC for technical textile||Surat: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has submitted the expression of interest (EOI) for setting up of the Export Promotion Council (EPC) for technical textiles, with a view to promote the exports and manufacturing of technical textile products in the city. Official sources said that the Ministry of Textiles has issued public notice inviting EOI for setting up EPC for technical textiles. Surat is considered to be the man-made fabric (MMF) hub of India, having nearly 65% of share in the MMF textiles in the country, where technical textile is a sub-group and the investment is increasing in the region. Industry sources said that the formation of EPC for technical textiles was much-awaited and that it will boost the export and strengthen the domestic manufacturing capacity.During the lockdown, the textile entrepreneurs forayed into the manufacturing crucial safety essentials like PPE kits, face masks, coveralls, shoe covers, anti-viral fashion masks etc.— all part of the medical textile.The Man-Made Textile Research Association (MANTRA) is the designated centre of excellence in technical textiles by the government of Gujarat and centre of excellence in Agrotech by the government of India in the sectors namely coating and lamination, non-woven and converter technology.Vice-president of SGCCI, Ashish Gujarati, told TOI, “SGCCI intends to take a lead role in setting up EPC for technical textiles in Surat. We have all the infrastructure and manpower required to run the EPC. Surat is the biggest centre of MMF with 13,500 million metres of fabric production per annum.”Officials at MANTRA said that the non-wovens have a significant share in the technical textile sector. “There are many small and medium units in and around Surat which are into the manufacturing of sanitary napkins, underpads, wipes, soft cast padding, wading moulded automotive, luggages etc,” said a senior officer at the MANTRA“Surat has emerged as the technical textile hub in the country with many SMEs manufacturing various kinds of textile products. The sector is still unorganised and that the EPC will further boost in organising the sector,” Amish Shah, owner of Artline industries told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-submits-eoi-for-setting-up-epc-for-technical-textile/articleshow/79828965.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Devotees protest TTD curbs on pilgrim footfall||Tirupati: Devotees on a pilgrimage to the temple city created a flutter at the TTD ticket counters in Tirupati on Sunday. According to information, a group of devotees who queued up at the ticket counters near the Vishnu Nivasam pilgrims amenities complex on Sunday morning said they were extremely unhappy to have received confirmed darshan slots for December 24 instead of within the next 48 hours. Counter staff clarified the free darshan quota for the next three days was already exhausted. Unhappy with the counter staff’s reply, devotees entered into a heated argument with the staff and later staged protests and raised slogans against the TTD in front of the Vishnu Nivasam complex. “Many of us have come from far-off places with our families for darshan. After arriving here this morning, TTD staffers said they will issue us darshan tickets for December 24. How can devotees from poor families afford to stay for three to four days for darshan?” the devotees questioned. The TTD increased the Sarvadarshan quota by 3,000 tickets to facilitate darshan on Monday for the protesting devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/devotees-protest-ttd-curbs-on-pilgrim-footfall/articleshow/79828018.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Getting ready: Punjab looks for suitable vaccination sites||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has its task cut out as many routine vaccination sites do not have adequate space as mandated by the central government for carrying out the much awaited Covid-19 immunisation drive. For better crowd management and to ensure social distancing, each site must have a vaccination room and waiting area, as per the guidelines issued by the Union government, besides an observation room for monitoring the vaccinated person for 30 minutes for any adverse event after shots are administered. There are about 11,000 sites to be used during routine vaccination drives in Punjab. According to sources, a sizable number of these sites do not have required space. The state health department on Friday held a meeting with the district administration and issued directions for identifying sites with adequate space and look for additional sites. In addition to healthcare facilities, the government will be looking for buildings of anganwadi centres, government schools, panchayat and other government buildings that can be used as vaccination sites. All the identified sites will be monitored by the state and central governments. Instructions have also been issued to map additional vaccinators. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the health department was in process of identifying sites having required space to carry out the inoculation drive. “We are identifying the already existing vacation sites having the required space and also ascertaining the number of new sites which would be required,” added Dr Bhaskar. He said the government would require additional sites for the third phase of vaccination in which all people below 50 with co-morbidities will be vaccinated. For safe delivery and storage of vaccines, Punjab has identified 729 cold chain points across the state and 22 stores at district level and 127 at block level. The state has two walk-in freezer points, one each at Chandigarh and Ferozepur, and walk-in cooler in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, and Ferozepur. It is also equipped with 1,165 iced refrigerators and 1,079 deep freezers. For equipping the vaccination teams to tackle emergency situations, special medical kits will be provided to them to enable them to treat beneficiaries in case of any adverse event. Special training sessions are being conducted for these teams. 1.25L to be covered in first phase Frontline health workers — doctors, medical students, nurses, paramedic staff, and Asha workers — will be first to be immunised. Punjab has identified 1.25-lakh health workers to receive the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine whenever it is developed. The frontline workers are second on the list of priority groups to get dose of the vaccine, followed by all people above 50 to be vaccinated and all people below 50 with co-morbidity. There are five vaccines being developed in India, of which four are in the last phase of trials. The central government is hopeful of getting a successful vaccine by mid-January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-looks-for-vaccination-sites-with-required-space/articleshow/79830009.cms||Vinod Kumar
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||Mayor Sandip Joshi resigns, Dayashankar Tiwari to be 54th mayor||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi of BJP has resigned from the post. Along with Joshi, deputy mayor Manisha Kothe too has resigned from the post. Both have handed over their resignations to municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B. Dayashankar Tiwari will be the city’s 54th mayor. Joshi announced his decision to give up the post at a press conference on Monday. City BJP president and MLC Pravin Datke said that the party would soon declare the name of new deputy mayor. After Nanda Jichkar completed her two-and-a-half-year term as mayor, the BJP split the remaining term of 26 months between two senior corporators. Party sources said both Tiwari and Joshi were the main contenders since the mayor’s post was reserved for the general category. Joshi, a close aide of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, was elected the 53rd mayor for 13 months and assumed charge on November 22 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mayor-sandip-joshi-resigns-dayashankar-tiwari-to-be-54th-mayor/articleshow/79841066.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Meerut||Meerut health dept sets Dec 25 deadline to complete Covid vax training||Meerut: Meerut health department has fixed December 25 deadline to complete the Covid-19 vaccination related training. As a part of the exercise, master trainers will be trained for the three phases to ensure that the vaccination process goes on smoothly. “The Meerut health department has fixed December 25 deadline to complete the Covid-19 vaccination related training. This includes training health workers in conducting vaccination and also fixing their duties at the cold chains,” said Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut additional chief medical officer. In the training sessions, information will also be given about how long the vaccine will be stored, vaccine booths’ structure and others. Also, a 100-bed Covid-19 hospital will be set up. For those coming for the vaccination, there will be a waiting room, vaccination room and observation room. Police security and CCTV cameras will be set up at the vaccination booths. , An identity proof will be required for the purpose, said Dr Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-health-dept-sets-dec-25-deadline-to-complete-covid-vax-training/articleshow/79827998.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||Employment help desk to come up in all UP govt depts||LUCKNOW: In a bid to step up employment generation in the state under ‘Mission Rozgar’, the UP government has decided to set up employment help desks in every department, authority and organisation in the state. According to a government order issued by chief secretary RK Tiwari, the help desk would provide detailed information about the department programmes pertaining to employment, entrepreneurship, skill development and apprenticeship. The ‘Mission Rozgar’ came into effect from December 5. The government offices would also be required to maintain a register containing details of the candidates who would be informed about the employment programme – as per their qualification – whenever it is conducted. The department conducting an online apprenticeship and skill development programme would be required to prepare the data bank of the eligible candidates. At the same time the department would rope in the help desk in inspiring the candidates to get themselves registered with the department. The chief secretary, in his order, said that the directorate of training and employment would be entrusted to keep the database through a portal and mobile application. The corporation, board and commission of different departments would also be appointing a nodal officer whose details would be reflected on the portal. The data and information related to employment would be entered by the departmental nodal officer every 15th and last day of every month. The entire programme pertaining to Mission Rozgar would be conducted and monitored by the wage and labour (service and employment) commission and the district level committees headed by district magistrates. The department would be required to upload the details of employment, entrepreneurship, skill development and apprenticeship -- created by the end of the current financial year – on employment portal (sewayojan.up.nic.in). At the same time, the departments would be required to put out the targeted employment generation and the workable plan for next financial year. The directorate of training and employment would be required to coordinate with the private industries and organise employment fairs in the state. The departments would also be organising workshops and awareness programmes. The department and the commissions have also been tasked to dispose of pendency of jobs through special drives. The services outsources will have to be shown in the departmental plans and achievements. The state government would be organising programmes to spread awareness about Mission employment at the district level. The programmes would be attended by MPs, MLAs and ministers in charge of the respective districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/employment-help-desk-to-come-up-in-all-up-govt-depts/articleshow/79830658.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Madurai||Childline stopped 74 child marriages in Sivaganga this year||MADURAI: The Childline in Sivaganga has received 445 complaints this year, rescued over 50 children and stopped 74 child marriages this year till date. At a recent function presided over by Childline director Jeevanatham, at a children’s day function in Sivaganga, he said that Childline was striving to ensure welfare of children and protect them from undesirable incidents. District childwelfare committee chairperson P Sarala said that the complaints received by Childline this year were addressed with the help of district child protection officers. The child marriages cases were brought to the notice of the committee with the help of neighbours and relatives. The committee received 17 sexual abuse, nine child missing and 13 runaway children complaints. Twenty children who were found begging were also rescued by Childline. The rescued children were moved to reception homes and then sent to the government homes if their parents did not come forward to take them. The number of girls in reception homes has outnumbered boys in the district this year. There were just two boys, who were orphaned or were not wanted by their parents, while nine girls were shunned by parents for offending them. It included a 14-year-old girl who had eloped for the second time with a man against the wishes of her parents. Sarala added that the lockdown had increased incidents of child marriages in the district like never before and they had also recorded 17 Posco cases, only two of them pertaining to child marriages. “As children are at home and schools have not reopened sexual abuse is also on the rise,” she said. Thamarakki in the district and its surroundings were some parts where child marriages were common and the authorities had even stopped four on the same day in this region this year. Another major menace was begging by children under the guise of selling pencils and booklets to make money. The district child welfare committee has taken it upon itself to create awareness on the dangers on a regular basis at places where they are more children begging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/childline-stopped-74-child-marriages-in-sivaganga-this-year/articleshow/79830659.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tiger corridor could be satellite core for Kawal Tiger Reserve||HYDERABAD: The forest department has proposed to include the tiger corridor area in Asifabad district abutting Kawal Tiger Reserve (KTR) as a satellite core. More tigers are spotted in the corridor of Chennur and Kagaznagar than KTR core area, it said. After two human kills by maneater-tiger, the forest department is focussing on man-animal conflict in the region. KTR project field director CP Vinod Kumar said both Didiga and Penchikalpet where two teenagers were mauled to death fall under the tiger corridor and not in the core reserve. Officials said tigers come from Maharashtra and Indravati. The tiger reserve has been formed with intention that the corridor will act as a passage. However, there are impediments between a core tiger reserve and tiger corridor like railway tracks and NH-363. “We have decided to propose to National Tiger Conservation Authority for declaration of corridor areas as satellite core. We are going to issue a draft notification soon. They are no more transient tigers and have become resident tigers in corridor area,” Vinod said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-corridor-could-be-satellite-core-for-ktr/articleshow/79831012.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 21, 2020||Dehradun||Cong to attack govt over corruption, unemployment & farm agitation during assembly session||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand unit of Congress is all set to raise issues of corruption, unemployment, and farmer agitation during the three-day state assembly session, scheduled to start in Dehradun from Monday. Party's newly-appointed state in-charge Devendra Yadav will also stay put in Dehradun during the assembly session to attack the incumbent BJP-led state government over these issues. Leader of Opposition in Uttarakhand assembly, Indira Hriyadesh, who met the party leaders and MLAs on the eve of assembly on Sunday, said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is full of corruption and its ministers have taken bribes in many development projects, including the construction of National Highway-74. “Where is the investigation in the NH-74 scam? Who has been arrested in the SC/ST scholarship scam? BJP has also failed to give any satisfactory response on the sting operations done on the chief minister. The government has failed to undertake any kind of development in hills. We, as the Opposition, will seek answers on all these issues from the government,” said Hriyadesh. She added that the Congress will also demand extension of the assembly session. In a similar vein, Congress’s state president Pritam Singh said, “The state government has totally failed in managing the Covid-19 situation here. This has led to economic distress, especially in hills. We want that the assembly must be extended so that all these important issues are addressed,” said Singh. He added that party's state in-charge Devendra Yadav will participate in assembly ‘gherao’ on Monday along with members of Congress youth wing. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will not be able to attend the assembly session physically as he was tested positive for coronavirus last week. It has also been learnt that cabinet minister and government spokesperson, Madan Kaushik, will take charge of dealing with the Opposition. Notably, the government will present a supplementary budget of Rs 4,096 crore during the upcoming assembly session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-to-attack-govt-over-corruption-unemployment-farm-agitation-during-assembly-session/articleshow/79828026.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 21, 2020||Goa||Cuncolim fish units get showcause from GSPCB||Panaji: The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has issued showcause notices to four fish meal and fish processing units at the Cuncolim industrial estate seeking to know why they should not be issued a closure direction for violating the water act and air act. In one showcase notice, environmental engineer Sanjeev Joglekar said, “The management is hereby directed to showcause within a period of seven days from the date of receipt of this notice as to why polluter pays penalty should not be imposed and closure directions should not be issued against the unit for operating the unit in violation of the water act and air act.” The notices have been issued under Section 25/26 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and under Section 21 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. The board initiated action following several complaints from the organisations and individuals that fish meal plants and fish processing units at Cuncolim industrial estate were discharging waste into illegal borewells. Recently, the board had asked superintendent of police, South Goa, to initiate an investigation to determine the location of the borewells installed by these plants and to submit a report within seven days. The notice stated that review of documents shows that there is no data to confirm that the unit is achieving zero liquid discharge (ZLD) and therefore a detailed investigation on treatment of effluent, and treated effluent discharge and reuse, is required. “While carrying out installation of ZLD system, it is observed that the site neither informed nor obtained prior NOC from the GSPCB, which is legal deviation from consent condition. Data to confirm that the unit is achieving ZLD is not available,” the notice stated. The notice also stated that waste water generated at the fish unloading area, multi-effect evaporator, cooling tower, and boiler is being conveyed underground. GSPCB said that it is evident that the presently operated effluent treatment plant (ETP) is of much a lower capacity and design than that required to handle the actual waste water generated on site. “Secondary treatment is underground, which actually should be above ground. Reason for abandoning anaerobic installation is not available,” the notice stated. The board said that data on flow at the inlet and outlet ofthe processing equipment is not recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cuncolim-fish-units-get-showcause-from-gspcb/articleshow/79830662.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Simhachalam prepares for Vaikunta Ekadasi fest||Visakhapatnam: The Lord Varaha Lakshmi Nrusimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam is gearing up to celebrate Vaikunta Ekadasi, an auspicious annual festival. The coordination committee of Vaikunta Ekadasi will meet on December 21 to finalise arrangements. A senior police officer said that nearly 250 police personnel will be pressed into festival duties from the night of December 24. The abundant police cover is being ensured to conduct the festival in adherence to Covid-19-related standard operating procedures. Devotees will be allowed darshan from 5am on December 25. Temple authorities have made arrangements expecting a huge turnout for the Uttara Dwara darshan of Simhachaleswara. The Uttara Dwara Darshan is an auspicious event for which devotees seek blessings for happiness, health, wealth and peace. The temple authorities have decided to prepare nearly one lakh laddus along with anna prasada vitharana. — Kamalakara Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/simhachalam-prepares-for-vaikunta-ekadasi-fest/articleshow/79828032.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 21, 2020||Meerut||Body of CRPF jawan foundhanging from tree in Shamli||Meerut: Rajiv Chauhan, 35, a Central Reserve Paramilitary Force (CRPF) jawan posted in West Bengal and currently on a sanctioned leave, was found dead in his field in Kandhla area of UP's Shamli district.Prima facie police said the man ended his life over domestic dispute, though the exact reason is yet to be ascertained as the findings of the postmortem report is awaited.The local police were alerted after they found his body hanging from a tree in the field on Saturday. His body with rope around his neck was lying in the field under mysterious circumstances.Not ruling out foul play, police in the district are waiting for the postmortem report."He had left for his farm in the evening and later his body was found in the field. He was rushed to a community health centre where he was pronounced dead. Family of the deceased has not yet registered any complaint with the police," Sukirti Madhav, Shamli SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/body-of-crpf-jawan-foundhanging-from-tree-in-shamli/articleshow/79828029.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Over 150 jobless teachers cane-charged, detained||PATIALA: Police, on Sunday, detained around 150 protesters of the teachers eligibility test (TET) pass elementary teacher training (ETT) union and released them far away from the protest site. They were cane-charged as they staged a demonstration demanding jobs at YPS Chowk near the residence of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in Patiala on Saturday. The protesters alleged that they were lathi-charged by the police on Sunday morning and forcibly taken in buses to be dropped around 15 kilometres away from the protest site. “We had to spend all of Saturday night on the road. The police did not even allow our co-protesters to bring quilts for us to spend the night. Many of us have been injured. Some of our protesters are sitting in Gurudwara Dukhniwaran Sahib and waiting for more members of unemployed unions to join them,” said Deep Banarasi, state press secretary of the union. Civil Lines SHO said the protesters, around 100 in number, were detained and released later. A case was registered against 11 identified and 100 unidentified persons on Saturday. The protesters are demanding that only ETT and TET pass unemployed persons should be recruited for the 2,364 ETT posts advertised. They also want the state government to advertise 10,000 more posts for ETT-qualified aspirants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/over-150-jobless-teachers-cane-charged-detained/articleshow/79830030.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP gives Rs 23k-cr loans to micro & small enterprises||LUCKNOW: By distributing loans worth Rs 22,800 crore among 5.12 lakh micro and small enterprises UP emerged on top among Indian states, the state government has claimed. A government spokesperson said on Sunday that the initiative taken by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to support the small industries during the Covid-19 pandemic has paid rich dividends. While the economy overall was under stress during the Covid-induced lockdown, UP's micro and small units under Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) were given maximum loans in the country. CGTMSE CEO Sandeep Verma said, “Under this scheme, loans are guaranteed to small-scale entrepreneurs, so that entrepreneurs who do not have bank guarantees and want to grow their business, can get loans under this scheme and increase their business further. Since loans are guaranteed under CGTMSE, therefore banks do not face any problem in giving loans. The top 11 states that have provided the maximum amount of loans to the micro and small industries are Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, West Bengal, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, and Bihar. CGTMSE is being operated under the joint initiative of the ministry of micro, small industries, and SIDBI of the central government. CGTMSE compensates the loss of loan amount received from banks by micro and small-scale industry units working in the country. CGTMSE has also made changes in the system of recovery to issue security to the micro and small scale industries, to encourage the industries which do not misuse the loan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-gives-rs23kcr-loans-to-micro-small-enterprises/articleshow/79830660.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Civil admitted one positive patient every hour||Ahmedabad: December 20 marked the completion of nine months of the first recorded case of Covid-19 in Gujarat on March 19. In the 276 days, Civil Hospital – Gujarat’s biggest Covid-19 care centre – attended to 8,367 patients, which accounts to daily average of 30 patients. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of the hospital, said that the staff of 1,725 – ranging from super specialists to sanitation workers – continuously work at the 1,200-bed dedicated Covid-19 hospital. “In the past nine months, we attended to 48,000 patients in OPDs and 19,791 in IPDs. A total of 1.54 lakh tests were conducted out of which 18,841 had tested positive,” he said, adding that the hospital has used over 23 lakh cubic metre oxygen worth Rs 7 crore during the months as part of Covid treatment protocol. With the second wave of the pandemic, the hospital increased its capacity to 350 beds with ventilators. “We also started the country’s first plasma bank,” said Dr Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civil-admitted-one-positive-patient-every-hour/articleshow/79830106.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 577 new Covid cases, five deaths||CHANDIGARH: Haryana health authorities had a relaxed Sunday as the 10 out of 22 districts reported 20 or less new Covid cases and the recoveries of the day exceed the new case count yet again. With Nuh and Jind districts reporting nil case, Haryana reported 577 new cases and five deaths during the day. In addition, 763 persons were declared recovered. With this Haryana’s overall count has gone to 2,57,644 cases, 2,821 deaths, 2,48,935 recoveries, and 5,888 active cases. Recovery rate of the state went up at 96.62% and positive rate of the state has come down further to 6.12%. While death rate too came down to 1.09%. Of the active cases, 203 patients are critical who are on oxygen support and ventilator support in Covid care centres across the state. The state conducted 36,129 tests during the day, which took the testing rate to 1,66,433 tests per million per day. According to information, two deaths each were reported from Faridabad and Hisar districts and one was reported from Kurukshetra district. Notably, for the first time after few months, Gurgaon’s new cases count had come below 200, and Faridabad reported less than 100 cases. Gurgaon reported 128 cases, where overall tally has gone to 55,780 cases, 339 deaths and 1,512 active cases. Faridabad reported 61 cases, taking the overall tally of the district to 44,893 cases, 395 deaths and 701 active cases. While 10 districts where 20 or less new cases were reported included: 20 from Rewari, 17 from Ambala, 15 from Fatehabad, 12 from Sirsa, seven from Rohtak, six from Kaithal, three from Mahendergarh, two from Palwal, one from Charkhi Dadri and zero cases from Nuh and Jind districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-reports-577-new-cases-five-deaths/articleshow/79830077.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Shimla||Himachal roads get safer this year as accidents drop by 23%||SHIMLA: Roads of Himachal were less prone to accidents this year than the last, say police records. Figures suggest a 23% drop in road accidents in the hill state, along with 22% reduction in accidental deaths and 37% reduction in road accident related injuries. Tourist movement in the state has also been limited due to the lockdown this year. Road accidents pose the biggest threat to human lives in the state, where 30,413 accidents have taken place over the past decade (from 2010 to 2019). As many as 11,620 persons have been killed in these accidents and 53,011 have been injured. An average of 3,000 road accidents take place every year in Himachal Pradesh, killing 1,200 persons. “If we compare this with the 100 or so murders that take place in the state every year, it would reveal that road accidents are the biggest threat to human life in our state,” said DGP Sanjay Kundu. According to him, a 2019 report of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MORTH), Himachal Pradesh ranked the hill state 22nd in the country in terms of road accidents and 20th in terms of road accident related deaths despite its small population. He said this could be because each accident in the state resulted in more than one death and casualties were more in case a large vehicle was involved. Kundu said road traffic accidents were multi-casual and required multi-pronged measures to curb them. He underlined the need for concerted efforts of government agencies such as the transport department, National Highways Authority of India, state PWD, police and people. Meagre resources notwithstanding, he said, police, with the help of the public, was making constant efforts to check road accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-roads-get-safer-this-year-as-accidents-drop-by-23/articleshow/79830051.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||Pharma cos share success stories at Global Nagpur Summit||Nagpur: The international conference for pharma industries during Global Nagpur Summit 2020 paved the way for pharmaceutical companies from Nagpur to share their success stories and for entrepreneurs to expand their horizon with knowledge imparted by experts from the industry. Organized by Nagpur First in collaboration with Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA), founder and president Dinesh Jain said this edition of the conference had to make a digital shift due to Covid-19. At the outset, Aniket introduced Ravleen Singh Khurana of Nitika Pharmaceutical and Baidyanath senior president Bharatbhushan Shrikhande, who shared the journeys of their respective companies which have put Nagpur on the global pharma map. Rosen Bioscience Strategies managing director Michael Rosen spoke about pharma cluster and biotech park approach for pharma cluster. He said, “The ‘shopping mall’ concept can be applied to a science park. It needs anchor tenants to start. Anchor tenants are well-known brands that attract other companies and they absorb an important amount of space.” Elucidating on the Illinois science and technology park, he said, “The goal was to create 10,000 jobs and 15,000 ripple-effect jobs throughout the US state. Along with retaining R&D firms and talent, the aim was to increase statewide economic output by $3.6 billion annually.” Sharing the results after 10 years of establishing the park, he said that there were 25 companies with 1,500 direct and 3,750 indirect jobs and the annual revenue is over $30 million.” RedLotus Pharmtech Pvt Ltd founder and CEO Manish Bhatkar talked about the pharma industry and its landscape in and around the city. “This industry is research and capital intensive. The success rate is low and profitability is not ensured.” Giving an overview of the sector’s scope in Nagpur, he said, “Along with being the second state capital and geographical centre, Nagpur has rich natural resources, medical facilities, education and logistics amenities and communal harmony.” He added, “More than 600 colleges in Vidarbha produce graduates in the pharma sector. The industry has an established base in the region with 146 licensed manufacturers which generate over Rs2,500 crore revenue.” Girish Deodhar moderated the panel discussion of various experts from the pharma and entrepreneurship sectors on opportunities and challenges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pharma-cos-share-success-stories-at-global-nagpur-summit/articleshow/79830090.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Madurai||Techie, 43, found murdered in house in Madurai||MADURAI: A software engineer from Madurai was found murdered in his house near Uthangudi on Sunday morning. The deceased was identified as A Kumarandass, 43, from Lourdhu Nagar in K Pudur. He was working in a software company and had moved to a rented house at Sriram Nagar in Uthangudi, one-and-a-half months ago. He stayed on the first floor of the house with a lawyer occupying another room for his office purposes in the same floor. The house owner stayed downstairs. Police said that Kumarandoss’s wife K Josaphine and two daughters were staying in Trichy. Kumarandoss had hired Kumar as a cook from Devakottai through the lawyer. Four days ago, Kumarandoss hired Ram Anand Gawtham alias Ravikumar Mangal to cook north Indian cuisine. Police said Kumarandoss knew him from the time when he used to work in New Delhi. Kumar who last saw Kumarandoss on Saturday evening went to the house on Sunday morning and saw the door left open. As he entered the house, he found Kumarandoss dead with blood stains and injury marks on his body. He alerted the lawyer, who in turn alerted Kumarandoss’s father Anthonysamy. Subsequently, the police was alerted and a police team from the K Pudur police station led by inspector Thilagavathi reached the spot and conducted an inquiry. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) R Shiva Prasad too visited the house and conducted an inquiry. Police said Ram Anand Gawtham has gone missing and a search is on for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/techie-43-found-murdered-in-house-in-madurai/articleshow/79830661.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Agra||UP CM to launch Rs 14 crore project in Vajpayee’s ancestral village on his 96th birth anniversary||AGRA: On his 96th birth anniversary, the government of Uttar Pradesh has planned to launch a Rs 14 crore worth development project in former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s ancestral village Bateshwar in Agra district on December 25. District administration officials said chief minister Yogi Adityanath is likely to inaugurate the ‘Bharat Ratna Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Sanskriti Sankul Kendra’ on the occasion. The centre would be a multi-purpose facility with an open theatre, library, a park with joy rides for children and other amenities. Besides, high-mast LED lights will be installed in the village. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh told TOI on Sunday, “Chief minister will be laying the foundation of the development works in late PM’s ancestral village on Friday. The construction of a convention centre will be done by Uttar Pradesh State Construction and Infrastructure Development Corporation (UPSCIDC) limited. The centre will depict the legacy of the former PM." UPSCIDC executive engineer UK Vajpayee said, “Around 3,500 square metres of land in Bateshwar has been approved for the cultural centre. Located on Yamuna bank and well connected with the main road, the centre will have a green cover. A modern library, theatre and playing space for children will be developed. All required arrangements have been made. The work is slated to be completed in two years." According to locals in Bateshwar, Vajpayee completed his primary education till Class V here. Though he last visited the village in 1999, he was always closely connected to the Yamuna ghats, primary school, the remains of his ancestral house, Jangalat Kothi and Halaka Bagh. “Jangalat Kothi was linked to the forest department during the British rule. Atal ji and his friends had protested at this place against the injustices of British authorities," Vajpayee's nephew Ramesh said. Vajpayee with his friends used to play around Halaka Bagh and savour raw mangoes there, recalled Ramkishan Yadav, a village elder. "He was fond of swimming in the Yamuna. The primary school where Atal ji studied is on a lane passing through the market. As for his paternal house, all that remains is a wall along a two metre-wide passage," the village elder said fondly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-cm-to-launch-rs-14cr-project-in-vajpayees-ancestral-village-on-his-96th-birth-anniversary/articleshow/79828038.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 21, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana reports 577 new Covid cases, five deaths||CHANDIGARH: Haryana health authorities had a relaxed Sunday as the 10 out of 22 districts reported 20 or less new Covid cases and the recoveries of the day exceed the new case count yet again. With Nuh and Jind districts reporting nil case, Haryana reported 577 new cases and five deaths during the day. In addition, 763 persons were declared recovered. With this Haryana’s overall count has gone to 2,57,644 cases, 2,821 deaths, 2,48,935 recoveries, and 5,888 active cases. Recovery rate of the state went up at 96.62% and positive rate of the state has come down further to 6.12%. While death rate too came down to 1.09%. Of the active cases, 203 patients are critical who are on oxygen support and ventilator support in Covid care centres across the state. The state conducted 36,129 tests during the day, which took the testing rate to 1,66,433 tests per million per day. According to information, two deaths each were reported from Faridabad and Hisar districts and one was reported from Kurukshetra district. Notably, for the first time after few months, Gurgaon’s new cases count had come below 200, and Faridabad reported less than 100 cases. Gurgaon reported 128 cases, where overall tally has gone to 55,780 cases, 339 deaths and 1,512 active cases. Faridabad reported 61 cases, taking the overall tally of the district to 44,893 cases, 395 deaths and 701 active cases. While 10 districts where 20 or less new cases were reported included: 20 from Rewari, 17 from Ambala, 15 from Fatehabad, 12 from Sirsa, seven from Rohtak, six from Kaithal, three from Mahendergarh, two from Palwal, one from Charkhi Dadri and zero cases from Nuh and Jind districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-reports-577-new-cases-five-deaths/articleshow/79837421.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: A week after marriage, bride ‘murders’ husband||BETTIAH/PATNA: Barely a week after their wedding, a bride has been arrested from a remote village in West Champaran district for allegedly killing her husband, demystifying the adage that marriages are made in heaven. The family of Shyamji Sah, a daily wager, was shocked to find him lying in a pool of blood on his bed with his throat slit when they entered the couple’s room early Sunday, Bairiya SHO Dushyant Kumar told TOI. “Shyamji wedded Griti Devi of Saraiya in East Champaran district on December 13. All seemed well in the groom’s family at Malahi Tola,” said the SHO, adding that Griti is being questioned. Villagers claimed Griti tried to flee when her in-laws found her husband’s body but was captured and handed over to cops. One of them, Yogendra Chaudhary, who rushed to the spot on learning of the murder, told TOI over the phone that Shyamji’s parents, elder brother and his wife, and younger brother were at home when the crime took place. “Griti told them that someone had knocked on the main door after midnight. When she opened it, two masked men barged inside and threw something on her face that made her faint, following which she couldn’t recall what transpired after,” Chaudhary said. While residents do not rule out the possibility of accomplices in the crime, police pin their bets on leads based on Griti’s statements. “We are trying to trace her phone calls. She isn’t opening up as yet,” SHO Kumar said, adding that the murder weapon hasn’t been found so far. Chaudhary said a newlywed woman would never answer the main door past midnight without waking up her husband or other family members. “The family denied hearing any knock or scream. We don’t have any information about Griti’s background as her village is far away,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-week-after-marriage-bride-murders-hubby/articleshow/79828070.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
December 21, 2020||Dehradun||Dist admin identifies shops encroaching upon public space in Prem Nagar||Dehradun: The Dehradun district administration identified the shops encroaching upon the public utility space in the city’s Prem Nagar area. The officials said that four shop owners were issued a notice for vacating the premises within 24 hours else the encroachment will be removed forcefully and the expenses involved during the procedure will also be collected from the shop keepers. The officials on Sunday marked the shops, which lack stay orders from the Uttarakhand high court, with red paint. Earlier, a major anti-encroachment drive was initiated across Dehradun on the orders from Uttarakhand high court (HC). However, when the officials issued notice to shop keepers who had encroached upon the public space near the national highway, several of them secured a stay order from the HC. The officials also said that while the matter is subjudice, the shops without stay orders have been identified and the encroachment will be removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dist-admin-identifies-shops-encroaching-upon-public-space-in-prem-nagar/articleshow/79828062.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Congress demands fee waiver in medical colleges||AHMEDABAD: The Congress on Sunday pressed for its demand for a fee waiver in medical courses and a hike in the stipend amount given to medical students in Gujarat attending Covid-19 duties. In a letter to Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said that the colleges and institutions in the state have been shut down from March 21 due to Covid-19 pandemic and keeping in view the financial crisis undergone by the middle-class in this period, the government should announce a fee waiver for the ongoing academic year. In the case of government-run medical colleges, the annual fees is Rs 25,000 while in the case of GMERS and self-financed colleges, it is Rs 3.5 lakh to Rs 15 lakh and Rs 8 lakh to Rs 28 lakh respectively. There is uncertainty about when these medical colleges will start and in these circumstances, when medical education is completely discontinued for 10 months, institutions including medical colleges have not incurred administrative expenses, laboratory expenses, maintenance costs and electricity costs, and a fee cut should be announced, according to Doshi. He said that according to a Gujarat high court order, the state government was to take a decision regarding fee waiver in colleges. However it has been pending for some time now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-demands-fee-waiver-in-med-colleges/articleshow/79830105.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||Home stay in forests, courtesy UP tourism||Lucknow: The UP tourism department has designed special packages for tourists in order to offer a unique peep into nature by boosting ‘home stays’ in forests. The UP forest corporation and tourism department are also tying up with travel and tour majors like Make My Trip and Go Ibibo to provide these holiday packages. Through these packages, the state government is all set to promote those places which have the potential to become a tourist destination, but due to lack of infrastructure due to neglect of previous governments, they have remained off the tourist map. Under governments recent initiatives these special packages will also provide car facilities for tourists to live, eat and move around. The government will also provide a guide facility to explain the importance of tourism areas and to tell its history. The forest department has prepared a detailed proposal for such packages. After due approval of the tourism department and the state government, bookings for such holiday packages will begin. The departments engaged in the project believe that such packages will add to the inflow of domestic tourists into the state. In 2019, the state has ranked first in terms of inflow of domestic tourists. According to officials, one of the main attractions of these packages will be an option of ‘home stays’. Highlighting the manner in which ‘home stays’ will help to generate employment for people living in rural and forest areas, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had recently asked departments concerned to focus on ‘home stays’ and develop the scheme as an integral part of the tourism industry of the state. The CM has directed top officials to link local people with employment especially in areas that have their own historical significance and are of tourist interest. To begin, the ‘home stay’ scheme is being started in districts of Terai, Bundelkhand and Vindhya region. According to a senior forest department official, the package for tourists will be arranged from Lucknow, Delhi and Noida. Tourists will also make their booking for the place. From there the car will take them to the destination. According to the choice of tourists, stay at home or hotel will be arranged. Tourists will also be provided a facility of guide based on their requirement during the tour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/home-stay-in-forests-courtesy-up-tourism/articleshow/79830663.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Meerut||Govt bound to buy paddy varieties it promoted: Farmer leaders||Pilibhit: Farmer leaders have slammed the UP government for refusing to procure certain varieties of paddy after promoting cultivation of their seeds.A TOI report published in its Bareilly edition on December 18 had said the government had sold the seeds to farmers at subsidized rates, terming the varieties as high-yielding and disease-resistant. The farm leaders said the government is bound to procure any such crop in the light of an Allahabad high court order of 2000 in a similar matter related to sugarcane. Citing the earlier instance, Shiv Narayan Singh Chauhan, national general secretary of farmers’ wing of the All India Forward Bloc, said the UP government had refused to procure CoS 8436 variety of sugarcane in 2000 though it had been promoted by the cane department that sold the seeds to farmers on a massive scale. At that time, the single judge bench of Justice Haidar Abbas Raza had ordered the state government to procure the cane variety promoted by it, he said. Satvinder Singh Kahlon, district president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said the government was exploiting farmers for its own interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/govt-bound-to-buy-paddy-varieties-it-promoted-farmer-leaders/articleshow/79828049.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 21, 2020||Agra||20 new Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 10,048||Agra: At least 20 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 10,048. The patients included two staffers of the district hospital. Besides, there were two patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, one of severe acute respiratory infection and one of coronary artery infection. A total of nine persons were found positive in random testing conducted by the health department. Also, 25 Covid patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 10,048 cases reported in the district, 95.6% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid cases decreased from 273 on Saturday, to 268 on Sunday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.5%. So far, 9,611 people have recovered."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/20-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-10048/articleshow/79828050.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Shimla||Police raid finds 150 tourists partying during night curfew in Parvati valley||Manali: Police raided a late night party at Chhalal in Parvati valley of Kullu where nearly 150 tourists, including foreigners, were dancing to the loud DJ music during night curfew hours late on Saturday night. Police have arrested the organisers and seized the sound system. According to police, their teams were patrolling the Kullu, Bhuntar, Jari, Kasol areas when they heard loud music from a cafe near Chhlal village of Parvati valley at about 1:15am. The police team reached the spot and was astonished to see a crowd of over 100 tourists dancing to the music. Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said nearly 100 to 150 tourists, both men and women, were present at the spot. “The tourists, including foreigners, ran away from the spot upon seeing police. A person who was operating music system from the stage and two other persons who had organised this party have been arrested,” he said. The Himachal government has imposed night curfew in Kullu, Mandi, Kangra and Shimla districts from 9pm and 6am. Also, the government has imposed ban on gathering of more than 50 persons. The accused DJ was identified as Rishabh Bhadola, 25, a resident of Rishikesh in Uttarakhand. His two partners, Dinesh Kumar, 33, a resident of Kullu, and Ankur Parik, 34, resident of Agra, UP, were aloso arrested. “They gathered a crowd of 100 to 150 people without permission and disobeyed government orders to contain the spread of Covid-19. They risked many lives by crowding a place where obeying Covid-19 protocols was not possible,” the SP said. On Sunday, the accused have been booked under the HP Instruments (Control of Noises) Act, section 188, 269 of IPC, and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. Parvati valley has been infamous for full moon rave parties. Tourists, especially foreigners, used to throng the valley for these parties until a complete ban was imposed on such parties. However, some people still organise music parties after obtaining permit from the administration. No permission to night DJ parties is being given in the time of pandemic. However, some people manage to reach out to the party lover tourists through social media and their personal contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/police-raid-finds-150-tourists-partying-during-night-curfew-in-parvati-valley/articleshow/79830103.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Madurai||What a fall from the ‘top’ for Ramnad||MADURAI: December has brought good tidings for Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi districts. From reporting among the highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the state when cases were peaking, Ramanathapuram is on track to achieving almost nil cases. Similarly, in Tenkasi, a total of 126 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in December so far and an average of only six a day. District health officials said that strict enforcement of safety measures, fever surveillance and identification of high risk groups have effectively brought down cases to almost nil in the districts. In December in Ramanathapuram, a total of 76 new cases have been reported as on Sunday and the average daily cases reported are only around four. An average of 950 samples continue to be tested in the district with the positivity rate only 0.4%. More than 1.5 lakh people have been tested so far in Ramanathapuram. “The number of new local Covid-19 cases is almost close to nil. As an additional precautionary measure, we also conducted testing of random samples from college students and faculty in after institutions reopened. All the 287 samples tested were negative. We have warned institutions strictly in case of violation of safety SOPs,” said a health official from Ramanathapuram. Enforcement of Covid safety measures has also been strict over the months. Officials said that Rs 32 lakh has been collected as fine for non-compliance of safety norms by individuals and establishments. “We are also strictly monitoring tourists and devotees from other districts and states to Rameswaram. Around 80-100 a day are being tested from there. We are also periodically testing priests and staff at the temple,” added the official. An average of 700 samples per day are being tested in Tenkasi. “We have to be vigilant as long as there are cases continuing to be reported in neighbouring districts and states. Vigil has been stepped up at check posts and samples continue to be collected from them, local fever camps and high risk groups,” said a health official in Tenkasi. Both districts reported only one Covid-19 death this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/what-a-fall-from-the-top-for-ramnad/articleshow/79830664.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 10 lakh citizens may be vaccinated in 3 phases||AHMEDABAD: With about 60% of survey work for the vaccination drive already done in the city to enrol those above 50 years of age and above, according to a rough estimate by the AMC, around 10 lakh persons, including frontline warriors, will be vaccinated in the first three phases of the drive. The civic body officials said that so far 60% of the population has been covered and roughly five lakh people are in the 50-plus age group. The survey for the remaining 40% of the city population is yet to be covered by the AMC. “We expect the survey to be over in the next 10 days and the exact figures will emerge only after that. We estimate the final figure of 50-plus population to be around nine lakh,” he said. Apart from this, the AMC has identified 50,000 healthcare workers and 50,000 other frontline workers. “So we might end up vaccinating over 10 lakh people in the first three phases,” he said. The officials said that it has been observed that people from highend societies are not willing to register themselves for the vaccination. Several residents in Navrangpura, Bodakdev, Thaltej and Jodhpur refused to give their details. “The more the posh area, the more it becomes difficult to get the details,” said an official. “Roughly 3% of the residents refused to get themselves enrolled and of this around 70% were from the highend societies,” the official added. Officials said that when they tried to know the reason behind their refusal to get registered for the vaccination, most of them said that they are not sure about the efficacy of the vaccine and cold chain maintenance. “A small error may lead to major complications, and during mass vaccination, such errors are bound to happen,” said an elderly person. The officials said that the recent direction from the Union government to make centres for side effects of vaccines has also led to many people staying away from the survey. The officer citied an example where an 80-year-old in Bopal asked the staff about the safety precautions of the vaccine. When the staff could not answer him, the old man refused to part with his details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/10l-citizens-may-be-vaccinated-in-3-phases/articleshow/79830104.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh logs 438 new Covid cases, two deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 438 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative caseload in the state to 8,78,723. The toll increased to 7,076 as two more patients succumbed to the novel coronavirus. Of the two deceased, one each is from Chittoor and Nellore districts. As many as 589 patients were declared cured on Sunday. There are currently 4,202 active cases with 8,67,445 cumulative recoveries and 7,076 deaths. The number of active cases is less than 500 in 10 districts, while the active caseload dropped below 200 in six districts. Krishna district reported 83 new infections on Sunday, followed by Chittoor (80) and Guntur (54). The remaining 10 districts posted less than 50 new cases. Andhra Pradesh tested 64,236 Covid-19 samples on Sunday and detected 438 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.7%. The positivity rate decreased to an average 0.8% in the last one week, after hovering in the 1 to 1.5% range in the first two weeks of December. The state has so far conducted 1.12 crore tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7.8%. The overall mortality remained stable at 0.8%. More than 94% beds continue to remain vacant at the 99 hospitals designated for Covid-19 services in the state as of Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-logs-438-covid-cases-two-deaths/articleshow/79828058.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||CBI chargesheet refutes Hathras case accused's family claim that he is minor||LUCKNOW: The chargesheet filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has refuted the claim of one of the accused in the alleged gang rape and murder case in Hathras that he is a minor. While the family of accused Luv Kush claimed before the media after his arrest on September 23, 2020, that he was born on December 2, 2002 and hence was a minor, the CBI in its chargesheet has mentioned that he is 21. In the chargesheet, the other three accused have been identified as 22-year-old Sandeep, 29-year-old Ramu, Ravi, 31. All of them have been arrested. The UP government had recommended a CBI probe in the case on October 2 following a nationwide outcry over the post-midnight cremation of the girl by the local administration after she died at a Delhi hospital on September 29. The girl was allegedly gang-raped and attacked on September 14 at her village in Hathras. The CBI on the basis of dying declaration and circumstantial evidences has charged the four accused for rape, gang rape, murder, criminal assault, and under the SC/ST act in its chargesheet submitted on December 18 before a special court in Hathras. The family of Luvkush has been claiming that he was a minor and falsely implicated. Even when the CBI team visited them on October 20 to take his documents, they stuck to their claim. On the same day, talking to reporters, his mother shared a copy of Luv Kush's mark sheet in which his date of birth was December 2, 2002. She claimed that the CBI had taken the original marksheet. The CBI had got forensic psychological assessment and layered voice analysis test of the four accused done by forensic experts in Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), New Delhi. It must also be noted here that a multi-institutional medical board was constituted under an AIIMS professor for the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cbi-refutes-accuseds-family-claim-that-he-is-minor/articleshow/79830668.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
December 21, 2020||Madurai||Southern TN registers 122 new Covid cases, central districts 114||MADURAI/TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state on Sunday reported 122 Covid-19 cases and one death, taking the tally to 1,32,236, which include 1,167 active cases, 1,29,153 recoveries and 2,094 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 114 new cases, pushing the tally to 72,828, which include 749 active cases. The region also recorded two deaths, one each in Trichy and Tiruvarur, taking the toll to 911. Madurai reported 28 new cases, the highest in the southern region followed by Kanyakumari (27). All other districts in the south reported less than 20 new cases. With 301 and 178 active Covid-19 cases, Madurai and Kanyakumari districts also have the most number of active cases in the region, followed by Tirunelveli (146) and Dindigul (145). Except for Tuticorin (105), the remaining southern districts including Virudhunagar (90), Theni (84), Sivaganga (52), Tenkasi (40) and Ramanathapuram (26) have less than 100 active cases. Tenkasi (8), Tuticorin (6), Sivaganga (3), and Ramanathapuram (3) reported new cases in single digits on Sunday. Tirunelveli (15), Dindigul (12), Virudhunagar (10), and Theni (10) also reported new cases. The lone Covid-19 death to be recorded on Sunday in the south was at Ramanathapuram. A 45-year-old man with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) died with Covid-19 on Friday at Ramanathapuram Government Hospital. The death rate in the southern region is 1.58%. Trichy district is on top in the central TN with 27 new positive cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 13,911. Tiruvarur recorded 23 fresh positive cases pushing the tally to 10,785. Thanjavur district reported 21 new positive cases as the district tally has climbed to 16,891. Nagapattinam reported 18 new positive cases pushing the total count to 7,980. Fresh cases were also reported in Karur (12), Pudukottai (11), and Ariyalur (2), while Perambalur recorded no cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-tn-registers-122-new-covid-cases-central-districts-114/articleshow/79830667.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Dehradun||History-sheeter, on run for nine years, held by U'khand STF||Dehradun: A man, who was absconding for the past nine-years, was arrested by the Uttarakhand Special Task Force (STF) on Sunday morning from Pantnagar area of Udham Singh Nagar district. He was wanted in the cases of loot and kidnapping. The accused, identified as Gurmeet Singh, was carrying a reward of Rs 5,000 on his head. Infamous for his criminal activities in Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh, Gurmeet, along with his two accomplices, in April 2011, kidnapped the general manager of a five-star hotel in Rudrapur at gunpoint and looted him of his money and valuables. "He had looted Rs 50,000 and a car from the senior official of a hotel in 2011. He then escaped to Nepal to avoid arrest. There is a case filed against him in Nepal and he was even lodged in the jail there," said a senior STF official. According to STF, they received confirmed intelligence inputs that Gurmeet was hatching a criminal plan and had come to Sitarganj from Meerut to execute it. He was living in Sitarganj on a fake ID, said the STF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/history-sheeter-on-run-for-nine-years-held-by-ukhand-stf/articleshow/79828073.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 21, 2020||Patna||SI commits suicide in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: A police sub-inspector allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service revolver in his official quarter on the premises of Amba police station in Aurangabad district on Sunday. Aurangabad SP Sudhir Kumar Porika said the sub-inspector, Jitendra Singh, was found dead in his quarter. “A team led by sub-divisional police officer Anup Kumar has been formed to probe the incident,” the SP added. Singh’s colleagues said he had been under stress for some time. “Singh’s was on night duty on Saturday. After giving charge to his colleague on Sunday morning, he left for his room and shot himself there. The bullet hit his head and he died on the spot. He was taken to sadar hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. No suicide note was found in the room,” a police officer said. Family members of Singh reached the police station after getting information. Singh was a resident of Rohtas district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/si-commits-suicide-in-aurangabad/articleshow/79827919.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Anrak Ltd may soon set up refinery in Vizag dist||Visakhapatnam: The state government is chalking out plans to allow Anrak Aluminum Limited to commission its alumina refinery at Rachapalli in Makavarapalem in Vizag district. Rajya Sabha MP and YSRC in-charge for north Andhra Pradesh affairs V Vijayasai Reddy on Sunday said the government has been planning to allow Anrak Aluminium Limited to commission their plant since it has invested over Rs 5,000 crore and promised to provide jobs to youth in the region. The MP said that Anrak will import raw material or source it from Odisha. However, Vijayasai Reddy made it clear that the government will not allow bauxite mining in Vizag Agency as the government is committed to protecting the sentiments of the tribal population. The YSRC, he said, has assured tribals that mining of bauxite has been stopped for good. Regarding encroachment of public lands, Vijayasai said the government will take tough action against land grabbers. He also came down on TDP leaders for misleading people in land grabbing incidents. The Special Investigation Team to probe alleged land scams in the Vizag region has completed its investigation and will submit its comprehensive report soon, the MP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/anrak-ltd-may-soon-set-up-refinery-in-vizag-dist/articleshow/79828069.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 21, 2020||Goa||HC upholds govt decision to give NRI seat at GMC to OCI student||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has upheld the government’s decision to admit an Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) to the MBBS course at Goa Medical College against an NRI seat. Christley Camilo Pereira filed a petition stating that any applicant who seeks admission to NRI quota must possess an Indian passport and must have passed the qualifying examination from schools to colleges located outside India in a country of his/her residence. The petition stated that Esha Rose Rebello, having merit no. 1 in NRI category, neither holds an Indian passport nor has she passed the qualifying examination from schools/colleges located outside India. The court found no infirmity in the admission granted to the respondent. Referring to the eligibility criteria for NRI , a division bench comprising justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar observed, “There was no reason to introduce such eligibility criteria to OCI cardholders because in their case the competent authority has already examined the eligibility criteria prescribed under Section 7A of the Citizenship Act, 1955, and only thereafter issued to them a card thereby conferring upon them the status of OCI cardholders.” This is quite clear, from the circumstance that an OCI cardholder, is not a citizen of India, and therefore, it would be futile to insist that even the OCI cardholder must hold an Indian passport, the court noted. Senior advocate N Sardesai, who appeared for the petitioner stated that the respondent was not entitled to be admitted against the NRI quota for the first MBBS course. He stated that the admission committee had no jurisdiction or authority to relax or waive any conditions stipulated in the prospectus. In reply, advocate general of the state Devidas Pangam and respondent’s lawyer Amey Kakodkar argued that Clause 6.11 of the prospectus nowhere requires an OCI cardholder to either hold an Indian passport or to pass the qualifying examination outside India. They said that Clause 6.11 of the prospectus merely provides that OCI/PIO cardholders are considered eligible for admission to seats of the NRI category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-upholds-govt-decision-to-give-nri-seat-at-gmc-to-oci-student/articleshow/79830671.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Meerut||Fake FB account created in youth’s name to malign sis, probe on||Pilibhit: A 21-year-old youth approached Pilibhit city police for help after someone allegedly created a fake Facebook account in his name and posted photographs of his sister with obscene comments. The matter is being probed by the cyber crime cell. The hacker is suspected to be someone close to the family of the complainant as it was not possible for a stranger to arrange for the photographs his sister, said Atar Singh, SHO of Sungarhi police station. Jai Prakash Yadav, superintendent of police, said legal action in the matter would be taken in accordance with the findings of the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fake-fb-account-created-in-youths-name-to-malign-sis-probe-on/articleshow/79828071.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Trichy||Southern TN registers 122 new Covid cases, central districts 114||MADURAI/TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state on Sunday reported 122 Covid-19 cases and one death, taking the tally to 1,32,236, which include 1,167 active cases, 1,29,153 recoveries and 2,094 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 114 new cases, pushing the tally to 72,828, which include 749 active cases. The region also recorded two deaths, one each in Trichy and Tiruvarur, taking the toll to 911. Madurai reported 28 new cases, the highest in the southern region followed by Kanyakumari (27). All other districts in the south reported less than 20 new cases. With 301 and 178 active Covid-19 cases, Madurai and Kanyakumari districts also have the most number of active cases in the region, followed by Tirunelveli (146) and Dindigul (145). Except for Tuticorin (105), the remaining southern districts including Virudhunagar (90), Theni (84), Sivaganga (52), Tenkasi (40) and Ramanathapuram (26) have less than 100 active cases. Tenkasi (8), Tuticorin (6), Sivaganga (3), and Ramanathapuram (3) reported new cases in single digits on Sunday. Tirunelveli (15), Dindigul (12), Virudhunagar (10), and Theni (10) also reported new cases. The lone Covid-19 death to be recorded on Sunday in the south was at Ramanathapuram. A 45-year-old man with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) died with Covid-19 on Friday at Ramanathapuram Government Hospital. The death rate in the southern region is 1.58%. Trichy district is on top in the central TN with 27 new positive cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 13,911. Tiruvarur recorded 23 fresh positive cases pushing the tally to 10,785. Thanjavur district reported 21 new positive cases as the district tally has climbed to 16,891. Nagapattinam reported 18 new positive cases pushing the total count to 7,980. Fresh cases were also reported in Karur (12), Pudukottai (11), and Ariyalur (2), while Perambalur recorded no cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/southern-tn-registers-122-new-covid-cases-central-districts-114/articleshow/79834205.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 21, 2020||Madurai||Now, vocational courses for classes IX to XII in govt schools to prevent dropouts||MADURAI: Certified vocational courses for government school students from classes IX to XII are being introduced in a phased manner to encourage and equip students with job-oriented skills, in addition to their regular curriculum. Education department officials said these courses could help bring down dropouts or at least help students get jobs later. As per the annual survey conducted under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), in Madurai district, more than 1,000 school dropouts aged between 6-18 years were identified. While usually the survey only includes children aged 6-14 years, this time it was extended up to 18 years and it was found that there were many dropouts who quit school by Class X. “Classes XI and XII have vocational groups, but these subjects are not covered in classes IX or X. By introducing vocational courses at the high school level, students can get a better idea of vocational subjects early on and also be equipped with basic skills. The courses are voluntary and interested students could be encouraged to take them up,” said an SSA official. These courses are four-year-long with four levels starting from Class IX and are simply an additional subject for students. Some of the choices of courses include electricals and electronics, agriculture, beauty and wellness and apparel manufacturing (for girls) and multi skill foundation course. “Classes, assignments and exams are conducted and certificates would be given after completion of each level, which would be useful for students if they go for work. Interaction with industry experts and field visits are also being arranged,” added the official. These vocational courses were first introduced during the 2018-19 academic year in select government schools for classes IX to XII across the state with separate trainers. In Madurai district, currently, four government and government girls higher secondary schools at Thirumangalam, Thiruvathavur, Palamedu and Peraiyur have the courses and it is being planned to make these courses available in all government higher secondary schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/now-vocational-courses-for-classes-ix-to-xii-in-govt-schools-to-prevent-dropouts/articleshow/79830670.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Meerut||DM forms ESZ panel, decidesto extend limit from 1 to 5 km||Pilibhit: In an effort to provide a final shape to the proposal of Pilibhit wildlife sanctuary’s eco-sensitive zone (ESZ), the district magistrate (DM) Pulkit Khare has decided to extend its limit from an earlier proposed one km to at least five km.To review the status of existing industries, particularly the brick kilns, saw mills, jaggery units and hotels, a committee of district level officials has been constituted. The panel will also identify the areas critically affected by the man-tiger conflict, and file its report within a week to create a framework for the finalization of the ESZ proposal.Notably, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court on December 11, 2018, had directed the Centre to declare at the earliest the 10 km area around those 21 wildlife sanctuaries (WS) and national parks (NP) in eight states as ESZ which were still awaiting government orders. By this order, the government could modify the size of ESZ as per the local conditions.The provision of ESZ has been subsumed to prohibit, restrict or permit certain activities in proximity of the protected forest area for the conservation and protection of the wildlife. The size of ESZ is ultimately decided by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) on the proposals filed by the respective states.Of the total 664 WS and NP across the country, the proposals for ESZ of 21 NP and WS from eight states, including the Pilibhit wildlife sanctuaries, have yet not been filed to the MoEFCC.“The actual size of ESZ may vary at different locations around the forest regions in view of the status of tigers straying and the threats to healthy survival of wildlife posed by certain activities liable for spreading sound, soil, water and air pollution. Such activities would be strictly prohibited within five km of the forest periphery," the DM said on Sunday.Decisions about imposing strict regulations on certain existing units which were deemed to be hazardous for the forest environment such as brick kiln, saw mills and jaggery units would be included in the proposal.“We have decided to ban fishing contracts in the 22-km-long Sharda Sagar dam which is adjacent to the core area of Mahof forest range," the DM added.The ESZ in areas prone to tigers straying out would be kept under 5 km, he said.Deputy director of PTR Naveen Khandelwal said the draft of the first proposal has been filed and certain revisions are required for its completion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dm-forms-esz-panel-decidesto-extend-limit-from-1-to-5-km/articleshow/79828077.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Training prog on consumer rights||Visakhapatnam: To help consumers save on legal costs, the Consumer Rights Organization (CRO) in Visakhapatnam is organising a training programme on Monday. In this programme, members would undergo training on application process under Consumer Rights Act, 2019 that was implemented in AP on June 22. The trainees will in turn help and guide consumers who intend to file cases at consumer courts or forums in their respective districts. “We organise such trainings as and when required. The training scheduled on Monday is very important because we are going to provide training on aspects of the newly implemented act. Cases filed on and after June 20 would abide by this act,” said Vikash Pandey, state president of CRO. The programme would kick off at 10:30 am at the Zilla Parishad office in Visakhapatnam. Officials from state consumer affairs departments, legal meteorology department, GST and income tax departments and a few other departments of state and Union governments would address the programme. At least four members each from 13 districts across the state will be attending the programme. “We do have 4,000 members across the state. However, in order to maintain Covid-19 safety protocols we have enrolled only four members from each of the 13 districts. However, in case, any members of the general public want to attend the programme they are welcome.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/training-prog-on-consumer-rights/articleshow/79828078.cms||Arpit Basu
December 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Over 83% students appear for NTSE and NMMS exam in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: More than 83% students appeared for both National Means and Merit Scholarship (NMMS) exam and National Talent Search Exam (NTSE) stage 1 on Sunday. NTSE is a national-level scholarship exam for Class X students. For the Sunday exam, 3,691 candidates appeared out of 4,376 registered. The exam was held between 10am to 1pm at 18 centres in Ludhiana. Students who qualify for the NTSE become eligible for an annual scholarship of Rs 15,000 (Rs 1,250 per month) for classes XI to XII, and Rs 2,000 per month at the undergraduate level. For NMMS, a centrally sponsored scheme for Class VIII students, 3,646 students appeared out of 4,379 candidates registered. The students who qualify NMMS exam become eligible for Rs 12,000 per annum (Rs 1,000 per month) scholarship for four years from classes IX to XII. Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Bhaini Baringa student Rajni Gupta, who appeared for NTSE along with her brother Sukhminder Kumar at Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS) Bassian, said, “The exam went well and I attempted all 200 questions. Maths and science bits were tricky but overall it was OK. The teachers had conducted extra classes to prepare us for the exam.” Vishwajeet Kaur Kahlon, principal of GSSS Bhaini Baringa, said “The students were mostly happy with the exam. Covid-19 safety measures were strictly adhered to. We made the students to use sanitiser and had made proper seating plans to ensure social distancing. Only 20 students were accommodated in a room, to ensure social distancing measures are strictly adhered to.” Jasvir Singh Sekhon, district mentor for science and state science supervisor, said 35 examination centres — 18 for NTSE and 17 for NMMS — were set up. Assistant director and nodal officer, Dimpy Dhir, district education officer secondary education (DEO-SE), Rajinder Kaur and deputy DEO (SE), Charanjit Singh, visited examination centres and expressed satisfaction over the free, fair and smooth conduct of the examination. DEO Kaur said, “Despite the closure of schools due to Covid-19 pandemic, besides taking regular classes according to the prescribed syllabus, the brilliant students had made elaborate arrangements for preparing them to take competitive examinations. The team of expert teachers prepared daily slides related to different subjects as well as google quizzes, which where made available to the students continuously via a well-knit social media network of the department at the grassroot level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/over-83-students-appear-for-ntse-and-nmms-exam/articleshow/79828072.cms||Mehak Jain
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Temperature slips further to 2.8 degrees, coldest December night in 2 years||LUDHIANA: The night temperature slipped further on Sunday, recording the lowest in December in two years. Meanwhile, the met department said cold wave will persist till Monday. The minimum (night) temperature in Ludhiana was recorded at 2.8 degrees, four degrees less than normal. Meanwhile, as it continued to be sunny in the city on third consecutive day, maximum (day) temperature stayed up in Ludhiana, it was recorded at 21.5 degrees Celsius, which was a degree more than normal. On Saturday, the day temperature in Ludhiana was 19.7 degrees Celsius, whereas on Friday it was 17.2 degrees. A met department official at Chandigarh said cold wave is expected to prevail in the city till Monday after which fog is expected to arrive in Ludhiana, especially in morning hours. He added that day temperature is expected to remain around or slightly below normal, but night temperature might fall in next four to five days after rising on Monday. The department website predicts night temperature to rise to 8 degrees Celsius on Monday but fall to 4 degrees by Thursday. Day temperature is expected to fall to 19 degrees by Tuesday and then fall to 18 degrees by Thursday. “As compared to last few nights, last night was slightly better, as we didn’t feel that much cold. However, the best aspect is the change in day weather, as it is mostly sunny during the day. Being Sunday, after having a sumptuous lunch, I basked under the sun and did take a nap under it’s warmth. It felt like heaven,” said Harjeet Singh, a businessman of Pakhowal road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/temp-slips-further-to-2-8-degrees-coldest-december-night-in-2-years/articleshow/79828075.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Agra||16,000 doctors, healthcare staff to be first to get Covid vax in Agra||AGRA: The health department is gearing up to start Covid-19 vaccination drive in January in the district. In the first phase, more than 16,000 doctors and healthcare workers will be administered the vaccine at select centres. According to the health department, the supply of vaccine is likely to start in the first week of January. For this, a storage facility is being developed at the CMO office. Dr RC Pandey, chief medical officer, said, “In the first phase, a total of 16,800 doctors and healthcare staffers will be vaccinated. Their data has been compiled. A maximum 100 people will be vaccinated at each of the 10 centres in the district every day. “Person administered the vaccine will be kept under observation of doctors for at least 30 minutes. Each vaccination team will comprise six members including a doctor, nurse, supporting staff and volunteers. Police will ensure security arrangements at the vaccination centres,” he added. Spot registration for vaccination will not be done. After medical staff, people above 50 years of age and those having co-morbidity will be vaccinated. State government will be issuing detailed orders regarding vaccination, Pandey said. Soon deep freezers will be installed at the CMO office to store the vaccine. The entire preparation in this regard will be completed within next one week, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/16k-docs-healthcare-staff-to-be-first-to-get-covid-vax-in-agra/articleshow/79828074.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Two children killed after truck rams into bike in East Godavari dist||TUNI (EAST GODAVARI): Two children were killed in a road accident at Tuni town in East Godavari district on Sunday after the bike they were riding on was hit by container truck. According to the police, Barre Venu works at a brick kiln at Palatheru village in East Godavari district. His two children, Barre Durga (17) and Barre Tataji (6), had been staying with their grandparents in Kotavurutla in Visakhapatnam district. On Sunday, Venu was taking his children back home to Palatheru. Upon reaching Baba Parlaour in Tuni town, a container truck hit the bike from behind. The two children were crushed under the rear wheels of the truck and died on the spot. Venu, who fell on to the side, has survived the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/two-children-killed-after-truck-rams-into-bike/articleshow/79828089.cms||Samson Raj
December 21, 2020||Goa||‘Compendium will improve efficiency’||Panaji: Instructions and guidelines issued by various departments over the years have been codified and three volumes of compendium have been brought out by the state department. Chief minister Pramod Sawant released the three volumes in the presence of secretary of Goa State Public Service Commission and former additional secretary (personnel) Yatindra Maralkar on Liberation Day “This will enable the departments to prepare their proposals with clarity,” Sawant said. The compendium, he said, will help the government officials from across departments to refer it as a useful aid in performance of their day to day duties with efficiency. The compendium consists of rules, office memorandum, circulars and other important instructions issued by the government from time to time, chief secretary Parimal Rai said. It has all the documents arranged in order, department-wise and sub-categorised subject-wise for ease of reference Both Sawant and Rai complimented Maralkar for the efforts he took in collecting the vast tranches of documents since Liberation of the important departments and publishing the ready reckoner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/compendium-will-improve-efficiency/articleshow/79830681.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 21, 2020||Dehradun||Kumbh 2021: Along with radio collaring, forest dept also deploys ‘van praharis’ to keep rogue jumbos away||Dehradun: With radio-collaring wild elephants seeming less of a viable option as Haridwar Kumbh draws near, the state forest department has deployed 'van praharis' (forest sentinels), youths from local villages who stay close to animal corridors. They are being sensitized on man-animal conflict and trained to send back elephants into the forest when they approach human habitats. While the original plan of putting radio collars on elephants, which will enable officials to track their movement, is also in force, the forest department termed this a “plan B”. Man-animal conflict has been on the rise in the state, especially near Rajaji Tiger Reserve, which is inhabited mostly by elephants. This year, the state has lost more than 60 lives to man-animal conflict, most of them in attacks by elephants and leopards. More than 250 human beings have been brutally injured. Uttarakhand chief wildlife warden JS Suhag explained why banking solely on radio-collaring was no longer an option. “The elephants are deep inside the forest and we cannot tranquilize them unless they venture out. If we send our teams inside the forest, it will put them at risk. Our teams are keeping an eye on the jumbos’ movement. The animals will be radio collared as soon as it is safe to do so,” Suhag said. So far, radio collaring hasn’t been much of a success in Haridwar. The forest team has managed to radio-collar only one elephant so far and it recently died of electrocution. “We have activated Plan B throughout elephant corridors in the Maha Kumbh zone. Van praharis have been trained to mitigate any kind of conflict,” Suhag said. From Biharigarh in Uttar Pradesh to Rishikesh, there are more than 100 Ganga ghats, which are frequented by more than 12 well-identified herds of a total of nearly 70 elephants. According to senior forest officials of Uttarakhand, this might pose a serious risk for pilgrims. Especially since from January to April, when Kumbh is scheduled to be held, scanty food in forests and elephants being in heat leads them all the more towards human habitats. They act more aggressive than usual during this time of the year. “As a precaution, we have formed 12 teams, consisting of six members each to guard these corridors. We are training the youth and they will be suitably paid for their service. They are being scientifically acquainted with animal behaviour and taught tactics to tackle any situation. They will remain deployed at the corridors throughout the duration of Kumbh,” Suhag said. These youths are now being trained on a daily basis on how to deal with elephants entering human habitats. Among other techniques, for instance, flashing light directly at a pachyderm’s eyes stops it from advancing and it eventually returns to the forest. A control room and a mobile patrolling van have also been set up dedicated to minimising fatal encounters with elephants. Recently, a team of experts from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) visited villages and explained elephant behaviour and movement patterns to them. Talking to TOI, Haridwar divisional forest officer (DFO) Neeraj Verma said, “There are around 20 villages close to the Ganges which elephant herds visit. They come from four main corridors – Tirchi Pulia, Peeli Nadi, Sidh Soot and Rasiyabad. They enter some 15-20 identified villages like Jagjeetpur, Missarpur, Ajeetpur, Bishanpur, Kundi, Ranjankher etc. to raid crops and that’s when they come into contact with humans. We are training van praharis to handle the animals before they lead to chaos.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-2021-along-with-radio-collaring-forest-dept-also-deploys-van-praharis-to-keep-rogue-jumbos-away/articleshow/79828084.cms||Shivani Azad
December 21, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor village welcomes unexpected winged visitors this winter||Bijnor: People in Bijnor’s Mandawali village situated on the banks of the Ganga are getting used to the high-pitched chatter of the foreign winged visitors. After flying thousands of kilometres from Europe and Russia, a large number of birds have made the trees, telephone towers and buildings at the village their home for roostimg this winter. This has surprised residents as the migratory birds do not make nests in human populated areas, and that too, in such large numbers. Village pradhan of Mandawali Pankaj Kumar said, "We have never seen so many special birds huddling on mobile towers and trees in the village or heard such a cacophony. I have asked the villagers to protect and feed the foreign guests and put water in pots on their roofs." Agriculture and forest departments’ officials have rushed to the area to sensitize farmers not to spray pesticides on their recently sown wheat crop as the birds feed on them. Every year, thousands of migratory birds begin to flock to the big and small wetlands in Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary, that spans five districts including Bijnor, from October-end. The river banks reverberate with cries piercing the air. Already, colonies of Gulls, Gadwalls, Coots, Brahminy ducks, a few Northern Shovelers, Northern Pintails, Wigeons and Common Pochards have settled along the wetlands. Some raptors like Black-eared Kite, Marsh Harrier and Peregrine Falcon too have been spotted encircling up the sky. M Semmaran, Bijnor’s divisional forest officer (DFO), acknowledged that the number of migratory birds settling in Bijnor has increased. Normally, they roost along wetlands but this winter, the visiting birds have started nesting in areas beyond two-three km radius of wetlands It would be too early to say whether more birds had arrived this winter or more were halting in Bijnor instead of flying elsewhere. The wetlands here are a major halting point for birds coming for wintering before continuing their onward journey, said birders. Ashish Loya, a bird watcher, said the presence of birds near populated areas is due to several factors. “This time around, the administration has stepped up vigil to ensure farmers do not indulge in burning crop residue like sugarcane leaves. There is a marginal improvement in air quality in the district. Besides, villagers themselves have become aware about the importance of birds in nature. They are not disturbing them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-village-welcomes-unexpected-winged-visitors-this-winter/articleshow/79828090.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 21, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard trapped in clutch-wire rescued by forest officials||Rudrapur: A leopard, which was trapped in a wire-snare in Chheeni Goth village of Tanakpur (Champawat) under Khatima forest range, was rescued by a team of forest department on Sunday. The team, which received information of the trapped big cat, rushed to the spot and rescued it through chemical immobilisation. The five-year-old male leopard was trapped in a snare made clutch-wire, suspected to be used by local poachers. It suffered injuries in legs and belly and was moved to the rescue centre in Haldwani, said Babu Lal, the deputy divisional forest officer of Khatima forest range. The leopard was first noticed by farmers in the morning. They alerted the local police who then informed the forest department officials which called a team of experts from Haldwani to tranquilise the feline. Meanwhile, Lal said that a probe has been launched in the incident to trace the poachers active in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-trapped-in-clutch-wire-rescued-by-forest-officials/articleshow/79828091.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||Ytl police seize liquor worth Rs37 lakh||Yavatmal: Yavatmal city police have seized liquor worth Rs37 lakh which was being smuggled to dry districts of Wardha and Chandrapur districts. Cops have also seized the truck in which the consignment was loaded from local Narangi Nagar area on Saturday night. It is learnt, the consignment had come from a distillery of a former minister in Aurangabad. The police have booked the distillery owner, owner of Nashik based NCC Logistics Aman Chaudhari, truck owner Gokul Wakhure, driver Yogesh Laghane and the cleaner. According to Yavatmal city police station officer Dhananjay Sayare, the truck was parked on Dhamangaon road. Cops found the truck loaded with 500 boxes of country and foreign liquor. On inquiry, it came to fore the excise department had given permission to transport the liquor from Aurangabad to Nanded via Jalna. But no permission was given to transport it to either Yavatmal or neighbouring Wardha and Chandrapur. Earlier, the Wani police, with court’s permission, had destroyed liquor costing Rs73 lakh which was seized during the last five years while in transit to Chandrapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ytl-police-seize-liquor-worth-rs37-lakh/articleshow/79830134.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor’s first museum to showcase its history||Bijnor: A museum, the first in the district, is proposed to be set up in Bijnor, showcasing its history, culture and tradition pieced together on the basis of artifacts unearthed over the years, preserved documents and literature as also existing places associated with legends and revered for centuries. District administration has appealed to residents to inform the authorities about the discovery of any kind of artifact found and donate them 'in the interest of the nation' Over the years, there have been many instances when Mughal era coins and artifacts like utensils of both ancient and medieval periods have been unearthed in farm lands. In 2016, copper vessels, dating back to the 4,500 years old Harappan civilization, were found in Chandpur area. Most of the artifacts were discovered by chance by farmers while tilling their land. KP Singh, chief development officer, Bijnor, said, “The names and addresses of the persons who donate these artifacts will be displayed in the museum.” Giving details, Singh said what is Bijnor district today has been witness to the reign of many rulers, including the Mughals, nawabs and British. This is reflected in its religious diversity in the form of temples, mosques and churches scattered across the district and a testimony to the influence of Hinduism, Islam, Christianity, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism in the region. Bijnor is also associated with legends and epics. It has Vidur Kuti at Daranagar village, where Lord Krishna visited, and Kanav Ashram at Rawali village, where Bharat was born, besides Sita Mandir Math -- all associated with the Mahabharat and Ramayana, said Singh. Najibabad, about 37 km from Bijnor, founded by Nawab Najib-Ud-Daulah and its Sultana Daku's fort are another example of a bygone era. The Moradhwajis fort is also located in Najibabad's Mathurapur Mor area. Here several sculptures were excavated by the archeological department in 1978-1981. Today, Moradhwaj is a centrally protected monument under jurisdiction of Agra circle of the Archaeological Survey of India, added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnors-first-museum-to-showcase-its-history/articleshow/79828106.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC may have to shell out Rs 100cr||Hyderabad: With the GHMC facing hurdles in land acquisition, compensation would be paid to property owners whose land will be acquired . After inspection of the affected properties, the GHMC has estimated that the land compensation amount could be around Rs 100 crore. “Most of the properties are government lands and land on lease. The GHMC has to pay compensation for the damaged properties which will be affected by the construction of the steel bridge and integrated flyover,” according to GHMC sources. The land compensation will be paid as per the state government’s rules and regulations for 25 private properties and a slum area in Nagamaiahkunta that will be affected. “The GHMC is planning to relocate the slum dwellers and accommodate them in the 2BHK houses being built under the state’s housing scheme,” said the official. If all goes well, work on the steel bridge and flyover might commence in March 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-may-have-to-shell-out-rs-100cr/articleshow/79829108.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Indira Park steel bridge project runs into land acquisition bump||Hyderabad: The city’s second steel bridge, proposed between Indira Park (near NTR Stadium junction) and Nagamaiahkunta (Nallakunta), may likely be delayed. Officials had planned to complete the project by 2022, but that appears unlikely now. Reason: The project is facing major hurdles in acquiring land from earmarked properties between the two points. Over half-a-dozen property owners knocked the doors of Greater Hyderabad municipal Corporation (GHMC) and urged it to relook at their pleas on land acquisition. The state government has proposed a bi-directional steel bridge at a cost of Rs 350 crore and notified properties to be acquired for the project. GHMC would need land from Bus Bhavan, VST, two pharma companies and another 25 private properties located en route Indira Park, VST (Azamabad area) and a slum, Nagamaiahkunta. After completion of earmarking properties, GHMC officials had even served notices to acqurie land. A few firms have approached GHMC and asked the authorities to consider their pleas. “They pleaded that they established their units five decades ago and it is difficult to relocate to other areas. Also, it will hurt their business worth crores,” sources in GHMC engineering wing told TOI. On the other hand, a reputed pharma firm located near Ramnagar X Road requested the civic body to reconsider its land acquisition proposal. The pharma company has suggested GHMC officials acquire land on the opposite side of the stretch instead of the earmarked one. The management raised objections that their key assets like cooling towers and other infra would get affected and it might be a major setback to their firm, the official said. The GHMC officials have taken their pleas to the notice of municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) authorities and MA&UD minister to take a final decision. As per schedule, the GHMC has to complete land acquisition process by December-end and hand it over to the firm concerned, which is building the steel bridge and an independent flyover, but the acquisition process is slightly behind schedule, the officials confirmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indira-park-steel-bridge-project-runs-into-land-acquisition-bump/articleshow/79829100.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 21, 2020||Dehradun||Locals pay tribute to farmers who died during ongoing protests||Rudrapur: Several city residents, from all walks of life, observed ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’ (Homage Day) on Sunday to pay homage to the farmers who have died (due to several reasons) during the ongoing protests to oppose the three recently-enacted farm laws. Addressing a gathering at Rudrapur’s Maharaja Ranjit Singh Park, S Ram Singh Bedi, president of Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha, said, “According to records, as many as 32 farmers have died due to accidents, illness or hostile weather conditions since November 26, 2020. All these farmers had participated in the ongoing farm protests. Their supreme sacrifices will not go in vain. We will not rest till the central government revokes the draconian farm laws.” S Surmukh Singh Virk, member of the Terai Kisan Mahasabha, said, “We strongly condemn the attitude of the Prime Minister for not accepting the demand of the farmers.” Former Congress minister Tilak Raj Behar said, “The memory of these martyrs will ignite more intensified struggles in the days to come. The protest will become wide and deep despite the efforts by PM Modi to misguide the public with falsehood. Congress stands strong with the agitating farmers and will not retreat till the Modi government does not repeal the farm reform laws.” Later in the day, a condolence meeting was organised in the memory of farmers. Similar homage events were also organised in Kashipur, Khatima, Sitarganj, Gadarpur, Kichha, and Jaspur towns of Udham Singh Nagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-pay-tribute-to-farmers-who-died-during-ongoing-protests/articleshow/79828104.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 21, 2020||Nagpur||Govt to give fisheries societies motorboats for patrolling||Nagpur: In a first-of-its-kind initiative in the state, minister of animal husbandry, diary development and fisheries, Sunil Kedar, has proposed to give motorboats to fisheries cooperative societies across the state for patrolling against illegal fishing. Kedar on Sunday inaugurated the state’s first patrolling motorboat at Futala lake. He even boarded the boat and made rounds of the lake. “Patrolling is needed because illegal fishing causes loss to fisheries cooperative societies who are awarded contracts by the government and local bodies for lakes and reservoirs,” said the minister. The societies are financially weak and cannot afford motor boats. The government will purchase the boats costing around Rs4 lakh each and gift them to societies. Corporator Kamlesh Chaudhary, activist Naru Jichkar, president of Panchsheel Matsyavyavsay Sahkari Sanstha which has the contract for Futala lake, Prakash Lonare, president of Zilla Mazdoor Sangh, Swapnil Likhar and others were present. Chaudhary told TOI, “It is a good project planned by Kedar to boost fisheries industry as well as societies. The societies across the state are running into losses and illegal fishing has aggravated the problem. It is not possible for fishermen to make regular rounds of the lakes and reservoirs for patrolling with their hand operated boats. Societies cannot afford motorboats,” he said. The department under Kedar has procured four motorboats in the first phase and likely to bring more in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-to-give-fisheries-societies-motorboats-for-patrolling/articleshow/79830152.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Over Rs 48 lakh unaccounted for cash seized in pvt bus||Tirupati: Kurnool police seized Rs 48.22 lakh unaccounted for cash in a private bus plying along the Hyderabad-Bengaluru route on Sunday. Kurnool police, acting on credible information, were conducting vehicular checks near the Panchalingala checkpost on Sunday. When they inspected the belongings of passengers in a private bus, they found a bag full of Indian currency amounting to Rs 48.22 lakh. After the owner of the bag identified as Siddeswaram failed to produce the relevant documents, police took him into custody and seized the bag. Kurnool police have informed the income tax department about the developments and further investigation is still underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-rs-48-lakh-unaccounted-for-cash-seized-in-pvt-bus/articleshow/79828102.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||As India goes down under Aussies scoring all time low, Ludhianavi fans disappointed||LUDHIANA: As India suffered a humiliating defeat in the first test match against Australia by scoring all time low test score of 36 runs in its first test at Adelaide match on Saturday. The cricket lovers in city were furious and heart broken over this crushing defeat which has spread a pall of gloom amongst the fans. Social media too was flooded with the reactions from the disappointed residents many of whom were seen gunning for Indian cricket coach Ravi Shastri and other team members. “Indian cricket team should focus on match practices rather than paying attention towards promotion and Advertisements,” said Rajesh Verma, a resident of Pink Vihar, GT road. It is such as shame over Indian cricket captains that they lost so badly that is only 36scores and they were all out. It was not expected from our team,” rued Sushma Puri, a Resident,Surya Enclave. While resenting the poor performance and blaming the over exposure due to a series of matches including 20-20 matches, some residents even criticised BCCI for not properly maintaining the schedule of the team. “I will not watch any further matches of this series as it is clear Indian team is not sweating out enough in the field to win matches so it's waste of my time to watch this tournament,” said Gurpreet Kaur Sethi, a resident of Salem Tabri “India hadn't lost any of their 25 Tests when Virat Kohli won the toss prior to today!It took an unbelievable effort from Australia's bowlers to end that streak,” said Sukaran Singh, a resident of Punjab Mata Nagar. “A day to remember for Australia as they bowled India out for their lowest total in Test history,” said Jang Bahadur Singh,Resident,New Sarabha nagar However there were some die hard fans who thought that the team can still come out of the crushing defeat and it should focus on the next game. Winning and losing even if badly were two sides of the coin, they mainained. “No need to be stress about who won who loss as winning and losing is part of a game. One should focus on giving his best and keep away the stress,” consoled another resident of the area Bikramjit Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/as-india-goes-down-under-aussies-scoring-all-time-low-ludhianavi-fans-disappointed/articleshow/79828101.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Dehradun||Students of non-board classes to be promoted without exams by U’khand board govt schools||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand education department is planning to promote students without holding any exams this academic year. The department is yet to come with a formal order regarding the plan but it is highly likely that students from Classes I to IX and of Class XI will be promoted without any examination. The education department states that the students of Uttarakhand government schools have been academically impacted this year due to Covid-19 outbreak. However, the students of Classes X and XII will have to write their board examinations, which will be conducted by the Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE). Meanwhile, the private schools of the state will be given the liberty of deciding whether to hold the exams or not. The reason behind this liberty to private school is that the students of most of the private schools have been able to keep up with their syllabus even this year due to better accessibility to online classes. It is worth mentioning that schools in Uttarakhand, except for students of Classes X and XII, haven’t resumed physical classes since March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/students-of-non-board-classes-to-be-promoted-without-exams-by-ukhand-board-govt-schools/articleshow/79828130.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada markets pin revival hopes on Christmas||VIJAYAWADA: Christmas and New Year festivities in Vijayawada seem to have begun a little early this year. Festive markets across the city saw a huge rush this weekend. Vijayawada sees huge Christmas celebrations every year. In a bid to attract buyers, shops across the city have been decked up with beautiful lamps and Christmas trees. Many shops in the city are also offering special discounts. People dressed as Santa Claus were seen welcoming customers into shops. Stalls selling festive décor including lights and stars saw big crowds on Sunday. J Prardhana, a homemaker who was out shopping on Sunday, said, “The pandemic has stolen a lot of happiness this year. We are about to bid goodbye to this year and have decided to celebrate it on a grand note.” Markets too are looking at the festive season with hopes of recovery. “We have faced a tough time this year with the pandemic. Our shop remained closed for more than 120 days. Dasara and Diwali season were slow as consumers were hesitant to venture out. But the situation has changed a little now,” said M Sarar Gupta, who runs a readymade clothes showroom at Governorpet. Meanwhile, police are requesting shop owners to strictly maintain physical distancing, mask rules and other Covid-19-related measures. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz has requested residents to be cautious during Christmas and New Year celebrations considering concerns about a possible second wave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vijayawada-markets-pin-revival-hopes-on-christmas/articleshow/79828121.cms||Venu Lanka
December 21, 2020||Business||China tensions trip General Motors unit sale||NEW DELHI: General Motors will shut down its last factory in India a day before Christmas, the fallout of raging tension between India and China. GM wanted to sell its Maharashtra factory to Great Wall Motors, China’s largest SUV maker, for over Rs 2,000 crore, but India has not cleared the deal. With the closure of the Talegaon plant on Thursday, GM will bring the curtains down on its India operations which began in 1996. GM had already sold its other Indian factory (at Halol in Gujarat) to China’s SAIC in 2017, which is now being used by MG Motors. There are 1,800 salaried and hourly employees at the Talegaon site, a source said. The deal between GM and Great Wall was announced in January when they signed a binding term sheet, and this was to close in the second half of the year. However, in April, India put in place stricter rules for investments from China and other neighbouring countries. And in June, after the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in Ladakh, Maharashtra said it was putting the GM-Great Wall and two other deals (worth Rs 5,000 crore) on hold. Amid the hostility, the government had decided to scrutinise all investment decisions from neighbouring countries in a move that was aimed at holding up flows from China. The Talegaon plant was being used to export cars, primarily the Chevrolet Beat, to Mexico. This has now stopped, forcing the company to shut down the factory with no deal in place with Great Wall. It is understood that GM has told shop floor workers that they will paid salary till January 25. The GM India spokesperson remained hopeful of a solution to get the deal moving. “Both companies continue to work with all relevant authorities to secure necessary government approvals to support the transaction, which will deliver future jobs at the site.” The company said it will support the impacted employees with separation packages and transition support. “We have made all relevant disclosures regarding investments in operations.” It is understood that in the absence of a fund flow from Great Wall Motors, GM will have to fund the closure liabilities on its own. It will need to pay for the severance payout to workers, while also requiring an approval from the Maharashtra government for layoffs. Some sections fear that GM’s exit could get tangled in legal and bureaucratic problems if workers decide to challenge the severance package, especially as chances of fresh jobs look bleak. Great Wall Motors had said earlier that it has started work to identify cars, parts suppliers and dealers for its India foray. It had plans to invest a cumulative $1 billion in India in a phased manner in areas, including research and development, manufacturing, model launches, and sales and marketing. The company planned to drive in its SUV brand Haval and electric vehicles to India, and looked to give direct employment to around 3,000 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/china-tensions-trip-general-motors-unit-sale/articleshow/79831214.cms||Pankaj Doval
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre grants T addl borrowing limit of Rs 2.5k cr||Hyderabad: Reeling under the Covid-induced economic slowdown, the state has raised Rs 34,000 crore so far in the form of bonds. On Sunday, the state was sanctioned an additional borrowing limit of Rs 2,508 crore by the Centre. The state government had feasibility to raise the upper cap limit to Rs 45,000 crore for a year. With the permission to borrow an additional Rs 2,508 crore, the limit will increase to Rs 47,508 crore. This would mean that the state had the limit to raise just Rs 13,508 crore this financial year. The state is borrowing such a huge loan amount for the first time due to the economic slowdown. “The loans are being taken with a long-term repayment schedule of 10 years to 20 years, it is not very alarming, but the financial condition has to be improved,” said sources. The permission to borrow extra was granted to five states— Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu— as these states have completed the stipulated reforms in Ease of Doing Business. The neighbouring AP was sanctioned an additional borrowing limit of about Rs 3,000 crore. As per rough estimates, the state had lost about Rs 1,700 crore income per day. This had led to a serious economic slowdown. The four citizen-centric areas for reforms identified were implementation of ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ system, Ease of Doing Business, urban local body or utility reforms and power sector reforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-grants-t-addl-borrowing-limit-of-rs-2-5k-cr/articleshow/79829116.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Memory shapes oral history of city||Ahmedabad: Near Zaverivad, a once-affluent neighbourhood of the Walled City, is Panjrapol - the term generally associated with shelter home for animals. But for over half a century, the area has not seen the shelter functioning - it first got shifted near Government Polytechnic in the western city parts, and later went out of the city. However, the area is very much known by the name it was identified originally. Gauri Bharat, associate professor and head of the Architectural History and Theory program at Cept University, along with Sadan Jha and Priyanka Kanhare carried out a foundation studio for the students where they focused on various aspects of Panjrapol. “Various projects explored the aspects of oral history and memory of a place. It might no longer be present on the spot, but it’s still very much alive for those living there. For a city like Ahmedabad with more than 600 years of history, such history and remembrance can provide an interesting lens to look the city from and understand its cultural and societal development,” said Prof Bharat. Panjrapol however is hardly the first or last example for the city – Lal Darwaza, Shahpur Darwaza, etc. find place in collective memory of the citizens even when the physical landmark is no longer present. Even in the western city parts, several of the crossroads adopted the names of nearby buildings which only exist in names – ranging from Anjali Crossroads to Vijay Crossroads, point out the city historians. Some of the projects which were carried out as part of the module include architectural history of Panjrapol derasars, the history of animal shelter institution, ornamentation in the residences, religion and patronage, development of the area over the centuries, water conservation and usage. The students explored the typology of residences – ranging from opulent havelis to chawls that had come up to accommodate the influx of mill workers, and from pols to community living clusters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/memory-shapes-oral-history-of-city/articleshow/79829264.cms||Parth Shastri
December 21, 2020||Vijayawada||PPA chief inspects project site||Polavaram: Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) CEO Dr Chandrasekhar Ayyar on Sunday said the authority will complete the project as per schedule. He said works are going on at full swing as the project contractor firm is following timelines. Ayyar started his four-day tour to inspect project works on Sunday. Ayyar said he was satisfied with the pace and progress of the project after inspecting spillway, bridge and radial gate works. “Everyone is working to meet the deadline. We are confident that we will complete the project as per the schedule,” said Ayyar. B Sudhakar, chief engineer (irrigation) and general manager of contractor Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (Meil) explained the progress of works to the PPA CEO. They said they have started installation of arm girders before fixing the radial gates. The first gate will be fixed by Monday, he said. Ayyar said he would go through key components of the project including implementation of R&R package on Monday. He is likely to interact with locals and oustees in East Godavari district on Monday and enquire about the implementation of R&R package and visit villages likely to be inundated in West Godavari district on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ppa-chief-inspects-project-site/articleshow/79828141.cms||Samdani MN
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Mir Alam Mandi Kaman stands on its last legs, poses threat to visitors & vendors||Hyderabad: The historic Mir Alam Mandi Kaman (arch), that stands as an epitome of a glorious past, is falling prey to apathy. The kaman, which was erected during the Nizam era, stands as an entrance to one of the oldest and most bustling markets in Hyderabad. However, with chunks of concrete falling off every now and then, locals say that the structure is posing a serious threat to visitors as well as the vendors who set up shops in the 200-year-old market. “Instead of renovating the heritage structure, the authorities have erected iron pillars to support the weight of the concrete about one-and-half years ago. The iron pillars were only a temporary fix to the problem. Now, the entire weight of this kaman is on these pillars and since it is already in a dilapidated state, we are not sure for how long we can rely on this temporary arrangement,” said Ghulam Dastagir, 62, who has been selling vegetables in the market since the last 40 years. He said the kaman may end up facing the same fate as the Nizam-era ‘Mississippi aircraft hanger’ at the City Bus Station, which came down crashing in 2018. This 200-year-old mandi which is spread over a five-acre land which consists of 43 shops and is operated by around 300 vendors. “Many vehicles pass through the kaman, which causes vibration inside the structure and chunks of concrete keep falling. The situation is worse during monsoon,” said Mir Muzaffer Ali, president, Mir Alam Mandi Vegetable Commission Agent Association. SN Surya Kumar, deputy commissioner of Charminar zone, inspected the structure. He said, “While there is no threat of the structure collapsing, we will consider getting the repairs done to ensure that pieces of concrete don’t fall. There is a proposal for beautification of the kaman and the mandi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mir-alam-mandi-kaman-stands-on-its-last-legs-poses-threat-to-visitors-vendors/articleshow/79829123.cms||Moulika.KV
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lowest single-day Covid case tally in 118 days||NEW DELHI: Delhi reported 1,091 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours — one of the lowest in nearly four months — out of the total 83,289 tests conducted, including 37,288 RT-PCR tests with a positivity rate of 1.3%. The capital recorded 26 deaths on Sunday, the lowest in 67 days. It was also the sixth consecutive day when the positivity rate remained below 2%. While the positivity rate in Delhi has been below 5% since December 2, the death rate has been a cause of concern, but that figure too has been dipping compared to the high fatality rate witnessed during the peak of the third wave of Covid-19 last month. The last time Delhi had witnessed a lower number of new Covid-19 cases was on August 24, when 1,061 cases were recorded out of just 11,910 tests, which were conducted on a Sunday. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases reached the figure of 6,17,005 on Sunday and with 1,275 patients recovering from the disease in the last 24 hours, the total number of those who have recovered stands at 5,96,580 – a recovery rate of 96.6%. The number of active cases as on Sunday was 10,148, out of which most patients – 5,907 – are recuperating in home isolation and 2,997 are admitted in hospitals, apart from 118 in Covid care centres and 35 in Covid health centres. Total 15,773 Covid beds are vacant in hospitals, 7,398 in Covid care centres and 527 in health centres. According to the Delhi Corona application, 815 out of total 1,522 Covid-19 ICU beds with ventilators are vacant while 2,842 ICU beds without ventilators out of total 3,578 are vacant. The number of active cases on Sunday, in fact, was less than a fourth of the active cases a month ago on November 20 – 40,936, which translates to a daily dip of more than 1,000 cases on an average for the last 30 days. The reason the active cases have come down by 75.2% in the last 30 days is that while the number of people testing positive has been going down, the number of patients recovering from the disease has been going up. The number of fresh cases have been dipping since November 20 and barring very few exceptions, every day the number of people recovering from Covid-19 has been higher than people testing positive, which explains the dip of 30,788 in the number of active cases in the last 30 days. Apart from aggressive testing and increased contract tracing, another strategy of Delhi government that has helped in bringing the numbers down is creation of micro containment zones even at locations where less than three people have tested positive, if needed. That explains why while the positivity rate has come down from 10.6% to 1.3% and new cases from 6,608 to 1,091, apart from the dip in active cases. However, the number of containment zones have gone up from 4,560 on November 20 to 5,943 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lowest-single-day-case-tally-in-118-days/articleshow/79829140.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Awesome clicks with Nihang Sikhs at Singhu||NEW DELHI: Dressed in blue tunics, decorated turbans and armed with swords, a group of Nihang Sikhs camping at Singhu border have been the cynosure of all eyes with people queuing up to take selfies with them. Sitting near the police barricading, the Nihang Sikhs or “Sikh warriors” have been readily obliging people approaching them with photographs and selfies. One of the group members, 60-year-old Gursewak Singh from Chandigarh, said, “It feels great to see excitement and respect among people to meet us and get pictures clicked with us.” Another Nihang, Lakhwir Singh, who was holding a licensed gun along with a sword, said, “Our senior leaders are sitting inside the tent, while a few of us are guarding it. Besides, other members are camping in other parts of Singhu border. We are here to show support to the farmers’ protest. We are happy with the love and admiration that we are getting from visitors.” The Nihangs demonstrating horse riding skills drew a huge crowd with people clicking pictures and recording videos of it. Hitesh Kumar, a college student who clicked a selfie with them, said, “I met Nihang Sikhs for the first time.” Meanwhile, right from a 21-year-old paralysed student from Haryana to a three-month-old girl from Delhi’s Preet Vihar, there were scores of people from the non-farming community who were at the border on Sunday to extend their support. The visitors from Delhi, Punjab and Haryana were there for just a day. They said they would be back the next weekend. Holding placards, many families took out a march to show their support. Indrajeet Singh, a businessman from Panipat, said he wanted the children in the family to understand the ground reality. “We want our children to understand the plight of farmers and the role they play in our society as there will be no food without them,” he added. He was accompanied by three children aged nine months, five years and 10 years. Wheelchair-bound Amrit Pal, a BA student from Ladwa in Kurukshetra district in Haryana who was at the protest site with his friends, said, “I have been reading news about the protest. Even though I’m half paralysed, I couldn’t stop myself from coming here to express my solidarity with them. I will return home in the evening, but will come back again.” Bhupinder Kaur, a 63-year-old who was on her third visit to the border with her family members, including a three-month-old granddaughter, said, “I’m sad that a large number of farmers are being forced to stay in the cold weather to fight for their rights. We will keep coming here to build pressure on the government to listen to their demands.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/awesome-clicks-with-nihang-sikhs-at-singhu/articleshow/79829179.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Dharani: T earns Rs 106 cr revenue||Hyderabad: The state government on Sunday announced that Rs 106 crore was earned from registration of agricultural properties through Dharani portal. The registration of non-agricultural properties began on November 2 with the launch of the portal. A total of 89,851 transactions took place and 66, 614 registrations were made. Tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dharani-t-earns-rs-106-cr-revenue/articleshow/79829142.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Guv flags off final leg of Kashmir to Kanyakumari para-cycle race||Hyderabad: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan flagged off the last leg of the Kashmir to Kanyakumari para-cycle race at Begumpet on Sunday. Celebrities from the Telugu film industry were among the participants and cycled till the outskirts of the city in an expression of solidarity for the cause. “I must appreciate Aditya Mehta Foundation for their work. This is the first function I’m attending amid the pandemic and I wanted to attend it to support specially-abled people and today I’m here as their strong supporter. People with the super ability only want our support, they are more confident than us,” said Soundararajan. Starting from Hyderabad, the final leg of the Infinity Ride 2020 will see cyclists completing the remaining 1,279 km distance through AP, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu before completing a 36-cities and 45-day journey in Kanyakumari on December 31. A team of 30 cyclists, including members of the Indian para-cycling team, reached Hyderabad after completing the journey of more than 2,500 km starting from Kashmir on November 19. “We have been receiving good support during our journey from Kashmir and I hope more people come forward to join and help us,” said AMF founder Aditya Mehta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-flags-off-final-leg-of-kashmir-to-kanyakumari-para-cycle-race/articleshow/79829139.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 21, 2020||Goa||Cong criticises glitches during L-Day function||Panaji: Congress has criticised the state government for the glitches during President Ram Nath Kovind’s main Liberation Day function at Campal on Saturday. According to Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar, loud sound allegedly caused “glass pieces and some sharp material” to fall on the stage a few minutes after the dignitaries arrived. “This incident needs to be probed as the same could have caused a threat to the life of President of India or other guests,” he said. He said various other technical glitches were observed. “The television sets on stage had gone off when the documentary on Goa’s history was shown. None of the dignitaries on the stage could see the documentary,” he said, demanding that the event management agency be blacklisted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-criticises-glitches-during-l-day-function/articleshow/79830717.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Hyderabad||State seeks funds for NREGS||Hyderabad: After the letter to the Centre on road expansion, rural development and panchayat raj minister E Dayakar Rao on Sunday wrote another letter to the Centre seeking pending funds of Rs 1,024 crore for NREGS scheme. He said that state as its share should get a total of Rs 1,719 crore under the scheme this year, but has got only Rs 694 crore. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-seeks-funds-for-nregs/articleshow/79829156.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ranchi||North Jharkhand shivers, Kanke freezes as mercury drops to 2°C||RANCHI: With clear skies and steady northern winds blowing all over central India, temperature across the districts in northern Jharkhand, particularly those bordering Bihar, receded further on Sunday. The maximum deviation of 6.2°C from normal was recorded in Bokaro which witnessed a minimum of 6.1° C. In terms of day temperature, Bokaro is also the coldest at 22.5°C. According to the IMD (Ranchi) bulletin, the highest maximum temperature of 26.8°C was recorded in Chaibasa while Daltonganj recorded the lowest minimum of 5.9°C, which was a deviation of 3.6°C from normal. With no significant synoptic system prevailing over Jharkhand, the chill is likely to continue, it said. “There would be early morning fog in some of the districts and the minimum temperature would remain 2-4 degrees below normal in most parts of the state,” the IMD’s forecast said. Meanwhile, the mercury in Ranchi urban improved slightly to 7.5°C but in the rural pockets, it further receded and Kanke recorded 2°C. Agro-meteorologist at Birsa Agriculture University, Dr A Wadood, said free wind contributes significantly to the drop in the temperature. “Lack of vegetation or blockades in the path of wind in the urban pockets maintains the temperature slightly higher than what is noticed in rural areas and Kanke is known to be colder by even 4-5 degrees than rest of the district,” he said. Expressing concern over the sudden drop in temperatures, Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth requested the district administration to arrange firewood at the main squares of the capital. “By now, there should have been proper arrangements in place to prevent the poor from being exposed to cold wave. Even the night shelters should be provided with amenities,” he said. Though some of the social organizations have started distributing warm clothes to the poor, the municipal corporation or the welfare department is yet to start blanket distribution in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/north-jharkhand-shivers-kanke-freezes-as-mercury-drops-to-2c/articleshow/79830463.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 21, 2020||Ranchi||New job scheme for deceased staff kin at SKMU||DUMKA: In a major relief for qualified family members and relatives of SKM University employees, who died in harness, the university administration announced the appointment in grade three posts on compassionate grounds. Conceding to a long-pending demand, SKMU vice-chancellor Sona Jharia Minj on Saturday agreed for the appointment during talks with a delegation of non-teaching employees of the university. During the tenure of vice-chancellor Qamar Ahsan, SKMU had discontinued appointment on grade III posts for kin of deceased employees, both teaching and non-teaching, and provided only grade IV posts irrespective of their higher education qualifications. The move had drawn flak from different quarters. President of the SKMU non-teaching employees’ union, Parimal Kundan hailed the latest move and said, “Discontinuing appointment in grade III posts was a black spot on the university administration’s part and it demeaned the academic degrees of higher qualifications possessed by the kin of the deceased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/new-job-scheme-for-deceased-staff-kin-at-skmu/articleshow/79830472.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 21, 2020||Ranchi||Cases drop in Jharkhand as test rate dips||RANCHI: With a steady increase in number of Covid positive cases in the state during last week, Sunday seemed better with 172 fresh cases and zero death. Number of recoveries was, 182 but the number of tests conducted on Sunday was also significantly lower. In terms of positivity rate, Sunday with 1.66% was worse than the last few days when it was as low as 1.12% on Friday. Ranchi once against topped the list with 71 fresh cases, but here too the number of tests carried out came down to 1,541 as against 2,300 plus done on weekdays. As many as 108 recoveries were reported from the district. Dhanbad with 16 fresh cases, East Singhbhum with 15 and Ramgarh with 12 cases remained in the list while Chatra, Giridih, Lohardaga, Pakur and Sahibganj did not report any new case. Rest of the districts had fresh cases in single digits. The total number of cases reported in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic reached 1,13,025 with 97.59% recoveries corresponding to 1,10,307. With no casualty reported on Sunday, it remained at 1,010, representing 0.89% of the net infections reported till date. The seven days’ growth rate remained at 0.17% while the seven-day doubling rate improved slightly to 418.44 days as against 405.28 days reported on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cases-drop-as-test-rate-dips/articleshow/79830423.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Jamshedpur||Cases drop in Jharkhand as test rate dips||RANCHI: With a steady increase in number of Covid positive cases in the state during last week, Sunday seemed better with 172 fresh cases and zero death. Number of recoveries was, 182 but the number of tests conducted on Sunday was also significantly lower. In terms of positivity rate, Sunday with 1.66% was worse than the last few days when it was as low as 1.12% on Friday. Ranchi once against topped the list with 71 fresh cases, but here too the number of tests carried out came down to 1,541 as against 2,300 plus done on weekdays. As many as 108 recoveries were reported from the district. Dhanbad with 16 fresh cases, East Singhbhum with 15 and Ramgarh with 12 cases remained in the list while Chatra, Giridih, Lohardaga, Pakur and Sahibganj did not report any new case. Rest of the districts had fresh cases in single digits. The total number of cases reported in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic reached 1,13,025 with 97.59% recoveries corresponding to 1,10,307. With no casualty reported on Sunday, it remained at 1,010, representing 0.89% of the net infections reported till date. The seven days’ growth rate remained at 0.17% while the seven-day doubling rate improved slightly to 418.44 days as against 405.28 days reported on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/cases-drop-as-test-rate-dips/articleshow/79837642.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 21, 2020||Ranchi||Temple authorities concerned over illegal liquor supply near Rajrappa||RAMGARH: As picnickers are making a beeline for two of the most popular tourist spots in the district – Patratu Lake Resort and Rajrappa temple – the temple authorities have expressed their inhibitions regarding some locals openly supplying illegal liquor to the revellers in and around the premises. A senior priest on condition of anonymity said that although the number of devotees at the temple hasn’t gone up much because there is no ‘muhurat’ for weddings or ‘mundans’, the picnickers are coming in large numbers. “However, we are worried because they are being supplied illegal liquor by the locals here,” he added. He further said, “We have brought this to the local police’s notice and requested them to help us in keeping the sanctity of the temple alive but no action has been taken yet. Although the cops know about illegal liquor traders, they want us to come forward with a written complaint but since we have to stay here, we cannot risk picking a fight with the locals.” The officer in-charge of Rajrappa police station, Vipin Kumar, said, “Recently we conducted raids at a grocery shop near the temple and seized liquor bottles that were being sold illegally. We also seized some empty bottles and wrappers of various brands from the shop and arrested shopkeeper Anil Sao.” Meanwhile, every year thousands of people head to Rajrapaa temple from the second week of December to February-end and this time as well the trend continues even amid a pandemic. General manager of Jharkhand Tourism Development Corporation (JTDC) Alok Prasad said that the JTDC-run hotels and restaurants are seeing a surge in customers and their open-air eatery is doing brisk business. Located at the confluence of Damodar and Bhairvi rivers, Rajrappa temple is among the top five places of pilgrimage and tourist attractions in the state. The other four are Patratu Lake Resort, Parasnath hills in Giridih district, Bhadrakali temple in Chatra district and Anjan dham in Gumla district. The state tourism department has earmarked Rs 2,000 crore in order to make all of them into global tourist destinations, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/temple-authorities-concerned-over-illegal-liquor-supply-near-rajrappa/articleshow/79830453.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ranchi||Tejashwi to focus on RJD’s expansion in J’khand||Ranchi: RJD working president and opposition leader in Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, on Sunday said he will focus on strengthening and expansion of his party in Jharkhand. Speaking to media persons before leaving Ranchi, he said, “ We have called a meeting of our candidates in the Bihar elections to discuss the weaknesses in our plans and ways to remove them. I also want to expand the party base in Jharkhand. The party workers must be engaged in informing the masses about the work of mahagathbandhan government.” Describing the upcoming state assembly election in West Bengal as important for the mahagathbandhan parties, Tejashwi said irrespective of their efforts, BJP is not going to form a government in the state after the election. Meanwhile, the party’s state president, Abhay Singh, said Tejashwi would soon call a meeting of its Jharkhand unit to chalk out plans for strengthening the party here. Singh further said the party working president is likely to hold discussions with RJD candidates, who contested the Jharkhand assembly polls in 2019, at Patna in the coming days. RJD wants to increase its strength in Jharkhand assembly and the party should be in the role of kingmaker rather than be a pleader.” He also said a blueprint has been prepared for 14 districts where RJD had an MLA in the past and the party would carry out activities to regain its public support there. Among the 14 districts are Chatra, Palamu, Lathehar, Koderma, Giridih, Dhanbad and Bokaro. Singh added that local-level programmes followed by mega rallies would be organized in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tejashwi-to-focus-on-rjds-expansion-in-jkhand/articleshow/79830445.cms||Sanjay Sahay
December 21, 2020||Vadodara||Thalassaemia fighter loses battle to disorder at 25||Vadodara: Partth Thakur, founder of The Wishing Factory (TWF) – an NGO for thalassaemia patients – passed away at a hospital in the early hours of Sunday. Thakur, 25, was a thalassaemia patient himself and was admitted to a hospital with a condition which is even baffling the doctors. He was recovering well in the last two days, but his condition suddenly worsened in the wee hours of Sunday. “He was not keeping well for the last month and was admitted to the hospital two weeks back. On early Sunday morning he developed complications and passed away,” said Neha Khinchi, HR head of TWF.Thakur had started the NGO when he was just 19-years-old with an aim to fulfil wishes of thalassaemia patients. He soon expanded the NGO by establishing free blood transfusion centres in various cities of India. He also started a thalassaemia wellness centre and chelation pump libraries. Thakur, who had also tied-up with various corporates to start wellness centres and blood transfusion centres across the country, also launched campaigns to sensitize people on thalassaemia. He roped in filmstars who readily supported him in the campaigns. During lockdown, he launched the campaign ‘Ulta Hoke Thalassaemia Roke’ on World Thalassemia Day under which, the NGO had decided to fund blood transfusion of 100 patients belonging to low-income groups in the state.Thakur who kept asserting his desire, “We must keep trying only so that there comes a day when there is no child born with thalassaemia in India”, had also met bureaucrats to create awareness within the education system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/thalassaemia-fighter-loses-battle-to-disorder-at-25/articleshow/79827987.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Delhi||Cold as ice: Mercury slips to season's fresh low of 3.4°C in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With the cold wave continuing, the season's lowest minimum temperature of 3.4 degree Celsius, which was five notches below normal, was recorded in Delhi on Sunday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said the minimum temperature may rise on Monday and Tuesday. The minimum temperature was the lowest at Lodhi Road at 3.3 degrees Celsius. Last year, the mercury plummeted to below 4° Celsius only in the last week of December. In 2019, the lowest minimum temperature was recorded on December 28 at 2.4° Celsius. The all-time record of lowest minimum temperature was recorded on December 27, 1930 at zero degree Celsius. IMD officials said a cold wave is recorded when the minimum temperature is 4 degrees or more below normal. Sunday was the third cold wave recorded in the city. The base observatory at Safdarjung recorded a maximum temperature of 22.4 degrees Celsius, which was normal at this time of the year. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, "The minimum temperature dropped mainly due to clear sky and Delhi receiving cold winds from the mountains where snow has fallen. Absence of cloud cover is making the days warm, while the heat has been quickly dissipating at night, leading to fall in temperature." The forecast for Monday says the minimum temperature is likely to rise to six degrees Celsius, while maximum temperature may remain around 22 degrees Celsius. Partly cloudy sky along with shallow fog or mist is also predicted. "However, the minimum temperature is likely to start dipping from Wednesday and may hover around 4 degrees Celsius from December 23 to 26. Moderate to dense fog along with cold wave conditions are forecast for the same period," said an official. Meanwhile, Delhi's air quality deteriorated to the "very poor" category on Sunday. Air Quality Index (AQI) was 321 against 290 on Saturday. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research, the forecasting body under Union ministry of earth sciences, said, "The overall air quality is at the lower end of the very poor category. Surface-level winds are moderate and west-southwesterly. Cold day conditions are forecast to intensify in the region and surface winds are likely to slow down. The current better dispersion conditions are likely to decrease. Hence, AQI is forecast to deteriorate to the middle-end of the very poor category on Monday and further deteriorate to the higher end of very poor on December 22 and 23."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cold-as-ice-mercury-slips-to-seasons-fresh-low-of-3-4c-in-delhi/articleshow/79831218.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram driver rams pickup truck into crowd, on the run||GURUGRAM: A man allegedly drove a pickup van into the premises of a city hospital late on Friday night following an argument, police said on Sunday. The impact was such that a medical store, an ambulance and five parked motorcycles were damaged, they added. The incident, which took place at Balaji Hospital near Basai Chowk, was captured on CCTV camera, a video of which was widely shared on social media. #WATCH Gurugram: CCTV footage shows a man ramming his pickup truck inside Balaji Hospital premises at Basai Chowk a… https://t.co/goGNhpd76u— TOI Gurgaon (@TOIGurgaon) 1608440295000The hospital administration said the driver, identified as Vikas Joon, was a relative of two patients who had been admitted to the facility on Friday night. Police sources told TOI that Vikas had beaten up his own parents, who were rushed to the hospital by his brother-in-law Krishan. When Krishan tried telling Vikas over the phone that he shouldn’t have thrashed them, a fight ensued between the two, they added. “A man and a woman came in for treatment of some injuries. One of the family members, Krishan, was standing outside the hospital and talking to Vikas on the phone. Minutes later, a pickup van came and tried to drive inside the hospital, causing substantial damage,” said a police officer, not wishing to be named. The hospital then informed the Sector 9A police station, following which cops arrived. A case was registered against Vikas on Saturday under IPC sections 336 (whoever does any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months or with fine which may extend to Rs 250 or with both) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs 50). A police officer said the matter was still under investigation and no one has been arrested yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/after-argument-patients-kin-drives-van-into-hospital/articleshow/79830837.cms||Shubhra Pant
December 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 50% paid, but flat construction yet to start||GURUGRAM: The mismatch between construction and money collected by developers from buyers has emerged as the biggest area of concern in the affordable housing segment. This is because unlike regular group housing projects where payment is linked to the status of construction, investment is time-bound in the affordable segment. And because of this, a number of developers have collected more than 50-60% of the entire amount but construction is yet to start at their project sites. Flooded with such complaints, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) is considering making an amendment to the affordable housing policy of the state to link the payment with the status of construction. In some cases, the department has already directed developers to stop collecting payment from buyers unless they exhibit the development in construction work proportion to the amount collected from investors. Currently, homebuyers in the affordable housing segment have to make 5% payment at the time of applying for the flat, another 20% at the time of allotment, and the remaining 75% is to be paid in six monthly instalments over the next four years. “I booked a flat in OSD Golf Heights in Sector 69 in 2018 and till March 2020 made more than 50% of the payment. However, at the project site, there has been barely any construction, despite a 2022 deadline. DTCP has now barred the developer from accepting any more payments,” said Gaurav Narang, a buyer. In fact, a survey by DTCP has revealed that the pace of construction at many affordable housing project sites in Gurugram is slow. However, the developers have been taking payments from the allottees regularly. In some cases, developers have collected upto 65% of the entire amount. Usually, developers start construction at the site after obtaining environment clearance or the approval of the building plan that often takes up to a year. “So, we have made a request to the director of the town and country planning for making an amendment to the policy to make it construction linked,” said senior town planner (STP) Sanjeev Mann. Chairman of Signature Global, Pradeep Aggarwal, however, said that the delay is caused due to two reasons – fundamental problems and developer-specific problems. “In 2019, on the direction of NGT, construction was stopped between October and December. This year, Covid-induced lockdown disrupted the construction activities for six months,” he said. “Moreover, the cost of construction materials increases over the years, but the cost of units remains unchanged as the government has fixed the price. Getting an extension of licence is also expensive in the affordable segment. So, the delay will not benefit the developers of affordable housing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/50-paid-but-flat-construction-yet-to-start/articleshow/79830863.cms||Bagish Jha
December 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Shelters give Covid protocols a miss||GURUGRAM: With mercury plummeting in Delhi-NCR, homeless people have started taking refuge at the night shelters across the city. But a visit to these shelters revealed that some of basic Covid-19 protocols are not being followed in most. While caretakers or security guards were without thermal guns/scanners to measure body temperature, social distancing norms were not followed, especially when it comes to sleeping arrangement. Not only is the bedding of poor quality, everything is dumped together in the morning after people wake up in violation of the basic Covid protocols. Earlier, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram(MCG) had said that all protocols would be followed at the night shelters and masks would be provided at the gate, along with sanitisers. The MCG has prepared 10 night shelters. While five are permanent structures, the rest are operating from portable cabins and can together accommodate 388 people. Permanent night shelters at Sheetla Mata mandir, where 120 people can stay, opened on December 1 and so far, more than 600 people have stayed in them. But sources said the bedding has not been changed or sanitised. Manish Kumar, who stayed at a shelter in Rajiv Chowk, said he had come to Gurugram for some personal work and had to go to Jhunjhunu. But he stayed back because he did not get a bus. “We did not get masks and sanitisers and no one checked my temperature,” he said. MCG had also said that meals and hot water would be provided at the shelters. Mahender Singh, who stayed at a shelter in Sheetla Mata mandir, said: “We needed water at night but we were forced to drink cold water from the tank. There are bed bugs and the quilts are full of lice.” Nitish Kumar, supervisor of the night shelters, said they did not get thermal guns/scanners from authorities. “Earlier, masks and sanitiser were there.” “Many homeless people sleep outside hoping to get clothes, blankets and often food from voluntary organisations and individuals who volunteer to help,” a senior official said. “Three teams are keeping tabs across the city. Many do not want to go to night shelters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/shelters-give-covid-protocols-a-miss/articleshow/79830909.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Goa||Power play within BJP to decide South Goa ZP head||MARGAO: With the saffron surge in the South Goa zilla panchayat body, the focus has now shifted to the election of its chairperson. As the post has been reserved for women, sources said that at least three contenders are vying for the position. While Suvarna Tendulkar, who got elected from Sanvordem constituency in the December 12 South Goa zilla panchayat election, is the frontrunner for the chairperson’s post considering the “seniority” point of view, sources said that Anita Thorat, who got elected unopposed from Sancoale and Sanjana Velip who won from Guirdolim may well pip Tendulkar to the post, considering the power play within the BJP. Sources said that as Tendulkar got elected for the second consecutive term, she becomes the “natural’ contender for the post, as both Thorat and Velip are new entrants in the zilla panchayat. However, with panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho likely to put his weight behind Thorat, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar could well be batting for Velip, and sources said the “chosen one” will be decided by the party brass. For the post of deputy chairperson, Ulhas Tuyekar and Khushali Jorgo Velip are favourites in terms of seniority. While Tuyekar won from Davorlim for the second time after winning the Davorlim panchayat elections for three terms, Velip won from Barcem for the fourth time. However, while Tuyekar is a hardcore grassroots BJP worker, Velip is a new entrant in the saffron party. Sources said that as deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar succeeded in retaining BJP’s sway over several constituencies considered to be his fiefdom, the Quepem MLA is likely to play a major role in the selection of the deputy chairperson as well. Khushali is considered Kavlekar’s trusted aide. Besides, as he belongs to the ST community, the dynamics of tribal vote bank politics is likely to have a bearing on the selection of the deputy chairperson, sources said. Sources, however, said that the recent trend of sharing the post among contenders is likely to come to an end, with BJP maintaining total sway over the ZP body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-play-within-bjp-to-decide-which-side-the-scales-tip-for-south-goa-zp-chairpersons-post/articleshow/79830461.cms||Govind Maad
December 21, 2020||Mumbai||Masks must for 6 months, no night curfew for now: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Ahead of the Christmas and New Year celebrations, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray cautioned that coronavirus was still prevalent and it would be mandatory for all to wear masks at least for six more months, even if vaccines arrive. He urged people to take care during Christmas, but ruled out a lockdown and night curfew. Thackeray, addressing the state through social media, said hat people responded to his appeal and have followed guidelines, which resulted in controlling of Covid-19 cases. He said wearing of a mask in public places would be mandatory at least for six months. The chief minister stated that although almost every activity has resumed the virus was still around. “As head of the family, I appeal to everyone to be careful,” he said. He mentioned that a strict lockdown had been imposed in United Kingdom and Europe from Sunday as a new strand of the virus was spreading speedily, which could have a more devastating effect. “I have received suggestions from experts on imposing a lockdown again or night curfew ahead of New Year. Though we can impose lockdown or restrictions, I don’t think it is necessary, as we have learned a lot during the pandemic,” he said. Thackeray, applauding people’s discipline, said, “While 70-75% people are following rules, the remaining 25% should also do that, or else those taking precautions are at risk. So, the mask should be used as a weapon against Covid.” Commenting that apart from Christmas and New Year celebrations, the wedding season was on and large gatherings will be organised, the CM said, “We need to restrict celebrations. Instead of taking medicines, we should take care to avoid infection.” “Due to implementation of lockdown and people taking precautions, adhering to social distancing norms, maintaining hygiene, seasonal diseases could not adversely impact public health,” he said. He added that winter had set in, so were some seasonal illnesses, advising people to observe measures followed to stem Covid-19. “We will try to take a decision soon on schools reopening, but I need cooperation from people to follow norms. Schools will resume if Covid cases reduce or are controlled,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/masks-must-for-6-months-no-night-curfew-for-now-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/79831237.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 21, 2020||Goa||Covid cases cross 50k mark with 88 new infections||Panaji: Goa’s cumulative Covid cases crossed the 50,000 mark on Sunday with 88 new infections reported. Three more Covid-related deaths were reported taking the toll to 722. The Goa Medical College (GMC) reported a patient seeking hospital admission when it was too late to save him. The 60-year-old man from Pernem died of acute respiratory distress syndrome after developing Covid pneumonia. He had diabetes, hypertension and ischemic heart disease. “The patient had symptoms of fever and breathlessness for the past five days, but neglected himself and did not report to any doctor nor get his Covid swab test done,” dean of Goa Medical College Dr S Bandekar stated. A 59-year-old female from Ponda passed away after 13 days of admission at GMC. The patient had TB meningitis and died due to hydrocephalus, build up of fluid in cavities deep within the brain. The third deceased was a 69-year-old female from Ambelim, who passed away at Victor hospital after 11 days of treatment. The patient had breast cancer and died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and sepsis. Active cases have dropped to 972. A total of 18 persons opted for home isolation and 37 new Covid hospitalisations were reported. Ninety-one people recovered and 48,371 recovered till date with a recovery rate of 96.6%. The highest active cases continue to be in the jurisdiction of Margao urban health centre at 152 followed by Qyepem with 78, Porvorim with 77, Panaji with 59 and Ponda with 51.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-cases-cross-50k-mark-with-88-new-infections/articleshow/79830490.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Goa||Violator covers waste dumped in quarry with soil||Mapusa: To the shock and dismay of Tuem villagers, on Sunday they found the industrial waste dumped in an abandoned quarry pit covered with soil to conceal the illegality. Only last week, the villagers had complained to the authorities that a unit in the Tuem industrial unit was dumping fibre and plastic waste into an abandoned quarry pit in the village in violation of environmental laws. The pit has now been found completely covered in soil and the ground levelled with no sign of existence of the pit or the dumping of the waste. The villagers’ demand had been that the dumped industrial waste be lifted from the pit of the abandoned laterite stone quarry. The waste instead now has been pushed further into the cavity in the ground. “This was done on Friday night between 2am to 4am as there is noone around at the time. Instead of clearing the waste from where it was illegally dumped, they covered it will soil to do away with all evidence. Ecologically and environmentally this is more dangerous,” said local student, pursuing his MBA degree, John Lobo. Misuse of abandoned laterite stone quarry pits in seen in many places, especially in Pernem taluka, as state authorities are yet to decide on a remediation method for such pits. Villagers said as soon as the incident came to be noticed, they called for a gram panchayat meeting on Goa liberation day. “Even before we could put the matter before the panchayat on Saturday, the culprits tried to clear the evidence in a manner which is more harmful to the local ecology. We are shocked to see the audacity of the violators even though the matter has been reported to the police and the panchayat body,” said local youth Samit Naik. “We will be now complaining to the Goa state pollution control board as we are in absolute dismay over the role of the panchayat and the police” Naik said. Last week, Tuem villagers along with the local panch member had foiled attempts to dump more waste in the quarry. They had stopped the earth moving machinery in use by the culprits on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/violator-covers-waste-dumped-in-quarry-with-soil/articleshow/79830494.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Ramp up testing & take vaccine meet seriously, Maharashtra told||MUMBAI: The Centre has written to the chief secretary expressing serious concern over the decline in Maharashtra’s daily testing numbers and called for immediate steps to reverse this trend. Principal health secretary, Dr Pradeep Vyas, on Saturday asked district collectors, municipal commissioners and CEOs to pull up their socks, saying the state was almost at the bottom of the tests per million ranking in the country. Districts have also been asked to hold their vaccine task force meetings by December 25. In a scathing letter, Dr Vyas said the state’s daily testing average has been stagnating in the range of 60,000-65,000. Calling it the state’s weakest point in the fight against Covid-19, he said Maharashtra has fallen much behind the national average of per million testing. “Considering the size of our states and resources available, it looks very odd,” he wrote. He further added that only nine districts; Mumbai, Akola, Aurangabad, Buldhana, Kolhapur, Nagpur, Nandurbar, Sindhudurg and Washim could achieve more than 50% of their RT-PCR test targets. Of these, only Sindhudurg and Washim could reach 70% of the target. The principal secretary also sought rationalization of Covid facilities in light of declining cases and called for urgent attention to non-Covid services. “It has been seen that the number of doctors and staffers are 10-15 times the number of admitted Covid patients in some centres,” he wrote, adding steps must be taken to move patients to one place for optimal utilisation of resources. He particularly flagged the need to convert more facilities into non-Covid. During a recent mission to find active TB cases, Dr Vyas said it was found that several Xray facilities were unavailable for non-Covid work and operation theatres were nonfunctional. He said all OTs and labour rooms in rural and sub-district hospitals should be made operational. In Mumbai, scores of midlevel private hospitals across the city’s 24 wards have reconverted to non-Covid facilities as Covid cases dropped drastically in the past two months. The current bed occupancy for Covid-19 beds has dropped to 26%. Of the 16,437 Covid beds in Mumbai, over 12,200 are lying vacant. Civic officials said many more nursing homes and hospitals have sought permission to convert to non-Covid facility. “We are getting requests from many to return to non-Covid work and since that is important too, we are granting immediate permissions,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer. Meanwhile, as part of vaccine preparedness, Dr Vyas has asked district-, block- and corporation-level task force meetings to be held by December 25. He pointed out that in several places such meetings have not been held so far. He has also asked Dr Deepak Mhaisekar, advisor to the chief minister, Dr Subhash Salukhe, advisor to government and officials from the public health department to visit districts and monitor the progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-ramp-up-testing-take-vaccine-meet-seriously-maharashtra-told/articleshow/79831242.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 21, 2020||Goa||Mechanised farming takes over fields in Canacona||Poinguinim: About 20 hectares of paddy fields in Canacona will be cultivated using mechanised farming, zonal agriculture officer Kirtiraj Naik Gaonkar told TOI. Naik Gaonkar said that after the nurseries were raised, they have been transplanted using mechanised methods. The transplantation of nurseries began at Loliem recently with about 70 farmers engaged in areas like Poinguinim, Chiplem, Khawat, Khargal, Iddar and Loliem within a period of 15 days. The nurseries have been raised using Jyoti and Karjat varieties, Naik Gaonkar said, adding that farmers can avail 50% seed subsidy at source at Rs 1.5 per sqm. “They can use chemical as well as organic manure. The nurseries will mature in about 120 to 125 days,” Naik Gaonkar added. He further said that the land under cultivation in Canacona has been increased by 5-7% this year as against last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mechanised-farming-takes-over-fields-in-canacona/articleshow/79830495.cms||---
December 21, 2020||India||Not quite a meeting of minds at 10, Janpath||NEW DELHI: The social distancing between sofas on the lawns of 10, Janpath on Saturday was just about perfect at around 8-10 feet, and while the conversation was polite and tempered, the chasm between the dissenters and the Gandhis might take more effort to bridge. The day was sunny, setting the ambience for the 19 participants who reflected a subtle balance. There were seven “letter writers”, an equal number of “loyalists”, the three Gandhis and Kamal Nath and P Chidambaram who did not fit in either camps. They were not “dissenters” but did voice some of the G-23’s concerns. The five-hour discussions followed an unstated agenda with some meandering conversation as well. There were self-exculpatory comments from one of the G-23 and other small asides but barring the odd loo break, the Congress seniors sat through, with alternate speakers from each “camp”. Priyanka Gandhi suggested that Sonia Gandhi would leave the meeting for about half an hour but the party chief sat through the deliberations. There was no lunch break, as the fare was circulated at the sofas where the leaders sat spaced out in the lawn. It was a rare face-to-face discussion for Sonia who has not met many visitors. It was also an opportunity for the letter writers to meet Rahul Gandhi, with whom most of them share strained ties. How far his assurance that he values the seniors — something he has said earlier too — will go in easing tensions is not clear as the suspense over his plans continues. For the letter writers, the question remains whether he will be back full time as president, or a “compromise” candidate will be offered to the party. The latter may open the field to more than a few, who would however need to pass the loyalty test. It may also lead to an unexpected contest. The next rounds of the tussle within the Congress may be played out as the electoral college for party president firms up. Will it be just the AICC, as can be the case in the event of a mid-term vacancy being filled, or a wider exercise, is a key variable. There were no clear conclusions but the discussion is seen as a recognition on part of the leadership that business as usual may not be possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-quite-a-meeting-of-minds-at-10-janpath/articleshow/79831241.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Goa||Northern cold wave unlikely to affect Goa, minimum temperature to be 19°C||PANAJI: Three weeks into the peak winter season, Goa is yet to experience the mild winter chill. Though the mercury has slid only fractionally below normal on a few occasions, it hardly dropped below 20 degrees Celsius, so far. The impact of a cold wave gripping the northern regions is also unlikely to hit the state immediately, as meteorologists at India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, are expecting only a slight decline in the mercury below 20 degrees. “As per observations on Sunday, the minimum temperature is likely to come down between 19 to 20 degrees during the next three to four days,” Shambu Ravindren, scientist, IMD, Panaji, said. The winds blowing at lower level from central India towards Goa have a northerly component, which triggers a slight fall in mercury. On Sunday, the mercury came down slightly to 20.3 degrees - just a fraction, 0.1, below normal - from 22 a few days earlier. The nights have been pleasant, as the mercury has been hovering around 22 degrees at night during the last few days. The day temperatures have also been fairly normal, as IMD has recorded maximum temperatures around 33 to 34 degrees during this week. Appreciably, even during the phase of Cyclone Nivar and Burevi, the mercury did not rise much at night, as both systems hardly affected the state. But the meteorologists will be keenly watching the wind direction after four days, as they are not sure whether the state will experience the mild winter chill so soon. “The minimum temperatures may rise, but we will know after a few days,” Ravindren said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/northern-cold-wave-unlikely-to-affect-state-minimum-temp-to-be-19c/articleshow/79830506.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Rajkot||GRD jawan in Patan dies of mucormycosis infection||Palanpur: A 53-year-old man from Patan district succumbed to mucormycosis on Sunday, nine days after testing positive for Covid-19. Mucormycosis is a fungal infection that spreads menacingly fast in Covid patients suffering from uncontrolled diabetes and low immunity. District health officials said this was the first case of death due to this fungal infection in north Gujarat. The victim was identified as Dineshbhai Patel, a gram rakshak dal (GRD) man from Kamliwada village of Patan taluka and he died during treatment on December 19. “We noticed blood clots on his forehead and the diagnosis confirmed that he had contracted mucormycosis. His brain and kidneys too got affected, damaging his chances of recovery,” said Dr Manish Ramavat, assistant medical superintendent of Dharpur Civil Hospital Patel tested positive on December 11 and was admitted to a private Covid hospital in Ahmedabad. From there, he was referred to Dharpur on December 16 as his condition was not improving. “He was unconscious since the time he was brought from Ahmedabad hospital,” said Dr Ramavat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/grd-jawan-in-patan-dies-of-mucormycosis-infection/articleshow/79828167.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Goa||Bhatikar to be MGP Ponda candidate||Ponda: Ending uncertainty over their Ponda candidate, MGP party president Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar announced that Dr Ketan Bhatikar will contest the seat for the 2022 assembly elections. “Bhatikar has relentlessly worked to rekindle the zeal among MGP workers from Ponda for the past four years, and his name would be considered for the coming general election to the Goa Legislative Assembly,” Dhavalikar told reporters. Bhatikar, a physiotherapist joined the oldest regional political outfit four years ago, and recently led the party workers during the Ponda municipal council (PMC) election and Zilla Panchayat polls. Under him, MGP’s panel had won seven seats in 15-member-PMC. He was also instrumental in clinching wins for three candidates in the recent ZP polls. Dhavalikar said that he will be conducting the party’s organisational elections by January end. He has been under fire from party members for not holding intra-party elections despite the extended time ending in December 2019. Twenty-seven party members alleged that Dhavalikar has been holding party president post illegally. Dhavalikar refuted the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bhatikar-to-be-mgp-ponda-candidate/articleshow/79830507.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Vadodara||Trio selling forged income docus held||VADODARA: The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Sunday arrested three men who helped people make forged income certificates to get benefits of Mukhyamantri Amrutam Vatsalya (MAV) scheme. The mastermind of the racket is on the run. Those arrested were Manoj Kumar Soni, a resident of Panigate Road, Naresh Dalwadi of Fatehpura and Jitendra Chawda, who lives on New Sama Road. “They used to help people in getting forged income certificates and charge anywhere between Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 per certificate,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Jadeja said the name of a man identified as Praveen Rabari has surfaced during the investigations. He used to make the certificates and give them to people through these agents. “Rabari is on the run,” Jadeja told TOI. The crime branch had on Saturday booked seven middlemen for forging income certificates of 35 persons to help them get benefits under MAV scheme. The scam came to light when the district project coordinator of the health department, Chiraj Patel, visited the Sudamapuri urban health centre on Ajwa Road and found income certificates of 35 beneficiaries were forged, while going through the records. On verifying with the deputy executive magistrate, it was confirmed that the certificates were fakes and not issued by any government authority. The 35 persons received benefits based on the fake certificates. MAV scheme that offers insurance cover for medical treatment to low-income group category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/trio-selling-forged-income-docus-held/articleshow/79827945.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Goa||Road bend at Morjim proves nuisance to many||Mapusa: A sharp bend in road at Dhabolkarwada in Morjim has become an accident-prone zone with several incidents having occurred at the site in the past. A high mast at this bend has added to the problem by becoming an obstruction to travellers. Sources informed that during the last couple of months, seven major accidents have taken place, including one fatal. “Mostly tourists are more vulnerable as they are new to the road and the bend. Majority of the cases are of self-accidents. The high mast pole besides a roadside mango tree obstruct the vision of the motorists. This has led to several accidents,” said local Swapnil Shetgaonkar. Recently, one Vinod Gawas, 30, from Mangeli, Maharashtra, died at this spot after he lost control over his two-wheeler and hit against a rock. Locals blame poor road engineering coupled with the wrong placement of the high mast pole for the accidents. Residents of Dhabolkarwada have demanded that the road be widened, the lamp post be removed and the mango tree be trimmed for better visibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/road-bend-at-morjim-proves-nuisance-to-many/articleshow/79830508.cms||---
December 21, 2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi bridges gap, steps into Ahmed Patel’s shoes||NEW DELHI: As Congress finally got together after a protracted and public bout of dissent, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra emerged as the link that helped ease the tensions. With virtually no movement towards reconciliation after the stormy CWC meeting of August which saw the letter writers come under heavy fire from members, sources said Priyanka stepped in to steer the crisis resolution. Here, she is seen as stepping into the role of long-time family confidant Ahmed Patel who passed away recently. It is learned that Priyanka spoke to key leaders in the G-23 over last month, bridging the gap. She also laid the ground for a truce of sorts by urging unity and “bygones be bygones” at the CWC meeting called to pay homage to Patel. The quiet backchannel talks led by her are seen to have brought the party to the point where a meeting like the one on Saturday became possible. Even the dissidents said the meeting was constructive if delayed, and would lead to a resolution that would help the party get back to some sort of balance. Even during the meeting, Congress leaders, as well as the members of the G-23, said Priyanka showed the initiative to reach out. She spoke to all the members present after she, along with Rahul, received them on the lawns of 10, Janpath. “She can be expected to actively play the key organizational role of link person, both internally as well as with allies,” a party insider said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/priyanka-gandhi-bridges-gap-steps-into-ahmed-patels-shoes/articleshow/79831249.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
December 21, 2020||Goa||Repeated leopard sightings lead to panic in Savoi Verem||KERI: The presence of two adult leopards and two leopard cubs in the forested areas of Savoi Verem village in Ponda taluka has set off panic among villagers. Over the past few days, there have been many instances wherein the female leopard has been sighted along with her cubs by different villagers. In the village, residents of some wards still have to resort to open defecation and are worried about the presence of the leopards. Open defecation is very common among villagers living in the vicinity of the Khetko and Khamin hills, where sightings of the cubs as well as adult female and male leopards have been reported. “The Khetko and Khamin hills have patches of forests and also have perennial sources of water and grasslands, which support herbivorous wild animals. Due to the presence of a good prey base, the carnivorous animals, like leopards, seem to have found the area suitable. Presently, villagers have been sighting these leopards,” Khandola-resident Madhu Gaonkar told TOI. Many streams that provide water to the horticultural fields of Savoi Verem, Keri and Betki originate from the forests of Khetko and Khamin hills and the Bhutkhamb plateau where these leopards have taken refuge, according to the villagers. When contacted, range forest officer Deepak Betkikar, said, “When we got the information of repeated sightings of two cubs and two adult leopards we put our staff on patrolling duty in the area and are monitoring the movements of the big cats in Savoi Verem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/repeated-leopard-sightings-lead-to-panic-in-savoi-verem/articleshow/79830517.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
December 21, 2020||Goa||Aguada repair: GTDC says MoU docus sent to ASI||Panaji: Responding to criticism from locals and the Goa Action Heritage Group (GHAG), over the renovation and restoration of the former Central Jail at Fort Aguada, Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC), that is undertaking the work, said that it commenced work only after seeking approvals from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), National Monuments Authority (NMA), Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) and the town and country planning (TCP) department based on the Centre’s approval. The work to convert the historical place into a museum is being undertaken under the guidance of renowned conservation architect Ketak Nachinolkar “with application of selected construction measures to maintain the connect between cultural heritage and modern needs, improve efficiency and minimise future maintenance problems, while maintaining the visual appearance of the structure,” executive engineer Alan Pereira said. The MoU between GTDC and ASI was formulated by the former and sent to the latter for approval in January 2020 and the reply is awaited. ASI is abreast of the same and all terms and conditions of approval are being meticulously followed, Pereira said, adding that the work is expected to be completed in January 2021 Reacting to the various issues raised by GHAG’s Heta Pandit, GTDC said, “The main aquifer, which was partly damaged, is being fully restored to its original state. Also, it is not true that the spring is dry. Water still flows through the channel and the abutting gallery is full of water”. On the issue of the entrance gate, GTDC said that a new, large gate is being constructed as per the approved plan as “the existing entrance was weak and on verge of collapse”. This, it has said, will help to cater to the large number of expected Referring to Pandit’s statement, based on an RTI reply, that the entire Mangalore tiled roof had been replaced by UPVC (synthetic) roofing, GTDC said that as the complex will house a museum with antiques and artefacts and that in order to minimise maintenance, a tile profile roofing sheet with similar appearance with good thermal properties has been adopted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aguada-repair-gtdc-says-mou-docus-sent-to-asi/articleshow/79830521.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Mumbai||64% of those who died of Covid in Mumbai were over 60||MUMBAI: Recent data from the Centre has revealed that those above 60 account for 53% of deaths from Covid-19 in the country, but when it comes to Maharashtra and Mumbai that proportion is higher. In Mumbai, for instance, age groups above 60 account for 64% of the deaths, 11% more than the national average. While for Maharashtra, 58% of the deaths have been among senior citizens. Some experts have said that the state must take the higher deaths in these age groups into consideration when drawing the vaccination strategy and consider if it needs tweaking at local levels. In Mumbai, of the 11,017 deaths analysed, over 7,000 have been in the age brackets above 60. Similarly, over 27,500 of the state’s 48,000 deaths have been in the elderly age groups. A senior doctor from a medical college said, “The government must expedite and start collecting the details. The senior citizens must get the vaccine almost at the same time as frontliners.” Dr Subhash Salunkhe, an advisor to the government, said, “If I had 100 vaccine vials, I would distribute it equally among healthcare workers, frontline workers and the population above 60 that has seen higher deaths. I would rather not put them in the second category.” As per the country’s vaccination strategy, around one crore healthcare workers will be the first to get vaccinated, followed by two crore frontline workers. Next to be vaccinated will be an estimated 27crore population above the age of 60 years and below 50 with comorbidities. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the vaccine task-force, however, called it an “apt strategy”. He said that by bringing in people from the age group of 50, the government has covered a substantial number with comorbidities. “The vaccination of general population is likely to start with people in highest decades say centenarians, nonagenarians,” he said. These age groups have seen a case fatality rate of nearly 20%, compared to younger age groups that have seen less than 2% death rate. Explaining why a higher number of senior citizens have died in the city compared to national average, Dr Avinash Supe, head of death audit committee had said that the city’s higher burden of underlying diseases was one of the key reasons. Dr Joshi too said that 30% of Mumbai’s population is hypertensive and 15% diabetic. “On top of that, Mumbai was the ground zero in April and May. That’s also when many reached hospitals late and were scared to get hospitalised. A combination of stigma, delayed diagnosis and underlying health conditions could be responsible for higher deaths in Mumbai,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/64-of-those-who-died-of-covid-in-mumbai-were-over-60/articleshow/79831270.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Bonfires & tea: How farmers are battling chilly winds||By: Shahnawaz Alam REWARI: It's around 10pm on the streets of Jaisinghpur Khera and the mercury is hovering around 5-6°C. A group of farmers are huddled together around a bonfire. Giving them company are some policemen a few metres ahead. Cups of hot tea coming from the community kitchen are their fuel. Braving the harsh winter and battling fever and cold, farmers at the Haryana-Rajasthan border are firm in their resolve - they say they won't budge an inch until the government withdraws the three agriculture laws. Away from home for weeks, the families of many have joined them with food, blankets and warm clothes. For the elderly, the chill is a major challenge. "This hardship is nothing compared to the one we would have to face if the three laws are implemented. Yes, the conditions are harsh and many of us are suffering from fever and cold. But we will not relent until the government goes back on the laws," says 81-year-old Gurdayal Singh from Hanumangarh in Rajasthan. The tractor has been his bed for the past one week. "The struggle is momentary and we will face it all. But we will not go back unless our demands are heard," he adds. Gurdayal is among the 4,000-odd farmers from Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana who are protesting along the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Jaisinghpur Khera. About 300 of them are elderly and most have been suffering from fever. Medical camps are offering them pills, but they are of little help to the elderly farmers in the absence of proper shelter at night. Trolleys attached to tractors are the only shelter from the chilly winds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/bonfires-tea-how-farmers-are-battling-chilly-winds/articleshow/79831271.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Currency press works extra to meet target||NASHIK: The Currency Note Press (CNP) in Nashik has started working on Sundays to meet the note-printing target for the current financial year. The press, which prints currency notes of various denominations, is a unit of the government-owned Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Ltd (SPMCIL). The Reserve Bank of India has set a target of printing 5,100 million units of currency notes for the current financial year. “The third quarter of the current financial year is about to end and the CNP Nashik has achieved only 50% of its target. It was closed for almost two months from March 22 due to the lockdown and resumed operations in the second half of May with reduced manpower,” said a SPMCIL source. “The CNP was operational in June and July with 50% workforce. The Nashik unit had to be closed as some of the workers had tested Covid-19 positive. This affected the printing process,” said the source. CNP Nashik has completed the printing of currency notes of Rs 100 and Rs 50 denominations. At present, it is printing Rs 500 and Rs 20 notes. Soon, the printing of Rs 200 and Rs 10 will be started, added the source. There are four currency note presses in the country — two each of the SPMCIL and RBI — and CNP Nashik is one of them. Another facility is at Dewas in Madhya Pradesh. Two currency note press units of the RBI are in Mysore in Karnataka and Salboni in Bengal. Apart from the CNP, the SPMCIL has another unit of India Security Press (ISP) in Nashik, which prints documents like revenue stamps, stamp papers, passports and visas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/currency-press-works-extra-to-meet-target/articleshow/79831255.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 21, 2020||Mumbai||Condom use doubles in Mumbai but still barely two of every 10 males opt for it||MUMBAI: Even as the new National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) reveals India’s population is stabilizing with more contraceptives used by married couples, a closer look at birth-control methods shows use of condoms has increased in the past five years while female sterilizations and oral contraceptive pill use has dropped marginally. Experts said the changes speak to greater role of men in family planning. “These changes are seen in urban and rural areas of the 22 states and UTs surveyed,” said Dr Rajib Acharya of the Population Council of India. Condom use doubles in Mumbai but still barely two of every 10 males opt for itThough more men in the past five years have shown a willingness to take the onus for birth control, contraception continues to be mostly a woman’s responsibility with female sterilization still the most common method. “The method mix still seems skewed towards female sterilization, but there is a visible improvement in uptake of condoms. Men seem to be more engaged,’’ said Dr Manisha Bhise of the Family Planning Association of India. Consider Mumbai city, where more than 7 married couples of every 10 seem pre-disposed to family planning methods – their percentage rose from 59.6% in 2015-16 (NFHS-4) to 74.3% (2019-20, NFHS-5). In the same period, condom use grew from 11.7% to 18.1% and female sterilisation dropped from 47% to 36.1%. Use of contraceptive pills reduced from 3.1% to 1.9% in the same period. “In cities, women are worried about side-effects of pills such as weight gain,” said gynaceologist Dr Kiran Coelho. In Mumbai’s suburbs, the NFHS-5 found use of condoms had doubled from 8.9% to 18%, which is nearly 2 out of every 10 men. The changes in femaledependent methods dropped significantly here, with female sterilisation dropping from 43% to 37.5% and pill use from 5.3% to 0.9% in the same period. “For working couples who possible find time to have sex once or twice a week, it makes more sense to use a condom than for the woman to take a pill every day,” added Coelho. The data for the entire of Maharashtra did not show major changes, but condom use increased from 7.1% to 10% and female sterilisation and pill use dropped marginally from 50.7 to 49.1 and 2.4% to 1.8% respectively. The first phase of the NFHS-5 data showed increase in use of modern contraceptives for family planning in 17 states. Dr Acharya said spacing methods (of contraception) had gone up across the country. “Even in Bihar where female sterilisation once upon a time accounted for 90% of contraceptive use, there’s been a change,'' he said. According to FPAI’s Dr Bhise, changing trends in contraception methods also reflected the fact that there is a decrease in proportion of women marrying before age of 18 and a significant increase in proportion of women who have had more than 10 years of schooling. “Both factors may have a bearing on increased uptake of modern contraceptives,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/more-condoms-fewer-pills-men-too-taking-onus/articleshow/79831283.cms||Malathy Iyer
December 21, 2020||India||Skill programme for disabled hit by Covid, govt plans e-training||NEW DELHI: With the national action plan for skill training of persons with disabilities severely hit due to the pandemic, the Centre is now exploring the possibility of inviting training partners to offer online programmes for the differently-abled on a new portal proposed to be set up soon. Data shared by the ministry of social justice and empowerment in response to an RTI query show only 30 beneficiaries listed for the programme in Haryana in 2020-21 while it was zero for Gujarat, West Bengal and Delhi. In its reply in November to the RTI plea by Akeel Ahmad Usmani from Disability Rights Advocacy Group, details of financial assistance provided to empanelled training partners show that in the current financial year, a total of Rs 2.28 crore had been released under the skill programme to training partners from these four states. Sources said all training programmes were kept on hold after the lockdown came into effect in March. Also it is only after the restrictions were eased over the last few months, training partners started coming forward. However, the inflow is still slow as any training will require rigorous safety protocols, officials said. The RTI response also shows there were 17,430 beneficiaries in the country in 2016-17, 58, 210 in 2017-18 and 47, 286 in 2018-19. However, there was a sharp decline in beneficiaries in 2019-20 to just 1434. According to officials, the decline can be attributed to the fact that new training partners were to be empanelled as per fresh guidelines and non-performing ones were to be weeded out. While the pandemic has aggravated the problems, the skills programme has been facing difficulties for sometime now. The government found severe deficiencies in the functioning of many training partners during inspections which led to a revamp of the guidelines in 2019 and more stringent norms. The number of empanelled training partners has declined from 280 to just 75 as the department for empowerment of persons with disabilities (DEPwD)wants only serious performers on board, an official said. Under the demand driven scheme, funds are provided to training partners based anywhere in the country. Some of popular skill training courses include programmes for domestic data entry operators, tailoring, pickle-making and training is ‘agarbatti’ manufacturing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/skill-programme-for-disabled-hit-by-covid-govt-plans-e-training/articleshow/79831291.cms||Ambika Pandit
December 21, 2020||Noida||Noida: New plasma treatment rules at Child PGI, GIMS||NOIDA: Two hospitals in GB Nagar have started to follow the state’s newly revised guidelines for convalescent plasma treatment (CPT). Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida and Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) or Child PGI in Noida’s Sector 30 are following the new norms that have been derived from the guidelines set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The department of transfusion medicine at King George's Medical University (KGMU) issued the new guidelines on December 18. The other six centres that have participated in the process include SN Medical College (Agra), MLN Medical College (Allahabad), MLB Medical College (Jhansi), BRD Medical College (Gorakhpur) and GSVM Medical College (Kanpur). Under the new guidelines, a donor can donate plasma after 14 days of testing Covid negative or 28 days after complete resolution of symptoms (Covid negative report not mandatory). Earlier, the rule stated: “28 days of complete resolution of symptoms or 14 days after complete resolution of symptoms and two RT-PCR negative reports.” Also, for recipients, the new state guidelines state that there should be no presence of antibody in the recipient before CPT. This is mandatory. Earlier, there was no clarity on it. Further, the age limit has been removed in the new set of rules. Instead, the condition of patients will be checked based on the severity and onset of symptoms. Dr Satyam Arora, assistant professor (research and transfusion medicine) at SSPHPGTI said, “The expert group, which formulated the new guidelines, consisted of two doctors from GB Nagar,” said Dr Arora. GIMS has carried out the maximum number of CPTs (605) in the state till December 20 and it had around 400 donors. KGMU, at second place with 550 CPTs, had 396 donors. SSPHPGTI, meanwhile, has carried out plasma treatment on 85 patients. The institute had 83 donors, 5 of whom were ‘repeat donors’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/new-plasma-treatment-rules-at-child-pgi-gims/articleshow/79830029.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
December 21, 2020||Noida||Blink & you may miss them: Peregrine falcons make a landing in Greater Noida||NOIDA: Peregrine falcons have made an appearance in Noida and Greater Noida with birders spotting quite a few raptors over the past few days. Touted as the fastest in the entire animal kingdom, these birds migrate to NCR every winter to escape cold. Historically, known as the duck hawk in North America, the English and scientific name of the bird means ‘wandering falcon’ as they don’t stay at a particular place for too long. “Peregrine falcon is not just the fastest bird, but it is the fastest species in the entire animal kingdom. For bird watchers, this is a good time to catch a glimpse of these hunters. The birds usually park themselves at a vantage point and swoop down and catch their prey,” Jaswinder Waraich, a Noida-based birder, said. These falcons can fly at a speed of 320 kmph. Waraich added that he had spotted a few falcons in Greater Noida recently. The birds usually leave the region in March and April. Some of the other raptors that can be seen in Noida and Greater Noida around this time are laggar falcons and red-necked falcons, which are local varieties. Eurasian hobby can also be seen sometimes. While laggar falcons can be found in the Indian subcontinent and in many south-Asian countries, red-necked falcons or red-headed merlins are found across India. “It is a good time to spot Peregrine falcons . A bird of prey will only be found where there is enough food source,” Puja Sharma, a local birder, said. Waraich said there are a few dozen Peregrine falcons in and around Noida and Greater Noida. “We recently treated a Eurasian hobby, which had some injuries, we had also treated a Peregrine falcon a while ago, which had suffered cuts. These are powerful birds and respond well to human communication,” Nadeem Shehzad, from Wildlife Rescue, said. The non-government bird rescue and treatment shelter is one of the few that treats raptors, or birds of prey, in Delhi-NCR. Peregrine falcons are known to have taken part in falconry. After World War II, its population suffered and the species was and seriously endangered in the mid-20th century.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/blink-you-may-miss-them-peregrine-falcons-make-a-landing-in-gr-noida/articleshow/79830074.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
December 21, 2020||Mumbai||Will credit Centre if Kanjurmarg shed happens: CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in an address on Sunday, stood his ground on the decision to relocate the metro car shed to Kanjurmarg and said the move was in the long-term interest of the city and its people. He also struck a conciliatory note by saying he was willing to give the Centre “credit” if it helped to take the project forward. Acknowledging the dispute over ownership of the land, he invoked the PM’s description of his own office as that of a “Pradhan Sevak” and said the issue must be resolved through dialogue between Centre and state without making it “a prestige issue”. His statement was echoed by NCP’s Nawab Malik, who said his party chief Sharad Pawar was ready to mediate on the issue and if needed, meet the PM to settle it. P 4 Metro shed will need more land later, Aarey will lose further: CMResponding to allegations that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s insistence on Kanjurmarg for the Metro car depot rather than Aarey was driven by his own ‘ego’, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said, “Yes, I am egotistical when it is about the interest of the people and the state.” Stressing on the longterm benefits of green cover for the city, he said, “the Kanjurmarg land is barren whereas Aarey is a jungle. If we require more land in future for the car shed, then we will end up destroying the jungle,” said the CM. His point was later underscored by an official at the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (MMRCL) who pointed out that the debate was being framed entirely on the basis of present requirements. As of now, a 25-hectare depot at Aarey would accommodate 39 rakes of 8 cars each (312 coaches – 30 trains in stabling lines, 4 in the inspection bay, 3 in the workshop, 1 in the automatic washing plant, 1 in the heavy wash plant) as against the ultimate requirement for 55 rakes (440 cars). The MMRCL source pointed out that, “As per traffic projections, there is a requirement of 42 trains by 2031. So the depot’s capacity at Aarey would have got exhausted by 2031 itself.” Future expansion would thus lead to more erosion in green cover at Aarey, is the view being touted by the state. “It is unfortunate the Centre has approached court for the Kanjurmarg land,” said Thackeray. He acknowledged that there are issues related to ownership, but stressed that it ought to be resolved through talks. “We are ready to give credit to the Centre for the project if they come forward,” he said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi called himself a ‘Pradhan Sevak’. So, we should not make it a prestige issue and if we behave in such a manner we are not fit to occupy the chair,” the CM added. He said the state has given BKC land worth several thousand crores to the Centre for the Bullet Train project without a fuss, “then why is there a tug-of-war over the Kanjurmarg land?” He said the car shed site in the Aarey forest was meant only for Metro III, while his government had planned a shed at Kanjurmarg for three Metro lines including III (Colaba-Seepz), IV (Wadala-Kasarvadavali) and VI (Lokhandwala-Jogeshwari-Kanjurmarg) and a junction point for Metro 14 (Badlapur-Kanjurmarg). Last week, in a major setback to the state government, the Bombay high court had granted an interim stay on the suburban collector’s order allotting 102 acres of saltpan land at Kanjurmarg to build the Metro car shed. The Centre and the Shiv Sena-led MVA government in Maharashtra have been locked in a tussle over the land’s ownership for months now. (Inputs from Manthan K Mehta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/will-credit-centre-if-kanjurmarg-shed-happens-cm-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/79831299.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 21, 2020||Business||Govt’s focus on ‘silver economy’ as number of elders rises||NEW DELHI: With India’s elderly population expected to triple from 10Un4 million in 2011 to 300 million by 2050, accounting for 18% of the total population, the government is exploring ways to promote the idea of “silver economy” by developing residential and infrastructure facilities of different grades for seniors through public-private partnership for a dignified and safe aging experience. The ministry of social justice and empowerment (MSJ&E) is considering the recommendations of an Expert Group which calls for making senior care both economically viable and an opportunity for economic development. It stresses on the need for recognising senior care as a sector with appropriate regulations and standards, policy support, tax structures, availability of subsidised financing and appropriate governance mechanisms. The Group says that flexible models for careers can encourage people to work longer and coupled with life-long re-skilling and adoption of smart work practices, this labour force can lead to greater productivity and economic growth. It has set out a vision for “model senior care” PPP projects in which states can allocate land and funds to build capacity to take care of seniors, including those from the weaker sections. The ministry is also studying reports of expert groups on subjects ranging from financial security, livelihood and income generation, shelter, skilling and re-skilling, health care and nutrition, awareness and capacity-building. If the annual budget estimates for each scheme and initiatives proposed by working groups are added, it would require an investment of over Rs 4000 crore. The recommendations will be placed before an inter-ministerial panel led by the secretary social justice and empowerment in January to approve projects that can be implemented under the ‘Senior Citizen Welfare Fund’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govts-focus-on-silver-economy-as-number-of-elders-rises/articleshow/79831302.cms||Ambika Pandit
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata is TMC’s strength, defectors will not matter: Subrata Mukherjee||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress on Sunday hurled Jagat Seth and Unichand barbs at Suvendu Adhikari and other defectors, claiming Bengal had historically never liked betrayers and traitors. People still look up to Mamata Banerjee as Trinamool’s leader in Bengal, the party said and added its functionaries’ defections would have no impact. At Trinamool Bhawan, senior minister Subrata Mukherjee said: “In Bengal’s political history, there have been traitors and betrayers. But people have always shunned them, thrown them away. If history is true, people in Bengal will reject these traitors too.” On Suvendu, Mukherjee said: “He is Unichand who thinks himself to be Jagat Seth.” Suvendu did not react to these comments on Sunday. Mukherjee further said: “Defection is a political malaise not just in Bengal but the country. This has happened in the past and will happen in the future.” He added: “It is Mamata Banerjee’s relentless struggles that have made the party what it is. And as long as people love her and repose faith in her, the party has nothing to worry about. A few khuchro (unimportant) leaders leaving the party will have no impact.” “We have a strong democracy in the state. The people of Bengal are perfectly capable of identifying and getting rid of traitors. Mamata Banerjee is loved by people for her honesty. That is Trinamool’s strength,” the party leader said. Trinamool also faulted Union home minister Amit Shah for “deviating from facts”. Mukherjee said that BJP claimed Banerjee had once joined another party. “She had formed her own party in 1998,” he said. Holding forth on state schemes, he said: “Two years before Ayushman Bharat was launched, Bengal had started its Swasthya Sathi scheme and 1.4 crore people had registered for this Rs 5-lakh family health insurance plan.” “The Union home minister is no. 2 in the government hierarchy. He should stick to facts,” Mukherjee said. “He said 150 BJP workers and supporters have been killed. Several deaths were due to internal rivalry and suicides. These are wrong numbers.” The Trinamool leader denied security-lapse charges Shah levelled in referring to the December 10 incident involving BJP president J P Nadda. “He was provided Z security as per protocol. But several party vehicles could mingle in his convoy. So who flouted rules?” Mukherjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-is-tmcs-strength-defectors-will-not-matter/articleshow/79830390.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ranchi||Shopkeepers hope for Christmas miracle as buyers are nowhere in sight||Ranchi: With less than a week to go for Christmas, shops here are all decked up with lights, stars and other decorative items but the buyers are nowhere in sight. “At this time of the year, we hardly find a minute to relax as shops are bursting at the seams. But this year, I am sitting idle and have not even been able to sell a single greeting card yet, which usually sells like hot cakes ahead of Christmas and New Year’s,” Ramesh Prasad, who owns Hallmark Epsy at Purulia Road in Ranchi, said. He added, “To make matters worse, schools, colleges are yet to reopen, which has further added to our woes. Last year my shop was abuzz with students from nearby schools and colleges weeks ahead of Christmas.” The situation is no different in the adjoining shops. Neeraj Kumar of Sarika Gift House at the Main Road and Purulia Road junction has decorated his shop with everything under sin – right from Christmas trees to masks – in a bid to attract the customers but so far, his efforts have not borne fruit. “On the days leading up to Christmas, my store and all the adjoining shops are overflowing with customers. This year, I am hoping for a miracle as the buyers are yet to arrive. For small business owners like me our survival is at stake unless the sale picks up,” Kumar said. Even Kundan Kashyap of Archies shop in GEL Church complex said that business is down by 10% this year. “Our sale of greeting cards, Christmas trees, Santa caps etc., is pretty ow this year,” he said. Even the hawkers, who do brisk business by selling hand-made straw cribs and statues of Jesus, Mary and the Wise Men during this time of the year, have barely sold a few items. Ronik, who sells straw cribs ranging from Rs 350 to Rs 700 in Gungutoli here, said, “Every year I sell more than 60 straw cribs but this time, I have only sold 10 of them.” Similarly, Karamtoli-based Kishore said he has sold only 15 cribs so far, which is extremely low when compared to last year when he sold around 100 cribs. In view of the pandemic, Ranchi Archdiocese under the Roman Catholic Church had issued an advisory on December 13, asking people to go for a less extravagant and a more spiritual celebration this year and urged the devotees to make Christmas lighting and decorations more austere. “We recommend that you build a beautiful crib at home using decorative items in your possession without making more purchases this year. Limit illuminations to a Christmas star and avoid adorning houses with lights,” a directive, jointly signed by Ranci archbishop Felix Toppo and auxiliary bishop of Ranchi Theodore Mascarenhas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/shopkeepers-hope-for-christmas-miracle-as-buyers-are-nowhere-in-sight/articleshow/79828828.cms||Tapas Biswas
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Complaint filed with police over Bagdogra leopard killing||Kolkata: Condemning the killing of an adult leopard near Bagdogra on Wednesday, Solitary Nature & Animal Protection (SNAP) and Darjeeling District Legal Aid Forum (DDLAF) filed a complaint with the commissioner of police, Siliguri Metropolitan Police Commissionerate, against the rescue team and its in-charge on Friday. A copy has been sent to the inspector in charge of Bagdogra police station. The big cat was shot as foresters opened fire in “self-defence” after it sneaked into the backyard of Rangapani cancer hospital, on Siliguri’s outskirts. The 8-year-old female leopard had come out of Gangarampur tea garden and attacked four villagers and forest officials near the hospital. “Locals had sought help from forest officials to take stock of the situation. In response, some untrained department staff shot the animal, flouting protocols of wildlife protection,” SNAP chairman Koustav Choudhury said. Chief wildlife warden V K Yadav said the department had ordered a probe. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/complaint-filed-with-police-over-bagdogra-leopard-killing/articleshow/79830182.cms||Roshan Gupta
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: CAA only after vaccine reaches people, says Amit Shah||BOLPUR: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act will be planned only after a Covid-19 vaccine reached the people. Shah’s announcement sought to rest speculation over the contentious issue after some Bengal BJP seniors earlier publicly gave a time-frame to refugees, particularly the Matua community, that the Centre will implement CAA by January or February. “Rules for CAA have not been framed as yet. We will plan its implementation after the Covid-19 vaccine reaches people. Let the vaccine come out first,” he said after a roadshow in Bolpur on Sunday. The issue has caused some disquiet in the Matua community. Bongaon MP Subrata Thakur even on Sunday sought its early implementation. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been a vocal opponent of CAA and NRC and has vowed “not to allow it in Bengal”. Shah tore into Trinamool’s “outsider” narrative against BJP leaders — Shah himself, party president J P Nadda and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya — trying to capture Bengal. “When Mamataji was in Congress, did she say the same thing about Indiraji or Narasimha Rao when they came to Bengal? People in Bengal are open-hearted. They won’t accept such conservative approach. Does Mamata Didi want a country where there will be no movement of people?” the BJP leader said. Shah was “overwhelmed” with the public response to BJP’s Bolpur road show on Trinamool leader Anubrata Mandal’s turf. People on rooftops waved at the Union home minister while he travelled on an open-hood vehicle that winded through thousands for a 1km stretch from Bolpur More. “I have never seen such a rally before,” Shah said, asserting that people of Bengal had made up their minds for “parivartan”. TMC — among the most vocal against CAA and NRC — has not also ignored the resonance of these in some pockets in Bengal. In Bengal, there are 94 refugee colonies on state government land and 237 colonies on central government land, where almost 1.5 lakh families, who had crossed over from neighbouring Bangladesh 40-50 years ago, reside. The state has announced giving 1.25 lakh freehold title deeds following the cabinet decision to regularise all refugee colonies. ‘Farmers’ representatives may meet Tomar by Tuesday’: Shah said that farmers’ representatives are likely to meet Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar by Tuesday. The movement, which has seen an increasing number of participation over the past few weeks, entered its 25th day on Sunday. On Saturday, the farmers’ unions wrote a joint letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Asked about the stand-off, the Union home minister said: “I am here in West Bengal for the past two days and am not updated about the developments. I have heard that representatives of farmers will meet Tomarji in a day or two".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/caa-only-after-vaccine-reaches-people-shah/articleshow/79830380.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ranchi||Vaccination against Covid brings back memory of Loinga immunization mishap in Daltonganj||Daltonganj: Talks of Covid vaccinations to begin possibly in January-February 2021 is haunting the people of Daltonganj who are yet to get over the memories of the Loinga village immunization mishap that took lives of four children in April 2018. The deaths had raised a great public outrage then, leading to the suspension of Loinga ANM Droupadi Pandey while vials of the immunization vaccine, syringes and needles were sent outside Jharkhand for test. The reports, however, could not find anything suspicious. A government doctor on anonymity said, “Till date, we do not know how the four kids died after their immunization.” Palamu district reproductive child health officer Dr Anil Kumar Singh said the Covid-19 vaccination will be started with all care and preparations to handle it. WHO is constantly warning against AEFI (adverse effect following immunization) of Covid-19 vaccination such as severe allergic reactions ranging from breathlessness to rashes and swellings on the body and major issues like cardiac malfunctioning and others. Singh said the district healthcare unit is gearing up fast to deal with anaphylaxis which is an adverse effect of the immunization whose progression of physical distress and discomfort is pretty faster like odema, respiratory disorder, cardiac malfunctioning, lips drying up, eyelids drooping etc. Singh said the best course at such a time of distress is to avoid panicking and allow doctors and nurses to do their work without bringing them under any pressure. He said emphatically there will be adequate anaphylaxis kits and AEFI kits ready to meet any adverse situation. Senior doctor Anil Kumar Singh who is handling the immunization programmes of various scales since September 2018 said, “A person who has symptoms of adverse effects should lie laterally always and not eyes looking towards the roof as then oral secretion stands no chance to infiltrate the respiratory channel of the body in that posture.” WHO is asking for a state-of-the-art observation room adjacent to Covid-19 vaccination sites with ready-to-use medical kits and experts to handle Covid-19 vaccinated person showing adverse effects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/vaccination-against-covid-brings-back-memory-of-loinga-immunization-mishap-in-daltonganj/articleshow/79828918.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Centre’s ‘meddling’: Pawar dials Didi for oppn alliance||Kolkata: NCP leader Sharad Pawar on Sunday spoke to chief minister Mamata Banerjee for a larger opposition alliance on the Centre’s “repeated interference” in functioning of states and the on-going farmers’ protests. Pawar, sources said, also expressed his desire to come to Kolkata in January and attend a public meeting with Banerjee. Pawar’s call, interestingly, comes after Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Saturday backed Banerjee’s stance on the IPS transfer issue. DMK president MK Stalin and former Union minister Yashwant Sinha have also lent support to Banerjee on this. Sources said Pawar exchanged his views with the CM on the repeated attacks on the federal structure, especially in opposition-governed states. The former agriculture minister also shared his thoughts on the farmers’ protests and reportedly lauded Banerjee for extending support to the cause. The IPS transfer issue, sources said, also figured in the discussion though there was no formal statement on this. After Pawar’s proposed January visit to Kolkata, there is a possibility that Banerjee may visit Delhi for a public meeting of opposition leaders against the farm laws. After Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, backing Banerjee on the IPS transfer issue, the Punjab CM said on Saturday: “Transferring officers on central deputation without the state government’s permission, as has been done in West Bengal, is another glaring example of diluting the federal structure.” Banerjee has dubbed the Centre’s move to transfer the IPS officers as “a deliberate attempt to encroach upon the state’s jurisdiction and demoralise the serving officers in WB”. “This move, particularly before the elections, is against the basic tenets of federal structure. It's unconstitutional and completely unacceptable,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/centres-meddling-pawar-dials-didi-for-oppn-alliance/articleshow/79830149.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Vadodara||Woman cooks up robbery tale, arrested||Vadodara: A woman in Padra was arrested on Sunday for staging a fake robbery from her house of cash and jewellery worth Rs 88,500. Hema Patel concocted a tale about three masked Hindi-speaking men who barged into her house on December 14 evening and holding her at knife point, robbed Rs 5,000 in cash besides gold and silver jewellery. “Her claims didn’t sound true as nobody in her neighbourhood saw any person entering or leaving the house at the time of the robbery. We questioned her tactfully and after a point, she could not lie and admitted,” said a police official. Patel revealed that she had borrowed money from a women’s group for her husband, which she was unable to repay. To repay the loan, she had planned to sell the jewellery, while her husband, a dairy farmer, was unaware of, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-cooks-up-robbery-tale-arrested/articleshow/79827931.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Couple out on morning walk robbed||GHAZIABAD: A resident of Indirapuram’s Vaishali was allegedly robbed of jewellery and other valuables at gunpoint when he was out on a morning walk with his wife on Saturday morning. According to police, the crime took place near CO Indirapuram office. Sanjay Rastogi, a resident of Judge Colony who owns a garment shop in Delhi, had gone for a morning walk along with his wife Indu. Around 8am, when the couple reached near Atal Chowk, a car came from behind and stopped a few metres away. “Two people came out and pointed a pistol at me and threatened to hand over all the valuables,” Rastogi said. Gyanendra Singh, SP City-2, said they have lodged an FIR under Section 392 (robbery) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/couple-out-on-morning-walk-robbed/articleshow/79830650.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Amit Shah cites Tagore to tap into Bengali psyche||SANTINIKETAN: Union home minister Amit Shah spent over three hours at Tagore’s Santiniketan touching upon all the important landmarks of Visva-Bharati — the Uttarayan complex, Upasana Griha, Sangit Bhavana, Bangladesh Bhavana — in an attempt to connect with the Bengali psyche that revolves round Tagore. Trinamool Congress kept up its attacks against BJP, saying the people should be aware that those who are ignorant of Rabindranath Tagore have come to “occupy” Bengal. Shah said: “Tagore is an emblem of Indian culture. He was an inspiration to Indian nationalism. Mahatma Gandhi and Subhas Bose drew inspiration from him. His songs have become national anthems of two countries. He threw open the doors to various languages and cultures and yet was the embodiment of Indian-ness.” Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee had voiced the fear that BJP might scrap Tagore’s “Jana Gana Mana” as the national anthem. Shah didn’t speak politics in Santiniketan. But his tapping to the tune of Rabindrasangeet, his listening to the baul song of Basudeb Das Baul at his home, offering flowers at Upasana Griha where Christotsav (Christmas) will be observed in a few days along with puja at Basudeb Das’ Shiva temple said much more than words. Recounting the Tagore family’s links with Gujarat, the state Shah hails from, the BJP leader referred to the poet’s elder brother Satyendranath Tagore’s long stint in that state. Shah also told the audience that the problems in Visva-Bharati causing the recent disquiet needed to be sorted out. Senior Trinamool minister Subrata Mukherjee said: “A BJP-made poster has belittled the stature of Rabindranath Tagore. This is all over Santiniketan. Let the people of Bengal know that those who are ignorant of Rabindranath have come to occupy Bengal. We have organized a protest against this blasphemy at Tagore’s birthplace, Jorasanko Thakurbari. This protest will go on all day.” “Rabindranath has been insulted,” Mukherjee continued. “It has hurt the emotions of all Bengalis. This has deeply hurt the people of Bengal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shah-cites-tagore-to-tap-into-bengali-psyche/articleshow/79830424.cms||Someswar Boral
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Amit Shah rebuts Bengal govt’s ‘attack on federalism’ charge||BOLPUR: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday took the state government head-on, saying the Centre’s requisition of three IPS officers was well within the federal structure, daring the state to cite which rules had been broken. His comment drew a sharp response from chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who called the transfers a “blatant misuse of emergency provisions” of the law, aimed at “demoralising officers serving in Bengal”. The state government would not allow “this brazen att-empt by the Centre to control the state machinery by proxy”, she added. She tweeted her thanks to the several opposition leaders who had supported her “anti-federalism” charge over the last two days. The state had conveyed its “inability” to relieve the trio — Rajeev Mishra IGP, South Bengal; Praveen Tripathi, DIG, Presidency Range; and Bholanath Pandey, Diamond Harbour SP — on the ground that the directive went against the bas-ic tenets of federal structure. The three IPS officers were in charge of BJP president J P Nadda’s security on December 10, when stones were thrown at his convoy en route to a rally in Diamond Harbour. “The Centre has requisitioned the three officers within the framework of the federal structure,” Shah said on Sunday. “If the state feels the Centre’s letter to the IPS officers contravenes the federal structure, it can cite the rules under which it does,” he challenged. On Sunday, CM Banerjee took to Twitter to reiterate her stand on the issue. “Centre is brazenly interfering with the State government’s functioning by transferring police officers. My gratitude to Bhupesh Baghel, Arvind Kejriwal, Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot and M.K. Stalin for showing solidarity to people of Bengal and reaffirming their commitment to federalism. Thank you!” she wrote. Four chief ministers — Punjab’s Amarinder Singh, Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal, Chhattisgarh’s Bhupesh Baghel and Rajasthan’s Ashok Gehlot — had backed Banerjee’s stance on the IPS transfer issue on Saturday. On Sunday, DMK president M K Stalin and former union minister Yashwant Sinha also lent their weight behind Banerjee on the issue. NCP leader Sharad Pawar even spoke to her over a larger opposition alliance against the Centre’s “repeated interference” in state issues. The Centre has turned down the Bengal’s government’s objection to relieve the three IPS officers. The state government has indicated that it would move Supreme Court if the Centre tried to force its hand. According to the provisions in rule 6(1) of IPS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, if there’s a disagreement between the state and Centre, the state is “requested to relieve the officer” immediately to take up the central posting. On Thursday, the Centre informed the state government and the three IPS officers that the latter were being posted in the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and the Bureau of Police Research and Development for a period of three to five years. Shah also referred to the J P Nadda incident to argue that the ruling Trinamool was trying to suppress the voice of the opposition in Bengal. “Parties have the right to reach out to people in a democracy. The ruling party has the responsibility to ensure that they can do so. But the Trinamool isn’t allowing that. Power has gone to their head. We are not going to backtrack,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amit-shah-rebuts-states-attack-on-federalism-charge/articleshow/79830835.cms||Someswar Boral
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Gurung returns to Hills after 3 yrs||Darjeeling: Bimal Gurung arrived in Darjeeling on Sunday, after more than three years, to a rapturous welcome by supporters but has his work cut out — convincing people to vote for Mamata Banerjee and her party despite the Hills people’s sentiments against the Bengal chief minister for crushing the 2017 statehood movement. On Sunday, Gurung who was stationed in Siliguri af ter he arrived in the region on December 6, moved up to Darjeeling to address his first public meeting. Gurung trained his gun on BJP and his one-time lieutenant, Binoy Tamang, leading the other faction of GJM. “BJP took away twelve years from me and the Hills people. The saffron party did not betray me, but the Gorkha community. We believed BJP blindly and without condition. But they have not done anything for us,” he said. The GJM leader took a dig at Raju Singh Bista, BJP MP from Darjeeling, questioning his promise to fulfil the demand for a separate state. Gurung resurfaced in Kolkata on October 21 and pledged his support to TMC, while severing ties with the BJP. “I had expected a lot from the BJP and union home minister Amit Shah, but in vain,” he said. Both Gurung and Tamang are now supporting Trinamool. Interestingly, a senior leader of the party, said in his speech before Gurung’s arrival: “We were under tremendous pressure. We were forced to stay outside. There were police atrocities on our supporters and leaders. We, therefore, had no choice but to side up with the Trinamool.” Gurung, who will be staying in Darjeeling for ten to twelve days, also had a word for his once trusted second-in-command.  “I am grateful to the person who showed the green flag to allow my entry to the hills. However, it must be remembered that time changes. What now, I show you the red flag for your ouster,” he said, referring to Tamang’s statement that Gurung would be able to enter the Hills, only if he gave the green signal. Ruling out any form of violence, the GJM leader said he would work with the Bengal CM to develop the Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gurung-returns-to-hills-after-3-yrs/articleshow/79830156.cms||Deep Gazmer
December 21, 2020||Ranchi||Schools to start physical classes from today, focus on practicals||Ranchi: After the Jharkhand government allowed physical classes for Class X and XII from Monday after taking consent from parents in view of the upcoming board examinations, school authorities in the state on Sunday said they will put focus on practical classes and doubt clearance sessions. The management of several institutes, including Delhi Public School (DPS), Ranchi, and Don Bosco, said they would start with the practical classes and other activities like classroom studies would be added gradually. DPS spokesperson Ravi Shankar Niogi said the practical laboratories of his institute is spacious can easily maintain social distancing as required by the guidelines issued by the government for reopening of the schools during the Covid-19 pandemic. Shashank Shekhar, a senior teacher of Jawahar Vidya Mandir Shyamli, said, “We have decided to open our school from January 4 and emphasis would be given on practical classes and doubt clearance.” According to the teachers, the schools were giving top priority on practical classes as they were the worst hit during the lockdown since the last week of March. Though students were asked to conduct practicals through e-labs, their activities were not monitored, they added. On taking consent from parents, principal of Amar Sahid Thakur Vishwanath Shadeo District School, Ashutosh Kumar Singh, said, “We have asked the parents to send their consent forms along with the students. No student would be allowed to attend classes without the forms. Permitted students will be put through thermal scanners and those having symptoms related to Covid would be kept in a separate room and the health department would be informed.” The government schools have also asked parents to fill up a form stating that their children have not been affected by Covid-19 in the past three weeks and that they would inform the school concerned as soon as they developed symptoms while attending schools. The school authorities said they are in touch with the parents for their consent through various means, including WhatsApp, Zoom and e-mails.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/schools-to-start-physical-classes-from-today-focus-on-practicals/articleshow/79828874.cms||Sanjay Sahay
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Bengal cold chain can store ‘six crore vaccine doses’||KOLKATA: Even as the Union ministry has said that a Covid vaccine rollout is likely by end-January, Bengal’s health department has kept its cold chain facilities ready to store doses as they arrive. Health department sources said the state had cold-chain points that could store around six crore vaccine doses at once. “There are about 958 cold chain facilities across the state. These are being streamlined and kept ready along with transportation facilities so that we can accept the vaccine as and when it is provided to us,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services (DHS). Apart from walk-in coolers (WIC), walk-in freezers (WIF) that can store a good volume of vaccines, ice lined refrigerators (ILR), mostly used in public health centres during routine immunization, are also being kept ready. “In addition, the government of India will provide 19 new WICs to the state, which are expected to reach this month. That will enhance our vaccine storage capacity further,” said a senior health official, part of the task force for Cov-id vaccination in Bengal. The state health department has formed its task force while following the Union health ministry guidelines. Regular meetings are being held to prepare for the rollout. Manpower — right from doctors and nurses to personnel like ASHA workers — are being trained. “There is a robust cold-chain system in the state. But it might just need scaling-up because the vaccines will have to be administered to lakhs of people within a short period of time. One challenge could be this being an additional burden, since most of these are also being utilised for routine immunisation progammes,” said clinical trial specialist S K Tripathi of School of Tropical Medicine, Kolkata. Three organisations — Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — have applied for emergency authorisation of their candidate vaccines, which are currently in phase III trial. In Kolkata, Covaxin is being tested at NICED, whereas Peerless Hospital is likely to start phase III trial of Sputnik V from the first week of January. “Candidate vaccine-like Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V require a temperature between 2°C to 8 °C. So, we should not have much of an issue while storing these vaccines. But vaccines like Pfizer’s and Moderna’s require -70°C and -20°C,” said Debkishore Gupta, an infectious diseases control specialist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-cold-chain-can-store-six-cr-vax-doses/articleshow/79830921.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 21, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal assembly elections: BJP forms a system to vet defectors||KOLKATA: Union home minister Amit Shah might have given a “hearty welcome” to Suvendu Adhikari at a press meet on Sunday, but the Jitendra Tiwary controversy has prompted the BJP brass to put in place an internal scanning mechanism before any induction into the party. Shah has asked state leaders to send details of “applicants” first to the five observers it has appointed for Bengal. In a meeting with Bengal BJP leaders at a city hotel on Saturday night, Shah asked the state unit to send a profile of those willing to join BJP from other parties. The observer, after a discussion with the state party workers, will send a report to the headquarters. The Bengal BJP recently faced resistance from within over induction of at least three leaders, including former Asansol mayor Tiwari. Leaders like Babul Supriyo, Basu and Agnimitra Paul conveyed their opinion against Tiwari. “Shah has stressed on expanding the organization further in the next few months. But he has cautioned against indiscriminate induction,” said a Bengal leader. “There are many who are showing interest in the party. You can expect a few more people in the days to come,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. During the one-and-a-half hour-long meeting, Shah said central leaders, including observers, will visit Bengal frequently. Shah, who takes interest in micromanagement, will stay for a longer duration in the days to come. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also visit the state after February. “He has been staying here for one-two days. He will start staying here for even a week from coming months,” Ghosh said. Of the leaders who joined BJP on Saturday, Adhikari was present at the meeting. Adhikari, who was sitting among other state leaders during the meeting, was invited to the dais to sit beside Shah. BJP sources indicated that the Union home minister was not happy with the mass-contact programme conducted by some MPs during November 1-15. “He said that unlike the Lok Sabha election, where the party leveraged from Narendra Modi’s image in Bengal, BJP will not have any face for 2021 state assembly elections. Therefore, organisation will be the key factor in ensuring 200-plus seats in the state,” a leader said. State leaders gave Shah a list of party workers killed in the past one month. “He has assured us that not a single unwanted face will be allowed inside polling booths. Enough central security forces will be deployed to ensure free and fair elections this time,” said state general secretary Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-forms-a-system-to-vet-defectors/articleshow/79830251.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 21, 2020||Mumbai||New Mumbai Congress boss averse to BMC poll battle under MVA||MUMBAI: Newly appointed Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap is not in favour of contesting the BMC elections under the banner of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). Ahead of the first anniversary of the MVA government in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had declared that the alliance’s all three constituent parties—Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress—will contest the Mumbai municipal polls under the MVA banner. “Just about nine months are left for the crucial BMC elections. Actually, there is approximately a year to go, but the code of conduct will be there for two to three months. In my opinion, we should contest the civic polls independently,” Jagtap told TOI. “In the last elections, Congress had won 32 seats and at several places it was at the number two or three place. Under such circumstances, we feel that if Congress contests separately, it will have better chances to win. When we had an alliance with NCP at the local level, then too, we had contested the assembly elections separately.” For a day or two, Jagtap will be in New Delhi to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi. He is expected to take charge of his new assignment as the party’s Mumbai chief on December 17 or 18 in the presence of the All-India Congress Committee, which is the central decision-making assembly of the party. Asked about divisions within the local Congress, Jagtap ruled them out, saying, he was in touch with all senior and junior leaders in the party, and as such there was no possibility of factionalism or groupism. “In the days to come, I will personally call on all senior leaders here and understand their vision for the party. All are with the Congress,” Jagtap said. He said he has drafted an ambitious road map for the party. “The road map will be for the ensuing civic polls as well as strengthening the party base in Mumbai. We will strengthen the party network at the grassroots and booth levels. I am sure I will be able to reach out to all party workers across the city,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-mumbai-congress-boss-averse-to-bmc-poll-battle-under-mva/articleshow/79831309.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 21, 2020||India||Punjab arhtiyas cry crackdown||PATIALA/BATHINDA: Arhtiyas (commission agents) in Punjab have decided to shut down all grain markets in the state from Tuesday to Friday in protest against the recent income-tax raids on them with help of CRPF jawans. Describing the raids as the Centre’s “pressure tactics” against them for supporting the farmers’ agitation against the new agri-laws, the arhtiyas demanded immediate suspension of the I-T raids carried out late on Friday night and Saturday in Rajpura, Samana in Patiala district and in Nawashahar district. Around 16 arhtiyas have been served I-T notices. Raids were carried out on six arhtiyas who have state-level designations in their unions. There are around 28,000 licensed commission agents in Punjab. Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa has asked activists to gherao I-T officials if the come to conduct raids on the premises of arhtiyas “anywhere in Punjab”. A five-member delegation of arhtiyas will meet farm union leaders in Delhi in a couple of days. “We have held talks with senior leaders of the 32 farm organisations, who have assured us support,” said Vijay Kalra, president of the Federation of Arhtiyas. “We will shut down the grain markets in Punjab from Tuesday to Friday in protest. We do not want to shut the grain markets for an indefinite period as cotton farmers will get harassed by the closure of mandis. I-T officials should immediately return all the documents and books of arhtiyas. We will gherao I-T officials if any other raid is carried out on arhtiyas,” he added. Another union of arhtiyas plans to shut down mandis till their demands are met. “We have decided to shut down all 153 grain markets in Punjab. The I-T department had carried out raids late night on the arhtiyas and instead of taking the Punjab Police personnel they brought CRPF jawans, which only shows that the motive of the centre is to intimidate the arhtiya community for supporting the farmers’ stir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-arhtiyas-cry-crackdown/articleshow/79831301.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Noida||Noida: Three held for duping over 450 people on promise of govt jobs||GREATER NOIDA: Noida police on Sunday arrested three people for allegedly duping people on the pretext of providing jobs in government sector. Brajesh Kumar Verma, Mahesh Patel and Rajveer, have so far duped around 450 people of over Rs 30 lakh. While Verma was the mastermind behind, Patel and Rajveer used to bring applicants. Police said that on October 14, some people had filed a complaint with the Sector 24 police station and alleged that one Dr Brijesh Kumar Verma duped them of Rs 70,000 to Rs 50,000 each on the promise of making them block coordinators and legal advisors. Following the complaint, police started probe and arrested Verma on Sunday from Morna bus stand in Noida. Police said that it all started in 2007 when Verma opened a fake NGO in the name of SSS Institute (Shilpi Self Service Institute) in Lucknow. Over the years, he opened seven offices in seven UP districts, including one in Noida. Verma, who earlier ran an optician shop in Raebareli, had contested for the pradhan post in 1995 from there. In 2019, he contested the Lok Sabha election from Jaunpur in UP on a ticket from Republican Party of India (RPI). Love Kumar, joint commissioner of police (law and order), said, “In October 2020, he opened a centre in Sector 22 to provide self-help training to women. He obtained a fake letter from the state government and using that, he would contact government schools in GB Nagar, Ghaziabad and Delhi where he would pretend to organise training seminars for low-level administration jobs, investigation officers, beauticians, tailors etc. Verma also hired people to impart the training.” Kumar added that Verma would offer fake certificates and joining letters to the victims and then collect money as a security amount. Police suspect that he has duped at least 100 people in Noida so far, around 50 in Ghaziabad and over 300 in other districts. The accused have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/3-held-for-duping-over-450-people-on-promise-of-govt-jobs/articleshow/79830642.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 21, 2020||Chennai||Edappadi K Palaniswami will be CM choice of NDA, says AIADMK; BJP accepts deal||CHENNAI: A day after state BJP unit chief L Murugan asserted that his party's national leadership would decide the CM candidate of the NDA alliance in the state, the ruling AIADMK on Sunday rallied behind the incumbent CM. The alliance would continue only if Edappadi K Palaniswami was accepted as the CM candidate, said the ruling party, forcing Murugan to backtrack. "EPS is the chief minister of the NDA," the BJP chief told reporters later in the day at a function in Thanjavur. Asked about his remarks on Saturday, he said, "I was only referring to the procedure. While the AIADMK has announced its CM candidate, it has to be endorsed by our party's national leadership. We never said we will not accept EPS as the CM candidate." Murugan added, "Our alliance is strong and we will win the election." Sources in both parties said Murugan had been asked by his party's national leadership to tone down his approach. BJP should consider removing Murugan from post: AIADMKThe AIADMK, which rushed to EPS’s defence, took a hard stand, demanding that Murugan be reined in for “creating confusion within the alliance”. “Someone should advise him on how to speak. The BJP leadership should consider removing him from his post,” said AIADMK spokesman V Pughazhendi. All through Sunday, ministers and senior leaders of the AIADMK had asserted that the AIADMK-BJP alliance would continue only if allies accepted EPS as CM candidate. Fisheries minister D Jayakumar told reporters, “While there is no doubt the alliance will continue, it will be under our leadership. We will allot seats to BJP but the AIADMK will decide the CM candidate.” Minister K A Sengottaiyan said, “EPS will return to the CM chair.” Minister Kadambur Raju added, “We decided we will face the election with EPS as CM candidate. There is no change in our stand.” In Tirupur, BJP state vicepresident K Annamalai sought to placate the AIADMK, saying when BJP national president J P Nadda visits Tamil Nadu, all misunderstandings would be sorted out. “Murugan’s statements have been misconstrued,’’ he said and lauded EPS for his governance. “In an alliance, the leadership role would be played only by the powerful party. You know which is the powerful party here,’’ he said. “The BJP may be keen to pursue its ‘Kazhagangal Illatha Tamizhagam (Tamil Nadu without the Kazhagams) agenda, but we are clearly the bigger and stronger party here,” said a senior AIADMK leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/edappadi-k-palaniswami-will-be-cm-choice-of-nda-says-aiadmk-bjp-accepts-deal/articleshow/79831356.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Special drive for housing societies to get deemed conveyance||MUMBAI: The cooperatives commissioner is initiating a 15-day drive to enable housing societies obtain deemed conveyance. The letter issued to all deputy registrars across the state admits that since the scheme was launched, very few societies have obtained deemed conveyance. The drive will be held from January 1 to 15. Housing societies that wish to obtain conveyance can do so during this special drive, said the circular. Advocate Vinod Sampat, president of Cooperative Societies Residents and Users Association, said while the intention is good, it is still difficult to obtain deemed conveyance unless ‘speed money’ is paid. Sampat said once a cooperative society is formed, the builder has to hand over title of the land and building to the society within six months. However, for several decades builders have failed to do so. The government, in 2012, introduced deemed conveyance where housing societies, when the builder fails to execute the conveyance deed, could approach the deputy registrar for one. It also amended the law that allowed societies going in for redevelopment to gain from additional floor space index (FSI) and transfer of development rights (TDR). In 2018, that government used a government resolution (GR) to list the documents required for deemed conveyance. However, bureaucratic hurdles continue. Sampat said that when there are multiple buildings, developers insist on transferring the conveyance to a federation of housing societies rather than to individual buildings. If the project is not complete, builders create hurdles so they can avail additional FSI and TDR. Sampat said that even if the deemed conveyance is granted, it is required to be registered and often housing societies fail to do so as several residents have not paid stamp duty and registered their flats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-special-drive-for-housing-societies-to-get-deemed-conveyance/articleshow/79831355.cms||---
December 21, 2020||India||Felt blessed, says PM Modi after Rakab Ganj gurdwara visit||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday visited Gurdwara Rakab Ganj where Guru Teg Bahadur was cremated in what was seen by many as an overture to protesting farmers — an overwhelming majority of whom are Sikhs from Punjab. “This morning, I prayed at the historic Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib, where the pious body of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji was cremated. I felt extremely blessed. I, like millions around the world, am deeply inspired by the kindness of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji,” Modi tweeted after visiting the shrine and also shared pictures with devotees present at the gurdwara during his 20-minute stay there. The PM shared details of his visit in Gurmukhi also. It is the special Kripa of the Guru Sahibs that we will mark the special occasion of the 400th Parkash Parv of Sri… https://t.co/795l8iDuPk— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1608437711000The surprise visit to the historic gurdwara came against the backdrop of Akali Dal’s allegation that BJP was trying to create a divide between Hindus and Sikhs and was widely interpreted as a message of reassurance to the latter. However, this was not the first instance of the PM showing his reverence to the ninth Guru of Sikhs, who is considered by many to be a symbol of Hindu-Sikh unity and whose 400th birth anniversary is being celebrated this year. The PM also talked about the important event in his ‘Mann ki Baat’ address. On Saturday, which happened to be the Guru’s birthday, he tweeted to mark the occasion. This morning, I prayed at the historic Gurudwara Rakab Ganj Sahib, where the pious body of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji… https://t.co/RcNJ8edMQy— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1608437644000Earlier this month, Modi invoked Guru Nanak, the founder of the Sikh faith, at the ‘bhumi pujan’ ceremony for the new Parliament building. Guru Teg Bahadur was beheaded on the orders of Aurangzeb when he stood up to the Mughal emperor against the forcible conversion of Hindus in Kashmir. The gurdwara visit came amid a countrywide outreach to farmers and was interpreted by BJP circles as amplifying the perception that the government remains keen to engage farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/felt-blessed-says-pm-modi-after-rakab-ganj-gurdwara-visit/articleshow/79831352.cms||Akhilesh Singh
December 21, 2020||India||Days before farmers reached Delhi, PM Modi had urged officials to create awareness on laws||NEW DELHI: Barely days before farmers from Punjab reached the Singhu border in Delhi to protest against the recent farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had urged the states to create awareness and educate farmers about the benefit of the agriculture reforms. “States/ UTs should organise workshops and seminars at district and village level to educate farmers on benefits, create awareness among all relevant stakeholders-farmers,” reads the minutes of the Pragati meeting, which the PM had chaired on November 25. Heads of central government departments and state chief secretaries attended this web-based meeting. According to the minutes, the states and UTs were also directed to form teams to implement agriculture reform to get the most benefit out of it as there was a lot of scope of capital investment in the agriculture sector. In past weeks, not just government departments, even BJP leaders have held several online and offline interactions and outreach programmes to share the benefits of the amended farm laws across states including in Punjab. Different Union ministers have also joined the campaign to highlight the benefits of the farm laws and to clear the doubts of protesting farmers. Sources said the Centre is also pushing to accelerate the agriculture exports to increase the farmers’ income. In the Pragati meeting, the PM also urged the states to prepare the agriculture export plan. So far 16 states have prepared these plans. “Agriculture Cluster Level Committees have been formed in 23 clusters out of 47. Balance clusters need to be formed quickly,” the minutes of the meeting said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/days-before-farmers-reached-delhi-pm-modi-had-urged-officials-to-create-awareness-on-laws/articleshow/79831365.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 21, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Mumbai metropolitan region court rejects interim maintenance plea of woman for not explaining income||MUMBAI: A family court in Mumbai metropolitan region rejected a woman’s plea for interim maintenance of Rs 40,000, observing that she had not disclosed her “true income’’. The battle, however, also brought in an uncommon defence from the estranged husband: The existence of a pre-nup. The husband’s lawyer said it barred his wife from claiming anything if the marriage ended. They married in 2016 and the vows followed a pre-marital memorandum of understanding (MoU) to ensure that she would have no stake in his property if the marriage fell apart. The husband had filed for divorce and in its pendancy she sought interim maintenance. A pre-nup agreement has no official legal mandate in India yet. The husband, represented by advocate Kanupriya Kejriwal, cited it to oppose her plea for interim maintenance. The wife said that he compelled her to leave her job, and while she had her mother’s pension she had no independent income. She said that it was the husband’s moral, social and legal obligation to maintain her, and that she must have the same “standard of living’’ as his. He questioned her claim of entitlement to his standard of living, when the marriage, he said was “32 days old’’. The family court recorded his lawyer’s submissions that the couple had entered into a pre-marital memorandum of understanding, where the wife stated that she would have no stake in his movable or immovable properties if the marriage breaks, and had also declared that she was well educated and earned enough to take care of herself if such a situation arose. His plea was of several missing entries in her bank statement. He said that they resided separately since September 2016. She was well qualified, he said, and left her job on her own, and sought dismissal of her plea. She expressed willingness to resume cohabitation and claimed that she was sent to her parents’ house when she was ill, and since then he did not accept her back. The court sought the wife’s bank statement before and after marriage but noted that she produced one from two years after separation. It found no explanation for missing entries and said that it was “difficult to accept” her statement of no source of income, so there was no option but to reject her application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-metropolitan-region-court-rejects-interim-maintenance-plea-of-woman-who-lied-about-her-income/articleshow/79831487.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai metropolitan region court rejects interim maintenance plea of woman for not explaining income||MUMBAI: A family court in Mumbai metropolitan region rejected a woman’s plea for interim maintenance of Rs 40,000, observing that she had not disclosed her “true income’’. The battle, however, also brought in an uncommon defence from the estranged husband: The existence of a pre-nup. The husband’s lawyer said it barred his wife from claiming anything if the marriage ended. They married in 2016 and the vows followed a pre-marital memorandum of understanding (MoU) to ensure that she would have no stake in his property if the marriage fell apart. The husband had filed for divorce and in its pendancy she sought interim maintenance. A pre-nup agreement has no official legal mandate in India yet. The husband, represented by advocate Kanupriya Kejriwal, cited it to oppose her plea for interim maintenance. The wife said that he compelled her to leave her job, and while she had her mother’s pension she had no independent income. She said that it was the husband’s moral, social and legal obligation to maintain her, and that she must have the same “standard of living’’ as his. He questioned her claim of entitlement to his standard of living, when the marriage, he said was “32 days old’’. The family court recorded his lawyer’s submissions that the couple had entered into a pre-marital memorandum of understanding, where the wife stated that she would have no stake in his movable or immovable properties if the marriage breaks, and had also declared that she was well educated and earned enough to take care of herself if such a situation arose. His plea was of several missing entries in her bank statement. He said that they resided separately since September 2016. She was well qualified, he said, and left her job on her own, and sought dismissal of her plea. She expressed willingness to resume cohabitation and claimed that she was sent to her parents’ house when she was ill, and since then he did not accept her back. The court sought the wife’s bank statement before and after marriage but noted that she produced one from two years after separation. It found no explanation for missing entries and said that it was “difficult to accept” her statement of no source of income, so there was no option but to reject her application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-metropolitan-region-court-rejects-interim-maintenance-plea-of-woman-who-lied-about-her-income/articleshow/79831368.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Thane||Mumbai metropolitan region court rejects interim maintenance plea of woman for not explaining income||MUMBAI: A family court in Mumbai metropolitan region rejected a woman’s plea for interim maintenance of Rs 40,000, observing that she had not disclosed her “true income’’. The battle, however, also brought in an uncommon defence from the estranged husband: The existence of a pre-nup. The husband’s lawyer said it barred his wife from claiming anything if the marriage ended. They married in 2016 and the vows followed a pre-marital memorandum of understanding (MoU) to ensure that she would have no stake in his property if the marriage fell apart. The husband had filed for divorce and in its pendancy she sought interim maintenance. A pre-nup agreement has no official legal mandate in India yet. The husband, represented by advocate Kanupriya Kejriwal, cited it to oppose her plea for interim maintenance. The wife said that he compelled her to leave her job, and while she had her mother’s pension she had no independent income. She said that it was the husband’s moral, social and legal obligation to maintain her, and that she must have the same “standard of living’’ as his. He questioned her claim of entitlement to his standard of living, when the marriage, he said was “32 days old’’. The family court recorded his lawyer’s submissions that the couple had entered into a pre-marital memorandum of understanding, where the wife stated that she would have no stake in his movable or immovable properties if the marriage breaks, and had also declared that she was well educated and earned enough to take care of herself if such a situation arose. His plea was of several missing entries in her bank statement. He said that they resided separately since September 2016. She was well qualified, he said, and left her job on her own, and sought dismissal of her plea. She expressed willingness to resume cohabitation and claimed that she was sent to her parents’ house when she was ill, and since then he did not accept her back. The court sought the wife’s bank statement before and after marriage but noted that she produced one from two years after separation. It found no explanation for missing entries and said that it was “difficult to accept” her statement of no source of income, so there was no option but to reject her application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-metropolitan-region-court-rejects-interim-maintenance-plea-of-woman-who-lied-about-her-income/articleshow/79831486.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Business||ONGC to explore 2 more blocks in Ashoknagar||Ashoknagar: PSU behemoth ONGC will explore two more blocks in North 24-Parganas, after successful exploration of commercially viable oil block in Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas, 50 km from Kolkata. These new blocks were acquired under OALP while the oil-producing block was acquired under previous NELP VII. North 24-Parganas has a huge potential of both oil and gas and can prove a big boon for the economy of West Bengal, said Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday while dedicating Bengal Basin, the 8th oil-producing basin in India, to the nation. ONGC would invest Rs 425 crore in new exploration in the next two years in the basin. It has already invested Rs 3,400 crore for developing the producing block in North 24-Parganas in the last two years. The crude from this block will be refined from Haldia refinery of Indian Oil. Pradhan also made it clear that land acquisition for new exploration would be done with the help of local government and as per its rules and regulations. Bengal basin is estimated to spread over 1.22 lakh sq km with nearly two-third of it falling under the waters of the Bay of Bengal is bigger than Assam Arakan Basin, Kuchh Basin and KG Basin and equivalent to Rajasthan Basin. The exploration in Bengal basin was started in 1949 and after seven decades, commercially proven reserves were found. According to Pradhan, the Asoknagar-1 well was completed as an oil production under early-monetisation plan issued by the Government of India. This makes ONGC having discovered and put to production seven out of the eight oil-producing basins of India covering 83% oil and gas reserves. The minister added that crude of the Ashoknagar reserve is of high quality. ONGC CMD S Shanker added that the crude from the commercial production block here has the gravity of 41, which is among the best in the world. When asked about the possible reserve in Ashoknagar, Pradhan pointed out that this can be ascertained when the boundary of the reserve would be found. According to officials, re-energised by this discovery and eager to script more success stories in the newly awarded OALP acreages in the Bengal Basin, ONGC has already set aside a sling of fresh geoscientific activities. These comprise appraisal programmes of Ashoknagar discovery for an area of about 739 sq. km. including 3D seismic, Low Frequency Passive Seismic (LFPS) Survey and drilling of two wells.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ongc-to-explore-2-more-blocks-in-ashoknagar/articleshow/79829568.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Will block NH-9 fully, warn farmers||GHAZIABAD: Farmer leaders at UP Gate have threatened to block the whole of NH-9 if their counterparts from other districts are not allowed to move towards the Ghazipur border in 24 hours. Earlier in the day, a group of farmers observed Shahid Divas at UP Gate to pay tributes to those who have died during the course of the agitation. Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat and singer Babu Mann attended the event. Rawat, however, did not share the stage and said he had come in personal capacity. "The administration is stropping those who are carrying flags and badges. I should not say this, but a person with a turban is facing more harassment. We are giving a 24-hour ultimatum to the government. Instead of stopping them, they should be shown respect," farmer leader Vishwa Mohan Singh told a group of administrative and police officials who had come to meet the protesters. Rakesh Tikait, the national president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said the protesters would block the other side of Delhi-Meerut Expressway (NH-9) if farmers wanting to go to the Ghazipur border are stopped anywhere. The Ghaziabad-Delhi lanes of the DME are already blocked. For long, farmers have been alleging that more protesters from neighbouring districts of UP are being stopped at various places by police. On Sunday, ADM (City) Shailendra Kumar Singh and other senior officials held a meeting with farmers over the issue. "We have noted down their grievances. They did not have any problem with the Ghaziabad administration as such. They said farmers were being stopped in other districts. We told them we will take up their issues with other districts," Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said. Around 11am, the farmers at UP Gate held an event to observe Shahidi Divas to pay homage to protesters who died in the past few weeks. "As many as 29 farmers from Haryana and Punjab have died during this movement. Some of them died in accidents, some became ill. Others died due to the use of force by police. The government should listen to farmers," Tikait said. Meanwhile, a rally was held in the evening at Ramlila ground in Indirapuram by members of the Meerut-based Hind Majdoor Kisan Samiti, which is favouring the three laws. Around 1,500 people from Meerut and Muzaffarnagar drove in scores of tractors to Ghaziabad. However, their programme started after a delay of about three hours as the group did not take the route fixed by the Ghaziabad administration and instead chose to march from Hindon Elevated road to the rally site via Mohan Nagar. A minor scuffle also broke out between the members of the outfit and the police, who tried to divert them. The police had a tough time managing the sites at UP Gate and Ramlila ground, which are separated by a few kilometres. To ensure that farmers associated with the samiti did not reach the Ghazipur border, the police had put a blockade at several places using earth movers. Paramilitary forces, PAC personnel and police teams were deployed in large numbers in Indirapuram and UP Gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-will-block-nh-9-fully-warn-farmers/articleshow/79831403.cms||Aditya Dev
December 21, 2020||India||Army to test indigenous artillery system with 48-km strike range||NEW DELHI: The Army will soon begin testing an indigenously-developed artillery system, which the DRDO contends is the best in its class in the world with a record-breaking strike range of 48-km. If the big gun passes muster, it can fulfill the Army’s requirement for 1,580 such guns worth over Rs 25,000 crore. The 155mm/52 caliber advanced towed artillery gun system (ATAGS) is set to undergo “winter user trials” by the Army in Sikkim in January-February, which will be followed by the “mobility trials” and then the “summer trials” in May-June. With the development of ATAGS, which has Bharat Forge (Kalyani Group) and Tata Advanced Systems as the production partners, DRDO officials contend the Army has no need to import such guns from Israel or other countries. But the Army says the indigenous guns will have to first prove their worth in the forthcoming user trials. The force has a parallel project stuck in the final stages to procure 400 Athos towed gun systems for Rs 5,147 crore from Israeli firm Elbit Systems, which was originally supposed to be followed by the domestic production of another 1,180 guns in collaboration with the Ordnance Factory Board. The Israeli gun had emerged as L-1 (lowest bidder) a year ago to beat the French one from Nexter Systems after trials. “Our procurement case for towed artillery guns has been hanging fire since 2010,” said an Army officer. Amidst this wrangling, the user-trials of the indigenous ATAGS also got somewhat delayed after the barrel of one of the guns burst during test-firing at the Pokhran field firing range in Rajasthan, which injured four personnel, in September. “It was most probably due to defective ammunition. There was no issue with the barrel. Over 2,000 rounds have already been successfully test-fired from the ATAGS during high-altitude trials in Sikkim and then in Pokhran,” a senior DRDO official said. “Further tests are currently underway at the Proof and Experimental Establishment range at Balasore. Why should the Army import such guns if a much better indigenous option with a longer 48-km range is available? Other contemporary guns have a 40 to 45-km range,” he added. The ATAGS has “excellent accuracy, consistency, mobility, reliability and automation”, and can fire five-round bursts as compared to three-round bursts by other foreign contemporary guns. “ATAGS is also configured with an `all-electric drive technology’ for the first time in the world, which will ensure maintenance free and reliable operation over longer periods of time,” said another official. But the Army contends DRDO often “over-promises and under-delivers”. The force has also had to contend with recurring scandals in artillery procurement projects, from the Swedish Bofors in the mid-1980s to the South African Denel in 2005 and Singapore Technology Kinetics in 2009. It was only in 2018 that the Army finally managed to exorcise the Bofors ghost by beginning to induct 145 US-origin M-777 ultra-light howitzers (155m/39-calibre) and 100 South Korean-origin K-9 Vajra tracked self-propelled guns (155mm/52-calibre).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-to-test-indigenous-artillery-system-with-48-km-strike-range/articleshow/79831376.cms||Rajat Pandit
December 21, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Two killed in clash over parking bike in narrow lane||RAJKOT: A petty fight between neighbours over parking a motorcycle in a narrow lane snowballed into a deadly clash, leaving two persons dead and at least four injured, in Morbi town on Sunday afternoon. According to Morbi police, the deceased were identified as Adil Mandaviya (Lokhandwala), 32, and his neighbour Imran Meman (32). Preliminary investigation suggested that both persons died in firing as at least three rounds were fired during the clash. "There was some fight between family members of Rafiq Mandaviya and Mohammed alias Dadhi over a motorbike parked in a narrow lane in their Khatkivaas locality. The place where both families live is very narrow. However, the fight snowballed into deadly clashes with members of both families opening fire on each other,'' said VB Jadeja, police inspector, local crime branch, Morbi. On Adil Mandaviya's side, his father Rafiq, president of Sunni Muslim Jamat in Morbi town, was injured and was rushed to a hospital in Rajkot. Three persons from Memon's side who were injured included Mohammed alias Dadhi, a bootlegger, Ashif and Adil Memon. All three were referred to Rajkot Civil Hospital for treatment. Police sources say that the injured persons were out of danger. Security has been beefed up in the town to avert any escalation of violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-killed-in-clash-over-parking-bike-in-narrow-lane/articleshow/79828196.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Vadodara||Court junks pre-arrest bail of head constable||Vadodara: The sessions court on Saturday denied anticipatory bail to a head constable accused in custodial death of Babu Sheikh Nisar who was allegedly killed by six policemen at the Fatehgunj station in Vadodara in December last year.. Mahesh Rathwa, who was attached to Fatehgunj police station before being shunted off to police headquarters, was named as an accused by the CID (crime) in the chargesheet it filed in a local court here. Rathwa had pleaded that he has been wrongly framed in the case as his name was not even mentioned as an accused in the FIR. He also told the court that he is ready to accept any conditions that the court will give while allowing him bail and will also cooperate with the investigating agency. In response to Rathwa’s bail application, the CID (crime) informed the court through an affidavit that he has been a part of police department for the last 10 years and is aware of legal procedures due to which there is a possibility that he will threaten or lure the witnesses or tamper with evidence. “The bail applicant hid the truth from the investigators for misleading them so that the other accused are protected,” said district government pleader Anil Desai. The investigating officer also told the court that Rathwa was present in the computer room where the victim Nishar was killed. “The applicant had also physically tortured the victim,” the affidavit stated. Upholding the arguments, the court of principal district judge M R Mengdey turned down Rathwa’s bail plea. Rathwa and a sub-inspector were not named in the original FIR along with six other cops, but after Rathwa changed his statement before a judicial magistrate, his role became suspicious. He and sub-inspector Dilipsinh Rathod were named as accused later in the chargesheet. It was his car that was used by the other accused to take Nishar’s body from the police station for disposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/court-junks-pre-arrest-bail-of-head-constable/articleshow/79827911.cms||---
December 21, 2020||India||AICC steps in to quell Kerala Cong infighting after poll blow||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Congress high command has finally decided to intervene as the internal revolt in Kerala party unit has intensified following poor performance of the party in the recent local body elections. Amid increasing demand for a total revamp in the party structure, AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar will reach the state on December 26 to have discussions with state party functionaries. Anwar has convened a meeting of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) political affairs committee on December 27. He will also attend a meeting of party MLAs and MPs. Apart from this, he has also decided to meet leaders of UDF constituents. The party high command is not in favour of a leadership change in KPCC before the assembly polls slated to be held in May next year. It is learnt that the party has asked Anwar to submit a report. the high command will take a decision on how to restructure KPCC after Anwar’s report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aicc-steps-in-to-quell-kerala-cong-infighting-after-poll-blow/articleshow/79831438.cms||---
December 21, 2020||India||Now, BJP plans a system to ‘vet’ defectors||KOLKATA: Amid the euphoria over BJP making a dent in dissension-hit TMC, Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday asked the party’s state machinery to put in place a system of “vetting” potential defectors before letting them in, reports Rohit Khanna. The decision was apparently prompted by Pandaveswar MLA Jitendra Tiwari doing a flip-flop within 24 hours of resigning from the primary membership of TMC. Shah directed the Bengal unit to send details of all “applicants” for BJP membership to the five observers appointed for the state. Based on feedback from party workers, the observers would send their reports to the BJP headquarters in Delhi for approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-bjp-plans-a-system-to-vet-defectors/articleshow/79831445.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya ‘model’ city to come up on Vedic planning principles||NEW DELHI: The mega Ayodhya development plan will include setting up of a 1,200 acre new “model future city” based on Vedic city planning principles, as per the bid document floated by Uttar Pradesh government. The new greenfield city will be developed keeping religious and tourism aspects in mind. Sources said the rejuvenation plan of Ayodhya would be to develop it as a holy city for Hindus as the Vatican is for Catholics. “Planning principles, urban forms, buildings and landscape should follow Vedic Ramayana and Vedic architecture,” said the tender floated for selection of a consultant to prepare the vision, implementation strategy and integrated infrastructure plan for Ayodhya. The development plan will be prepared for 30 years with focus on retaining the heritage of the core city, development of the riverfront and parikrama margs for pilgrims and infrastructure augmentation besides facilities for recreational activities. The construction of Ram Mandir is likely to be completed in 2023. “The aim of this exercise is to prepare a neighbourhood plan/ detailed spatial plan for developing a greenfield integrated township of 1,200 acres, as part of proposed development of new Ayodhya, to develop as a model future city taking into account the best international practices for development, implementation, maintenance and management,” the tender document said. TOI, on July 30, had first reported about the state government exploring the possibility of developing a greenfield city close to the Ram Mandir, which is under construction. The selected consultant will have to identify tourism projects including the improvement of approach roads to Janam Bhoomi, pedestrian walkways, accommodation, plantation, shades, community spaces for religious and pilgrimage congregations. The city development plan will also include exhibition spaces, façade lighting, redevelopment and rejuvenation of kunds in the city.The selected consultant will prepare the development plan within seven months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-model-city-to-come-up-on-vedic-planning-principles/articleshow/79831460.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 21, 2020||India||Ulfa-I dy chief, 63 others to lay down arms today||GUWAHATI: Sixty four militants from various banned outfits, including the United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent “deputy commander-in-chief” Drishti Asom, alias Drishti Rajkhowa, will lay down their arms before CM Sarbanada Sonowal in Guwahati on Monday, reports Mukut Das. Besides Rajkhowa, the other big names include Mantu Saikia of Ulfa-I and Ong Teron, “commander-in-chief” of People’s Democratic Council of Karbi Longri. “Of the 64 rebels, 18 are from Ulfa-I, 32 from United People’s Revolutionary Front — a Kuki outfit in Karbi Anglong, 13 from Dimasa National Liberation Army and one from PDCK,” Hiren Nath, IGP special branch of Assam Police, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ulfa-i-dy-chief-63-others-to-lay-down-arms-today/articleshow/79831514.cms||Mukut Das
December 21, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to frame policy for more women in industries||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday said the percentage of women in industrial work force will be increased, and the government will work out a policy on this after discussing with industrial houses. The CM made the announcement after inaugurating a Rs 250-crore pipe manufacturing facility of Welspun Corporation Ltd at Jamunia Khejda in Raisen district, about 40km from Bhopal. Jamunia will be the next big industrial estate, said Chouhan. New unit to provide jobs to 350 peopleSpread over 150 acres, the new manufacturing unit will provide direct employment to over 350 people and create thousands of indirect employment and livelihood opportunities, said the company, adding that it will employ women in technical roles. Chouhan said: “Following the Prime Minister’s vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat,’ Madhya Pradesh is the first state to release the roadmap of ‘Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh.’ And Welspun Group is Madhya Pradesh’s partner in elevating the economic growth in the state.” Welspun Corp Ltd is part of the $2.7 billion Welspun Group, a global conglomerate with businesses in line pipes, home textiles, infrastructure, warehousing, oil and gas, steel, advanced textiles and flooring solutions. B K Goenka, chairman of Welspun Group, said that the firm will invest Rs 10,000 crore in MP the next three to four years and generate employment. “As an organization with extensive business interests across multiple sectors, the Welspun Group has always endeavored to balance business objectives with the greater good for local communities,” he said, promising to roll out CSR activities in and around the region to uplift the local population . Minister for industrial policy and investment promotion Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon and health minister Prabhuram Choudhary were present at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-to-frame-policy-for-more-women-in-industrial-work/articleshow/79831502.cms||---
December 21, 2020||India||BSY, HDK spike talks of merger of their parties||BENGALURU: Days after BJP and JD(S) came together with the common aim of ousting Prathap Chandra Shetty as chairman of the legislative council, CM BS Yediyurappa and his predecessor HD Kumaraswamy on Sunday spiked reports of any possibility of a merger of the parties. In a statement, Yediyurappa said there was no question of admitting JD(S) legislators into BJP or working for a merger of the parties and said the understanding with JD(S) was limited to a one-off event to dislodge Shetty. “There is no occasion for any such development,” the statement read. He said opposition expressed by JD(S) to the controversial anti-cow slaughter legislation has forced BJP to look at the ordinance route, suggesting that the state party cannot be an ally on issues central to BJP. Speculation has been rife in the past few months that Yediyurappa, if asked by BJP to resign as CM, may float a party with help from JD(S) in his bid to remain in power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bsy-hdk-spike-talks-of-merger-of-their-parties/articleshow/79831517.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Vadodara||Uncertainty over who will coach Baroda women’s team||Vadodara: It is not just the Baroda men’s team that seems deprived of being guided by experienced coach like former Aussie cricketer, Dav Whatmore, even Baroda Cricket Association’s (BCA) women’s team shares the same uncertainty. After former India cricketer Devika Palshikar, who was roped in as an assistant coach for Baroda women’s team, refused citing previous engagement, Anju Jain, who was roped in as senior women’s team coach, is yet to accept the assignment. “We had decided to hire Jain some months ago and the letter of intent was also given. The BCA recently sent her a mail and asked her to join the association but Anju hasn’t confirmed her appointment yet. We have given her a week’s time to confirm,” said Satyajit Gaekwad, chairman, press and publicity committee.“Devika will be training Bollywood actress Taapsee Pannu who is lead actress in biopic of Indian women’s team captain Mithali Raj. So, she won’t be joining the BCA,” Gaekwad added. Anju, a mother of two kids, was wary about her accommodation as she wasn’t keen to stay in hotel due to Covid-19 pandemic. BCA officials, though, said that the management shouldn’t have delayed signing of contract. “The decision to hire Anju and Devika was made in June but management didn’t sign contracts immediately as there was no cricketing activity over last few months. But that delay has already cost us as Devika isn’t joining us while Anju’s appointment too is uncertain,” a BCA official said. Anju, a wicket-keeper, played in the Indian team for 12 years and had captained the squad during Women’s Cricket World Cup in 2000. She retired in 2005 and went on to become selector for Indian women’s team. She has also coached Indian team between 2011 and 2013.Devika too was assistant coach of Indian women’s cricket team for two years apart from coaching several state teams. Whatmore, who was roped in as Baroda men’s team coach some months ago, recently announced that he would be joining as coach of Nepal cricket team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/uncertainty-over-who-will-coach-baroda-womens-team/articleshow/79827864.cms||Tushar Tere
December 21, 2020||World||Nepal airline flies 69 people to wrong destination: Report||Passengers bound for Nepal’s Janakpur were in for a surprise after they ended up in Pokhara, 255km away, after a flight mix-up by a private carrier, media reported on Sunday. The incident happened on Friday on an Buddha Air flight with 69 flyers onboard, Kathmandu Post reported. “The weather was bad and was causing delays. To make up for flying time, Buddha Air officials decided to fly to Pokhara first,” said an airline official. Accordingly, the flight number was changed and the mix-up happened. “Ground staff transferred passengers of flight U4505 to flight U4607 which had been cleared for Pokhara,” said the official. “The pilots did not look at the passengers’ manifest.” the official said. Buddha Air admitted to lapses on its side and has ordered a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/nepal-airline-flies-69-people-to-wrong-destination-report/articleshow/79831546.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Bhopal||Winter chill prompts Bhopal to unwind outdoors, but Covid caution tossed aside||BHOPAL: Still trying to get over lockdown blues — some enforced and some self-imposed — the chilling cold paired with a bright sun over the past few days has afforded a chance to Bhopalis to go for an outing with families and friends. And the choices are many: From the serene dam sights on the outskirts of the city to Boat Club and Museum of Man in a leisurely mode; picnicking at Kerva dam, or just witnessing the lions and tigers at Van Vihar and marvelling at wonderful artifacts at Tribal Museum. Unfortunately, however, masks are rarely to be seen. Gaurav Singh, a resident of Jawahar Chowk, spent the day with his family at Kerva dam. “We have been under a lot of stress due to the lockdown. We are feeling relieved here. We cooked dal-bati and had it in the company of nature. Sitting under the sunlight in this chilling cold is a pleasure in itself. It is quite de-stressing. We are living in troubled times but a tour to places like this rejuvenates you,” he said, adding: “Obey Covid-19 protocol, stay safe but try to normalise life as much as possible.” Akhilesh Mishra, who, too, had come with his family at Kerwa dam site, said, “I am very happy. I have come with my family but there is no hassle. Everyone is enjoying the company of their kin, friends and ofcourse nature. After the lockdown was imposed, we had not gone for an outing anywhere. We enjoyed every bit of our stay here.” Mishra, however, said that if the state government agencies pay a little more attention to make the place more tourist-friendly, not only people from Bhopal but other places will also like to come here along with other tourist spots of Bhopal. Dashrath Chouhdhary went to Van Vihar in his car with the family. “You always have a new feeling when you come to Van Vihar. It was nice to see a good crowd turning up here to see the majesty of wildlife,” he said. Prachi spent most part of the Sunday clicking pictures outside the Tribal Museum with her friends. “Of late, we could not come here even after it opened up for visitors after the lockdown. Today, the weather is so good and we couldn't help but visit our favourite haunt. When we return, we shall have a cup of hot coffee and reach home before the sun sets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/winter-chill-prompts-bhopal-to-unwind-outdoors-but-covid-caution-tossed-aside/articleshow/79831545.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 21, 2020||World||Sydney isolated from rest of Oz as outbreak grow||SYDNEY: Sydney was isolated from the rest of Australia on Sunday after all of the country's states and territories imposed travel restrictions on its residents as a coronavirus cluster in the city grew to around 70. The Australian Capital Territory (ACT) sent a stern 'do not come to us' message to Sydney, the country's most populous city of more than five million people, warning its residents they would be quarantined for 14 days if they arrived.. "If you are not an ACT resident and have been in greater Sydney...our message is simple: do not travel to the ACT," the ACT health department said. The states of Victoria and Queensland, and the Northern Territory, banned people arriving from Sydney as of Monday. Queensland police will reintroduce road checkpoints at the New South Wales (NSW) state border to help enforce the new declaration of greater Sydney as a COVID-19 hotspot. South Australia state imposed a 14-day quarantine for Sydney arrivals on Sunday and banned travellers from affected suburbs. The island state of Tasmania took similar steps on Saturday. Western Australia state imposed a hard border closure. Travellers from elsewhere in NSW, where Sydney is the state capital, will require documents showing they are not coming from the affected Sydney suburbs if they wish to cross state borders. About a quarter of a million people in Sydney's northern beach suburbs where the outbreak has occurred have been put into a strict lockdown until Christmas Eve. "If we can lockdown here and get rid of it, fantastic and everyone else can be free," Rachel Buxcon, a retired northern beaches resident said. "But if it extends, then we’re all in it together." CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY CHAOS On Sunday, NSW state Premier Gladys Berejiklian said public gathering across the rest of Sydney will be limited, with household gatherings capped at 10 participants and hospitality venues at 300, among other restrictions. "We must take this action now to ensure we keep on top of this outbreak," said Berejiklian. She also urged people in the greater Sydney area to wear masks in public, although it was not mandatory. "If you're going grocery shopping anywhere in NSW, please wear a mask, if you're going to a place of worship in NSW, please wear a mask ... and for goodness sake, do not get on public transport unless you're wearing a mask," she said. Until this week, Australia had gone more than two weeks without any local transmission and had lifted most restrictions ahead of Christmas. The Sydney outbreak and border restrictions have thrown Christmas holiday travel plans into chaos. The annual Sydney-to-Hobart yacht race starting Boxing Day Dec. 26 has been cancelled for the first time in its 76 year history as crews and their families would have to quarantine on arrival in Tasmania. Hotels and holiday rentals in NSW have been swamped with mass Christmas cancellations and restaurants have seen the number of patrons drop significantly, local media reported. "An important reminder as we come into the Christmas holiday season is that the virus has not gone anywhere and we must remain careful," Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison said in a video message. Australia has avoided the worst of the pandemic due to border closures, lockdowns, widespread testing and social distancing. It has recorded around 28,100 infections, the overwhelming majority in Victoria state, and 908 deaths. NSW health authorities said that there were more than 28,200 tests conducted in the past 24 hours and urged more people to get tested. The origin of the virus in Sydney remains unknown, which genome testing suggests is a US strain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/sydney-isolated-from-rest-of-oz-as-outbreak-grow/articleshow/79831556.cms||---
December 21, 2020||World||9 killed in Kabul car bomb, Afghan MP among 20 hurt||KABUL: Acar bomb blast that rocked Afghanistan’s capital on Sunday morning killed at least nine people, according to the Afghan interior ministry. Interior minister Masoud Andarabi said the attack wounded around 20 others, including a member of parliament, Khan Mohammad Wardak. Andarabi said the lawmaker was in “good condition”. The minister added that the casualty toll could rise further. The attack happened while the lawmaker’s convoy was passing through an intersection in Kabul’s Khoshal Khan neighbourhood. The blast set afire surrounding civilian vehicles, as well as damaging nearby buildings and shops. She said women and kids were among those wounded by the “terrorist attack”. No group has so far claimed responsibility for the attack, and the Taliban denied their involvement. In a statement condemning the attack, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani said the Taliban should stop violence against civilians and accept a ceasefire, to facilitate the current peace process. His statement did not directly lay blame on the Taliban for the car bombing or offer evidence that the group was responsible for it. “The enemies of Afghanistan carried out a terrorist attack on Khan Mohammad Wardak,” Ghani said. “Terrorist attacks on civilian targets and facilities will endanger the opportunity for peace.” An aide to lawmaker Wardak said five of his bodyguards were among the wounded. The Islamic State terror group has claimed responsibility for multiple attacks in the capital of Kabul in recent months, including on educational institutions that killed 50 people, most of them students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/9-killed-in-kabul-car-bomb-afghan-mp-among-20-hurt/articleshow/79831570.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Bhopal||1,000+ new cases, 1,274 recoveries in MP, positivity high at 5.35%||BHOPAL: With 1,069 new Covid-19 patients reported in the state on Sunday, the tally of positive patients reached 2,31,284. The number of people recovering from Covid-19 outnumbered those testing positive. Against 1,069 new people testing positive, 1,274 patients recovered from Covid-19 in the state on Sunday. With these new patients recovering, the total count of recoveries so far in the state reached 2,16,485. As on December 20, the overall recovery rate for Covid-19 in the state was 93.60%. Apart from fresh cases, 13 casualties were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the death toll reached 3,481 in the state on Sunday. Districts where these casualties were reported include Indore (3), Bhopal and Jabalpur (2 each) and one death each was reported from Khargone, Hoshangabad, Balaghat, Mandsaur, Khandwa and Bhind. On Sunday, fresh cases were reported from 49 of the total 52 districts of MP. A total 28,525 samples were tested of which 1,069 were positive taking the positivity rate to 3.7%. The cumulative positivity rate for Covid-19 in the state, as on December 20, was 5.35%. As on December 20, there were a total of 11,318 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1000-new-cases-1274-recoveries-in-mp-positivity-high-at-5-35/articleshow/79831579.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Bhopal||24-year-old raped by her stepson in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A 24-year-old mother of two was raped by her stepson on Saturday. The incident was reported in Govindpura police station. The accused is on the run. Investigation officer ASI Vasudev Savita said, the woman is a resident of Govindpura. She stated in her complaint that on Friday night she was sleeping in her room. Her step son who lives nearby entered her room around 11pm and raped her. He threatened her of dire consequences if she revealed the incident to anyone. ASI said, when she tried to raise an alarm for help, the accused gagged her. At the time of the incident, her two children were sleepingi n the other room. The accused fled after threatening to kill her. Next day, she mustered the courage and revealed the ordeal to her relatives and asked for help. Her relatives prevented from lodging a complaint fearing defamation in society. ASI said “on Saturday night she finally decided to lodge a complaint against her stepson and approached Govindpura police station. A case of rape was registered against the accused and investigations are underway to nab the accused” The ASI said that by the time she decided to file a complaint against her stepson managed to escape. It came to light that the accused works at a tent house. After the demise of his biological mother, his father married the survivor, who has one son and daughter. The accused’s father, who was the husband of the survivor, has also passed away around three years back and the survivor works as a domestic helper for livelihood. The accused name is withheld to protect the identity of the survivor and search is on to nab him, said ASI Savita adding that the accused is married and his wife resides in Bihar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/24-year-old-raped-by-her-stepson-in-bhopal/articleshow/79831602.cms||---
December 21, 2020||World||Taiwan deploys ships, aircraft as China carrier passes island||TAIPEI: Taiwan’s navy and air force were deployed on Sunday as a Chinese aircraft carrier group led by the country’s newest carrier, the Shandong, sailed through the sensitive Taiwan Strait, the day after a US warship transited the same waterway. While it is not the first time China’s carriers have passed close to Taiwan, it comes at a time of heightened tension between Taipei and Beijing, which claims the democraticallyruled island as its territory. Taiwan has complained of repeated Chinese military activity, including China’s regular flying of air force aircraft near the island. China says such drills are aimed at protecting the country’s sovereignty. Taiwan’s defence ministry said the Shandong accompanied by four warships had set out from the Chinese port of Dalian on Thursday. China’s defence ministry did not respond to a request for comment. Taiwan’s ministry said that six warships and eight air force aircraft were sent to “stand guard” and monitor the Chinese ships’ movements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/taiwan-deploys-ships-aircraft-as-china-carrier-passes-island/articleshow/79831608.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Bhopal||Corpse found behind park in Bhopal's Govindpura||BHOPAL: A 28-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances behind the Children’s Park boundary wall in Govindpura on Sunday morning. Investigating officer ASI Mukesh Sthapak said the deceased identified as Sandeep, resided with his family in Kamla Nagar and used to work at a garment shop in TT Nagar. He was married around four months back. ASI Sthapak said said that he left home on Friday 5pm telling his family that he was going to a nearby locality. “On Sunday 9am, locals informed police on Dial-100 that a man was lying dead near the children park boundary wall in Govindpura locality. On getting information, a team rushed to the spot and started investigation” said ASI Sthapak Cops said that a slip was found in his pocket wherein a mobile number of his relative was mentioned with the help of which he was identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corpse-found-behind-park-in-bhopals-govindpura/articleshow/79831585.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Business||AirAsia to own only 13% in Tata JV||NEW DELHI: Malaysian carrier AirAsia will be reduced to a financial investor in its India unit as larger strategic partner Tata Sons initiates consolidation moves in aviation. AirAsia, which till recently held 49% in its India venture, will see its stake fall to 13% as it prioritises its geographical play after being faced with Covid-induced financial woes. It will retain a low double-digit stake in the India unit as the latter will continue to use the AirAsia brand and other agreements like aircraft maintenance and ticketing-accounting software for some time. Tata Sons, which already owns a significant majority stake (about 75%) in AirAsia India, will see this further go up to 87%. While the Malaysian carrier has a common website for its operations in different geographies, Tata Sons has started the process to have a separate website for AirAsia India, it is learnt. Its IT subsidiary TCS is also involved in developing a crew-scheduling software. Tata Sons declined to comment on the report, while AirAsia did not respond to an email sent on Sunday. “It is not going to be an instant divorce, but a prolonged one,” said sources. AirAsia had said earlier that it was reviewing its investment in India after it ceased flying in Japan. The Malaysian company was the first foreign airline to set up an arm in India in 2013 and the local joint venture marked Tatas’ return to aviation after it ceded control of Air India in 1953. Tata Sons also has another airline venture, Vistara, which has collaboration with Singapore Airlines. It has recently expressed interest in buying state-run Air India (AI). While Tata Sons’s broader airline integration plan is not clear, it intends to channel the proposed AI acquisition through AirAsia India and not through Vistara. This is because Singapore Airlines is currently not on board for the AI bid due to its own pandemic-induced financial difficulties. So, the AirAsia brand could be retained for about two-three years, depending on how long it takes for Tata Sons to integrate its airlines business into a mega umbrella carrier, said sources. The India venture will not be the first airline divorce for AirAsia chief Tony Fernandes. Addressing the media in Delhi in July 2013 when he was here to finalise his India plans, Fernandes was asked by a female reporter about his vow not to work with an airline again after a failed JV with Japanese ANA Holdings. His reply was, “I am sure you met many men. You thought he was a good guy but realised he was a complete disaster. So the relationship didn’t last. ANA was like that. It looked like one sexy woman, said all the nice things. And when we got to bed, it was a horrible experience. So we had a quick divorce.” But seven years down the line, Fernandes is headed for a divorce with Tata Sons also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/airasia-to-own-only-13-in-tata-jv/articleshow/79831613.cms||Saurabh Sinha
December 21, 2020||Business||Adidas tells employees it may sell Reebok||NEW DELHI: German sports goods manufacturer Adidas has communicated to its employees in India about the possible sale of its subsidiary Reebok. The announcement has sent ripples of uncertainty through local ranks of the world’s second-largest sportswear company, especially at a time when retail jobs are at a premium due to the huge number of store closures and loss of revenue during the pandemic. While sources said, private equity firms may be interested to buy Reebok, which Adidas acquired for around $3.8 billion in 2005, employees, who did not wish to be quoted, said the communication could be an early heads-up aimed at cushioning last-minute blows. When contacted by TOI, a global spokesperson for Adidas said, “It has started to assess strategic alternatives for Reebok, including but not limited to a potential sale of the business.” “It is important to note that no decision has been taken to date, and Adidas could also decide to continue owning Reebok as part of its new strategy. A decision will be communicated as part of the official launch of our new strategy on March 10, 2021. The goal of our efforts is to select the alternative for Reebok that promises the best possible growth prospects and future for both the brand and its employees. We are in close contact with our employees to address their questions on the announcement,” she added. Adidas trimmed the number of Reebok stores in India after positioning the Anglo-American footwear and clothing brand as one that is more oriented towards fitness, running and CrossFit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/adidas-tells-employees-it-may-sell-reebok/articleshow/79831623.cms||John Sarkar
December 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Golden Somnath: Trust set to gold-plate 1,450 temple kalash||AHMEDABAD: The golden era seems to be finally returning for the revered Somnath temple in coastal Saurashtra. After golden pillars, now an ambitious feat of gold plating 1,450 kalash or stone spires atop Somnath temple will be undertaken by the trust, temple administration said. The Somnath temple trust has already received donations from 500-odd families who are sponsoring the gold plating of 500 spires. More are expected to join this initiative. “The work of turning the entire spires golden will be accomplished by 2021 end,” claimed trustee of Somnath temple trust P K Laheri. The work had begun after lockdown. Temple manager Vijaysinh Chavda said gold-plating of 10 more spires will be undertaken from Monday onwards. Temple administrators said that a little above 129 kg of gold has already been used to goldplate the sanctum sanctorum, pillars and the door leading to the sanctum sanctorum in the Somnath temple. ‘60 gold-plated spires installed till now’Temple manager Vijaysinh Chavda says, “The new project will ensure an overall golden look for the shikhara of the Somnath temple. There are large, medium and small spires and each set of these spires have unique and fixed donations for gold plating.” To gold-plate large spires a sum of Rs 1.51 lakh has been arrived at for each. Similarly, Rs 1.21 lakh and Rs 1.11 lakh donation has been fixed for gold plating medium and small sized spires respectively. Each family or individual can donate for one spire. Each of these families will be called for a small ritual before the gold plate is installed. Chavda reveals that they have received 80 confirmations from donors for large spires. Similarly some 200 donors for medium and 138 donors for large spires have come forward for donations. “The whole project will be completed by 2021 end. We have installed 60 gold-plated spires till now. The process had slowed down owing to the lockdown and Covid precautions. We have now evolved a method to complete the task early,” says trustee of Somnath temple trust P K Laheri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/golden-somnath-trust-set-to-gold-plate-1450-temple-kalash/articleshow/79831633.cms||Bharat Yagnik
December 21, 2020||Business||BharatPe eyes PMC Bank in tie-up with Centrum||BENGALURU: Merchant payments startup BharatPe and financial services firm Centrum Group have submitted a joint expression of interest (EoI) to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to take over scam-hit Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank, a source aware of the matter said. Centrum Group is co-promoted by Jaspal Bindra, a former Standard Chartered honcho. BharatPe and Centrum will hold equal stakes in the venture. Sources added Ludhiana-born British businessman Sanjeev Gupta’s Liberty House Group has also submitted an EoI to the RBI. The central bank has got four EoIs for PMC Bank. The identities of the other two contenders are not known yet. On Friday, the RBI extended the restrictions on PMC bank till March 2021, by when it is expected to study the proposals of the suitors. If successful, an acquisition will boost BharatPe’s lending business. It aims to build a Rs 5,000-crore loan book in two years. According to a source, the over two-year-old Delhi-based startup will bring its tech capabilities on top of the core financial services expertise of the Mumbai-based Centrum and run it as a small finance bank. “They want to co-run it as a digital-first bank. For BharatPe, this will reduce cost of capital. It has been wanting to lend on its own, instead of doing it only through its partner NBFC,” the source said. It is currently lending Rs 120-125 crore per month to merchant partners, who use the platform to accept digital payments. The document inviting EoIs had said it will be open to new investors wanting to convert PMC Bank into a small finance bank. Bindra confirmed the development, while BharatPe co-founder and CEO Ashneer Grover declined to comment. A spokesperson of Liberty House also declined to comment. As of March 2020, PMC Bank had deposits of Rs 10,727 crore, total advances of Rs 4,473 crore, and gross non-performing assets (NPA) of Rs 3,519 crore. The share capital of the bank is Rs 293 crore. But the bank registered a net loss of Rs 6,835 crore during the financial year ended March 2020 with a negative net worth of Rs 5,850 crore. PMC Bank ran into trouble following the detection of financial irregularities and misreporting of loans given to real estate developer HDIL. This has led to several legal cases but what could be attractive for a potential investor is that PMC Bank also has a network of around 137 branches, including in prime locations in Mumbai, and a depositor base that includes high net-worth individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bharatpe-eyes-pmc-bank-in-tie-up-with-centrum/articleshow/79831635.cms||Digbijay Mishra
December 21, 2020||Amritsar||Farmers to begin relay hunger strike at all border sites today||BATHINDA: To intensify the ongoing farmers’ agitation, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, a conglomerate of over 400 all-India farmer organisations, in a meeting held at Singhu border on Sunday decided to start 24-hour relay hunger strike at every protest site on Delhi border from Monday. The decision was taken just before the Union government late on Sunday sent a new letter to 40 farm leaders, including 32 from Punjab, one from Haryana headed by Gurnam Singh Charuni and seven from other states, including Shiv Kumar Kalkaji, Hanan Mollah, Rakesh Kumar Tikait and Kavitha Kuruganti. Union agriculture ministry joint secretary Vivek Aggarwal wrote a detailed letter outlining all the details about which the central government has already agreed to make amendments in the laws, including assurance on purchase of crops on minimum support price (MSP), not diluting the APMC, registration of dealers, levying taxes on purchasers in private mandis and not allowing anyone to deal in food grains only on PAN card as earlier was announced. The letter also included all details of previous dates on which meetings were held. Will decide later, say farm unions to senior bureaucratThe senior bureaucrat asked the farm leaders to suggest a date and issues to be taken up in the meeting. After receiving the letter, the farm leaders said they will discuss the contents of the letter and take any decision later. The farmers’ front also had decided to promote its “skip a meal appeal”, to halt toll collection on Haryana highways for three days and to urge people to bang thalis during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ among other measures to keep up the pressure on the Union government to repeal the three contentious agri laws. From Monday, 11members of farmer organisations will sit on a day-long hunger strike at each protest site on Delhi borders. The farm front leaders also appealed to the people across the country to skip one meal on December 23 -- on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Chaudhary and popular farm leader Charan Singh. The hunger strikes will strengthen the resolve of farmers who have been protesting against the agri laws at the Delhi borders since November 26, the morcha said. The group also announced that toll collection on highways in Haryana would be halted from December 25 to 27. Toll plazas have been toll free in Punjab from October 1. The morcha urged the Indians residing abroad to lodge a protest against the agri laws at the Indian embassies in their respective countries on December 26. On December 25 and 26, the farm leaders will visit the residences of the leaders of the BJP’s alliance partners to submit a memorandum, asking the saffron party to repeal the farm laws. They said the issue will be taken up peacefully and, in case any alliance partner does not give them a hearing, a decision regarding boycott will be taken later. The morcha leaders also appealed to the people to beat thalis at their homes during Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme on December 27. Just as Prime Minister Modi had asked people to do so to drive away coronavirus, people should bang thalis during his programme so that nothing is heard above the din, the farmer leaders said. The farmers reiterated the call for boycott of products of Ambani and Adani groups and also condemned the income-tax department raids on arhtiyas (commission agents) in Punjab. They also urged the Haryana government not to stop people from Rajasthan to reach the protest sites. Farm leader Yogendra Yadav said the Haryana government’s action, of police stopping those wanting to join the protests at Delhi’s borders, was against the Supreme Court’s observation of not disturbing the peaceful protest by farmers’ organisations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-to-begin-relay-hunger-strike-at-all-border-sites-today/articleshow/79831667.cms||Neel Kamal
December 21, 2020||Vadodara||In new normal, traditional midnight mass to go virtual this Christmas Eve||Vadodara: Since time immemorial, they have been celebrating the midnight mass on Christmas eve by gathering at the church and offering prayers. But amid the pandemic, the Christian community in Gujarat will celebrate the midnight mass virtually. The community members have taken the decision in the wake of night curfew imposed by the government. “With night curfew in place, it won’t be possible to gather at the church at night. So we have decided to organize the celebrations online. Celebrations of the midnight mass will be telecast online to the community members on the eve of Christmas,” said Father Jesuraj of the Rosary Church. “As such it wouldn’t have been safe to gather a large number of people at one place. The virtual celebrations will ensure that we all will, at least, offer prayers together as a community,” Father Jesuraj told TOI. Live telecast of the midnight mass would be done on platforms like Zoom and YouTube on the night of December 24. Gilbert Cutinha, a Roman Catholic, said that the virtual celebration would both bring joy to their community as well as prevent the risk of Covid infection. “It will be an altogether different experience for us. Even if virtually, for us it is important that we are at least celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ. We all will celebrate midnight mass with our families in small groups this time,” said Anant Christian who visits the Sharon Methodist Church in Nizampura. He added that the community has decided to follow all the Covid guidelines and take all safety precautions while celebrating Christmas. Presbyter of CNI church in Mughalsarai, Surat, Pastor Denis Amin said, “All our masses and spiritual meetings are organised online since the first lockdown. This time around, due to the night curfew, the night mass services on December 24 and December 31 will be held online and presided by our Bishop of CNI congregation Gujarat starting from 11 pm. However, there will be morning mass service on the Christmas and New Year in the churches across the state.” Pastor Amin added, “Every Sunday we have online mass as well as physical service in the church. There is less than 20% gathering in the church as people prefer online service.” (With inputs from Melvyn Thomas in Surat)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/in-new-normal-traditional-midnight-mass-to-go-virtual-this-christmas-eve/articleshow/79827847.cms||Tushar Tere
December 21, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: BKU Ugrahan in dock over foreign donations, bank manager gets email||BATHINDA: BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) is facing questions over receiving money in donation from foreign nationals. The Enforcement Directorate has sought details and sources of money received from foreign countries as donations in the farm union’s bank account. An email was sent on Saturday to manager of Punjab and Sind Bank branch at Kokri Kalan village of Moga district about nearly Rs 7 lakh deposited in the farm outfit’s foreign countries. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan has an account in Punjab and Sind Bank where the money was deposited to meet the basic needs to take forward the protests, according to sources. It has been asked to return the money received from foreign countries in donation and also asked why action against Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act may not be initiated against it. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) member Lachman Singh said the organisation has not received any notice so far. “We had no idea that donation could not be received from foreign countries. The bank manager told us about this. We will look into the matter and will act as per law,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-bku-ugrahan-in-dock-over-foreign-donations-bank-manager-gets-email/articleshow/79831709.cms||Neel Kamal
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||Govt will guarantee farmers’ interest under contract farming, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||AYODHYA/LUCKNOW: Under contract farming, the government would ensure that farmers' interest are taken care of well, said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at farmers meet at Acharya Narendra Dev Agriculture University in Ayodhya The UP CM maintained that contract farming was the need of the hour and it would not hurt the interests of farmers in any way. “Instead it would increase their income considerably. The government is already giving guarantee that they will get the right price of their produce,” he said. The CM said that the farmers will also have the liberty to sell their produce wherever they get the best price and the government will interfere with their decision while ensuring that the farmers do not face any kind of loss. He also informed the gathering that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would transfer 18,000 crore in the bank accounts of farmers under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme on the birth anniversary of former PM late Atal Behari Vajpayee on December 25. Of the total, as many as 2.30 crore farmers, who will receive the Samman Nidhi in their accounts, hail from Uttar Pradesh. CM Yogi urges farmers not to get misguided by Oppn campaignMaking the announcement on Sunday, the CM reiterated the government's commitment to double farmers’ income by 2022. “It is for everyone to see and realise that ever since the BJP came to power, the welfare of farmers has always been on top of the agenda. We are not going to leave a single stone unturned to ensure your betterment irrespective of what may come,” Yogi said, appealing the farmers not to get misguided by the opposition campaign. “Some people are trying to misguide the farmers and spread rumours that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) will be quashed and the Mandis will be closed. Time and again our PM has assured that nothing of this kind is going to happen,” Yogi stressed. He also accused the opposition of having no interest in the wellbeing of the farmers and seeking to give an upper hand to middlemen and brokers. He said that the Congress did not take cognizance of the Swaminathan commission’s report (on the MSP) as it had nothing to do with the interests of the farmers. “Now the same people are again protesting the agriculture bills that are completely in the favour and interest of farmers and the youths,” he said. Yogi recalled how his government in its first cabinet meeting in 2017 decided to waive a total of Rs 36,000 crore farm loans, benefiting around 86 lakh farmers. Even during Corona times, the state government continued its efforts for the betterment of farmers and as much as 26 lakh MT of wheat and 52 lakh MT of paddy has been purchased so far, he said. He underlined his government's achievement of setting up 20 Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) with the help of agriculture universities in the past three years to infuse latest techniques in agriculture and promote research in the field. “Some of these centres will be upgraded to the centres of excellence’ so that the latest studies and researches reach to the famers in the right earnest,” he said. Yogi also laid foundation stone of and dedicated 40 projects worth about 90 crore of agriculture, agriculture science and research, animal husbandry, fishery and irrigation in Ayodhya, Gorakhpur, Basti, Bahraich, Barabanki, Balrampur, Siddharth Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Amethi, Sultanpur, Jaunp[ur, Ghazipur, Mau, Chandauli and Sonbhadra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-will-guarantee-farmers-interest-under-contract-farming-says-up-cm-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/79831736.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Arhtiyas fume over I-T raids, to shut down grain markets in Punjab||PATIALA/BATHINDA: Expressing resentment against the raids carried out on Arhtiyas by the income-tax (I-T) department, Punjab arhtiyas (commission agents) have decided to shut down all grain markets in the state from Tuesday to Friday. Describing the raids as pressure tactics by the Union government against the arhtiyas for supporting agitating farmers, they also demanded immediate suspension of the I-T raids carried out late on Friday night and on Saturday in Rajpura, Samana in Patiala district and in Nawashahar district with the help of CRPF jawans. Around 16 arhtiyas were served notices by the I-T department and raids were carried out on six arhtiyas who have state-level designations in the arhtiya unions. There are around 28,000 licensed commission agents in Punjab. The Punjab farm unions have condemned the I-T raids and announced their support in a meeting on Sunday evening. Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa asked his activists to gherao income-tax officials if they conduct raids on the premises of arhtiyas anywhere in Punjab. Ruldu said a five-member committee of the farm organisations had been sent from Singhu border to Punjab to look into the matter of incometax department raids. A five-member delegation of arhtiyas will also meet farm union leaders in Delhi in a couple of days. “We have held talks with senior leaders of the 32 farm organisations of Punjab, who have assured us support. As farm leaders asked us to send a five-members committee to Delhi to brief them, we have formed a committee comprising Amarjit Singh Brar, Sukhwinder Singh Cheema, Jatinder Garg, Mahavir Singh and Naresh Bhardwaj. When farm leaders will ask us, our team will reach Delhi borders,” Federation of Arhtiyas Punjab president Vijay Kalra. “We will shut down the grain markets in Punjab from Tuesday to Friday in protest. We do not want to shun the grain markets for indefinite period as the cotton farmers will get harassed with closure of the mandis. The I-T officials should immediately return all the documents and books of arhtiyas. We will gherao I-T officials if any other raid is carried out on the arhtiyas,” Kalra added. However, another group of arhtiyas plans to shut down mandis till their demands are met. “We have decided to shut down all 153 grain markets in Punjab till our demands are met. The I-T department had carried out raids late night on the arhtiyas and instead of taking the Punjab state police they brought CRPF which only shows the motive of the central government to intimidate the arhtiya community who have extended support to the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. The I-T officials had taken away the regular books that comprise simple details, including loans given to farmers, and these should be returned to arhtiyas immediately,” Punjab Arhtiya Association Punjab president Ravinder Singh Cheema, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/arhtiyas-fume-over-i-t-raids-to-shut-down-grain-markets-in-punjab/articleshow/79831742.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Amritsar||Arhtiyas fume over I-T raids, to shut down grain markets in Punjab||PATIALA/BATHINDA: Expressing resentment against the raids carried out on Arhtiyas by the income-tax (I-T) department, Punjab arhtiyas (commission agents) have decided to shut down all grain markets in the state from Tuesday to Friday. Describing the raids as pressure tactics by the Union government against the arhtiyas for supporting agitating farmers, they also demanded immediate suspension of the I-T raids carried out late on Friday night and on Saturday in Rajpura, Samana in Patiala district and in Nawashahar district with the help of CRPF jawans. Around 16 arhtiyas were served notices by the I-T department and raids were carried out on six arhtiyas who have state-level designations in the arhtiya unions. There are around 28,000 licensed commission agents in Punjab. The Punjab farm unions have condemned the I-T raids and announced their support in a meeting on Sunday evening. Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa asked his activists to gherao income-tax officials if they conduct raids on the premises of arhtiyas anywhere in Punjab. Ruldu said a five-member committee of the farm organisations had been sent from Singhu border to Punjab to look into the matter of incometax department raids. A five-member delegation of arhtiyas will also meet farm union leaders in Delhi in a couple of days. “We have held talks with senior leaders of the 32 farm organisations of Punjab, who have assured us support. As farm leaders asked us to send a five-members committee to Delhi to brief them, we have formed a committee comprising Amarjit Singh Brar, Sukhwinder Singh Cheema, Jatinder Garg, Mahavir Singh and Naresh Bhardwaj. When farm leaders will ask us, our team will reach Delhi borders,” Federation of Arhtiyas Punjab president Vijay Kalra. “We will shut down the grain markets in Punjab from Tuesday to Friday in protest. We do not want to shun the grain markets for indefinite period as the cotton farmers will get harassed with closure of the mandis. The I-T officials should immediately return all the documents and books of arhtiyas. We will gherao I-T officials if any other raid is carried out on the arhtiyas,” Kalra added. However, another group of arhtiyas plans to shut down mandis till their demands are met. “We have decided to shut down all 153 grain markets in Punjab till our demands are met. The I-T department had carried out raids late night on the arhtiyas and instead of taking the Punjab state police they brought CRPF which only shows the motive of the central government to intimidate the arhtiya community who have extended support to the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. The I-T officials had taken away the regular books that comprise simple details, including loans given to farmers, and these should be returned to arhtiyas immediately,” Punjab Arhtiya Association Punjab president Ravinder Singh Cheema, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/arhtiyas-fume-over-i-t-raids-to-shut-down-grain-markets-in-punjab/articleshow/79831743.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh's plan to raise wards draws 170 objections||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has received 170 objections against its draft notification for delimitation of wards of the municipal corporation (MC) that raised the number from 26 to 35 for the civic body elections in December 2021. As many as 150 objections are of similar nature, related to areas and colonies under the new wards. A committee of officers constituted under the chairmanship of deputy commissioner will review each objection on Tuesday and send them to the administration for consideration. The final decision to make any changes or not will be taken by Punjab governor and UT administrator V P Singh Badnore. “The committee will review every objection filed by people. The new municipal wards had been proposed as per the 2011census but the total population in the real sense was also considered. The committee will carry out the review in a positive manner. By the end of this month, the final notification of the new municipal wards will be released,” sources said. The delimitation of wards was conducted following the merger of 13 villages in the MC from the administration last year. The last delimitation was held in 2006 on the basis of the 2001 census. The next process was to be held in 2015 on the 2011census but could not be conducted as the issue of merger of the villages was pending. The 13 villages included in the MC were Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarhs-plan-to-raise-wards-draws-170-objections/articleshow/79831784.cms||Deepak Yadav
December 21, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra & Mumbai see slight drop in cases, marginal rise in deaths||MUMBAI: The state and city posted a slight drop in daily Covid-19 cases and a marginal rise in deaths. On Sunday, Maharashtra had 3,811 new cases and 98 deaths and the city 586 cases and 16 deaths respectively. Active cases in both the state and city increased. The state’s total caseload has reached 18,96,518 and toll 48,746. Overall Mumbai cases rose to 2,86,850 and deaths to 10,996 following data reconciliation. The city had more than 15 deaths, first time in 11 days. Case fatality rate for the state was stagnant at 2.57% and that for Mumbai at 3.87%. Active cases for the state increased for the third day in a row, reaching 62,743 on Sunday, up from 60,352 on Friday. Mumbai’s active cases touched 7,996. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has appealed for caution ahead of new year celebrations. He said curbs would be needed to keep the virus at bay, including socialdistancing measures like use of masks, maintaining physical distance and washing hands. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force, cautioned that if norms were not followed, the state could see a second surge between December 25 and January 25. Bringing focus to the state’s dwindling testing numbers, principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas wrote to all municipal corporations, district collectors and CEOs to increase daily testing numbers that have stagnated at 60,000-65,000. On Sunday, less than 60,000 tests were carried out. At the same time, Dr Vyas applauded the districts for fighting the pandemic well. He said the state had 60,352 active Covid cases on December 18, which was the lowest for the state since June 21. Meanwhile, discharges has dropped by more than half. Compared to Friday when 4,467 were discharged from hospitals, it dropped to 2,064, including 298 from Mumbai, on Sunday. In the last 24 hours, the state has registered 98 deaths, of which 47 occurred in the last 48 hours and 11 in the last week. The remaining 40 deaths occurred more than a week ago. Of the 40 deaths, 26 occurred in Aurangabad, 8 in Thane, 2 in Nashik, 1 each in Amaravati, Jalgaon, Raigad and in Sangli. Aurangabad city registered 60 new cases and 23 deaths on Sunday. From MMR, Thane city recorded 105 new cases, taking the tally of infected to 54,151. (Inputs from Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-mumbai-see-slight-drop-in-cases-marginal-rise-in-deaths/articleshow/79831787.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 21, 2020||Chennai||Astronomy aficionados await Jupiter’s ‘Great Conjunction’ with Saturn today||CHENNAI: Astronomy enthusiasts will be directing their telescopes towards the evening sky after sunset on Monday to witness the great conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn, a phenomenon where the two large planets come so close that they appear to make a bright double planet. Birla Planetarium executive director Soundararaja Perumal explained that Jupiter crosses the path of Saturn during its orbit around the sun once in every 20 years. Jupiter takes 12 years to complete its orbit around the sun, while Saturn takes about 30 years. While doing so, Jupiter passes Saturn at an angular distance of about one degree making them look like a pair, known as conjunction. What’s rare about Monday’s conjuction is that the angular distance is less about one tenth of a degree making the planets appear closer to each other, almost resembling a single planet. “The last time the angular distance was this less was about 400 years ago,” said Perumal. To put things into perspective, Jupiter is at a distance of 88.6 crore km from earth, while Saturn is at a distance of 162 crore km from earth. Despite being at a distance of 73 crore km from each other, Jupiter and Saturn will appear to be close to each other during the great conjunction. Astronomy enthusiasts say that this phenomenon has no scientific significance. “If it stays cloudy, the clear sighting might not be possible. While it might also be visible with the naked eye, with a telescope, one can clearly see the famous Saturn rings and Jupiter’s moons,” said T S Krishnamoorthy, 67, from the Tamil Nadu Astronomy Association. Apart from the rare conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn, Monday is also the first day of the winter solstice in the northern hemisphere the shortest day of the year in terms of hours of sunlight received in the northern hemisphere and summer solstice in the southern hemisphere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/astronomy-aficionados-await-jupiters-great-conjunction-with-saturn-today/articleshow/79828800.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Noida||Covid-19: Of 25,000 Ghaziabad patients, 10% contacts||GHAZIABAD: In Ghaziabad, the biggest chunk of Covid cases have been detected in the random selection category (people getting themselves tested at sampling booths) followed by influenza-like symptom (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) patients, said officials on Sunday. Altogether, these three categories constitute 85% of cases reported in the district since the outbreak in March. An analysis of 25,313 Covid cases reported in Ghaziabad revealed that around 48% (12,317) of them fall under the random selection category. Over 30% (7,614) of patients have had ILI symptoms, while 7% (1,610) were detected with SARI. The fourth major category is contact tracing. The official data revealed that about 10% (2,385) of such patients came in contact with Covid-19 patients. Notably, the majority of them (1,641) were asymptomatic. From 13 contacts per Covid patient on average in September, contact tracing more than doubled, to 28, by November. In December, on an average, 18 contacts (on average) of every individual are being traced so far, said officials. A total of 1,615 positive contacts have been traced till now. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said: “The data confirms that getting tested for ILI/SARI symptoms is the right thing to do instead of going for self-medication. We have a dedicated wing for the same. The contact tracing teams have been directed to ensure that at least 25 such patients are traced.” As per the state government’s directive, the district authorities are doing focused sampling in high caseload areas like Indirapuram, Carte, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Vijay Nagar and Vaishali. So far, 371 Covid patients have been reported from high caseload areas. However, there were not many positive cases detected among vulnerable groups like slum dwellers, street vendors among others — who were tested under a special drive in November. Their number stands at 127. Among them, a majority of cases were reported from urban markets (19), electronic and vehicle showrooms (17), malls (10), medical attendants (23), and jail (11). Also, there were hardly any cases reported from slums (3), children observation homes and women shelters (1) and street vendors (3). As many as 216 healthcare workers have been found positive and out of these, only 56 developed symptoms. The data revealed that 18 people having foreign travel history and 14 with domestic travel history tested positive. 32 found positive in Noida, Gzb records 95 new casesNoida on Sunday reported 32 new cases of Covid-19, taking its caseload to 24,507, out of which 596 are active. A total of 118 patients also recovered in the past 24 hours, bringing the number of recoveries to 23, 824. The district's Covid toll is 87. In Ghaziabad, 95 people tested positive, taking its tally to 25, 471, out of which 954 are active. Health officials said 71 more patients recovered too, taking the total recoveries to 24,419. The district's toll stands at 98. The recovery rate of Ghaziabad stands at 95.5% while the case fatality rate is 0.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/of-25k-ghaziabad-patients-10-contacts/articleshow/79830008.cms||Aditya Dev
December 21, 2020||Ghaziabad||Covid-19: Of 25,000 Ghaziabad patients, 10% contacts||GHAZIABAD: In Ghaziabad, the biggest chunk of Covid cases have been detected in the random selection category (people getting themselves tested at sampling booths) followed by influenza-like symptom (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) patients, said officials on Sunday. Altogether, these three categories constitute 85% of cases reported in the district since the outbreak in March. An analysis of 25,313 Covid cases reported in Ghaziabad revealed that around 48% (12,317) of them fall under the random selection category. Over 30% (7,614) of patients have had ILI symptoms, while 7% (1,610) were detected with SARI. The fourth major category is contact tracing. The official data revealed that about 10% (2,385) of such patients came in contact with Covid-19 patients. Notably, the majority of them (1,641) were asymptomatic. From 13 contacts per Covid patient on average in September, contact tracing more than doubled, to 28, by November. In December, on an average, 18 contacts (on average) of every individual are being traced so far, said officials. A total of 1,615 positive contacts have been traced till now. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said: “The data confirms that getting tested for ILI/SARI symptoms is the right thing to do instead of going for self-medication. We have a dedicated wing for the same. The contact tracing teams have been directed to ensure that at least 25 such patients are traced.” As per the state government’s directive, the district authorities are doing focused sampling in high caseload areas like Indirapuram, Carte, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Vijay Nagar and Vaishali. So far, 371 Covid patients have been reported from high caseload areas. However, there were not many positive cases detected among vulnerable groups like slum dwellers, street vendors among others — who were tested under a special drive in November. Their number stands at 127. Among them, a majority of cases were reported from urban markets (19), electronic and vehicle showrooms (17), malls (10), medical attendants (23), and jail (11). Also, there were hardly any cases reported from slums (3), children observation homes and women shelters (1) and street vendors (3). As many as 216 healthcare workers have been found positive and out of these, only 56 developed symptoms. The data revealed that 18 people having foreign travel history and 14 with domestic travel history tested positive. 32 found positive in Noida, Gzb records 95 new casesNoida on Sunday reported 32 new cases of Covid-19, taking its caseload to 24,507, out of which 596 are active. A total of 118 patients also recovered in the past 24 hours, bringing the number of recoveries to 23, 824. The district's Covid toll is 87. In Ghaziabad, 95 people tested positive, taking its tally to 25, 471, out of which 954 are active. Health officials said 71 more patients recovered too, taking the total recoveries to 24,419. The district's toll stands at 98. The recovery rate of Ghaziabad stands at 95.5% while the case fatality rate is 0.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/of-25k-ghaziabad-patients-10-contacts/articleshow/79831396.cms||Aditya Dev
December 21, 2020||India||ITBP personnel, civilians push back Chinese soldiers in civilian clothes at Chanthang in Ladakh||SRINAGAR: A group of Chinese soldiers in two vehicles recently crossed the Indian border into Changthang village in Nyoma area, 135 km east of Leh in Ladakh, as per a video circulated by the residents on Sunday. The Chinese soldiers, who were in civilian clothes, were apparently objecting to the local nomads allowing their cattle to graze in the area. But they were forced to go back after strong protests from the local residents, who also informed ITBP personnel in the area, a few days ago. The video shows the two Chinese vehicles, with the group of soldiers in civilian clothes along with some campaign material, entering Indian territory in Changthang. They are later forced to retreat after strong protests by the local villagers, with ITBP personnel also swinging into action to confront them. Read AlsoLAC standoff: India, China resume diplomatic talks; agree to work towards complete disengagement at earliestIndia and China on Friday resumed diplomatic talks on military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and agreed to continue working towards ensuring complete disengagement of troops in all friction points at the earliest. The ministry of external affairs said both sidesDespite being contacted by TOI, ITBP officials refused to speak about the incident. The officers deputed in Leh kept their cell phones switched off. However, the video regarding the incident, which clearly shows the incursion by the Chinese soldiers into Indian territory, has gone viral after it was filmed by the locals there. Changthang in Leh is mostly inhabited by Tibetan refugees, and is located at an altitude of 14,600 meters above sea level in Rushpo Valley. The land is home to the Changpa nomads. Read AlsoLAC standoff: 'Expect China to match words with actions,' India says on Beijing's claims of respecting border agreementsMEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said that the situation that has unfolded at the LAC over the last six months is a result of China's attempts to unilaterally change the status, and dismissed claims by a Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson blaming India for the same.The incident comes at a time when the military confrontation between India and China in eastern Ladakh is into its eight month now, with rival soldiers ranged against each other at the "friction points" in the Pangong Tso, Chushul and Gogra-Hotsprings areas as well as all along the Line of Actual Control in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/itbp-personnel-civilians-push-back-chinese-soldiers-in-civilian-clothes-at-chanthang-in-ladakh/articleshow/79828557.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: ‘Doctors who died on Covid duty deserve martyr status’||LUCKNOW: The meritorious students of King George’s Medical University (KGMU) have demanded the status of martyr for doctors who lost their lives while performing duty while treating novel coronavirus patients during the pandemic. Some of the toppers also contracted infection while discharging their duty in Covid wards and said the experience was challenging and stressful, both physically and mentally. Dr Suyash Dwivedi contracted coronavirus infection and tested positive in July but he still studied hard and bagged the Psychiatry Alumni Gold Medal for being the best PG student in MD (psychiatry). “Performing duty for over 12 hours wearing a PPE kit is very stressful. It causes dehydration due to excessive perspiration and there is constant fear of catching the infection. But doctors keep working to save patients’ lives. The effort is no less than that of a soldier fighting on the border. Hence doctors who sacrificed their lives in the line of duty should also be accorded the status of martyr as they deserve it,” said Dr Suyash, son of a retired banker and native of Kanpur Dr Priya Dixit, who will receive RP Bhadola Centenary Gold Medal for being the best MD resident in anesthesia department, said she was devastated when Dr Sunil Agarwal, a 58-year-old government anesthesia doctor, got infected in the line of duty and died during treatment at KGMU. “I incubated him on ventilator support. Such doctors deserve martyr status,” she added. Dr Shailendra Gautam, who has won the award of best ENT resident, served in Covid wards for 112 days. “Martyr status will be a mark of respect a nation can give to corona warriors who made supreme sacrifice,” he said. Winner of Dr Baljeet Bhatia Gold Medal for best student in MD ophthalmology, Dr Shailja Mishra, said: “The martyr status to such doctors or health workers would be a befitting respect to the bereaved families.” Similar view was expressed by Dr Rahul Tiwari, who is getting Dr Sabyya Sanchi Sarkar gold medal for topping in MD (radiodiagnosis) course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/doctors-who-died-on-covid-duty-deserve-martyr-status/articleshow/79831845.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
December 21, 2020||Business||India & US carriers allowed to code share with some EU, UK & Canadian carriers to fly people between the two countries||NEW DELHI: There’s good news for people eligible to travel as per current norms between India and the US, especially those who prefer to take a transit halt to stretch their legs on these long (like Mumbai-New York) and ultra-long (like Delhi-San Francisco) routes. Both American and lndian carriers have now been allowed to code share with airlines of Canada, Germany, Netherlands, Switzerland and UK to carry through passengers between the two countries via hubs in these places, the aviation ministry informed the US department of transportation (DoT) and US embassy in Delhi last Friday (Dec 18). A Canadian transit visa is, however, required to travel between India and US via Canada, said Delhi-based travel agent Anil Kalsi. “The code-sharing of US carrier(s) as marketing carrier(s) on the carrier(s) of Switzerland will come into effect if and when the air bubble arrangement between India and Switzerland is operationalised,” the ministry wrote to DoT last Friday. In the west, India currently has air bubbles with countries like the US, Canada, Germany, France, Netherlands and UK. Travel between India and US under the existing bubble arrangement so far allowed people to fly on carriers operating direct routes — Air India and United — with one exception. India had last month allowed US carrier Delta to code share with Air France and fly passengers between India and America under the air bubble between the two countries. Indian carriers were also permitted to enter into similar code shares to transport passengers between India and USA via France. Delta had this March suspended its direct Mumbai-New York, its only India route it had then, and is yet to resume the same so far. The aviation ministry communication to DoT says American carriers “are now allowed to code share as marketing carrier(s) on the carrier(s) of Canada, Germany, Netherlands, Switzerland and United Kingdom to carry through passengers between India and USA via Canada, Germany, Netherlands, Switzerland and United Kingdom respectively under the India-USA air bubble arrangement.” America had raised the issue of its airlines being allowed to code share in a letter to the aviation ministry on November 24, 2020. While soon-to-be-sold-off Air India flies nonstop to several places like New York (JFK and Newark), Chicago, Washington, Chicago and San Francisco, United has direct routes to San Francisco, Newark and Chicago. Now other US and Indian carriers can code share with the airlines of EU (with whom India has air bubble), UK and Canada to fly people between India and the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-us-carriers-allowed-to-code-share-with-some-eu-uk-canadian-carriers-to-fly-people-between-the-two-countries/articleshow/79831848.cms||Saurabh Sinha
December 21, 2020||India||Farmer unions mark ‘Shahidi Divas’; threaten fast, may block NH9 today||NEW DELHI: The Centre sent a new letter late Sunday night to 40 farm leaders asking them to suggest a date for another round of talks and the issues they would like to discuss. The move came hours after the unions protesting on Delhi’s borders against three central agri-marketing laws observed ‘Shahidi Divas’ to pay homage those who died during the agitation, drew up plans for a 24-hour relay hunger strike on Monday, and threatened to block NH9 if their counterparts were not allowed to move towards the Ghazipur border in 24 hours. The letter from Union agriculture ministry joint secretary Vivek Aggarwal — 11 days after the breakdown of talks — to Darshan Pal of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha was marked also to 31 unions from Punjab, one from Haryana headed by Gurnam Singh Charuni and seven from other states, including Shiv Kumar Kalkaji, Hanan Mollah, Rakesh Kumar Tikait and Kavitha Kuruganti. It outlined all the details of amendments to the laws to which the Centre had already agreed. The farm leaders said they would discuss the contents of the letter and take a decision later. Read AlsoCentre reaches out to protesting farmers’ unions, asks them to fix a date for talks to find solutionsEleven days after breakdown of talks, the Centre on Sunday once again reached out to protesting farmers’ unions urging them to provide it details of all remaining concerns, beyond the ones identified earlier, and fix a date as per their convenience for next round of talks to reach at solutions.The letter outlined details of amendments to which the Centre had already agreed, including assurance on purchase of crops at the MSP, not diluting the APMC, registration of dealers, levying taxes on purchasers in private mandis and not allowing anyone to deal in food grains only on a PAN card as earlier announced. The letter included all details of previous dates on which meetings were held. “The government has consistently been trying to discuss all concerns of farmers with an open mind. Besides discussing these issues with protesting farmers’ unions, the Centre has also kept its door open to discuss the issues (concerning farm laws) with other farmer organisations as well… The government has also been trying to talk to protesting farmer representatives individually,” Aggarwal said in his letter. His letter was in response to Pal’s December 16 email informing him of the unions’ decision rejecting the Centre’s December 9 proposals on amending farm laws and clarifying certain provisions. Pal had also requested the Centre not to defame the farmers’ movement and “stop holding parallel talks” with other farmer organisations (those not involved in the protest). Responding, Aggarwal said in his letter, “It is not clear from your email whether it was your individual opinion or it was the consensus decision of all unions. Besides, it is also not clear as to why the government proposal (of December 9) was rejected.” Earlier, the SKM, a conglomerate of over 400 all-India farmer organisations, said that in addition to the hunger strike at every protest site on Delhi’s borders, it would also halt toll collection on Haryana’s highways for three days — from December 25 to 27. The SKM, apart from asking people across the country to “skip a meal” on December 23, the birth anniversary of former PM and farm leader Chaudhary Charan Singh, has also decided that all its members and supporters will beat utensils (thalis) during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “Mann ki Baat” programme, among other measures, to maintain pressure on the Union government to repeal the three contentious central agri-marketing laws. It also termed PM Modi’s visit to Delhi’s Gurdwara Rakab Ganj on Sunday morning as a moral victory for the farmers. On December 25 and 26, farm leaders will visit the residences of the leaders of BJP’s alliance partners to submit a memorandum seeking the repeal of the three central farm laws. “Farmers will approach the NDA partners asking them to compel the government to withdraw the farm laws. After all, they are shareholders in the government. If they don’t agree with us, we will boycott them too,” farmer leader Jagjit Singh Dallewala said at a joint press conference with Darshan Pal, Yogendra Yadav and others at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu Border. They hinted that the message was mainly for Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), which is in alliance with BJP in the M L Khattar-led Haryana government. Yogendra Yadav of Jai Kisan Andolan, a constituent of the farmer unions’ umbrella body AIKSCC, said the farmers would begin the relay hunger strike at all protest sites around Delhi as well as in other states, such as Telangana and UP, with 11-member teams being on fast daily. The SKM urged Indians residing abroad to lodge a protest against the agri laws at India’s embassies in their respective countries on December 26. Earlier in the day, former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat and singer Babu Mann had attended the “Shaheed Divas” organised by a group of farmers at UP Gate to pay tribute to those who died during the agitation. Rawat, however, said he had come in his personal capacity. In Punjab and Rajasthan, various farmer organisations and others held “shardanjali samarohs” to pay tribute to the farmers who died during the ongoing protest in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmer-unions-mark-shahidi-divas-threaten-fast-may-block-nh9-today/articleshow/79831210.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||Flyers fume as fog hits flight schedule at Lucknow airport||LUCKNOW: Extreme low visibility on Sunday morning took a toll heavy on flight operations as almost every flight was delayed. At one point, scores of passengers for Mumbai-bound flight had a heated argument with airlines and airport managing authority for flight delay of almost four hours. The first flight of the day was one for Bengaluru scheduled at 5.31am, but took off from Amausi at 9.49am, a delay of over four hours. By the time of the filing of this report, two flights out of total 53 departures were cancelled and 39 flights were delayed for more than four hours. Similarly, nearly all of the 51flights arriving at CCSI airport were also delayed. There was sense of anxiety and resentment among passengers over delay in flight operations, but the airlines staff managed the situation peacefully. “The flight operations today were severely affected by the weather conditions and dense fog. However, all airlines and our team members worked to ensure least passenger inconvenience,” said Abhishek Jaiswal, the PRO of private concessionaire Adani Group which handles CCSI airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/flyers-fume-as-fog-hits-flight-schedule-in-lucknow/articleshow/79831867.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Bengaluru||It’s a challenge to conduct both online and regular classes, say CBSE schools in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Many institutions have written to parents seeking their opinion on children returning to campus after the state government allowed the schools to reopen from January 1, 2021. But students are likely to return to classes only after Jan 4. “Most ICSE schools are prepared to reopen,” said Jean George, president, Karnataka ICSE Schools Association. “As the council for Indian School Certificate Examination has observed, we require at least two months of regular classes for board exams and most parents seem willing. The only issue now is the exact date to reopen.” Managements of Independent CBSE Schools Association (MICSA) said it will continue with online classes irrespective of schools reopening for classes 10 and 12. “It’ll be challenging to conduct both online and on-campus classes,” association secretary Mansoor Ali Khan said. “We do not know yet how many students will come to campuses, so we must meet both requirements.” Deen’s Academy’s Shanthi Menon said they have sent out a ‘Google doc’ asking parents for their views on sending children back and use of school transport. “We have mandated a Covid-19 negative certificate along with the usual protocol of distancing and sanitisation,” Menon said. Karnataka Unaided School Management’s Association (KUSMA) and Karnataka Association of Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools (KAMS) said their schools would reopen for students. “A meeting with the parents’ body has been convened. Given that online classes can be done remotely, most students and teachers are out of station and need time to return. We also have NRI and international students whose return will depend on laws of their land,” said Jyothis Mathew, Treamis World School, while Sarada Chandrashekhar of Whitefield Global School said the reopening will be subject to parents’ willingness. Schools are putting in place Covid-19 safety measures on campus, besides preparing to get students acclimatized to regular classes. Nooraine Fazal, founder, Inventure Academy said: “Students must get used to pen-and-paper tests again. We’ll also introduce sensorbased faucets, doors etc.” However, some others say giving students the option of choosing between online and regular classes is bound to stir confusion. “As per announcements, it isn’t mandatory for students to attend,” said M Mariasunder, Lourdes High School, Nandini Layout. “Since they have an option, some parents will want online classes to continue leaving teachers shouldering the burden of conducting both online and regular classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/its-a-challenge-to-conduct-both-online-and-regular-classes-say-cbse-schools-in-karnataka/articleshow/79831892.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
December 21, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Tug of duty prompts Navy officer’s widow to join Army||MHOW: Professor, bride, Veer Nari and now an officer cadet, it’s been a whirlwind of emotions for 29-yearold Karuna Singh Chohan in the past 21 months. Her husband, Lt Commander Dharmendra Singh Chohan, had died valiantly battling a fire on board aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya when it was about to touch harbour in Karwar (Karnataka) on April 26, 2019. They had been married for just 40 days. Now, Karuna is all set to join Officers Training Academy in Chennai to live life in olive-green. She was an associate professor at Dayalbagh University in Agra, but couldn’t resist the tug of the uniform, and decided to join the Army after her husband’s martyrdom. “When I received news of the mishap, it was very hard to believe that I had lost Dharmendra after just 40 days of marriage. I was in my in-laws’ house in Ratlam at that time. I think the almighty was testing me as I had lost five of my close ones in a very short span of time and I thought God has chosen me for some great task and responsibility,” Karuna said. “Like every girl, I had dreams regarding my career and marriage. I became a professor and as a perfect life partner, I got Dharmendra. But my dreams were shattered in a second,” Karuna said. For some time, she says, she felt “broken”, but the words of her mother-in-law Tina Kunwar Chohan and mother Krishna Singh rekindled her spirit. Group Captain Irfan Khan, who heads the District Sainik Welfare Organisation in Ratlam, was the first person to motivate Karuna to join the Army. Inspired, she went to Indore to a close family friend, Col Nikhil Diwanji, under whose guidance she prepared for the SSB interview. “There is a provision in the armed forces that Veer Naris (widows of martyrs) need not appear for the written exam. They are called directly for the interview. I got my first interview call from SSB-Bhopal in September but I was screened out on the first day. I again appeared for an interview on October 27 and this time I was able to cross all hurdles to reach the personal interview round. It lasted 55 minutes, probably the longest of all candidates. It was because I was already nicely employed (as a professor) and why I opted for Army when my husband had been with the Navy. Everything went well and I succeeded,” Karuna said. The mail regarding her success came on Diwali. She will join OTA on January 7 for 11 months of military training. Asked why she opted for Army, she said she wanted to serve across the country as an Army officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/madhya-pradesh-tug-of-duty-prompts-navy-officers-widow-to-join-army/articleshow/79831745.cms||Rajesh Jauhri
December 21, 2020||Bhopal||Land won’t be acquired for Seep irrigation scheme: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday said that forest dwellers living on tribal lands before the year 2006 would be given ownership right of the plots (patta) under their control. He further said that land will not be acquired for the Seep river irrigation project and water would reach the fields through pipes. Chouhan was addressing a function organised at Bhilai village under Nasrullaganj tehsil of Sehore district, where he handed over land pattas to forest dwellers. Land pattas were given to 1,216 persons on the occasion. Tribal families from Ichhawar, Astha, Nasrullaganj and Budni were given the pattas. Tribals welcomed the chief minister by staging their traditional dance accompanied by music. Chouhan also joined them and played ‘dhol’ and also danced with them. Chouhan said the firm that acquired land from the farmers at Amalpani village did not pay them compensation. The company will not be spared, he said, adding that property of the company has been confiscated and it would be sold to mobilise funds for payment of compensation to the farmers. He also asked the Sehore collector to initiate a process for the purpose. Chouhan asked the tribals to be rest assured that they would get a pucca house under the PM Awas or CM Awas Yojana. The families given pattas will get benefits of all the welfare schemes of the government, including the amount given under the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. Chouhan said that a big dharmashala of the Barla community would be constructed in Nasurallganj as a token of respect to the tribal population. Animal husbandry minister Prem Singh Patel, local MP Ramakant Bhargava and Rajya Sabha member Sumer Singh Solanki were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/land-wont-be-acquired-for-seep-irrigation-scheme-madhya-pradesh-cm/articleshow/79831874.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Container exports at Mangaluru up||MANGALURU: While the pandemic impacted ports resulting in a decrease in cargo traffic, New Mangaluru Port Trust (NMPT) bucked the trend, registering a 6.2% growth in the container export segment between April and November, compared to the same period last year. Provisional NMPT traffic data related to containers from April 1 to November 30 shows 4,87,059 metric tonnes was loaded this year as against 4,58,469 metric tonnes during the same period last year. “This is one segment which recovered quickly from the lockdown,” an NMPT official said. “It was deeply impacted on both counts — ship to shore handling due to non-availability of trailers/drivers and delivery of import containers.” Items that are loaded from Mangaluru port include coffee, reefer cargo, vegetables, fish meal, chemicals, polypropylene, flexible carry bags, cashew kernels, machinery, garments, granite/marble and fertilizer besides seafood, leaf springs, printed books among others. A total 5,314 TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent unit) and 51,685 tonnes of commodities were loaded from the port to national and international destinations in November alone. Venkata Ramana Akkaraju, chairman, NMPT, said although 90% of traffic at NMPT is mechanized, evacuation of cargo was affected during the lockdown due to lack of manpower. The major share of cargo handled at the port is crude, petroleum products, LPG, coal and iron ore. Cruise traffic was deeply affected since vessels bound for NMPT in the last week of March and April, were cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/container-exports-at-mangaluru-up/articleshow/79831894.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
December 21, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Residents come out to protest, give ‘glucose shot’ to road||BHOPAL: People from over a dozen colonies, including the Bagmugaliya extension ‘fed glucose to the dilapidated road’ on Sunday and demonstrated their anger over road construction which has been incomplete for the last 14 months. “This is the only option which remains. We have repeatedly sought the government intervention in the matter. All we can do now is pray the remaining road is healthy enough for commute,” said Umashankar Tiwari, chairman of the Bagmugaliya Extension Colony Development Committee. “We know that drinking glucose in the streets will do nothing, but this demonstration may make the responsible officials realize their responsibility.” He said that the city roads are uprooted every year during the rains. But this particular road has not been maintained for the last two years. There are potholes all across, he added. Construction of about 2km road was sanctioned by the BMC — Bank to Laharpura outpost in Bagmugaliya area. The road was being built at a cost of about Rs3 crore, but suddenly contractor ceased work 14 months ago. BMC officials argue that the corporation’s financial condition was not good, due to which the contractor was not paid and he stopped work. As a mark of protest, the residents also sent the BMC money orders of five rupees to help the corporation in road construction. They were returned. Similar protests have taken place in the past too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-residents-come-out-to-protest-give-glucose-shot-to-road/articleshow/79831941.cms||---
December 21, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Trader leader shot in Mohanlalganj||LUCKNOW: A traders’ leader was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Gaura village of Mohanlalganj on Sunday evening. The victim, Sujeet Pandey, was the president of Mohanlalganj Vyapar Mandal and his wife Sandhya Pandey is sitting gram pradhan of Indrajeet Kheda. Police said Sujeet was shot when he was going to a brick kiln. He was rushed to Medanta Hospital where he was pronounced dead. Cops are yet to receive a written complaint and trace the motive behind the murder. Police commissioner DK Thakur and joint police commissioner (crime) Nilabja Choudhury rushed to the spot after the attack to supervise the probe. “Police recovered eight cartridges from the scene of crime, four of which were of .9mm and four of .32 bore. We have not received any complaint from the victim’s family yet. We are looking into all the angles of the case. The deceased had a case of property dispute in his name last year,” said Choudhury. Police commissioner DK Thakur said victim suffered four gunshot injuries. “The entry and one exit wound from one of the shots on his chest caused the death. He took three bullets on his left arm. There were reports that Pandey opened fire from his licensed pistol in defence. We are verifying the claims. The attackers also did not attempt to loot Pandey,” he said. Thakur said Pandey used to visit a brick kiln daily. “Two attackers on a motorcycle intercepted him and peppered him with bullets. The workers of the kiln heard the noise and rushed out to find Pandey lying in a pool of blood. The police recovered eight cartridges from the crime scene,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-trader-leader-shot-in-mohanlalganj/articleshow/79831968.cms||---
