December 23, 2020||India||Jailed PDP leader, accused in terror case, wins in Pulwama||SRINAGAR: President of PDP’s youth wing Waheed Ur Rehman Para, who is currently in jail, on Tuesday won from the Pulwama-1 constituency by over one thousand votes. Para was arrested in Delhi by NIA five days after filing nomination papers for the District Development Council (DDC) elections for his alleged links with the Hizbul Mujahideen. While Para polled 1322 votes, his nearest rival, BJP’s Sajad Ahmad Raina, got 314 votes. Para was allegedly in close contact with Hizbul’s overground worker, Irrfan Shafi Mir, who was arrested in Kulgam along with suspended J&K DSP Davinder Singh for ferrying two terrorists to Jammu in January this year. According to NIA sources, Parra was part of a conspiracy to provide safe passage to Hizb terrorist Naveed Babu alias Syed Naveed Mustaq, a police deserter. Parra is close to PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti and is the 11th accused in the police-terrorist nexus case. Expressing happiness over Para’s victory, Mehbooba tweeted: “Couldn’t be prouder of PDPs @parawahid who won his maiden election by a huge margin of votes. Despite being arrested on baseless charges right after filing his nomination people have shown their love & trust for Waheed. Hope justice prevails.” Para was arrested on November 25 in Delhi and was remanded in NIA’s custody for 15 days. Subsequently, on December 20, a special NIA court sent him in judicial custody for 30 days. Earlier, Para was kept under detention for about six months after the nullification of Article 370 on August 5 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jailed-pdp-leader-accused-in-terror-case-wins-in-pulwama/articleshow/79885322.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 23, 2020||India||Pakistan issues visas to Indian pilgrims to visit historic temples||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan has issued visas to Indian pilgrims to visit the holy sites of Shahdani Darbar in Sukkur and Shri Katas Raj temples in Chakwal district of Punjab at a time when ties between the two countries are at the lowest ebb. While a group of 44 pilgrims returned to India after visiting Shahdani Darbar, the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi on Monday issued visas to another 47 Indian pilgrims to visit Shri Katas Raj temples -- also known as Qila Katas or complex of Katas Temples -- in Chakwal, from December 23 to 29. The Katas Raj temples surround a pond sacred to Hindu devotees. Read AlsoPakistan government grants permission for construction of Hindu temple in IslamabadThe plot for the first Hindu temple in Islamabad was allotted to the Hindu Panchayat by the Capital Development Authority in 2017. However, the construction work was delayed due to some formalities, including the approval of the site map and documents from the CDA and other relevant authorities.The pilgrims who went back to India had participated in the 312th birth anniversary celebrations of Shiv Avtari Satguru Sant Shadaram Sahib in Sukkur, from December 15 to 21. Over three centuries old, the Shahdani Darbar temple is a holy place for devotees from across the world. The temple was founded in 1786 by Sant Shamdaram Sahib, who was born in Lahore in 1708. Thousands of Indian Sikhs and Hindu pilgrims visit Pakistan under the bilateral agreement "Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines of 1974" to observe several religious festivals every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-issues-visas-to-indian-pilgrims-to-visit-historic-temples/articleshow/79885489.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
December 23, 2020||India||Independents hold the key in many DDCs||SRINAGAR: The victory of a large number of independents in the DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir is a clear indication that a sizeable section of the electorate is keen to see the emergence of a new leadership in their respective areas. As many as 39 independents have won the elections and nearly 30 of them are leading, which accounts for a fourth of the total 280 seats. This makes the independents kingmaker in many councils. The victory of as many as seven independents in Srinagar – accounting for 50% of the total 14 seats – is an example of the electorate rejecting established political parties and instead looking for an alternative. The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which is headquartered in the city, could just win five seats while BJP and Apni Party won a seat each. If all the independents in Srinagar unite, they can keep PAGD out of power in the summer capital of the Union territory. In several other districts, like Shopian - where PAGD was ahead only in five seats while independents were leading in four seats when the reports came in last - the Alliance will have to depend on smaller parties or independents to take control of the DDC. Of the nearly 70 independents who have won or are leading, the Valley accounts for a lion’s share, far outnumbering the independents who have won in the Jammu region. Interestingly, the recently floated Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party headed by Altaf Bukhari has done well by winning 10 seats far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/independents-hold-the-key-in-many-ddcs/articleshow/79885549.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 23, 2020||World||British zoo removes map disrespecting territorial integrity of India||A famous British zoo has agreed to remove an incorrect map depicting India without Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh after being deluged with complaints. Chester Zoo on Tuesday wrote to complainants promising “the sign will come down” and told one complainant in a phone call that they will put up a new map in the New Year. An Indian-origin visitor at the zoo shared a picture of the map in a WhatsApp group, leading to the zoo being inundated with complaints from desis. “You are showing India without its head. It’s an insult to all people from Indian background and has hurt them immensely. Is this the UK government authorized map of India? No it’s not, so you should use the correct map of a sovereign nation which happens to be the largest democracy and 5th largest economy in the world,” one complainant wrote. The map is part of a wall display aiming to show where Gir forest national park and Gujarat are. Chester Zoo houses more than 35,000 animals, including Asiatic lions, of which there are only 350 left living in the wild, all of whom are living in Gir forest. A spokesman for Chester Zoo said: “We absolutely recognize the concerns raised and we would never want to cause any distress to anyone visiting the zoo. The map has since been removed and is being reviewed following the feedback we have received. This particular map was created in 2017 and is used to help raise awareness of the last populations of Asiatic lions living in Gir forest national park." Ashish Popat, of British Indians Voice, said: “It is not the people at the zoo who are to blame. It is the people in the background who did this work. It needs to be investigated.” Overseas Friends of BJP UK president Kuldeep Shekhawat said: “It is outrageous that on the one hand Chester Zoo is writing about Gir lions and then on the other hand they don’t have the correct map of India.” A video about the farmers’ protests in India, also showing a map of India without J&K and Ladakh, has also been shared -- astonishingly -- by an Indian-origin councillor in a WhatsApp group for Indian-origin councillors, leaving many in that group shocked. One of the aggrieved councillors told TOI: “The video contains false information. It looks to me like the work of Pakistan. It is sad to see senior politicians use such fake propaganda videos at every opportunity to defame India and inflame tensions. UK politicians need to stop virtue signalling in the internal matters of India.” But the Indian-origin councillor who posted the video said: "It was regarding the farmers in India and the protest and that was the focus of the video. I apologized unreservedly and immediately and said I'm sorry for any incorrect facts in the video." In October, the Indian government issued a sternly worded warning to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey after Twitter India showed J&K as part of China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/british-zoo-removes-map-disrespecting-territorial-integrity-of-india/articleshow/79885669.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 23, 2020||Business||US body announces $54 million investment in India to support infrastructure projects||WASHINGTON: An American financial corporation on Tuesday announced that it will invest USD 54 million in India to support the development of critical infrastructure projects in the country in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. India is one of the fastest growing countries in the previous three decades, but it suffers from a significant infrastructure deficit, holding back further growth for the country especially in the wake of Covid-19, US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) said. It said it will invest USD 54 million in equity for the National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF) in India to support the development of critical infrastructure projects. The financing is part of NIIF's final round of fund-raising for the fund. Read Also'Why India' to 'Why Not India': Modi on change his reforms have broughtPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday hard sold his government's reforms spanning from manufacturing to taxation to labour, saying they have changed the world perception about the country from 'why India' to 'why not India' and went on to quote record foreign investment during the pandemic as aNIIF will work to mobilise capital to support economic growth and address critical development challenges in the country, according to a statement. "DFC's investment will support the growth and development of a key partner in the Indo-Pacific and allow DFC to facilitate investment in strategic infrastructure projects throughout India,” said DFC CEO Adam Boehler. “DFC brings its commitment to high standards in all of our projects, and we are excited to establish this partnership with NIIF. We are pleased to announce that NIIF has completed fund raising for its Master Fund,” said NIIF CEO Sujoy Bose. “We are delighted that DFC is investing in this final round. Their investment will strengthen infrastructure investment across India. We are excited at all that DFC brings to the table, including its high standards such as the Blue Dot Network and commitment to best practices with respect to transparency and management of environmental and social risks,” he said. DFC said its investment will help NIIF invest in infrastructure projects that are important for the long-term sustainable growth of the Indian economy, supporting development and the US foreign policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-body-announces-54-million-investment-in-india-to-support-infrastructure-projects/articleshow/79885954.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Sixteen-feet Santa Claus spreads Christmas cheer at Ultadanga||Like every year, Dompara in north Kolkata’s Girish Park area is again buzzing with activity. After Puja, this is the time when artisans, who make idols with fibreglass, pith and cane get ample assignments. During Christmas, different clubs, private organisations and malls order for gigantic fibre statues of Santa Claus. Despite the pandemic, artisans have received pretty good orders this year and the tallest Santa statue they have made is 16-feet tall. And it is likely to be installed in Ultadanga area. The second tallest Santa is of 12 feet, while the smallest one is of five feet. “We have been making Santa statues for years now. Mostly, clubs and malls give us orders and we start delivering them a week before Christmas. This time, however, we were apprehensive. Thank god the situation has turned better than Durga Puja,” said one of the artisans. Talking about the 16-feet statue, Shibu Halder, one of the artisans said that this will be installed at the Ultadanga junction as part of beautification. Besides Santa, these artisans also make reindeer and sledge cars made of fibre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sixteen-feet-santa-claus-spreads-christmas-cheer-at-ultadanga/articleshow/79886158.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
December 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugrammers get baking to spread Christmas cheer||Tis the season to spread cheer and love. And many Gurgaon residents are doing that by gifting delicious Christmas goodies to their loved ones. While some are baking the cakes themselves, others are placing orders with home chefs to send festive cheer to their loved ones in these difficult times. ‘This is my way of spreading the message of hope in such times’Though Gurgaon Sector 43 resident Pooja Malik is not a professional baker, she has been baking cakes for her kids, friends and family. And this year, she plans to bake cakes and gift them to her loved ones for Christmas. “I have always been interested in baking and this year we won’t be able to celebrate Christmas like we usually do. That’s why I’ve already baked five-six cakes for my friends and family, and plan to bake more in the coming week. I feel there’s nothing better than spreading some festive cheer and sending the message of hope through this gesture,” she says. Sector 43 resident Puja Malik is baking cakes for her loved ones to compensate for low-key celebrationsPuja Mishra, who lives in Sector 50, Gurgaon, adds, “I started baking in the lockdown. I find it therapeutic. I make plum cakes and whenever I bake, I call three-four of my friends over. This Christmas, I plan to send some cakes to my relatives as well, and will make a bigger cake for my friends.” <p>Sector 50 resident Puja Mishra has taken to baking plum cakes in the lockdown </p><p><br></p>‘Baking it yourself also adds a personal touch to the cake’Gurgaon’s baking enthusiasts share that making cakes or cookies for the festival adds a personal touch, which makes it all the more special. Shaheen Mundewadi, who stays in DLF Phase 5, shares, “I bake only for my friends, and will be baking around 15 cakes for Christmas. Whenever there’s a special occasion, I try to bake myself. This adds a personal touch to the cooking. I prepare seasonal delicacies, like orange and spinach cake, that my friends love.” Sohna Road resident Seema Jain’s Christmas cakesDLF Phase 5 resident Shaheen Mundewadi’s festive cakesHome chef Seema Jain, who lives in Sohna Road, adds, “Since I bake professionally, I’ll send cakes to my loved ones apart from the cakes I’ll bake on order. Every year, I bake at least 10 cakes for my friends and family and send them as gifts. I think sending them something that you’ve made makes it more special.” For those who may not be able to bake at home, professional bakers come to their rescue. Divya Massey, a resident of Faridabad, says, “We ask a local bakery to bake 60-65 cakes for us. Since the quantity is more, we give them our ingredients and get it baked. We also bake a few cakes at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurugrammers-get-baking-to-spread-christmas-cheer/articleshow/79870208.cms||Riya Sharma
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||#Surviving2020: The show will go on, says this resolute single screen owner||This year saw various single-screen theatres shut down as months of lockdown made it difficult for owners to cope with the mounting losses. But Navin Choukhani – owner of a single-screen theatre in south Kolkata, who has been in this business for the past 49 years – vowed to hang in there. He patiently waited for theatres to reopen and despite still running at a loss, Navin remains hopeful that the audience will come back to watch cinema on the big screen like good old days. In a chat with CT, he shares his lowest and highest points through the lockdown, the lessons learnt from the pandemic and more. Excerpts: Shutting down of single screens was dishearteningIt was quite frustrating to sit at home and wait for the lockdown to get over. I just wanted to get back to work. Every time a phase of unlock was announced, I would hope for the theatres to reopen. One of the lowest points for me amid the pandemic was when my colleagues used to call and say they were thinking of closing their theatres. It was disheartening to see them struggling to survive the lockdown. The most depressing bit was the shutting down of so many single-screen theatres. I’m 100% sure the audience will be back to theatresDespite all odds, the thought of closing down my theatre did not cross my mind even once. When cinema halls were finally allowed to reopen during Durga Puja, I could see that smile of relief on my staff’s faces and I literally had tears in my eyes. I always tell them that this is a year of survival and not of making profits. Even after the reopening, there were days when we ran shows with hardly any audience, but I stayed strong because this is not just my business, but also my passion. Being in this business for the past 49 years, there are some savings to survive this year. I am 100% sure that people will come back to the theatres to watch their favourite films on the big screen – an experience that has its own charm. Profit and loss are part of every businessIt was heartening to see nearly houseful shows during Durga Puja. It restored our faith in the business. We are running at a loss now, but we will bear it as I am sure good days will be back. Profit and loss are part of every business. Having enjoyed profits all these years, we have to withstand the losses too. The idea of closing down the theatre is unthinkable. Closing down would mean running away from the battlefield. We all are fighting in our own way and I am sure there is light at the end of the tunnel. Pandemic has taught me to always stay positiveThis year has taught me that family and friends are our biggest assets. Nothing is permanent in this world, change is the only constant and we have to adapt to it with a smile. One has to accept uncertainties with patience and wait for good times. The pandemic has taught me to always stay positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/surviving2020-we-will-bear-the-losses-till-good-times-are-back-navin-choukhani/articleshow/79871959.cms||Ruman Ganguly
December 23, 2020||India||Covid-19 in India: Norms set for tracing, testing post-Nov 25 arrivals from UK||NEW DELHI: A new set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Centre prescribes various actions from the point of entry and in the community for all international passengers who have travelled from or transited through the UK in the past four weeks — from November 25 to December 23. State-wise passenger manifests of flights from Britain which landed at various international airports in India in the past four weeks will be conveyed by the Bureau of Immigration to state governments and the integrated disease surveillance programme. District surveillance officers will ensure daily follow-up of those under observation for 28 days starting from the date of arrival. All passengers from the UK disembarking in India will be subject to a mandatory RT-PCR test. If they are positive, they will also have to undergo a spike gene-based RT-PCR test and will be put in a separate isolation facility coordinated by state health authorities. If the sequencing is consistent with the current strain of the virus going around in the country, then the ongoing treatment protocol, including home isolation or treatment as per case severity, will be followed. All community contacts, without exception, of travellers who test positive will be subject to institutional quarantine in separate centres and will be tested between the fifth and tenth days. Those found negative on testing with RT-PCR at the airport will be advised quarantine at home. Those who arrived in India from the UK between November 25 and December 8 (first and second week from November 25) will be contacted by district surveillance officers and advised to self-monitor their health. If any of them develops symptoms, they will be tested by RT-PCR and will be subjected to the protocols as stated in the SOP. To keep a close check on the new strain of the coronavirus, the health ministry has asked state governments to send the samples of passengers who tested positive to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, or any other designated lab for genome sequencing study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-in-india-norms-set-for-tracing-testing-post-nov-25-arrivals-from-uk/articleshow/79886522.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||Jammu & Kashmir DDC election results: Why poll outcome is big boost for Centre||NEW DELHI: The celebrations that broke out in J&K, particularly in Kashmir Valley, over results of district development council (DDC) polls were a far cry from past elections which were marked by allegations of rigging or criticism that they reflected the minority opinion due to abysmal turnouts. For a change, the hailing of victories by even BJP’s rivals was not grudged by the Centre which saw it as a reaffirmation of the faith of voters and candidates in the fairness of the eight-phase polls. “There was a time when India’s reverse in a cricket match against Pakistan would see celebrations in the streets of Kashmir. But the fact that DDC polls not only saw good participation of people in the Valley but also that the results were welcomed by the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) constituents, independents and other parties alike, shows that they all want grassroots democracy that will bring them the benefits of development. The good show by independents reflects the emergence of new and young leadership at the grassroots,” a senior government functionary said. The participation of the Gupkar Alliance was itself a gain in the post-Article 370 scene. Aijaz Hussain (C), the BJP candidate for the DDC polls celebrates after he won a DDC seat outside a counting centre in Srinagar. (AFP photo)Union minister of state and BJP MP from Udhampur Jitendra Singh told TOI, “The DDC poll results have established BJP as a pan-J&K party with presence in all regions of the Union Territory, including Kashmir where the party has picked up seats for the first time.” Read AlsoJ&amp;K DDC elections: Kashmir breakthrough a shot in arm for BJPWhile BJP has the lead in Jammu region in the district development council (DDC) polls in J&amp;K, the party’s performance was not the sweep it might have expected, indicating a drift at the grassroots level even as a small breakthrough in the Valley was a reason for satisfaction.What is most significant about the DDC polls is that elected local representatives from J&K will, for the first time, be swearing allegiance to the Constitution of India and not the J&K constitution. “This kind of establishes the finality of the Centre’s move to nullify Article 370 in J&K,” the government functionary said. A home ministry official said successful conduct and good voter participation in DDC polls were bound to enthuse the authorities to hold assembly elections in the state as early as possible. Read AlsoDDC polls: Gupkar alliance claims people's support; BJP celebrates Kashmir winNEW DELHI: The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of seven political parties which has taken a big lead in the District Development Council (DDC) elections, claims that they had the support of people of Jammu and Kashmir. The BJP which had campaigned aggressively for theThe DDC polls saw many traditional low-turnout areas recording higher participation as compared to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as well as panchayat polls. For instance, Srinagar polled 35.3% votes, a big jump from the 7.9% turnout in the 2019 LS polls and 14.50% in the 2018 panchayat polls. Awantipora, which recorded 0.4% polling in panchayat polls of 2018 and 3% in the 2019 LS polls, saw 9.9% polling this time. Anantnag saw 24.9% polling, a huge improvement from the 9.3% polling in 2018 and 13.8% in the LS elections. This, a senior J&K government functionary said, was despite these being the first polls to be held after abrogation of Article 370 and their timing during the harsh winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jammu-kashmir-ddc-election-results-why-ddc-poll-outcome-is-big-boost-for-centre/articleshow/79890813.cms||Bharti Jain
December 23, 2020||India||Farmers protest: ‘Repeal laws’ our core demand, farm unions to tell govt today||NEW DELHI/BATHINDA: The group of 40 protesting farmers’ unions, which earlier participated in talks with the Centre, unanimously decided on Tuesday to respond to its proposal for further talks on Wednesday, marked across the country as ‘Kisan Diwas’, and reiterate their demand of repeal of the three new agri laws. “We aren’t averse to discussions on broad farm reforms if the Centre puts repeal of the laws on its agenda. That’s our core demand and we won’t compromise on it,” Punjab president of Krantikari Kisan Union, Darshan Pal, told TOI after their meeting. “We’ve decided to send our formal reply, explaining our position on each point in detail,” Pal said. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar again appealed to the farmers to join talks and iterated repeal of laws was not on the agenda as the ministry wanted to resolve all issues “clause by clause” through discussions on any date and proposed amendments/clarifications. Read AlsoCongress seeks President's intervention for annulling farm laws; to submit memorandum on December 24NEW DELHI: The Congress on Tuesday sought President Ram Nath Kovind's intervention for withdrawal of the three farm laws and said a memorandum signed by two crore farmers would be handed over to him on December 24 by a party delegation led by Rahul Gandhi. The Congress has been supporting theTomar met some farmers’ unions on Tuesday (Kisan Sangharsh Samiti from UP and Indian Kisan Union from Delhi) which supported the farm laws. Diuring the day, a few farm representatives from Punjab decided to write to British MPs, asking them to convince UK PM Boris Johnson to not visit India in January till the time farmers’ demands were met by the Indian government. Johnson is scheduled to be the chief guest at the Republic Day function. This decision, conveyed to the media by Kulwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary of Zamhoori Kisan Sabha, was, however, not part of the meeting of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha — the umbrella body of 40 farmers’ unions. “We did not discuss it in our meeting. Fellow farmers might have announced it in their individual capacity,” said Darshan Pal, adding that the Morcha would, however, like to appeal to the Indian diaspora to stand up for the farmers’ cause on December 26-27 as decided earlier. Read AlsoNew agriculture laws: Farmers protest at Mumbai collector's officeA group of farmers on Tuesday staged a protest outside the office of Mumbai suburban district collector over their demand for withdrawal of the Centre's three new farm laws.Sandhu said, “Already, 36 UK MPs have written in favour of our protest. Farmers have decided to organise a webinar on December 24, where five farmers will take queries on their stand on the Centre’s farm laws and why we are opposing them. This will be live, where 10,000 people can take part and it will be aired on social media platforms. We ask (Bollywood actor) Kangana Ranaut and others who are opposing our protest to come prepared.” He said as the central government was on a propaganda spree to justify the laws, they had decided to print 10 lakh pamphlets each in Punjabi and Hindi, and five lakh in English. “We will put out the farmers’ viewpoint on the laws in these pamphlets,” he added. Watch Farmers' protest reaches 28th day, repealing laws their core demand||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-protest-repeal-laws-our-core-demand-farm-unions-to-tell-govt-today/articleshow/79889532.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 23, 2020||World||Biden says will ask Congress to pass another Covid relief bill||WILMINGTON: President-elect Joe Biden said Tuesday he will ask the US Congress to pass another Covid-19 relief bill after taking office in January. "Congress did its job this week. And I can and I must ask them to do it again next year," Biden said in a pre-holiday address to the American people. Biden was speaking a day after lawmakers approved a $900 billion relief package that will provide a long-sought boost for millions of Americans and businesses battered by the pandemic. The Democratic president-elect, who takes office January 20, applauded Congress for finally reaching a long-sought bipartisan compromise on the vital aid. "We need to work in a bipartisan way," he said, adding: "That's the only way we're going to get through this." But he warned: "This bill is just the first step, a down payment. There is a lot more work to do, early next year. I'm going to put forward to the Congress my plans for what comes next." Biden cited the need for more resources for vaccine distribution, for testing to reopen schools, and for support for everyone from firefighters and police to nurses. Addressing the "millions of hurting families who are unable to put food on the table, pay rent or the mortgage," he said they would continue to need help well into next year. "One thing I promise you about my leadership during this crisis: I'm going to tell it to you straight. I'm going to tell you the truth," Biden said. "And here's the simple truth. Our darkest days in the battle against Covid are ahead of us, not behind us. We need to prepare ourselves, to steel our spines." "There will be no time to waste in taking the steps we need to turn this crisis around."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-says-will-ask-congress-to-pass-another-covid-relief-bill/articleshow/79892108.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||Ex-cricketer, celebs among 34 booked after 3am Mumbai club raid||MUMBAI: Former India cricketer Suresh Raina, singer Guru Randhawa, model-actor Zulfikar Syed and Sussane Khan, interior designer and former wife of actor Hrithik Roshan, were among the 34, including 13 women, booked for alleged violations of Covid-19 protocols at a birthday party celebration at an Andheri club in the early hours of Tuesday. Sahar police registered a first information report (FIR) against the 34 for violating pandemic rules and Dragonfly Club for staying open till 3am, beyond the stipulated hours. The FIR mentions 27 patrons, including, Raina, Randhawa, Syed and a few businessman, and seven club employees. They were taken to Sahar police station and later released on bail. The women, including Khan, were let off after being served a notice under Section 49 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Raina’s management team released a statement on Tuesday that he was not aware of local timings and protocols and regrets the “unfortunate and unintentional” incident. “Once pointed out, he immediately complied with the procedures laid out by the authorities. He always holds rules and laws laid down by governing bodies with the highest regard and will continue to do so in the future as well,” it read. A statement from Randhawa’s team, too, said he “deeply regrets the unintentional incident” and he was not aware of local authorities’ decision to impose a night curfew “but instantly conformed to all rules laid out by the government officials”. He has promised to comply with government guidelines and protocols by taking all precautionary measures in the future, the statement read. DCP (Zone II) Rajiv Jain was on night round-up duty when he received a tipoff that the club was open. Jain raided it along with a Gamdevi police inspector and Sahar cops. “Action was initiated against 27 customers, including Raina, Randhawa, Khan and others for violating prohibitory orders (for the pandemic),” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-cricketer-celebs-among-34-booked-after-3am-mumbai-club-raid/articleshow/79893251.cms||V Narayan
December 23, 2020||India||An adult is free to marry on her own, convert: Calcutta high court||KOLKATA: There can be “no interference if an adult marries as per her choice, converts and refuses to return to her parents”, the Calcutta high court said on Monday while hearing the plea of a Hindu man whose daughter had converted to marry a Muslim youth. The father, a 44-year-old peasant from Durgapur village in Nadia district of West Bengal, said his daughter had left home on September 15 and the next day he learnt that she had converted, taken a Muslim name and got married. He alleged that his daughter was either coerced into doing so or lured. “After his daughter left home saying she was going to the bank and did not return, he lodged an FIR in Murutia police station, alleging that she had been kidnapped,” said the father’s lawyer Susmita Saha Dutta. In his petition, the father claimed he wouldn’t have doubted her intention had the marriage been formalised under the Special Marriage Act, 1954 that provides for inter-religious marriages. But she changed her religion and got married within 24 hours. Read AlsoMarrying person of choice fundamental right: Karnataka HCThe Karnataka high court has said it was well settled that the “right of any major individual to marry the person of his/her choice is a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution”, echoing Allahabad and Delhi HCs orders upholding the right to marry a person of one’s own choice. The KarnatakaAfter police traced the girl, she stated before a judicial magistrate that she had converted on her own will and married. The father, however, moved the HC insisting that her statement “may not have been recorded in an atmosphere where she felt comfortable”. To allay his apprehensions, the HC had directed the girl, now 19, to meet the senior-most additional district judge in Tehatta. The court had also instructed that “sufficient care be taken so that she was not under any coercion or undue influence”. The district judge furnished a “clear and clean report” to the HC, but the father was still not satisfied. In its Monday order, a division bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee observed: “If an adult marries as per her choice and decides to convert and not return to her paternal house, there can be no interference in the matter.” The bench, however, asked the girl to meet the HC’s additional public prosecutor (APP) in his chamber on Wednesday at 10:30am without anyone – including her husband – and directed the APP to submit a report to it on Thursday, when it will again take up the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/an-adult-is-free-to-marry-on-her-own-convert-calcutta-high-court/articleshow/79893252.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Business||Loan apps pushing people into debt traps, suicides||NEW DELHI: The lockdown had left P Sunil devastated. The 28-year-old in Telangana lost his job, took a loan and fell into a debt trap. To repay this, he took loans from different apps offering quick loans. Soon, recovery agents were after him, sending messages and calling everyone on his call list. Humiliated, Sunil died by suicide last week. A woman in Indore, who had taken a loan of Rs 20,000 from an app, was harassed because she missed an EMI by a day. “They started sharing my photos, calling me a fraud. They threatened me and said they would tell police and send collection agents to my home. They harassed people on my contacts list.” Read AlsoGoogle pulls down another ‘rogue’ appA “rogue” lending app, Udhaar Loan, which thrived using a name resembling another app, was taken down from Google PlayStore on Tuesday for violating the technology giant's “trademark” policies.It’s a lure for many in times of distress. But the tap-and-get-a-loan “solution” is pushing a large number of people into a trap far deeper than the financial condition they are in. Hounded and humiliated by recovery agents hired by loan providing apps, many are dying by suicide while others are approaching police for help even as agencies try to figure out legal loopholes and ways to curb this menace. On Tuesday, Cyberabad and Hyderabad police arrested 19 people from Hyderabad and Gurgaon in the nation-wide instant money-lending app scam. Times ViewRogue lending apps have become a major menace. Experts engaged with the subject say that many of them function outside regulatory purview and are possible sources of money laundering. Increased digital awareness and swifter detection of these rogue apps can help in curbing such criminals.Suspecting the involvement of fraudsters from China in the racket, Hyderabad police said it would soon involve the ED and IT departments in probe into the multi-crore money lending racket involving at least 30 apps. “We have written to banks and frozen 18 accounts, holding over Rs 1.5 crore,” said Cyberabad police commissioner Sajjanar. So far three people have committed suicide in Telangana this month. K Mounika, 24, an agriculture extension officer in Siddipet, had availed a loan of Rs 3 lakh and after she did not repay it on time, the app company, branded her a defaulter and shared her photo, name and telephone number on social media. On December 16, she committed suicide. The same day in Hyderabad, P Sunil, killed himself in his flat. Police said thousands of people across the country were targeted. Read AlsoAtmanirbhar loans stem bad debt in power sectorThe government’s Atmanirbhar measures to help businesses hit by the pandemic has addressed a historic problem of power companies, and the banks that lend to them. Following the pandemic, the government allocated a Rs 90,000-crore financial package to assist power distribution companies (discoms)People looking for instant loans first download an aggregator app, which directs them to apps that process the loan request after collecting Aadhar, PAN details and a selfie of the applicant. They also ask for access to the users’ photo gallery and phone contact list. While the loan is sanctioned immediately, the applicant gets seven days to repay. It is when the loan is not repaid that the problems begin. “We are getting several complaints but action can’t be initiated because the person has provided approval to the apps to access contacts and gallery,” said Indore cyber SP Jitendra Singh. Bank officials say fintechs lend to persons who do not have sufficient funds. By using software to analyse bank statements, they can get an idea of the person’s repayment capacity. Loan app companies are also violating RBI rules on maximum interest rates. Read AlsoHome loan ticket size up to over Rs 26 lakh in 2020 on incentives, non-metro demand growth: ReportThe average home loan ticket size increased to over Rs 26 lakh in 2020 despite the pandemic as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), fall in interest rates as well as lower registration costs in some circles evinced customers' interest in buying properties, according to a study by BankBazaar.com. ​​DueThere are app companies that charge 0.1% per day which works out to 36% per annum while there are others whose effective charge works out to 10% a month. RBI has capped the interest on microloans using a formula based on the average lending rate of banks. At no time has the maximum permissible interest rate crossed 26%. A closer look at their modus operandi reveals that these lending apps tie up with several non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and use it as a legal cover for their operations. As part of the tie-up, the NBFCs give money to these lending apps and they, in turn, would find people in dire need and lend money to them. Bank officials wonder whether NBFCs are authorised to allow their recovery agents to work for lending apps. Authorities admit that this is a grey area that remains to be monitored by the regulator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/loan-apps-pushing-people-into-debt-traps-suicides/articleshow/79895304.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Business||Loan apps pushing people into debt traps, suicides||NEW DELHI: The lockdown had left P Sunil devastated. The 28-year-old in Telangana lost his job, took a loan and fell into a debt trap. To repay this, he took loans from different apps offering quick loans. Soon, recovery agents were after him, sending messages and calling everyone on his call list. Humiliated, Sunil died by suicide last week. A woman in Indore, who had taken a loan of Rs 20,000 from an app, was harassed because she missed an EMI by a day. “They started sharing my photos, calling me a fraud. They threatened me and said they would tell police and send collection agents to my home. They harassed people on my contacts list.” Read AlsoGoogle pulls down another ‘rogue’ appA “rogue” lending app, Udhaar Loan, which thrived using a name resembling another app, was taken down from Google PlayStore on Tuesday for violating the technology giant's “trademark” policies.It’s a lure for many in times of distress. But the tap-and-get-a-loan “solution” is pushing a large number of people into a trap far deeper than the financial condition they are in. Hounded and humiliated by recovery agents hired by loan providing apps, many are dying by suicide while others are approaching police for help even as agencies try to figure out legal loopholes and ways to curb this menace. On Tuesday, Cyberabad and Hyderabad police arrested 19 people from Hyderabad and Gurgaon in the nation-wide instant money-lending app scam. Times ViewRogue lending apps have become a major menace. Experts engaged with the subject say that many of them function outside regulatory purview and are possible sources of money laundering. Increased digital awareness and swifter detection of these rogue apps can help in curbing such criminals.Suspecting the involvement of fraudsters from China in the racket, Hyderabad police said it would soon involve the ED and IT departments in probe into the multi-crore money lending racket involving at least 30 apps. “We have written to banks and frozen 18 accounts, holding over Rs 1.5 crore,” said Cyberabad police commissioner Sajjanar. So far three people have committed suicide in Telangana this month. K Mounika, 24, an agriculture extension officer in Siddipet, had availed a loan of Rs 3 lakh and after she did not repay it on time, the app company, branded her a defaulter and shared her photo, name and telephone number on social media. On December 16, she committed suicide. The same day in Hyderabad, P Sunil, killed himself in his flat. Police said thousands of people across the country were targeted. Read AlsoAtmanirbhar loans stem bad debt in power sectorThe government’s Atmanirbhar measures to help businesses hit by the pandemic has addressed a historic problem of power companies, and the banks that lend to them. Following the pandemic, the government allocated a Rs 90,000-crore financial package to assist power distribution companies (discoms)People looking for instant loans first download an aggregator app, which directs them to apps that process the loan request after collecting Aadhar, PAN details and a selfie of the applicant. They also ask for access to the users’ photo gallery and phone contact list. While the loan is sanctioned immediately, the applicant gets seven days to repay. It is when the loan is not repaid that the problems begin. “We are getting several complaints but action can’t be initiated because the person has provided approval to the apps to access contacts and gallery,” said Indore cyber SP Jitendra Singh. Bank officials say fintechs lend to persons who do not have sufficient funds. By using software to analyse bank statements, they can get an idea of the person’s repayment capacity. Loan app companies are also violating RBI rules on maximum interest rates. Read AlsoHome loan ticket size up to over Rs 26 lakh in 2020 on incentives, non-metro demand growth: ReportThe average home loan ticket size increased to over Rs 26 lakh in 2020 despite the pandemic as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), fall in interest rates as well as lower registration costs in some circles evinced customers' interest in buying properties, according to a study by BankBazaar.com. ​​DueThere are app companies that charge 0.1% per day which works out to 36% per annum while there are others whose effective charge works out to 10% a month. RBI has capped the interest on microloans using a formula based on the average lending rate of banks. At no time has the maximum permissible interest rate crossed 26%. A closer look at their modus operandi reveals that these lending apps tie up with several non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and use it as a legal cover for their operations. As part of the tie-up, the NBFCs give money to these lending apps and they, in turn, would find people in dire need and lend money to them. Bank officials wonder whether NBFCs are authorised to allow their recovery agents to work for lending apps. Authorities admit that this is a grey area that remains to be monitored by the regulator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/loan-apps-pushing-people-into-debt-traps-suicides/articleshow/79895297.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||FBI tip leads to arrest of Jammu and Kashmir man for ‘sex racket targeting US kids’||NEW DELHI: Based on information received from Federal Bureau of Investigation, the CBI has arrested a 35-year-old man from Srinagar on charges of running an online child abuse racket from India, targeting minors living in USA. The suspect, Niyaz Ahmed Mir, uploaded pornographic videos and images over the dark web for financial gains and was also involved in direct communication with many minors in USA, officials said. He was allegedly running the racket with his US-based wife, Tamara Stanley, who was involved in a “master-slave relationship” with her husband, the agency said. On Mir’s directions, she allegedly exploited minors, recorded these abuses and sent them to him through multimedia messages and emails, officials said. Stanley, it has been learnt, was arrested on June 25 in an ongoing cyber crime probe which kicked off in March on a complaint received by the police about an Indian national and Stanley having sexually exploited a teenage girl. She is lodged at the federal detention center at SeaTac, Washington, and was investigated by the FBI. Sources said that the couple was accused of subjecting at least five minors to abuse apart from recording and streaming the act. There are allegations pertaining to blackmail wherein they allegedly shared explicit images of the children with their family if they refused to comply. In Stanley’s case, the investigators had obtained a judicially authorised search warrant for her email account and its review had revealed sexually explicit images. The agency tracked down his whereabouts and placed him under arrest. CBI’s special unit conducted searches at Mir’s premises. The CBI booked Mir under sections of the Pocso Act and IT Act. He was produced before a Srinagar court on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fbi-tip-leads-to-arrest-of-jammu-and-kashmir-man-for-sex-racket-targeting-us-kids/articleshow/79895579.cms||Rajshekhar Jha
December 23, 2020||India||Jammu & Kashmir DDC election results: Gupkar alliance wins 97 seats, BJP 70 in district polls||SRINAGAR: The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a conglomeration of seven parties, on Tuesday took a significant lead in the first-ever District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir even as the alliance’s main opponent, the BJP, emerged as the single largest party, sweeping the polls in many districts in the Jammu region while making some inroads in the Kashmir valley. However, it is the independents — 40 of whom have already won — who will call the shots in many places, particularly in the valley, as majority has eluded any major player in those districts. Another 30 independents were leading in the counting, according to reports. The DDC polls were the first electoral exercise since the nullification of Article 370 on August 5 last year. Voting was held in 280 seats, 14 in each of the 20 districts of the Union Territory. While PAGD surged ahead in the Kashmir region, BJP retained its upper hand in the Jammu region. The results of 221 of the 280 seats were available at the time of going to press, with PAGD winning in 95 seats and BJP in 56. In the Farooq Abdullah-led PAGD, the former chief minister’s National Conference was the biggest winner with 53 seats, followed by his former arch-rival Mehbooba Mufti’s PDP, which won 27 seats. While Sajjad Lone’s People’s Conference won seven seats, two other constituents of PAGD — CPM and Jammu and Kashmir People’s Movement — won five and three seats, respectively. CPI and Awami National Conference, the other two partners in the seven-party alliance, drew a blank. Congress, which had initially taken part in deliberations with PAGD but distanced itself following criticism, won 18 seats, while Altaf Bukhari’s nine-month-old Apni Party, considered close to BJP, bagged 10 seats. Of the 56 seats that BJP won, 53 came from Jammu, while three came from the valley. NC leader Omar Abdullah downplayed BJP’s victory in three seats in the valley and tweeted: “I understand the temptation to over play the 3 seats the BJP has won in the valley but why underplay the 35 wins/leads of the@JKPAGD in Jammu province. We aren’t Kashmir based parties, we are political parties with strong support in both Kashmir AND Jammu.” As per the results released by the J&K administration, NC won 37 seats in the valley and 16 in the Jammu region. While PAGD had a decisive upper hand in the valley, it suffered a shock in Srinagar, where only five of its candidates could win, with independents emerging victorious in seven seats and BJP and Apni Party winning one seat each. Though Apni Party won just one seat in Srinagar, the electoral arithmetic seems to be in its favour when it comes to taking control of the DDC as most victorious independents are backed by Bukhari. Interestingly, after winning the recently held mayoral elections, the mayor of the Srinagar Municipal Corporation had joined Apni Party soon after assuming charge. Similarly, in Kupwara, Apni Party has won two seats so far. But sources said that six independents backed by Bukhari have won, giving his party the much needed edge in forming the DDC. Apni Party or the independents backed by it have won some seats in Baramulla, Ganderbal, Bandipora, Shopian and Anantnag as well. “There is every likelihood that the Apni Party may form the district level councils in these districts particularly in Ganderbal where it has backed seven independent candidates who have been declared as winners so far,” a political observer remarked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jammu-kashmir-ddc-election-results-gupkar-alliance-wins-97-seats-bjp-70-in-district-polls/articleshow/79895283.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 23, 2020||World||Biden appoints Indian-Americans Gautam Raghavan, Vinay Reddy as additional members of White House senior staff||WASHINGTON: US President-elect Joe Biden on Tuesday named his long-time associate Indian-American Vinay Reddy as his speechwriter and another community member Gautam Raghavan, who previously served in the White House, as Deputy Director of the Office of Presidential Personnel. The appointment of Reddy and Raghavan comes along with announcement of four other senior White House staff appointments by Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris. They are Anne Filipic as Director of Management and Administration, Ryan Montoya as Director of Scheduling and Advance, Bruce Reed, Deputy Chief of Staff, and Elizabeth Wilkins as Senior Advisor to the Chief of Staff. “These experienced individuals are joining my administration to carry out policies that will put our nation on a path to building back better than ever before,” Biden said in a statement. “They are respected leaders whose values and priorities align with my own and who will dutifully execute their roles to serve the American people. Their dedication to overcoming the challenges facing our country are rooted in their diverse backgrounds and experiences, helping deliver the change America needs in these difficult times,” said the President-elect. Reddy serves as a speechwriter on the Biden-Harris Transition and was the Senior Advisor and Speechwriter for the Biden-Harris Campaign. He previously served as chief speechwriter to former Vice President Biden in the second term of the Obama-Biden White House, after which, he worked as Vice President of Strategic Communications at the National Basketball Association. During the Obama-Biden Administration, he also served as senior speechwriter at the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Health and Human Services, deputy speechwriter for the Obama-Biden re-election campaign, and speechwriter for his home state Senator, Sherrod Brown of Ohio. Reddy grew up in Dayton, Ohio, the second one of the three sons in an immigrant family and is a product of Ohio public schools from kindergarten to Miami University to The Ohio State University College of Law. He currently lives in New York with his wife and their two daughters. Raghavan serves as Deputy Head of Presidential Appointments on the Biden-Harris Transition. Prior to joining the transition, he served as Chief of Staff to Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, the chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. Previously, Raghavan served as an Advisor to the Biden Foundation, and as Vice President of Policy for the Gill Foundation, one of the oldest and largest private foundations dedicated to the cause of LGBTQ equality. During the Obama-Biden Administration, Raghavan served in the White House as the liaison to the LGBTQ community as well as the Asian American & Pacific Islander community, and in the White House Liaison Office for the US Department of Defence and as Outreach Lead for the Pentagon's “Don't Ask, Don't Tell” Working Group. A first-generation immigrant, Raghavan was born in India, raised in Seattle, and graduated from Stanford University. He lives in Washington, D.C. with his husband and their daughter. Anne Filipic recently served as the Chief Programme Officer and the Chief Operating Officer at the Obama Foundation. Prior to joining the Foundation, she led Enroll America, a national healthcare coalition designed to maximise the number of Americans who enrol and retain healthcare coverage through the Affordable Care Act. Montoya served as the Director of Scheduling and Advance for Harris on the Biden-Harris Campaign. Prior to joining the campaign, Montoya served as the Chief Technology Officer for the NBA's Sacramento Kings. A veteran of both of President Obama's presidential campaigns, Montoya served as an Advance Associate in the Obama-Biden Administration. Reed was Vice President Joe Biden's Chief of Staff from 2011 to 2013 and travelled with him for the past year and a half as a Senior Adviser to the Biden for President Campaign. Reed has spent 12 years working on domestic and economic policy in the White House, and served as former President Clinton's chief domestic policy adviser. Elizabeth Wilkins serves as the Senior Advisor to the Chief of Staff for the Biden-Harris Transition. Prior to joining the transition, Wilkins served in various senior leadership roles at the Office of the Attorney General for the District of Columbia (OAG), including Senior Counsel for Policy and Chief of Staff. Prior to joining OAG, Elizabeth served as a law clerk to Associate Justice Elena Kagan of the US Supreme Court, and to then-Chief Judge Merrick Garland of the US Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. “Our country is grappling with a pandemic, an economic crisis, a long-overdue reckoning on racial injustice, and a climate crisis. To meet these challenges, we need a team that reflects the very best of our nation,” Harris said. “These public servants have the knowledge and experience to help us deliver on our commitment to build our country back better. And I look forward to working with them to usher in a brighter future for all Americans,” she said. “We are building a White House staff to reflect the diversity of America in every sense. These individuals have a breadth of experience, and will bring a commitment to serving the American people each and every day. They will advance the bold agenda of President-elect Biden and Vice President-elect Harris, creating a more just, equitable, and united nation,” said incoming White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-appoints-indian-americans-gautam-raghavan-vinay-reddy-as-additional-members-of-white-house-senior-staff/articleshow/79896521.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Patna||Amid fog, rlys initiates winter safety measures||PATNA: Poor visibility and dense fog continued to affect movement of trains for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. Meanwhile, each division of the East Central Railway (ECR) has been asked to follow winter safety measures prescribed by the Railway Board. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said several special trains reaching Patna and other places from New Delhi on Tuesday were delayed by 20 to 30 minutes due to foggy weather prevailing in the Prayagraj division of North Central Railway. Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya Junction-Buxar-Patna-Mokama is also a fog-affected route. Loco pilots and gatemen have been asked to remain extra vigilant during night hours to avoid mishaps on tracks. “Precautionary measures have been taken at all the vulnerable places. Fog signals are being used at the places where visibility is poor,” the CPRO said. Railway officials have been asked to ensure that visibility test objects (VTOs) are properly installed at sensitive level crossing gates in the fog-prone areas. Loco pilots have been asked to blow horn loudly while crossing level crossing gates during night hours, the CPRO said, adding loco pilots have been directed to check locomotive brake condition so that it could be applied in emergency to save lives of passengers. Rail fracture, which is quite common during winters, causes derailment of passenger trains. The railways has thus brought into use global positioning system (GPS)-based trackers in large numbers to detect any fault on the tracks. “Altogether 1,317 GPS trackers are being used by track patrol men at the vulnerable places. The fog-prone Danapur division has been given 584 GPS trackers,” the CPRO added. Meanwhile, a safety control room has been made functional in each division of the ECR to keep a close watch on movement of passenger trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/amid-fog-rlys-initiates-winter-safety-measures/articleshow/79879501.cms||Kumod Verma
December 23, 2020||Patna||Minister lays foundation for new college building||PATNA: Education minister Ashok Choudhary on Tuesday laid foundation for construction of a multipurpose building to be built from a government grant of Rs 10 crore on the campus of A N College, a constituent unit of Pataliputra University. The building, to be built in an area of 8,000 square feet, would house eight conference halls on the first floor while the three other floors will have departments of commerce, social sciences, humanities and some research centres. Choudhary exhorted teachers and employees to collectively work for ensuring quality education. He said the government was committed to improving infrastructure in educational institutions and it was the duty of the campus people to contribute their best for development of education. The minister appreciated the functioning of A N College and asked students to maintain discipline. Choudhary also recalled the contributions of late leaders Anugrah Narayan Sinha and Satyendra Narayan Sinha in establishing many educational institutions in the state. PPU vice-chancellor Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal asked the college to develop the multipurpose building as a centre for super knowledge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-lays-foundation-for-new-college-building/articleshow/79879563.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Business||Cos can counter pandemic’s impact with inclusive culture||By Saundarya RajeshWhen Sarah (name changed) bolted the lock on her office doors in March, never to open in perhaps the foreseeable future, she could not imagine her team of 70 people ever thinking up a single positive thought. The coronavirus had dismantled the very fabric of everyday work in her small legal firm. When she went to bed that night, restless, distressed and disheartened, she believed that she might never be a proud woman entrepreneur ever again. But over the next few days, things changed rapidly. Sarah’s belief in the values of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) came to the rescue. It ensured that her apex team — comprising people from different age groups, genders and educational backgrounds — got together (remotely, of course) to create several unique solutions to the multi-pronged catastrophe they faced. Everyone’s points were included, and collaborative answers gradually began to emerge. Their cognitive diversity allowed them to boldly experiment with new processes to ensure that work-from-home was efficient. Keeping the net outcome in mind, they decided to provide varied enablers, customised to each teammate, to ensure that everyone was on an equal footing when it came to delivery of work. The cohesion in their culture enabled them to charge up each other’s batteries to face the crisis. Witnessing her team’s resilience in the face of adversity, Sarah was pumped. She began talking to clients with renewed optimism and today, nine months later, her company has posted a record revenue. Sarah’s story could well be mine or yours, or that of any organisation — irrespective of size — which has countered Covid using the gentle yet potent weapon of an inclusive culture. There are many instances around the world of firms — small, medium and large — that have pivoted business models to create new revenue streams. They have retained people amid a challenge unencountered in human memory, and actually utilised the crisis to move to a better place. In all of these, one can find the silent heartbeat of belongingness. I am asked at every forum what the benefits of DEI are. I have spent 20 years in this space and I still feel that my team and I are just uncovering the myriad benefits of a culture that has DEI in its DNA. Sometimes, I simply say that DEI makes you a better, happier person, who sleeps peacefully at night. Earlier, I would share anecdotal evidence. But now, supported by the extensive audit and diagnostic work that we do, we have hard data to show how DEI progresses organisations. The most prominent benefits of DEI are: 1) Better problem solving, 2) greater creativity and 3) higher discretionary effort. In the initial days of the lockdown, many DEI champions (of companies that are fans of an inclusive culture), had anxious conversations with me. I could sense worry in their voices, fear of losing a gorgeous workplace environment that had carefully been nurtured over the years, allowing diversity of multiple strands to flourish — gender, generations, ability, culture, experience and sexual orientation. But, as we ideated, navigating intuitively to reach business goals through the path of an inclusive culture, their apprehension turned into buoyant confidence. Today, these leaders are building their own influential careers on the back of successful DEI strategies that they have created for their businesses. Has diversity survived in the days of the pandemic? The answer is not just a yes, it is a resounding one. Of course, the difference is that companies which really, truly believed in inclusion were already prepared for it. They had taken the effort to invest in diversity (the presence of different types of people), equity (the personalised adaptation of enablers), and inclusion (creating a sensitive and progressive culture filled with belongingness). The ones that were in it because it was lip-service, or because it was the flavour of the season, could only watch as exotic policies created as click-baits fell by the wayside in the heat of the Covid flu. (The writer is founder-president, Avtar Group)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-can-counter-pandemics-impact-with-inclusive-culture/articleshow/79893983.cms||Saundarya Rajesh
December 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No govt help for kin of doctors officially not on Covid duty||NEW DELHI: Dr Hariharan, head of a charitable clinic in east Delhi, was distributing cards for his only daughter’s wedding when he contracted Covid-19 in October, possibly from one of his patients. Initially, he had mild symptoms. But, three to four days later, the 62-year-old doctor developed breathing difficulties following which he was admitted to a private hospital. Dr Hariharan’s condition did not improve despite all treatment and, 31 days later, he died. The wedding, which was scheduled to be held on November 28, was postponed. His family members said they had spent several lakhs in the bills towards the treatment. His daughter, Divya Hariharan, told TOI that the government must acknowledge that private practitioners were also losing their lives to Covid-19. “It may not be possible for the government to help every doctor from the private sector in the course of treatment. But they should at least introduce some policy or guideline to help families who lose their near ones to Covid-19 while treating others and saving lives,” she added. According to Dr Vinay Aggarwal, who heads Covid Martyrs Committee formed by Indian Medical Association (IMA), 723 doctors have died in the country due to Covid-19 over the last 10 months. “Nearly 60% of them are general practitioners like Dr Hariharan. They aren’t associated with any Covid hospital but have lost their lives while trying to save others. Their contribution must be recognised. A national policy is needed to help the families of such victims,” he said. IMA has been collecting funds from its member doctors to provide financial aid to the medical professionals dying due to Covid-19. Dr Arun Gupta, a member of Delhi Medical Council, said the sacrifice of all healthcare workers during the pandemic must be recognised. The present schemes cover only those healthcare workers who are on Covid-19 duty. Those involved in non-Covid services who get infected aren’t covered under most of the available schemes, Dr Gupta said. The central government, for example, runs a scheme called Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting Covid-19, which provides for an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh to healthcare providers who may have to be in direct contact and care of Covid-19 patients. It also includes accidental loss of life on account of contracting Covid-19. Delhi government gives Rs 1 crore compensation to the family of a healthcare worker who succumbs to the disease while on Covid duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-govt-help-for-kin-of-docs-officially-not-on-covid-duty/articleshow/79884887.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 23, 2020||Business||Sensex regains 46k in pullback rally||MUMBAI: The sensex on Tuesday rebounded nearly 900 points from the day’s low to eventually close 453 points higher at 46,007 points. The rollercoaster ride came after BioNTech, the developer of one of the leading Covid-19 vaccines, said that the new virus strain could be managed with a variant of the vaccine. On Monday, the sensex had lost 3% — or over 1,400 points — on news that the new strain was more virulent than the earlier one. On the NSE on Tuesday, the Nifty closed at 13,466, up 138 points on the day. The latest pullback rally was supported by global cues after an overnight positive closing for the Dow Jones index in the US. IT stocks led the rally on Dalal Street, while selling in financials and Reliance Industries contained gains to some extent. Infosys, TCS and HCL Technologies accounted for most of the sensex’s gains, while Kotak Bank, HDFC and RIL contributed negatively, BSE data showed. “Buoyed by global cues, the bulls were back in afternoon trade as IT stocks led the charge, well supported by pharma stocks,” said LKP Securities head (research) S Ranganathan. “Given the spirited pullback rally on Tuesday, it would be interesting to see how the tussle pans out (on Wednesday) to gauge the broader market breadth.” Tuesday’s gains again came mainly on the back of strong foreign fund buying. End-of-the-session data showed that foreign portfolio investors were net buyers at Rs 1,153 crore, after pulling back Rs 324 crore from the market on Monday. So far this month, FPIs have net-bought stocks worth over Rs 52,800 crore, or $7.2 billion, according to CDSL data. The day’s rally also made investors richer by nearly Rs 2 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 180.6 lakh crore. Tuesday’s 1% gain cooled the volatility to some extent. Compared to Monday’s closing at 23.2, the India VIX — a measure of market volatility using options prices on the NSE — declined by more than 5% to 22 by Tuesday’s close. Technically, the bull run in the market could sustain if the Nifty continues to stay above the 13,550 level. While “if the market breaks the 13,100 levels, we may see another decline to 12,900-12,800 levels”, Kotak Securities EVP (equity technical research) Shrikant Chouhan wrote in a note. “On Wednesday, the Nifty would be hit hard at 13,550 and 13,650 levels.” In mid-session trades on Tuesday night on the Wall Street, Dow Jones and S&P 500 indices were marginally down, while Nasdaq was in the positive territory with marginal gains. In case the gains sustain and there are no other negative developments overnight, Dalal Street could witness another session of flat to positive trading on Wednesday, dealers said. In the forex market, the rupee lost another 6 paise to close at 73.85 against the US dollar on Tuesday in line with weaker Asian peers amid concerns over the new coronavirus strain. At the interbank forex market, the domestic unit opened at 73.95 against the US dollar and witnessed an intra-day high of 73.82 and a low of 73.95.On Monday, the rupee plunged 22 paise to end at a two-week low of 73.79 against the US dollar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-regains-46k-in-pullback-rally/articleshow/79893057.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Man throws acid on wife, daughter dies||PATNA: A man threw acid on his wife and daughter suspecting illicit relation in a Madhubani village on Monday. The daughter, Rani Devi (30), succumbed to the burn injuries at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Tuesday, deputy superintendent Baleshwar Prasad said. Her mother Nago Devi (50) was struggling for life. The incident took place at Tulapatganj under Araria Sangram outpost of Jhanjharpur police station area. The accused, identified as Satyanarayan Mahto (60), was arrested soon after the incident and sent to jail on Tuesday. Madhubani SP Satya Prakash told TOI over phone that the accused had poured acid kept inside home for cleaning purpose on his wife and daughter. “The couple had bitter relationship and they often fought with each other,” he said. Araria Sangram police outpost incharge Jitendra Sahni said police investigation revealed that Nago had allegedly an illicit relation with a person. “This was the reason behind their quarrel for the last over 15 years. The woman didn’t allow Mahto to live at home,” Sahni said. He said Mahto suddenly came at his residence on Monday and found his wife with the person who frequently visited her. “Mahto suspected his wife had illicit relation with that person. The man immediately left the house but Mahto attacked Nago with acid in a fit of rage. When their daughter came in attempt to save her mother, she received maximum burn injuries,” he said. Sahni said Rani was married and had recently come home for a few days. He said Mahto used to stay at the village temple and became its priest after his wife kicked him out of home. Sahni said the accused survived on the offerings made in the temple by the villagers. The officer said the couple had a 24-year-old son Devnarayan Mahto, who rushed the duo to hospital. “Villagers nabbed the accused and informed the police,” he said. Sahni said further investigation was going on in connection with the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-throws-acid-on-wife-daughter-dies/articleshow/79884891.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 23, 2020||Patna||With 497 new cases, Bihar’s Covid tally nears 2.5 lakh-mark||PATNA: Altogether 497 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Tuesday taking the tally to 2,48,028. Officially four deaths were reported, which took the toll to 1,362. However, with 2,41,935 recoveries, there are 4,729 active cases in Bihar. As per data shared by the state health department, one death each was reported from Madhubani, Saharsa, Siwan and Vaishali. AIIMS-Patna reported two deaths, including a 22-year-old woman, of Birkhi ward in Madhepura and a 71-year-old man from Cooperative Colony in Purnia. As per the information shared by the hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, 10 patients were admitted and 20 were discharged, and as of Tuesday, there were 176 patients in the hospital. Those admitted were also from different localities of Patna like SK Nagar, SK Puri, Bhattacharya Road and Batpur. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital did not report any death. While three Covid-19 positive were admitted, two were discharged and as of Tuesday, there were 13 patients in the hospital. Of the total 497 new cases reported, 165 were from Patna taking the tally to 46,900. However, with 44,758 recoveries and 363 deaths, there are 1,779 active cases in Patna. Covid-19 cases reported from some other districts include Muzaffarpur (36), Kaimur (25), Begusarai (23), Nalanda (18), Saran (18), Bhagalpur (17), Gaya (14), Vaishali (14), Madhubani (12), Samastipur (12), Bhagalpur (12) and East Champaran (12). As per the tweet shared by the state health minister Mangal Pandey, 577 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and the state's recovery rate was 97.54%. In the same period, 1,19,315 samples were tested and so far over 1.73 crore samples have been tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/with-497-new-cases-states-covid-tally-nears-2-5l-mark/articleshow/79879770.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 23, 2020||Business||Large companies don’t need debt recast: KV Kamath||NEW DELHI: Veteran banker K V Kamath says that soft interest rates will provide the tailwind for businesses to come out of the crisis. In an interview to TOI, he speaks on why a fresh pile of corporate bad loans is not expected to build up due to the pandemic. Excerpts: Which are the segments that are bearing the brunt of the economic pain? Is the pain hidden?Early indications are that larger corporates don’t need debt restructuring support as they have deleveraged. From a debt-equity ratio of 2:1 in 2010, the top ones are now down to 0.5:2. Also, they have got a helping hand because of lower interest rates. It looks like SMEs are also back as they are feeders for large companies, which are now back at 90%. The government measures have made the pain bearable. If we had not opened when we did, the pain would have been very visible. What needs to be carefully watched are the self-employed — persons working with their own hands and the street vendors. It is for us to look at pockets where pain persists and to provide handholding. Although only 80-85% of people are back at work, companies are reporting production at 90%, which means there are productivity gains and the people who are not at work are probably hurting. While retail borrowers also benefit from lower rates, in a couple of weeks, we will have a better picture of the stressed borrowers — the self-employed and those employed in stressed sectors. Which are the companies that are coming up for restructuring?So far, there is no clarity on which companies are hurting as no names have come up. When we did our sitting (in August), it was clear that the first quarter had gone badly and there was a 20-25% loss in production. It looks like they have made up for it in the second quarter. On the retail side, the banks have opened up their websites for applications. The first half results of the 4,000 companies was a pleasant surprise as it showed an expansion in earnings, indicating that there is improved efficiency, which is here to stay. There have been concerns over the proposal to allow corporates to set up banks...What the working group has articulated is three points — the existing structure is not enough to meet our aspirations, the private sector has done well in utilising capital, and internal supervision must improve to support the expansion of banking. Today, the technology to supervise is available. It is possible to get a single view of a customer across all banks, which was not there earlier. What one needs to look at is whether there is any objection (to corporates promoting banks) if internal processes and implementation is tightened. Is there a case for a bad bank?The discussion in a way is academic, the last clean-up that was done in end-2019 was deep enough and capital has been infused. The need for a bad bank would arise if there is a fresh pile of bad debts coming up. So far, we do not see that happening and my view is that we do not need a bad bank as assets are on the mend or capital has already been provided. The RBI has traditionally dealt with bank failures through mergers. Now that branches are no longer attractive, how would resolutions take place?I must commend the RBI on how it has addressed recent challenges. A theoretical construct has been established that if you move quickly and write down equity and tier-2 instruments, that would be enough as long as there are entities to take over cleaned-up banks. Even if branches do not have the same purpose as before, if there are players willing to induct technology and who find a use for the branches it will help. Today, any player is only as strong as the regulatory shield available. Is there really a regulatory shield considering there are neobanks?If you look at any of the payment platforms in China — whether it is Alipay or WeChat, the backbone is the bank through which the money moves. The regulator is comfortable with this as it is possible to set daily limits in a manner that it can be controlled and be in service. Banks are happy to partner with such players as long as they have different revenue models from the banks. The issue will be when they are in competition. We have not seen that yet. Technology must come in a regulated way. Every single player in the financial services must be agile, nimble and adept at using technology. Is it also time to look at cryptocurrency and things like that?I am distant from that product. I don’t understand the product or value-creation in the product. Some of the tools, such as blockchain, have got use and it will get integrated into technology practices. How do you look at the developments at ICICI Bank over the last few years and would you have driven it in the same way as it is running now?It’s not right for me to comment, but if I go back 20-25 years, we set up the bank given what we had in terms of technology. That was the only way we could have grown. We took product leadership in areas where it looked like pioneering bets. The leadership needs to benchmarked on that basis. If they are continuing to do that, I would be happy. But it is their call. Do you see some reluctance among bankers to lend? Do the recent investigative actions have had a role to play?Banks realise that they are not purveyors of long-term funds given the tenor limitations. Second, demand was not at that level because corporate India was going through a churn. The banker’s dharma is to lend, he will lend but will lend cautiously given that he is conscious of ALM mismatches. The marketplace for long-term is getting active with insurance companies achieving scale. Is there a need to have DFIs. What are the learnings that will help avoid that situation 15-20 years down the line?The old DFIs were supported by the government for long-term funding. In a way it looked like venture capital fund as they also provided equity and financed up to 80% of a company’s requirement. Today, markets can provide equity, banks can invest in shorter dated instruments and longer-term must be funded from capital markets. There is a system that is throwing up long-term funding, which did not exist earlier. One lesson from BRICS Bank is that there is an interesting market for these products. The weighted average rating of these five countries is just about investment grade, when they come together, they get AA+ rating, helping access funds at about the finest rates. If you keep yourself lean, the differential in cost is more than made up. The same lesson can go into DFIs. Credit underwriting has become a different game given the improvement in rating skills with the agencies and technology. Is the deleveraging cycle over?The cost of debt is significantly lower than the cost of equity. The sheer cash flow generated by Corporate India is self-sustaining to finance growth, which means we are not as debt hungry as in the past. We will continue with this. Debt will be required at the infrastructure-end and retail-end. The retail customer will be debt hungry and retail debt to GDP is quite low so we have a lot of things to do there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/large-cos-dont-need-debt-recast-kamath/articleshow/79889043.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 23, 2020||Business||ICICI Bank launches MNC services platform||MUMBAI: ICICI Bank has launched an online platform ‘Infinite India’, which provides value-added and banking services to multinational companies seeking to do business in India. The value-added services include incorporation, taxation, HR and registration services while the banking services include authorisation of office, digital banking, trade and treasury services. The non-banking services are provided in partnership with a cloud-based business accounting and corporate services firm. With this platform, any multinational, from anywhere in the world, from any industry can visit the bank’s portal and avail of the services. “Due to many reasons, China’s attractiveness is going down and India is becoming a prominent destination. The digital ecosystem has also worked in India’s favour, which is also resulting in MNCs choosing India over other Asian countries. When you have digital ecosystem, tracking and governance also improve,” said Vishakha Mulye, executive director, ICICI Bank. She said that this is in keeping with the bank’s strategy to keep the focus of ICICI Bank’s global business India-centric. “We have relations with over 1,500 MNCs in the country and the number will only grow. The platform will not only help new clients but also benefit existing ones to do business in India,” she said. Mulye added that MNCs did not require credit as much as they needed services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-launches-mnc-services-platform/articleshow/79893462.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Patna||Domestic violence cases saw a decline in 2019-2020 in Bihar: NFHS report||PATNA: The latest National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5, 2019-20) report has shown a decline in domestic violence experienced by married women when compared to the previous survey. The percentage of married women (18-49 years) who reported facing physical or sexual violence from the spouse has come down to 40% from 43.7% in the past five years while women who experienced physical violence during pregnancy has also declined from 4.8% to 2.8%. About 8.3% of young women (age 18 to 29) reported having faced sexual violence as compared to 14.2%. NFHS-5 fieldwork for Bihar was conducted between July 9, 2019, and February 2, 2020, and the information was gathered from 35,834 households, 42,483 women, and 4,897 men. However, experts and women activists have flagged the fact that there was an exponential rise in domestic violence during the Covid-19 pandemic, particularly during the lockdown, a period not covered in the survey. Arti Kumari Jaiswal, SHO of Patna Mahila police station said around 2-3% domestic violence cases increased after lockdown, mainly due to financial reasons, misunderstandings, extramarital affairs, dowry harassment and sexual conflicts. “So far 142 such cases have been registered at the Mahila police station this year, however, we receive 5-6 cases on an average of domestic violence per day, before pandemic it was 2-3 cases per day,” Jaiswal told this newspaper on Monday. She added, “Some cases we resolved through counselling of married couples but a few of them failed to reach any decision and registered complaints.” According to the Bihar State Women Commission (BSWC) figures, altogether 1,384 cases of domestic violence have been reported in the lockdown period. Of which, 815 cases are from Patna, followed by 47 in Muzaffarpur, 45 in Bhojpur, 44 in Nalanda, 40 each in Buxar and Rohtas and 39 Samastipur districts. In 2019, 1,592 cases were reported from January till December and 1,270 in 2018. Dr Binda Singh, a clinical psychologist, said during the lockdown, physical and emotional abuse emerged as the most common form of domestic violence. “Most such cases were due to ego clashes, frustration of work, monetary issues and intolerance. The increasing frequency of sexual demand from the husband implies intensification of emotional, physical and psychological stress for women, who are already burdened with household chores,” she said. “During the lockdown, the tolerance of women and men completely wore out. Women complained that husband did not give them moral support whereas the men said she disrespected his mother. Even now, we receive 2-3 cases of domestic violence per day but during the lockdown, the incidence of such cases was more,” Dr Binda told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/domestic-violence-cases-saw-a-decline-in-2019-20-in-bihar-nfhs-report/articleshow/79879999.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 23, 2020||Patna||Ballots likely to make way for EVMs in Bihar rural polls||PATNA: The Bihar State Election Commission (SEC) has proposed to conduct panchayat election using EVMs for the first time to fill up the 2.58 lakh posts. “The proposal of the SEC to conduct panchayat election through EVMs is under active consideration of the state government, and it will take about a week to decide,” Chandrashekhar Singh, the director of the Panchayati raj department, said on Tuesday. A series of meetings deliberated upon the SEC's proposal to hold the panchayat election through EVMs. “If the proposal gets the approval, EVMs will be used for the first time in the panchayat election in the state,” he told this newspaper over the phone. Another officer said the government in principle has agreed to conduct the polls through EVMs. “The proposal will be sent to the cabinet for its approval soon,” he said, adding the issue figured at a high-level meeting early this week. The election, likely to be held in May, is estimated to cost about Rs 450 crore. Of which around Rs 300 crore is meant for the SEC, including Rs 125 crore for the purchase of EVMs. There are 8,387 gram panchayats, 534 panchayat samitis and 38 district boards in the state and 2.58 lakh total posts with 1,14,667 lakh ward members each and panchs in the gram panchayats. There are 8,387 posts of mukhiya, 8,387 sarpanch, 11,491 panchayat samiti and 1,161 posts of district board members. Elections for the three-tier rural local bodies are held for six posts— ward member, mukhiya, panchayat samiti member, district board member, panch and sarpanch. The electors earlier were provided six sets of ballot papers during the voting to elect their candidates. “If EVMs are used for the polls, then the electors will have to press six buttons on the EVMs to vote against six posts,” a senior officer of the Panchayati raj department said. Authoritative sources said the exercise to revise the electoral rolls has already started in the districts. The DMs have been told to ensure revision of electoral rolls in each ward under their jurisdiction. The revised photo electoral rolls would get published on February 15. The DMs will undertake campaigns from December 27 to January 10 for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ballots-likely-to-make-way-for-evms-in-rural-polls/articleshow/79879765.cms||Ramashankar
December 23, 2020||Patna||Red Cross Society to open blood bank club in Gaya||GAYA: In a bid to make blood available to the needy, the Red Cross Society is planning to open a blood bank club here in the next three-four months. On Monday, district magistrate Abhishek Singh handed over certificate to 114 volunteers of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Youth brigade at a programme organized by the society to felicitate the donors. The brigade has been working in the district for the last 10 years. Addressing the programme the DM said, “The national highways are vulnerable to accidents. On social media, we very often get posts about road accidents and the accident victim in need of blood. Volunteers of the brigade have been doing commendable work by donating blood to the needy due to which several lives could be saved.” Praising the volunteers, he added, “Even during lockdown, when most of the people remained indoors, the donors provided blood to the needy.” The DM asked to update the website of the district and the health department with information about availability of blood of different groups. He also asked to make available name of the donors with cell phone numbers and their blood group. He appealed to the people to come forward and donate blood. SSP Rajiv Mishra said, “More deaths are reported in road accidents than the crime incidents. Many accident victims succumb due to profuse bleeding. Thus, blood donation becomes very important.” As Gaya these days is in the grip of shivering cold, the DM also appealed to the people that a cabin has been made at the collectorate where they can donate warm clothes for the poor. Gaya Red Cross secretary Dr SK Sahay said, “The society has been providing healthcare facilities like daily outdoor, vaccination, physiotherapy, bio-therapy, ambulance, oxygen bank, blood bank, five dead body deep freezers and mortuary vehicle. Apart from these, the plan to open blood bank club will be executed in the coming three-four months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-red-cross-society-to-open-blood-bank-club/articleshow/79879323.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Patna||Purnia DAO arrested on graft charge||PATNA: Purnia district agriculture officer (DAO) Shankar Kumar Jha was caught red handed by the vigilance investigation bureau while accepting Rs.1.5 lakh as bribe in lieu of re-validating the license of a shop on Tuesday. A bureau team headed by deputy superintendent of police Vimlendu Kumar Verma laid a trap and arrested the DAO his office when he was accepting the bribe from a complainant Bambam Alok Choudhary. Authoritative sources said that the DAO and his clerk Ajay Kumar had demanded a bribe from Choudhary, a resident of Lakdipatti near Gulab Bagh in Purnia town, for renewal of license of his shop. Choudhary had lodged a complaint with the bureau police station on December 14 against the DAO and his office assistant. The allegations were found to be true during preliminary investigation conducted by the officials of the bureau. On Tuesday, a trap team led by DSP Verma caught the DAO red handed when he was taking the bribe in his office. Verma later told media persons in Purnia that the arrested DAO would be produced before a special vigilance court in Bhagalpur after interrogation. Senior officials in the bureau office said that investigations were on to ascertain whether the arrested DAO had amassed wealth to his known sources of income. About two years ago, sub-divisional agriculture officer Prafulla Kumar Jha was arrested from Darbhanga by the vigilance bureau officials for taking a bribe of Rs.13,500 for clearing payment against the work done in the department. In 2015, the district agriculture officer of Buxar Prem Shankar Ram was arrested from his rented accommodation while accepting Rs.1 lakh as bribe for clearing bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/purnia-dao-arrested-on-graft-charge/articleshow/79879435.cms||Ramashankar
December 23, 2020||Patna||Three judges dismissed from service||PATNA: The state government issued notification on Monday dismissing three judges of lower judiciary from service for highly objectionable and improper conduct. The three were allegedly caught in compromising position with women inside a hotel in Nepal in January, 2013. Among the three, Hari Niwas Gupta was then a principal judge of a family court in Samastipur while Komal Ram was chief judicial magistrate in Araria and Jitendra Nath Singh was posted as ad hoc additional district and sessions judge in Araria. Their dismissal from service would be deemed effective from February 12, 2014, the date when the same action was taken by state government for the first time on the recommendation of the Patna high court without any disciplinary inquiry. The state government, in its notification, has also mentioned that the three judicial officers would not get any consequential post-service dues or benefits. It was on November 8, 2019 that the Supreme Court had vacated the stay on the high court’s ruling against the three judges. It had also allowed the state government to decide on dismissing the trio from service after which the action was taken. The matter was highlighted by a newspaper in Nepal on January 29, 2013 that the three judges were caught inside a hotel in compromising position with women by Nepal police, but were later released somehow. The Patna high court had taken cognizance of the report and ordered an inquiry to be conducted by Purnia district and sessions judge. Though in the inquiry report, it was submitted that the Nepalese newspaper published corrigendum, but the high court remained dissatisfied and had sought union ministry of home affair’s assistance in the matter. In the MHA’s inquiry, it surfaced that the three were present at Forbesganj, which is on the Indian side near Nepal border, instead of the places of their posting. It was also found that prior to location traced at Forbesganj, their cellphones were switched off for a long time on January 26-27, 2013. It also came to light that Ram had submitted a forged bill of a hotel for stay in Purnia on January 26-27. The high court made recommendation to the government for dismissing them and action was taken on February 12, 2014. However, the three judges challenged their dismissal on judicial side on the grounds of not carrying out any disciplinary proceedings against them. The high court formed a five-judge committee which once again recommended for their dismissal over which a full-bench ordered for their dismissal on judicial side again. But the trio moved the apex court challenging it on which a stay was granted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-judges-dismissed-from-service/articleshow/79879010.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Patna||Separate gallery for corona warriors at R-Day function||PATNA: There will be a separate gallery for corona warriors who contributed in control of the pandemic at the Republic Day function at Gandhi Maidan in Patna. After holding a meeting with the senior administrative and police officers on Tuesday on preparations for the function, Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said about 50 corona warriors, including doctors, paramedical staff and plasma donors would be seated in a separate gallery. Authorities of PMCH, NMCH, AIIMS-P and Patna civil surgeon (SC) will be asked to send selected number of people for attending the R-Day function. Agarwal also asked directed the CS to ensure Covid test for all those participating in the R-Day parade on the day of beginning of the rehearsal on January 11. The units scheduled for the parade are from the Central Reserve Police Force, Sashastra Seema Bal, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Central Industrial Security Force, District Military Police, Bihar Military Police, Home guard, NCC, Army, Scout and Guide, fire brigade and others. Agarwal said sitting arrangements should be made keeping social distancing in mind. Adequate number of police personnel with magistrates will be deputed to allow entry of those having identity cards. Instructions were also issued for cleaning and barricading of the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/separate-gallery-for-corona-warriors-at-r-day-function/articleshow/79879749.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar government to raise Rs 6,000 crore from banks for paddy procurement||PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday gave its nod to the food and consumer protection department to raise Rs 6,000 crore as working capital through loans from various commercial banks for the Bihar State Food Corporation Limited. The loans have been raised by the food and consumer protection department against paddy procurement from November 23 this year to July 31, 2021. Further, the state cooperative department has raised loans worth Rs 3,500 crore from various financial institutions for Bihar State Cooperative Bank Limited (BSCBL) to meet the Kharif crops expenses for the 2020-21 financial year. The state cabinet gave its sanction to the government’s guarantee of raising of loans from the institutions concerned by the cooperative department. They include National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC), National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) and other financial institutions. The cabinet gave its sanction to the adjustment of loans worth Rs 18.05 crore taken from NCDC by the cooperative department till January 5, 2021. Accordingly, the cabinet gave its nod for the advance withdrawal of the required sum from the state contingency fund for the adjustment of the loan capital worth Rs 18.05 crore and interest accrued on it worth Rs 26.02 crore. The cabinet also gave its sanction for 205 posts for the sub-divisional courts, police outpost, Bihar Rajya Pool Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL) and building construction department. The government has decided to create as many as 128 posts of non-gazetted employees in the sub-divisional courts Neemchak Bathani and Manihari (Katihar), Phulparas and Jainagar (Madhubani), Rajauli (Nawada), Mahua (Vaishali), Nirmali and Triveniganj (Supaul). Further, 32 posts have been created for new police outposts to be opened in Gaya district, while one post of IT manager for BRPNNL and 44 other posts in the building construction department have been created. The cabinet gave its nod for making the payment ex gratia to the personnel concerned engaged during the Lok Sabha and assembly polls, as well as during the by-elections. The cabinet gave its sanction to the selection of Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation for the construction of the guest house on the 0.450 acres of land in ‘Shri Jagannath Enclave’ near Balukhand village at Puri. The cabinet also gave its nod to the dismissal of a medical officer at the Dhamdaha PHC, Dr Sajjad Haider, for remaining absent from duty since 2006. An assistant engineer in Darbhanga division of the building construction department, S Rehman, has been also dismissed for absenting himself since February 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cabinet-nod-for-rs-6k-crore-for-paddy-procurement/articleshow/79879489.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Agra||‘Love jihad’: Etah couple still on the run, 14 relatives of accused in jail now after 8 more arrests||AGRA: Eight more relatives of the 28-year-old Muslim man, on the run after being accused of “kidnapping and unlawfully converting” a Hindu woman to Islam, were on Tuesday booked and arrested. With the recent arrests, 14 members of Mohammad Javed’s family, mostly distant relatives, are behind the bars in Etah. Sources in local police said that the arrests were meant to “create pressure” on the absconding couple to turn themselves in. Police believed that the woman was somewhere in Delhi, while Javed was still in UP, constantly changing his location. “Javed and his four close relatives are still absconding,” a police officer said, adding that they will also be arrested soon. A reward of Rs 25,000 on each of the five men has also been announced. The case under the UP’s new anti-conversion law was filed on Thursday at Etah’s Jalesar police station on the basis of a complaint filed by the woman’s father, a local businessman. According to police, the woman has been missing since November 17. But her family filed a case last Thursday when they received a letter by Javed’s lawyer from Delhi purportedly informing about the woman’s conversion and the subsequent marriage in a court. The case was registered under IPC section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) and under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. Javed runs a cloth shop and is a neighbour of the woman. Deputy superintendent of police Ram Niwas Singh said, “14 people have been arrested so far. Three police teams are trying to find the woman, and arrest the absconding accused.” Jalesar’s station house officer (SHO) Krishna Pal Singh said, “Three persons were arrested on Saturday, and another three on Sunday. And eight more relatives were arrested on Tuesday. During the investigation, we found that they were in regular contact with the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/love-jihad-etah-couple-still-on-the-run-14-relatives-of-accused-in-jail-now-after-8-more-arrests/articleshow/79879844.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 23, 2020||Goa||Goa govt withdraws nod mandate for expense of over Rs 2 crore||PANAJI: With the state’s finances improving, the government has withdrawn the circular that mandated expenditure approval for procurement and infrastructure projects valued at over Rs 2 crore. The circular had been issued on November 26 in order to ensure “efficient utilisation” of limited funds and help the government form a “qualitative appraisal” of the projects on which taxpayers’ money was being utilised. “The government is pleased to withdraw the circular with immediate effect. This is issued with the approval of the finance minister,” said under-secretary for finance expenditure Premraj Shirodkar. 12% GST shortfall in NovemberThe government has issued a new circular to this effect. On November 19, chief minister Pramod Sawant had announced that the austerity measures imposed on June 10 would be lifted so that recruitment and infrastructure works could resume. However, on November 26, the finance department had asked all departments to obtain prior permission from the finance (expenditure) department before incurring expenditure of over Rs 2 crore. The November 26 circular had said that proposals below Rs 2 crore would also have to be referred to the finance (expenditure) department, but only after sufficient budget provision is made, administrative approval obtained and the tender process is completed. Along with an improvement in economic activity, the Centre has also disbursed Rs 429 crore to Goa as compensation for the shortfall in GST collections. GST collections for Goa continue to remain sluggish with the state facing a 12% shortfall in November even though the national average showed GST collections in the positive territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-withdraws-nod-mandate-for-expense-of-over-rs-2-crore/articleshow/79888955.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Patna||BJP accuses Narkatia RJD MLA of hiding facts from EC, seeks annulment of election||PATNA: State BJP chief Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal on Tuesday said the Supreme Court and the Election Commission should take suo motu cognizance of the bid of RJD MLA from Narkatia Shamim Ahmad to hide from the authorities concerned the two criminal cases pending against him. He also pleaded for the annulment of Ahmad’s election. Ahmad filed his nomination papers on October 19 for contesting the election from Narkatia, Dr Jaiswal said, adding that he, however, withheld the information regarding two criminal cases pending against him from the notary for his personal affidavit. As per the Election Commission order, the details about the criminal cases should have been noted in the affidavit and other prescribed formats, while the Supreme Court order also warranted that they be published in the newspaper or be made public through TV new channels, which was not done, Dr Jaiswal said. He also said the apex court should treat the stance of the RJD MLA concerned as contempt of its own standing order with regard to making the pending criminal case public by anyone who decides to contest an election. The apex court should immediately annul the election of Ahmad, Dr Jaiswal also pleaded. As a matter of fact, a state BJP delegation led by the party’s state convener of its election cell, Radhika Raman, submitted a petition to the state chief electoral officer on Tuesday, urging him to take suo motu cognizance of Ahmad’s bid to hide the facts from the returning officer and district election officer. Ahmad even withheld the information from the Election Commission or the state chief electoral officer by not mentioning them in the mandatory relevant formats as had been prescribed by the Election Commission, besides not mentioning them in the personal affidavit that he attached with the nomination papers, Dr Jaiswal said. Incidentally, Ahmad furnished the information regarding the two criminal cases pending against him to the RJD to which he belongs. Following this, the RJD put the information about his criminal cases on its official website, Dr Jaiswal said, adding that it appeared strange that RJD made it public, but Ahmad himself withheld the information from the Election Commission and violated the Supreme Court order. Despite repeated attempts on his phone numbers, Ahmad could not be reached for his comments on the BJP allegations. BJP gearing up for PM’s Mann Ki Baat: As to enlightening the farmers and others concerned about the three farm laws enacted by the Centre, Dr Jaiswal said the party has mobilized the state’s farmers and also asked the party’s rank and file to listen to the Mann Ki Baat programme of PM Narendra Modi to be broadcast on December 25, the national day of good governance. He said the state BJP leaders have already addressed the farmers and party workers on the three farm laws at Kisan rallies in 93 assembly constituencies. Around 2.5 lakh farmers have been apprised of the three farm laws through the rallies, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-seeks-annulment-of-rjd-mlas-election-from-narkatia/articleshow/79879804.cms||Abhay Singh
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||BJP pins hopes on PM, Amit Shah to boost prospects||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is expecting that the likely visits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah before the local body elections in February 2021 will provide the much-needed boost to its prospects in the polls. Key sources said the state government has made a request for PM Modi and Amit Shah to visit Gujarat in the coming days. Sources added that the PM and Shah can attend official functions in Gujarat before the code of conduct for the local body polls is expected to come into force around mid-January next year. The state BJP leadership also has requested Modi and Shah — the party’s star campaigners — to visit the state during campaigning. After the Supreme Court directions to conduct elections, the state election commission has started process of organising the elections before the end of February. Elections will be held for six municipal corporations, 55 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats. Polls of these local bodies, originally scheduled for November this year, were postponed due to Covid-19 outbreak. “Although the BJP is better placed compared to the 2015 elections when caste based agitations were at their peak, voters and leaders are keen to have PM Narendra Modi and Amit Shah visit Gujarat before the local body elections,” said a senior BJP leader. “The state government has requested for the PM and Shah’s time in coming few days as the election code of conduct is likely around January 15. They can attend official functions before the code of conduct comes into force. Their response is awaited. The presence of Modi and Shah before the local body elections will charge up the BJP’s campaign,” sources in the party said. Modi and Shah are expected to touch voter base in all six municipal corporations as well as major panchayats, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-pins-hopes-on-pm-shah-to-boost-prospects/articleshow/79888942.cms||Kapil Dave
December 23, 2020||Patna||Seven shot at in separate incidents in Bhojpur||ARA: Seven persons were shot at over land disputes or personal enmities in three separate incidents in Bhojpur district on Tuesday. Four persons were shot at in Posawan village under Garhani police station. The injured were identified as Sonu Kumar Singh (25), son of one Raj Narayan Singh, Mukesh Singh (35), son of Vinod Singh, Mritunjaya Singh (38) and Akhilendra Singh (60), when they were trying to mediate in a land dispute between two groups of the village. They were rushed to the Ara Sadar hospital. Dr Vikas Kumar Singh, who attended the injured, said they were out of danger. While Sonu received a bullet injury in his left hand near shoulder, the three others had received pellet (chharra) injuries. In another incident, an 18-year-old youth named Aham Yadav, son of one Ashok Yadav of Mahatma Gandhi Nagar under the Nawada police station, was shot at by some unidentified miscreants at Vishnu Nagar near the Bazar Samiti water tank in the town. A vegetable seller named Satyendra Ram (45), son of one Vikram Ram of Kalyanpur village under the Udwantnagar police station of Bhojpur district, was accidentally shot at in the firing while he was passing by. Aham told the media at Sadar hospital that he had gone to meet a friend in Vishnu Nagar when he was shot at in his left shoulder. Satyendra was shot at below his right knee. In yet another incident at Karja village under the Bihiya police station, 26-year-old Niranjan Kumar Yadav, son of one Shri Bhagwan Yadav, was shot at outside his house on Tuesday morning. He told the media at the Sadar hospital his father had a land dispute with a village youth. When he was cleaning outside his house, some miscreants came and fired at him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-shot-at-in-separate-incidents-in-bhojpur/articleshow/79879242.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Patna||Cop held for woman colleague’s ‘rape’ in Patna||PATNA: A constable was arrested for allegedly raping his female colleague in a hotel at Rajiv Nagar in the state capital on Tuesday. The accused was identified as Rajeev Kumar, who is posted as armourer at police lines in Saharsa district. The female constable is attached to women’s battalion in Sasaram. Police said both were in their late 30s. Rajiv Nagar police station SHO (incharge) Yogendra Ravidas said the woman’s husband had lodged an FIR against Rajeev alleging that he had allured her to the hotel and raped her. The SHO said the husband approached the police at around 2.30am and police raided the hotel on road number 14 in Rajiv Nagar. “Both were found inside a room which was booked online,” he said. Ravidas said the woman constable told the police that she was having an affair with Rajeev for the last one and a half years. “Her statement before a judicial magistrate could not be recorded on Tuesday. The course of the case would depend on her statement before the judicial magistrate,” he said. Ravidas said after investigation, it would become clear if Rajeev had reached Patna on leave or on the pretext of some official work or without informing anyone. He said the woman constable was presently on deputation in Patna for duty in constable selection process going on at Gardanibagh. “She has a five-year-old son and a 12-year-old daughter. Her husband lives at Ara,” he said, adding further investigation were on. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/constable-arrested-for-woman-colleagues-rape/articleshow/79879690.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 23, 2020||Business||Covid offers an opportunity for renewal: N Chandra||MUMBAI: In his New Year message to 7.5 lakh employees, Tata Group chairman N Chandrasekaran said the coronavirus pandemic has “rewritten the rules”, “offering opportunities for renewal” and “providing a glimpse of the new economy that will emerge from the old”. “Buried in the stress and trauma of Covid-19 are opportunities for renewal. Pandemics have, in the past, inspired progress in medicine, urban planning, architecture and countless other fields. This one will be the same,” Chandrasekaran said. Chandrasekaran steered the $106-billion Tata Group into diagnostic products and digital platforms amid the pandemic. In diagnostic products, the conglomerate has developed technology for detection of Covid genomic sequence. And in digital platforms, it is looking at inorganic growth. “This moment is akin to walking on a bridge, but it’s a special bridge, because we are not simply waiting to see what is on the other side. Instead, we have a hand in building our destination,” said Chandrasekaran. Emphasising that the pandemic has rewritten the rules, he said, “This year we learnt that many things once undertaken outside the home can be done equally well inside it. Shopping. Education. Healthcare. Work.” He added that alongside practical adaptations to lockdown, there has been a shift in priorities: Greater focus on safety and resilience, and a transition from “just in time” toward “just in case”. “Such changes offer a glimpse of the new economy that will emerge from the old”. Chandrasekaran, who before taking over as Tata Group chairman was the CEO of TCS, had said on an earlier occasion that his years at the software company shaped him in such a way that his roots are embedded in technology, which made him see the pandemic and its impact on businesses with a positive frame of mind. The chairman had also said he expects the Indian economy to grow at over 11% in FY22 as several indicators have rebounded faster than expected after the initial loss due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-offers-an-opportunity-for-renewal-chandra/articleshow/79891611.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Delhi||’Tis the season for trimmed festivities||NEW DELHI: This year, Christmas celebrations will be quite different. The mass prayers in churches will not be possible due to Covid restrictions. Many Christmas gatherings will, therefore, be streamed in real time. Father SY Sankar of Sacred Heart Cathedral in Gol Dak Khana said that all the bigger churches of Delhi have a common registration platform for people who want to visit the churches. “Only 100 people will be allowed into any church. As soon as that limit is reached, the registration window will be closed,” he said. Father John Samuel of the Mar Gregorious Orthodox Church in Janakpuri disclosed that the spots were filling up very fast. “More than a thousand people usually join us for Christmas prayers because this is the most important day for Christians. This time, however, only a hundred can participate, and nobody wants to miss out,” Samuel said. At Free Church at Jantar Mantar, Reverend Timothy Shaw said that while the congregation would not be able to gather in numbers as usual, the church had made arrangements for people to take the sacrament of Holy Communion from 11am to 1pm on Christmas day. Meanwhile, Christmas is also the time for streetchildren to dress up as Santa Claus and sell caps and other Christmas items at the traffic intersections. This time though, there are very few of them hailing down motorists. As Tarun, a homeless boy who lives off alms, said, “I used to sell Santa caps at the Kirby Place traffic signal in the cantonment area, but I know this year very few will buy them, so I am begging rather than selling caps. At least, I can earn some money this way. If we ask people to buy caps from us, they won’t even roll down the car windows.” Connaught Place, which sees many street hawkers selling Santa Claus costumes and caps, among other Christmas wares, hasn’t seen much colour this time. When asked about the change, a street vendor dejectedly said it was futile to try and sell anything related to Christmas because there was no enthusiasm this year. “Usually, people buy things from us and then carry those things to the churches they visit. But this time since not many people will go to churches, so they aren’t buying anything from us either,” grumbled the street peddler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tis-the-season-for-trimmed-festivities/articleshow/79884898.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 23, 2020||Allahabad||CM holds meeting with BJP cadres||Varanasi: CM Yogi Adityanath held a closed door meeting with theBJP cadres from four districts of Varanasi division on the issues of coordination between the party and government officials. Apart from BJP Kashi region unit president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava MPs, MLAs, presidents of district, city and divisional units were present in meeting held at circuit house. Later, the CM also reviewed the progress of ongoing development works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cm-holds-meeting-with-bjp-cadres/articleshow/79846605.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Patna||SSB Patna frontier adjudged the best||PATNA: The Patna frontier of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) has been adjudged the best for its performance against narcotics nationwide this year. It has been also adjudged the best in carrying relief and rescue operations as well as the best frontier in civic action programmes where villagers in Maoist or remote areas of Indo-Nepal border or wherever the forces are deployed, in providing with various kinds of assistance which may be in the form of either supplying necessary materials, medicines or other items or by imparting various kinds of training and skills for earning livelihood. In a press release issued by frontier headquarters, Patna frontier received one trophy each in all three categories from SSB DG Kumar Rajesh Chandra. Patna frontier IG Sanjay Kumar received the trophies in New Delhi on Sunday on the SSB’s 57th establishment day. Besides, the 32nd battalion of Patna frontier was also given trophy for best anti-Maoist operation. Battalion Commander Deepak Singh received the trophy. It was this battalion’s small team which had carried out an anti-Maoist operation in the tough hilly terrain amid heavy rain in which four Reds were neutralized in Bagaha on July 10 this year. Five weapons, including one AK-47 assault rifle, three self-loading rifles were recovered in that operation. SSB’s Patna frontier commands altogether 17 battalions of which 11 are deployed for guarding Indo-Nepal international border in Bihar, which is a major route for smuggling of narcotics. Three more battalions at different locations in Bihar and two at Ranchi and Dumka in Jharkhand are engaged in anti-Maoist operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssb-patna-frontier-adjudged-the-best/articleshow/79879494.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Spooked: Prices of cotton dip||Ahmedabad: With the new strain of the novel coronavirus that emerged in the UK spooking markets, cotton prices have fallen by Rs 600-700 per candy over the past two days. The price of the Shankar-6 cotton variety fell from Rs 42,200-42,900 per candy (356kg) on Saturday to Rs 41,400-42,200 on Tuesday. “Prices have dipped by Rs 600-700 per candy as the new coronavirus strain in the UK has increased apprehensions about exports,” said Arun Dalal, a city-based cotton broker. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spooked-prices-of-cotton-dip/articleshow/79884905.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Fight for justice: A courageous few braved overwhelming challenges||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Police showing undue hurry to close the case as a suicide and destroy crucial evidence, a court order that ruled a crucial scientific evidence inadmissible, a hoard of witnesses that turned hostile and a key witness with a questionable credibility — challenges that people, who fought for justice for Sister Abhaya, had to face at various stages of the case was literally insurmountable. Yet, reminiscent of the biblical story of David and Goliath. Jomon Puthanpurackal, the social activist who waged a seemingly unwinnable war against the might of the church, CBI officer Varghese P Thomas, who first suspected the case to be a murder and later quit the agency refusing to succumb to the pressure from senior officers to write off the case as a suicide, CBI prosecutor M Navas who had to take on two giants, advocate B Raman Pillai and J Jose and finally, the key witness Adakka Raju, whose personal life was attacked by the defence lawyers to invalidate his credibility, the 28-year-long case had many underdog tales to tell. CBI prosecutor M Navas, who joined CBI unit in Andaman and Nicobar Islands in 2013, moved to Kochi in 2016 and to Thiruvananthapuram in 2019. A resident of Kowdiar, Navas is an alumnus of Govt Law College, Thiruvananthapuram. He remained unintimidated before the stalwarts of advocates standing against him and firmly held his ground. Perhaps the only key figure who did not fall in the leagues of underdogs was the investigating officer Nandakumaran Nair. But, he too had to face his fair share of setbacks, especially when the scientific procedure, the narco analysis test he conducted on the suspects to bring out their role in the crime, was ruled inadmissible as evidence by the court. It was in 2008, he took over the case. Though he was supposed to retire from service this December, he was given an extension by the Centre. He is currently serving as the head of special crime branch units of CBI in Mumbai and Thiruvananthapuram. The long life of this case is also because of the stubborn stance taken by chief judicial magistrates of Ernakulam before whom CBI investigators had pleaded to close the case thrice. K K Utharan, Antony T Morais and P D Sarangadharan had rejected the closure reports and ordered further probe on different occasions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fight-for-justice-a-courageous-few-braved-overwhelming-challenges/articleshow/79885205.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
December 23, 2020||Delhi||AAP takes out rallies against Rs 2,500 crore ‘scam’||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday took out ‘padyatras’ in all the 272 wards in Delhi as a mass campaign against Rs 2,500 crore “scam” in BJP-led municipal corporations. AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak said more than 20,000 volunteers and citizens took part in these rallies. They met people in all the wards and told them about the “misappropriation of Rs 2,500 crore between North Corporation and South Corporation,” he added. “AAP is turning this case of Rs 2,500 crore misappropriation into a mass movement,” Pathak said in a press conference. “We told people about how the BJP-led corporations have completely ruined Delhi and how BJP made the corporations bankrupt. We explained to the citizens that why every road, every lane and every street of Delhi is full of garbage. The reason behind this is that the civic bodies do not work properly. We apprised the citizens of the garbage mountains created by them and the corruption of BJP councillors,” said Pathak. “I am confident that after seeing the corruption in the corporations, people of Delhi will defeat BJP in the upcoming municipal elections,” he added. The municipal polls are likely in early 2022. AAP wants to make it an issue against BJP, which has rejected the charges and said it is open to probe by any agency, including the CBI. Meanwhile, the AAP functionary cited a recent court order regarding the clearance of the pending salary of corporations employees and said the order had no mention of the imaginary Rs 13,000 crore, which BJP claims that the AAP government has to pay to the corporations. “After continuous protest by civic bodies employees, the BJP-led corporations were forced to release their salary. They released the salaries of a month or two but continued their unsuccessful attempt to defame the Kejriwal government. It looks like that BJP is deliberately trying to defame the Kejriwal government by lying to the people of Delhi regarding some imaginary fund crunch,” said Pathak. Slamming BJP, the AAP functionary said just to politicise the situation, they have pushed the lives of thousands of employees to crisis. “The employees are going on strike again from January 7 on the issue of non-payment of their salaries because the corporations have not paid their salaries for several months,” Pathak added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-takes-out-rallies-against-rs-2-5k-cr-scam/articleshow/79884938.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Goa||Goa: Rough road to recovery for catering sector, continues to reel under losses||BICHOLIM/COLVA: After several months of restrictions on large gatherings, especially weddings, due to the pandemic, the norms are being gradually relaxed now. One of the worst hit from the curbs is the food service or catering industry. Though more guests are allowed now for marriage receptions and other such ceremonies than during the last eight months, caterers in Goa said they are still reeling from heavy losses. Recovery, if any, is painfully slow. “The first hit was the lockdown, due to which all our raw material was wasted,” Bicholim-based caterer Sandeep Mashelkar said. Jimmy Cota of Jimson Caterers, Betalbatim, said he had to discard stock provisions worth Rs 3-4 lakh. As the lockdown progressed, bookings were cancelled and all enquiries, which were in process, whittled away. “Some clients cancelled bookings, some changed the dates and some postponed their weddings for next year,” Cota said. ‘Since unlock, people afraid to eat food prepared outside’“Those who had advanced the money have been given two years’ time to avail our service, but there are some who have not accepted the terms so I have requested them to wait till the situation improves,” said Cota. Anthony Pinto of Pinto Caterers, Varca, said the sector is not hopeful of a full revival until November 2021. “Small weddings with 100 people are not financially viable. People are not only scared to attend gatherings, they are also afraid to eat food prepared outside. Since the Unlock, however, we have catered to small parties, where the host comes and picks up the ordered food and they are charged on a per kilo basis,” said Pinto. President of the Goa State Catering Association, Pradosh Amonkar, said the sector is the source of livelihood for families of 25,000 to 30,000 workers in the state. He said their peak business season is from April to December, but till June everything was at a standstill. The association said that, since April, around 550 caterers across Goa have been hit and that though marriages and birthday parties are now being allowed in community halls with up to 200 guests, recovering loses is still a very slow process. “I appeal to each municipality to give us relaxation from garbage collection fees as we are not in a position to pay it unless our business picks up. We are concerned as catering licences are not renewed unless the garbage collection fee is paid,” Amonkar, the co-founder and director of Amonkar catering services and a board member of the federation of All India Catering Association. Caterers said that in a state like Goa, where there are few industries to generate large scale employment, the food industry was one of the most viable options. “After the shutdown of sectors, like mining, the catering industry is the last hope of employment for the people in Bicholim,” said owner of Noda Caterers, Abhijit Teli of Bicholim, which has a disproportionately high number of caterers. The caterers in Bicholim claimed that despite next to nil earnings, they paid their workers in full on humanitarian grounds even though they had other expenses like godown and office rents. Caterers said the pandemic has also affected the spending power of clients who are now choosing to have smaller weddings. “New money is not rolling in. Clients who had booked us earlier are now having a scaled down event. Although the government has allowed gathering of 200-250 people, clients are working on a budget for 100 invitees to save costs. With the current pandemic situation we have to work on rates below Rs 300 per person, hence my overhead costs become higher, which is not as viable as earlier”, Cota said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rough-road-to-recovery-for-catering-sector-continues-to-reel-under-losses/articleshow/79889035.cms||Nisser Dias
December 23, 2020||Agra||Bleeding detected despite delay, rape can’t be ruled out: AIIMS report on Hathras victim||AGRA: The key evidence for the CBI charges against the four accused in the Hathras gang-rape and murder case, besides the 19-year-old’s police statement and dying declaration, are two medical reports — one by an AIIMS board the probe agency set up and the postmortem report. The chargesheet, which it submitted in Hathras court last week, places the onus of “delay in investigation” on the police. “The possibility of sexual assault can’t be ruled out as minimal bleeding was detected microscopically after one week of assault as alleged in this case,” the chargesheet quoted the report by the AIIMS Multi-Institutional Medical Board as saying. “In this case since there was delay in reporting/documentation/forensic examination for sexual assault, these factors could be responsible for absence of significantly visible signs of genital injury.” The postmortem report, it said, “mentions the presence of multiple old healed tears in the hymen.” Reports on mobile phones, laptop, CCTV footage from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory in Chandigarh will be submitted when they are received, the chargesheet added. After the 19-year-old’s death and hurried cremation in September, the gang-rape charge had been dismissed by UP Police, citing a forensic report based on samples taken 11 days after the alleged rape. The CBI chargesheet said that cops at Chandpa police station, where the girl had been taken after she was found strangled in the fields by her mother and brother, “neglected” what the girl had told them — that she had been subjected to “zabardasti (violation)”. “No proper examination on 14th when she lying at the PS as well as till 19/09/2020 (when she gave a statement to the police) also led to delay in sexual assault examination on the witness,” the chargesheet stated. “Had she been immediately examined by senior police officers and referred for medical examination … (for) sexual assault, the valuable forensic evidence could have been saved.” It added that police did not “act promptly” and “did not comply with the mandate of Section 154 CrPC (an officer in charge of a police station must write down information given orally about a cognizable offence). “Investigation (of) erring police official is ... under consideration."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bleeding-detected-despite-delay-rape-cant-be-ruled-out-aiims-report-on-hathras-victim/articleshow/79879882.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 23, 2020||India||Priest, nun convicted in 1992 Sister Abhaya’s murder case||IRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CBI special court here on Tuesday held that the mysterious death of Sister Abhaya at the St. Pius X Convent in Kottayam in 1992 was a murder and found priest Father Thomas Kottoor and nun Sister Sephy guilty of the crime and destruction of evidence. Special CBI judge K Sanil Kumar gave the verdict in the 28-year-old case. The sentence will be pronounced on Wednesday. Father Kottoor was also held guilty of house-trespass. Shortly after the verdict was pronounced, the bail of the two accused was cancelled and police took them into custody. Sr Abhaya (21) was found dead in the well at the convent on March 27, 1992. The crime branch and initial CBI teams that probed the case had concluded it as either suicide or murder, whose culprits could not be traced. The courts, however, refused to close the case and ordered further investigation. In 2008, CBI DSP Nandakumaran Nair arrested Father Kottoor, Sister Sephy and Father Jose Poothrikkayil in the case. Father Poothrikkayil was later discharged by the high court for lack of evidence. According to the CBI chargesheet, Sister Abhaya woke up around 4am on the fateful day and came down the stairs of the hostel and proceeded to the kitchen area to fetch water from the refrigerator, when she saw the two accused in a compromising position. She was subsequently attacked and murdered by the accused. The accused were booked under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 449 (house trespass) of the IPC, besides Section 34 of IPC pertaining to an act committed by several persons with common intention. The trial in the case, which started in the CBI special court in the last week of August 2019, concluded on December 10. Sister Abhaya’s brother Biju Thomas said there was God’s intervention in the case. “All thanks to God... When I received the copy of the post-mortem, it said there was only 375ml water in her stomach. From that day, we had suspicions,” he told news channels from Dubai. Sister Abhaya’s father Aikkarakunnel Thomas and mother Leelamma had died before the trial began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/priest-nun-convicted-in-1992-sister-abhayas-murder-case/articleshow/79897135.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC’s waste segregation plans fail||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) which had made segregation of waste at source compulsory in December 2018, has failed to get support from residential units as only 50% of residential units in the city segregate waste at source. AMC officials said even after two years of making segregation of waste compulsory, only 50% of societies in the western parts of the city are segregating their waste. Officials said garbage collection vans must also have separate sections dry and wet waste, but as mixed garbage is received the contractors’ employees separate the waste and often sell what is salvaged directly in the market. Officials said they decided two years ago that they would only collect segregated waste but there has been a failure in regulation. An officer said there was no political will to enforce segregation and hence the administrative wing was never allowed to halt collection. Officers said even when a drive was taken up, the commissioner and his team were on the ground but political leaders and councillors were uncooperative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amcs-waste-segregation-plans-fail/articleshow/79888964.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Rajkot||Three teachers die after car plunges into pond in Mehsana||PALANPUR: Three teachers including a woman were killed when the car they were travelling in fell into a pond in Panchot village in Mehsana on Tuesday morning. The incident occurred at about 7.30 am when the victims were travelling on Radhanpur Road about seven kilometres from Mehsana town. According to the police, Vipul Chaudhary, 38, Meeta Chauhan, 37, both residents of Visnagar taluka and Anand Srimali, who was driving the car, were on their way to the school in Radhanpur. Driver of the car lost control of the vehicle near Panchot village and the vehicle swerved towards a pond nearby. The vehicle hit the railing and fell into the pond. A team of firefighters was called from Mehsana to pull the car out of the pond. All the three were found dead inside the car. The police said that they died due to drowning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-teachers-die-after-car-plunges-into-pond-in-mehsana/articleshow/79880005.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Agra||Politics can wait, development cannot: PM at AMU centenary||Agra/ New Delhi: In a significant speech to mark centenary celebrations at the Aligarh Muslim University which was wracked by anti-CAA protests a year ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said politics can wait but development cannot even as he assured that the government's policies will work towards ensuring no one is deprived on the basis of religion. Modi said the country is moving on a path where every citizen is assured of his or her constitution-given rights with no one left behind due to one’s religion and this is the basis of the ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabk viswas’ pledge. He dwelled on several initiatives for the poor that he said benefited all without discrimination. “I will remind you of something Sir Syed said. A person who thinks of their country, works for the welfare of every person, irrespective of community, religion … For national development, all differences must be set aside. We have to work on a common ground,” he said, recalling the AMU founder. Attending the AMU event via video-conferencing, Modi said development should not be seen through a political prism and that it should be possible to agree on some elements of national interest. Turns here “We must realise that politics is an important part of society, but there are many other issues in society besides politics…For a new India, the core is that welfare must not be seen from the prism of politics. There are some elements who may have an issue with this. They can be found in all countries. They will spread negativity. But these people will be sidelined if we work for the betterment of the country keeping politics aside. Politics can wait, society can wait, (but) the country can’t wait for development, the poor and disadvantaged can’t wait for development.” "The country is today proceeding on a path where everyone gets equal opportunities to progress," the Prime Minister said and underlined AMU's inclusive nature which he said represents a "mini India". "On the one side Urdu is taught, on the other Hindi. Arabic is taught, and so is Sanskrit. In the library, next to Quran manuscripts, translations of Gita and Ramayana rest with just as much care. This diversity is the strength of institutions like AMU, and of India. We should not forget this, or let it weaken. The sentiment of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ should be strengthened on AMU campus.” In an important reference, Modi said gender is a “priority” area for the government. “The dropout rate among Muslim girls was more than 70%. This situation persisted for 70 years. Then, the government started the Swachh Bharat Mission, built toilets in villages and schools. Now, that has dropped to 30% … Triple talaq has also ended,” he said. “In AMU, female enrolment has gone up to 35%. I congratulate you.” Pointing to AMU's many departments, hostels and thousands of teachers and professors, the Prime Minister said the diversity that was on show was not only the strength of the university but also that of the nation and has to its credit 100 glorious years of excellence in education. Highlighting the contributions of the university in fighting the pandemic, Modi said the institution conducted free tests, made isolation wards and created plasma banks. The PM also hailed the university’s contribution to the PM Cares Fund. “All this shows the seriousness of fulfilling your obligations towards society.” Modi is the third PM, after a gap of 54 years, to address the minority institution. AMU was at the centre of anti-CAA protests and saw a spate of arrests earlier this year. “There are 1,000 international students at this university. It is AMU’s responsibility to showcase what is the best, the strengths of our country ... Whatever they listen to or see at AMU will determine how they see India. That is why your institution has two responsibilities — gain respect for yourself and fulfil your duties … towards nation-building,” he said. The institution, set up in 1875 as the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College by Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, was notified as a university in 1920.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/politics-can-wait-development-cannot-pm-at-amu-centenary/articleshow/79879998.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: No registration, no waste collection||AHMEDABAD: The AMC has made it mandatory for all units, including residential societies, to register with the corporation if they generate more than 50kg of waste per day. Moreover, societies which produce 50kg or higher of kitchen and garden waste per day will be given processing machines by the AMC. Each machine costs Rs 2 lakh; the AMC will bear some part of the cost and the societies will have to pay the rest of the money. In December 2018, the AMC had made waste segregation mandatory. However, the directive failed to elicit the desired response. This is the second attempt to enforce waste segregation at source. Citing the norms of the forest and environment department, the AMC recently issued a notice to all societies asking them to inform the corporation by January 10 about the quantity of waste they generate. Each society has been asked to give the breakup of its waste. The categories are biodegradable, non-biodegradable, and hazardous waste. The director of the AMC’s solid waste department, Harshad Solanki, said that all units — residential and commercial — pushing out 50kg or more of kitchen/garden waste per day will have to mandatorily install the processing machines. The machines convert kitchen and garden waste into manure. Solanki said other types of waste, including plastic, paper, and tins can be sold by societies’ individual garbage collectors. A senior AMC officer said that if the move is successful, the volume of kitchen and garden waste reaching Pirana will be significantly cut down. Besides, he said, waste will reach Pirana in a segregated form. The corporation’s officials said that societies’ office-bearers will have to give an undertaking that their waste will be properly segregated. The officials said that the AMC plans to stop waste collection from societies that do not give the self-declaration. The officials said that the AMC wants to promote reuse and recycling, and eventually ensure that mixed waste does not get to Pirana. The officials said that kitchen and garden waste arriving at the dump from smaller societies can be used to generate power. At least 2,000 metric tonnes of segregated waste will be needed to produce power. The AMC has two plants to generate power from waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-registration-no-waste-collection/articleshow/79889181.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||What will we answer to our future generations: Gujarat HC to govt||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday expressed its disappointment as the government authorities did not respond on the issue of land allotment for gauge conversion and electrification of railway tracks and permission to lay gas and oil pipelines in the protected Gir sanctuary, the last abode of Asiatic lions. According to the amicus curiae in this case, advocate Hemang Shah, none of the government authorities who were asked to reply on the issue submitted their response to the demand for cancellation of permissions in order to protect the lions. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Sangeeta Vishen commented, “What will we answer to our future generations?” With this remark, the court posted a further hearing for January 11 and before that the forest authorities concerned and government will have to submit their response to the application filed by the amicus curiae objecting to the plans for railway track gauge conversion and laying of pipelines in the reserved forest. During the hearing, Shah read out news reports on permissions granted to railways and the chief minister’s comment on the subject. It was on his application filed on December 8, objecting to the permissions for gauge conversion of railway tracks and construction of pipelines through the forests, that the high court had sought a response from the government. He demanded cancellation of these permissions. The high court filed this PIL on its own in 2018, after the state government revealed before the assembly that 184 lions had died in the previous two years and 34 of them had died unnatural deaths. The HC then widened the scope of the litigation to various issues including open wells, railways, electric fencing, roads, mining, lion shows, appointment of trackers and beat guards, maintaining the prey base and water, and radio collaring of the lions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/what-will-we-answer-to-our-future-generations-hc-to-govt/articleshow/79889177.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Rajkot||Four going on foot crushed by pick-up van near Jamnagar city||RAJKOT: Tragedy struck a group of friends, who were going on foot to offer prayers at a temple, as they were crushed to death, near Jamnagar city on Tuesday.The four had set out on foot from their native Sonvadiya village of Jamjodhpur taluka to go to Macchhu Maa temple to offer prayers after fulfilment of some vow. When they were walking on the road near Morkanda village, a speeding pick-up van crashed into them from behind, 12 km from Jamnagar city sometime around 10am. The deceased were identified as Bhoja Chirodiya (55), Parbat Gamara (37), Kishore Rada (18) and Arjan alias Kava Parmar (38). Chirodiya and Gamara died on the spot while two others died at Jamnagar’s GG Hospital. CM Kateliya, sub-inspector, Panchkosi police station said the driver had abandoned the SUV pick-up van at the spot of the accident and fled. However, he was nabbed in the evening and detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-going-on-foot-crushed-by-pick-up-van-near-jamnagar-city/articleshow/79880015.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Madurai||HC orders DVAC probe against SPP who delayed reports to facilitate bail||Madurai: Expressing shock over the fact that a special public prosecutor (SPP) appearing for bail cases before Madurai additional sessions court in EC and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act cases had been filing final report after a delay paving the way for the accused to get statutory bail, Madras high court on Tuesday granted interim injunction restraining him from functioning as SPP.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by an advocate, B Pandiarajan from Madurai, seeking a direction remove P Seetharaman from the post of SPP (Bail) and appoint a suitable person with honesty and integrity to the post. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that PPs are appointed on the hope that the appointees prosecute the cases in the interest of the society. It is seen in this case that the SPP, who had allegedly not completed Class X and obtained postgraduate degree through open university and thereafter completed LLB in Mysuru, was appointed as SPP for NDPS cases at Madurai.The judges observed that the SPP is in the habit of not filing the final report on time before the court though he receives it on time so as to enable the accused people to get statutory bail after taking money. It has been brought to the notice of the court that in 2019, a single judge while hearing a cancellation of bail petition extracted an undertaking from the SPP that he would file final reports in all future cases on time. However, even after giving that undertaking, the SPP had not filed final reports in time in 43 cases with the result that the accused walked out merrily on statutory bail.“If this is allowed this would affect the interest of the public since several persons including young children are getting addicted to narcotics substances,” observed the judge.Saying that the court is prima facie convinced that the SPP is not discharging his duties properly, the judges granted interim injunction restraining him from functioning as SPP until further orders. Since he had amassed wealth by indulging in corrupt practices, the judges directed the DVAC to inquire into the property owned by him and his family members. The judges also sought response from the state government on the educational qualification of the SPP. The case was adjourned to January 21, 2021, for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-dvac-probe-against-spp-who-delayed-reports-to-facilitate-bail/articleshow/79885212.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC discharges Kandhal Jadeja in arms case||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has discharged the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA from Kutiyana, Kandhal Jadeja, in a criminal case registered against him under the Arms Act in 1998 in Porbandar. Sources said the high court accepted Jadeja’s discharge application after his lawyer asserted that there was no evidence against him in this case. He was implicated in the case merely on the basis of the confession of a co-accused, Hasmukh Sidi, who was not in police custody. Kandhal was booked in 1998. He sought a discharge from the case but a magisterial court rejected his plea in 2010. He approached the Porbandar sessions court, which in 2014, upheld the magisterial court’s order and denied discharge to him in this case. Both lower courts had concluded that charges could be framed against Jadeja. Jadeja questioned the evidentiary value of the co-accused’s statement on basis of which he was implicated. On this, the sessions court had said, “The confessional statement of co-accused which is against the interest of applicant-accused is admissible in evidence or not that is a mixed question of facts and law. Therefore, it cannot be said that of framing charge by learned trial judge is not against the provision of law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-discharges-kandhal-jadeja-in-arms-case/articleshow/79889182.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stripping of Bhuj girls: Govt to respond to PIL||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday adjourned the hearing on a PIL seeking law to end discrimination against menstruating women at government and private institutes after the government lawyer assured the judges that the court would be informed about the government’s decision as soon as possible, sources said. The PIL was filed in March and came up for hearing after nine months due to the lockdown. The high court was moved by social activists Nirjhari Sinha and Jharna Pathak after a controversy erupted over 66 girl students of a Bhuj college being stripped to check if they were menstruating. The PIL sought action on this episode and directions to the government to end discriminatory practices in public places against menstruating women. Following the uproar over the issue, various inquiries were launched including a criminal investigation by a special investigation team. Before any probe reached an end, the management of Shree Sahjanand Girls Institute, where the incident had taken place, and the aggrieved students settled the dispute amicably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stripping-of-bhuj-girls-govt-to-respond-to-pil/articleshow/79889179.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Madurai||Rs 7.5K monthly aid for woman transfused HIV+ blood||Madurai: Madras high court on Tuesday directed the state government to provide Rs 7,500 a month as monetary assistance to the woman from Sattur who was transfused with HIV positive blood for her to take nutritious food. The court was hearing a batch of petitions which sought to monitor government and private blood banks in the state to ensure safe blood transfusions and to provide proper relief to the victim. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that a government doctor had issued a certificate stating that the woman needs to spend Rs 250 to Rs 300 a day to take nutritious food. Hence they directed the government to provide Rs 7,500 per month as monetary assistance to her. Additional public prosecutor K K Ramakrishnan, who was appointed to take care of the proceedings regarding the victim woman, submitted that treatment is offered for HIV at the Siddha Research Centre in Chennai. The judges sought response from the state government with regard to the siddha treatmen. They also sought reponse on the possibility of employing her as junior assistant since she is currently office assistant at Sattur government hospital. The woman who appeared through video conference thanked the judges for granting her relief. Pursuant to the earlier direction of the court, the state government had paid Rs 10lakh compensation to her and Rs 7.50lakh each to both her children. The government also built a house for her, gave her a government job and a two-wheeler. The case was adjourned to December 23 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-7-5k-monthly-aid-for-woman-transfused-hiv-blood/articleshow/79885199.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||5 of family burnt to death as their car burst into flames after hitting truck on e-way||AGRA: Five members of a Lucknow family, including three women, were charred to death inside their car when it burst into flames after colliding with a truck on Yamuna Expressway in Agra, early on Tuesday, reports Anuja Jaiswal. A preliminary police investigation revealed that the container truck suddenly changed its lane and the driver of the car lost control and crashed into its diesel tank. The truck driver fled from the spot after the accident, said police. Murli Manohar Saroj, 35, his wife Seema (32), mother-in-law Sirtaj (58) and his sister-in-law Manju (22) and their driver, Sandeep, were burnt to death. The family was heading to AIIMS, Delhi for the treatment of Seema. Saroj’s brother-in-law, Rahul, told TOI, “My brother-in-law worked as a journalist in a Hindi daily. He was going to AIIMS, Delhi for my sister’s treatment as doctors at Lucknow medical college had advised surgery due to blood clotting in her brain.” At the time of the call, Rahul wasn’t told about the deaths and he kept on asking about the condition of his family members. Saroj is survived by two children, Jatin, 10 and eight-year-old girl, Kittu. They were at their maternal grandfather’s house in Amethi, when the accident occurred. According to Seema’s cousin, Satish, the family had left for Delhi at 11pm on Monday. Agra’s superintendent of police (west) Satyajeet Gupta told TOI, “The accident took place at 4.40am, when the car rammed into the fuel tank of the truck and caught fire near Khandauli. They didn’t get time to come out of the vehicle. Police reached there within 15 minutes and called the fire brigade. The fire fighters reached the spot by 5:15am and took another 15 minutes to douse the blaze. We couldn’t save them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5-of-family-burnt-to-death-as-their-car-burst-into-flames-after-hitting-truck-on-e-way/articleshow/79897154.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 23, 2020||Madurai||Madurai woman conned of Rs 27 lakh in online lottery||MADURAI: A 45-year-old woman from Thirumangalam in Madurai district lost more than Rs 27 lakh by falling prey to an online lottery cheating scam. P Subalakshmi, 45, from Kattu Mariamman Kovil Street in Thirumangalam came across an online lottery link on Facebook and registered herself by providing information that was sought. In July, she received information that she has won the lottery and the company has come forward to give away $13.26 lakh US dollars and sought some initial amount to be paid towards taxes to release the amount. Believing it to be a genuine demand, the woman sent the money, however, the people behind this kept on asking money citing various expenses in sending the money. Subalakshmi sent Rs 27, 23, 383 to seven bank accounts provided by them in various instalments since then. When she realized that she was being cheated on, she approached the Madurai district police and based on a complaint from the woman, a case was registered with the district crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-conned-of-rs-27l-in-online-lottery/articleshow/79885319.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Erode||Cyclone Burevi: Tamil Nadu govt seeks Rs 1,514 crore central aid||CHENNAI: The state government has sought central assistance of Rs 1,514.06 crore towards temporary and permanent relief and restoration in ten coastal and delta districts severely affected by cyclone Burevi. The Union government on Monday deputed the same inter-ministerial team, constituted for cyclone Nivar, to assess damages and relief work of the state administration. The team will recommend whether the disaster can be considered of a ‘severe nature.’ Seven people died, while 719 cattle and 19,292 poultry deaths were reported due to heavy rains triggered by cyclone Burevi. “We submitted our memorandum last week, giving the details of loss of lives, damage to properties, crop and infrastructure. Assistance sought for temporary (Rs 484.97 crore) and permanent (Rs 1,029.09 crore) restoration. The Central team is expected next week and will have a direct assessment before submitting a report to the Centre,” Revenue administration and disaster management, commissioner K Phanindra Reddy told TOI. The EPS government is banking on the central assistance under the National Disaster Response Fund to meet the demands of the affected people given the deficit SDRF account due to rising Covid expenses. It has only released Rs 80 crore from the SDRF to district collectors and government departments. The agriculture department has assessed the crops raised on 2.46 lakh hectares damaged, majority being paddy, due to cyclone Burevi. The road network of state highways (725km), Greater Chennai Corporation (120km), municipalities (192km) and village panchayats (1,267km) were found to be damaged, besides 1,401 culverts. Tangedco reported 635 electric poles fell off due to heavy rains, besides damages to 94 transformers and 28km long power conductors. “The central team will visit the delta districts, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, and the coastal districts, where damages are maximum,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/cyclone-burevi-tn-govt-seeks-rs-1514-cr-central-aid/articleshow/79914362.cms||Julie Mariappan
December 23, 2020||Trichy||Cyclone Burevi: Tamil Nadu govt seeks Rs 1,514 crore central aid||CHENNAI: The state government has sought central assistance of Rs 1,514.06 crore towards temporary and permanent relief and restoration in ten coastal and delta districts severely affected by cyclone Burevi. The Union government on Monday deputed the same inter-ministerial team, constituted for cyclone Nivar, to assess damages and relief work of the state administration. The team will recommend whether the disaster can be considered of a ‘severe nature.’ Seven people died, while 719 cattle and 19,292 poultry deaths were reported due to heavy rains triggered by cyclone Burevi. “We submitted our memorandum last week, giving the details of loss of lives, damage to properties, crop and infrastructure. Assistance sought for temporary (Rs 484.97 crore) and permanent (Rs 1,029.09 crore) restoration. The Central team is expected next week and will have a direct assessment before submitting a report to the Centre,” Revenue administration and disaster management, commissioner K Phanindra Reddy told TOI. The EPS government is banking on the central assistance under the National Disaster Response Fund to meet the demands of the affected people given the deficit SDRF account due to rising Covid expenses. It has only released Rs 80 crore from the SDRF to district collectors and government departments. The agriculture department has assessed the crops raised on 2.46 lakh hectares damaged, majority being paddy, due to cyclone Burevi. The road network of state highways (725km), Greater Chennai Corporation (120km), municipalities (192km) and village panchayats (1,267km) were found to be damaged, besides 1,401 culverts. Tangedco reported 635 electric poles fell off due to heavy rains, besides damages to 94 transformers and 28km long power conductors. “The central team will visit the delta districts, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, and the coastal districts, where damages are maximum,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cyclone-burevi-tn-govt-seeks-rs-1514-cr-central-aid/articleshow/79914366.cms||Julie Mariappan
December 23, 2020||Madurai||9 cops booked for assaulting trader in Tuticorin 2 yrs ago||Madurai: Kovilpatti West police registered a case against nine police officials and constables on charges of assaulting a man from Kovilpatti.The case was registered based on a directive from Kovilpatti judicial magistrate II in a case filed by S Chelladurai, a banana leaf trader, from Gandhi Nagar in Kovilpatti. Police evoked IPC sections 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 294 (B) (abusing with obscene words), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) in the case.Chelladurai was picked up by a police team and beaten for unknown reasons on April 5, 2018. He along with his relatives staged a protest in front of the Kovilpatti West police station on April 17, 2018. Police attacked the protestors leaving two people injured. Based on a complaint from one of the injured, a case was registered against the police officials. Later, Kovilpatti West station allegedly registered a false case against Chelladurai and took him to a secluded place, where he was assaulted. He suffered grievous injuries in the assault. He got himself admitted in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital and underwent treatment during April 17-21. He lodged a complaint with the Tuticorin district police to take action against the police officers and personnel at the Kovilpatti West police station. As it did not elicit any response, he moved the court. Based on the court directions, cases were registered against sub-inspector Rajaprabhu, head constable Muthupandian, head constable Haribalakrishnan, constables Rajasekar, John and Jeyabalan of West Police station, sub-inspector Antony Dilip of Nalatinpudur police station, sub-inspector Manimaran of Kovilpatti East police station and Paulraj, the then inspector of Kovilpatti East police station and now the deputy superintendent of police (crime records bureau) in Kanyakumari district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/9-cops-booked-for-assaulting-trader-in-tuticorin-2-yrs-ago/articleshow/79885279.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Business drops for permit liquor shops in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Come Christmas-New Year season and permit liquor shops in Ahmedabad are stocked up for their best business through the year. They make ready to cater to visitors from other Indian states as well as Non-Resident Indians (NRIs). However, thanks to the ongoing pandemic and barely any movement of international passengers into the state this year, the sale has remained lacklustre, spelling out the worst December business ever for permit liquor stores. Industry players suggest that business of liquor shops has declined by at least 25%. Data by state prohibition department suggests that Ahmedabad saw barely 1,227 permits issued to visitors from other states and countries this year till November 2020. This means, the number of visitor and tourist permit holders have declined by 73% against some 4,552 such permits issued in the same month last year. Explaining how it has impacted business, a city-based permit liquor shop owner said, “NRIs buy high-end brands and imported liquor and therefore, the ticket size of their purchases is usually high going up to Rs 25,000. At the same time, visitors from other states including foreign nationals and business delegates too make purchases between Rs 5,000 and Rs 8,000. During December, thanks to a number of weddings, NRI arrival season as well as business events, the business is good and we are well stocked up.” “However, this year, with barely any movement of international passengers into the state, the sale has remained lacklustre. While the business from health permit holders continues to pour in, the ticket size has gone down, especially after the pandemic as spending capacity of customers is impacted,” the liquor shop owner further added. The cost of procurement of imported liquor has gone up for permit liquor shops as adequate stocks are not being procured amidst fear of lockdown by designated suppliers. Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA) Gujarat, said, “There is some cushion in business from health permit holders because the renewals which had been halted and slowed last year, have begun. Still it is a significant hit to our business because of non-arrival of tourists, business delegates and even slow process of issuing fresh permits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/business-drops-for-permit-liquor-shops/articleshow/79889185.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Cyclone Burevi: Tamil Nadu govt seeks Rs 1,514 crore central aid||CHENNAI: The state government has sought central assistance of Rs 1,514.06 crore towards temporary and permanent relief and restoration in ten coastal and delta districts severely affected by cyclone Burevi. The Union government on Monday deputed the same inter-ministerial team, constituted for cyclone Nivar, to assess damages and relief work of the state administration. The team will recommend whether the disaster can be considered of a ‘severe nature.’ Seven people died, while 719 cattle and 19,292 poultry deaths were reported due to heavy rains triggered by cyclone Burevi. “We submitted our memorandum last week, giving the details of loss of lives, damage to properties, crop and infrastructure. Assistance sought for temporary (Rs 484.97 crore) and permanent (Rs 1,029.09 crore) restoration. The Central team is expected next week and will have a direct assessment before submitting a report to the Centre,” Revenue administration and disaster management, commissioner K Phanindra Reddy told TOI. The EPS government is banking on the central assistance under the National Disaster Response Fund to meet the demands of the affected people given the deficit SDRF account due to rising Covid expenses. It has only released Rs 80 crore from the SDRF to district collectors and government departments. The agriculture department has assessed the crops raised on 2.46 lakh hectares damaged, majority being paddy, due to cyclone Burevi. The road network of state highways (725km), Greater Chennai Corporation (120km), municipalities (192km) and village panchayats (1,267km) were found to be damaged, besides 1,401 culverts. Tangedco reported 635 electric poles fell off due to heavy rains, besides damages to 94 transformers and 28km long power conductors. “The central team will visit the delta districts, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, and the coastal districts, where damages are maximum,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cyclone-burevi-tn-govt-seeks-rs-1514-cr-central-aid/articleshow/79914360.cms||Julie Mariappan
December 23, 2020||Chennai||Cyclone Burevi: Tamil Nadu govt seeks Rs 1,514 crore central aid||CHENNAI: The state government has sought central assistance of Rs 1,514.06 crore towards temporary and permanent relief and restoration in ten coastal and delta districts severely affected by cyclone Burevi. The Union government on Monday deputed the same inter-ministerial team, constituted for cyclone Nivar, to assess damages and relief work of the state administration. The team will recommend whether the disaster can be considered of a ‘severe nature.’ Seven people died, while 719 cattle and 19,292 poultry deaths were reported due to heavy rains triggered by cyclone Burevi. “We submitted our memorandum last week, giving the details of loss of lives, damage to properties, crop and infrastructure. Assistance sought for temporary (Rs 484.97 crore) and permanent (Rs 1,029.09 crore) restoration. The Central team is expected next week and will have a direct assessment before submitting a report to the Centre,” Revenue administration and disaster management, commissioner K Phanindra Reddy told TOI. The EPS government is banking on the central assistance under the National Disaster Response Fund to meet the demands of the affected people given the deficit SDRF account due to rising Covid expenses. It has only released Rs 80 crore from the SDRF to district collectors and government departments. The agriculture department has assessed the crops raised on 2.46 lakh hectares damaged, majority being paddy, due to cyclone Burevi. The road network of state highways (725km), Greater Chennai Corporation (120km), municipalities (192km) and village panchayats (1,267km) were found to be damaged, besides 1,401 culverts. Tangedco reported 635 electric poles fell off due to heavy rains, besides damages to 94 transformers and 28km long power conductors. “The central team will visit the delta districts, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, and the coastal districts, where damages are maximum,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cyclone-burevi-tn-govt-seeks-rs-1514-cr-central-aid/articleshow/79885207.cms||Julie Mariappan
December 23, 2020||Madurai||Govt response sought on building Indian med varsity||Madurai:Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the state government on the steps taken to establish a university for Indian medicine in Tirunelveli district as per an earlier court direction.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Vijai Vikraman, a former student of Siddha Medical College and Hospital at Palayamkottai in the district, who sought a direction to restrain the authorities from demolishing the existing buildings till a new building is constructed for the university at Chettikulam in the district.The judges during a previous hearing had disposed of the petition by restraining the authorities from demolishing the existing buildings till a university for Indian medicine is established at Chettikulam. Since the earlier direction of the court to the state government to establish the university was not complied with yet, the court has directed the government to take steps to establish a university as soon as possible. The matter was posted to December 22 for the state government to submit the action taken report in this regard.When the case was taken up for hearing on Tuesday, the additional government pleader submitted a report before the court.Observing that the court was not satisfied with the response given by the state government, a division bench comprising Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi said that though a direction was given to establish the university, no steps were taken by the government in the past four years. Hence, the judges directed the state government to submit a report on the actions taken by it to establish the university, failing which the court would be constrained to initiate suo-motu contempt proceedings.The case was adjourned to December 23 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-response-sought-on-building-indian-med-varsity/articleshow/79885237.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Salem||Cyclone Burevi: Tamil Nadu govt seeks Rs 1,514 crore central aid||CHENNAI: The state government has sought central assistance of Rs 1,514.06 crore towards temporary and permanent relief and restoration in ten coastal and delta districts severely affected by cyclone Burevi. The Union government on Monday deputed the same inter-ministerial team, constituted for cyclone Nivar, to assess damages and relief work of the state administration. The team will recommend whether the disaster can be considered of a ‘severe nature.’ Seven people died, while 719 cattle and 19,292 poultry deaths were reported due to heavy rains triggered by cyclone Burevi. “We submitted our memorandum last week, giving the details of loss of lives, damage to properties, crop and infrastructure. Assistance sought for temporary (Rs 484.97 crore) and permanent (Rs 1,029.09 crore) restoration. The Central team is expected next week and will have a direct assessment before submitting a report to the Centre,” Revenue administration and disaster management, commissioner K Phanindra Reddy told TOI. The EPS government is banking on the central assistance under the National Disaster Response Fund to meet the demands of the affected people given the deficit SDRF account due to rising Covid expenses. It has only released Rs 80 crore from the SDRF to district collectors and government departments. The agriculture department has assessed the crops raised on 2.46 lakh hectares damaged, majority being paddy, due to cyclone Burevi. The road network of state highways (725km), Greater Chennai Corporation (120km), municipalities (192km) and village panchayats (1,267km) were found to be damaged, besides 1,401 culverts. Tangedco reported 635 electric poles fell off due to heavy rains, besides damages to 94 transformers and 28km long power conductors. “The central team will visit the delta districts, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, and the coastal districts, where damages are maximum,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/cyclone-burevi-tn-govt-seeks-rs-1514-cr-central-aid/articleshow/79914368.cms||Julie Mariappan
December 23, 2020||Madurai||Cyclone Burevi: Tamil Nadu govt seeks Rs 1,514 crore central aid||CHENNAI: The state government has sought central assistance of Rs 1,514.06 crore towards temporary and permanent relief and restoration in ten coastal and delta districts severely affected by cyclone Burevi. The Union government on Monday deputed the same inter-ministerial team, constituted for cyclone Nivar, to assess damages and relief work of the state administration. The team will recommend whether the disaster can be considered of a ‘severe nature.’ Seven people died, while 719 cattle and 19,292 poultry deaths were reported due to heavy rains triggered by cyclone Burevi. “We submitted our memorandum last week, giving the details of loss of lives, damage to properties, crop and infrastructure. Assistance sought for temporary (Rs 484.97 crore) and permanent (Rs 1,029.09 crore) restoration. The Central team is expected next week and will have a direct assessment before submitting a report to the Centre,” Revenue administration and disaster management, commissioner K Phanindra Reddy told TOI. The EPS government is banking on the central assistance under the National Disaster Response Fund to meet the demands of the affected people given the deficit SDRF account due to rising Covid expenses. It has only released Rs 80 crore from the SDRF to district collectors and government departments. The agriculture department has assessed the crops raised on 2.46 lakh hectares damaged, majority being paddy, due to cyclone Burevi. The road network of state highways (725km), Greater Chennai Corporation (120km), municipalities (192km) and village panchayats (1,267km) were found to be damaged, besides 1,401 culverts. Tangedco reported 635 electric poles fell off due to heavy rains, besides damages to 94 transformers and 28km long power conductors. “The central team will visit the delta districts, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, and the coastal districts, where damages are maximum,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cyclone-burevi-tn-govt-seeks-rs-1514-cr-central-aid/articleshow/79914363.cms||Julie Mariappan
December 23, 2020||Chennai||Ilaiyaraaja provided access to old studio||Chennai: In a reprieve to music director Ilaiyaraaja, the owners of Prasad Studios have agreed to permit a one-time access to the musician into the recording studio on the premises where the maestro composed music for more than 35 years. The access would be granted only if Ilaiyaraaja undertakes to withdraw all the litigation initiated against the owners of the studio and not to interfere in their affairs in the future. Access was denied to Ilaiyaraaja, as the owners of the studio decided to lease the premises to an information technology firm. Aggrieved, Ilaiyaraaja moved the court seeking to restrain the owners of the studio from interfering with his possession of a recording theatre in the studio premises. He also sought Rs 50 lakh as compensation for mental agony. When the plea came up for hearing, counsel for Ilaiyaraaja sought the court to direct the studio to permit his client to take music technicians and other assistants to assist him in transporting all his equipment from the studio. However, counsel for the studios submitted that Ilaiyaraaja could be given access only if he filed a written undertaking before the court withdrawing all litigation initiated by him against them and not claim ownership of the recording studio on the premises. As Ilaiyaraaja agreed to the same, Justice N Sathish Kumar adjourned the plea to December 22 for the musician to file an affidavit to that effect. On December 18, had Ilayaraja sought the court to direct the owners of the studio to consider permitting him to enter the premises and meditate for a day where he spent over 35 years composing and recording music. Denying the same, counsel for the studio informed the court that the belongings of Ilayaraja including his awards are in safe custody and that they are ready to return it back to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ilaiyaraaja-provided-access-to-old-studio/articleshow/79885254.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Madurai||Pongal gift election stunt, says Kanimozhi||Tirunelveli: DMK women’s wing secretary and Tuticorin MP K Kanimozhi has dubbed the Rs 2,500 Pongal gift announced by the state government to PDS rice card holders as an election stunt. She was interacting with reporters during the party’s Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural (Stalin’s voice for a new dawn) campaign on Tuesday. She said party president M K Stalin had appealed to the state government to provide Rs 5,000 per family as interim relief to help people tide over the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. However, the AIADMK government chose to remain silent till the chief minister started his election campaign. The DMK has been helping people in distress throughout the pandemic, which people are aware of and will guarantee victory to the party. The party’s election manifesto will be ready by the end of next month. The MP said they won’t be intimidated by the case registered against her and nearly 2,000 others by the Tuticorin south police for taking part in the protest against LPG price hike on Monday. While checking the ongoing Smart City works in Tirunelveli city, she condemned the delay in construction of the bus stand. She also interacted with women at Gangaikondan, washermen on the banks of Thamirabarani at Vannarpettai and traders at Palayamkottai market and promsied to redress their grievances when the DMK comes to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pongal-gift-election-stunt-says-kanimozhi/articleshow/79885430.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC comes to rescue of sarpanch||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has come to the rescue of a sarpanch and placed him back in his office after the government removed him from office for cutting three more threes than the permitted number for chopping in his village Langhnaj in Mehsana district. In this case, the Mehsana mamlatdar permitted Langhnaj village panchayat to cut 469 trees for development of a lake near the village in February 2018. Sarpanch Mukesh Patel was supervising the tree felling. The contract labourers removed three more trees than the limit set by the mamlatdar. This led to initiation of proceedings against the sarpanch by the authorities. The sarpanch paid a fine of Rs 30,000 for the wrong removal of three trees under the provisions of the Saurashtra Felling of Trees (Infliction of Punishment) Act, 1951. The authorities were not satisfied with this and initiated action against Patel under the Gujarat Panchayats Act and finally ordered his removal under section 57(1) from the office of the sarpanch in August 2019. Patel’s appeal against the order of his removal was turned down by the development commissioner. This led Patel to file a petition in the high court, where his advocate Vikas Nair argued that there was no misconduct on part of the sarpanch so the authorities could not have invoked Gujarat Panchayats Act for Patel’s removal. It was a mistake on part of the labourers that they removed three more trees while clearing land for the lake. After hearing the case, Justice Biran Vaishnav quashed the authority’s order to remove Patel as sarpanch. The HC has ordered the authority to reinstate Patel as sarpanch in the village panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-comes-to-rescue-of-sarpanch/articleshow/79889269.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Madurai||128 fresh cases in south TN, 79 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 128 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Tuesday taking the tally to 1,32,467, which include 1,062 active cases. Meanwhile, fresh cases in the central region saw a drop as it reported 79 cases taking the tally to the 73,000-mark. The number of active cases in the region has also dropped to 739. The region recorded no casualties on Tuesday. In southern TN, one death each was recorded in Madurai, Dindigul and Tuticorin. They include a 56-year-old man from Tuticorin without comorbid condition. He tested positive on Monday and died at a private hospital in Tirunelveli on Tuesday. Tirunelveli (26) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Dindigul (24) Madurai (23), Kanyakumari (13), Virudhunagar (11) and Tuticorin (11). Ramanathapuram (3), Tenkasi (3), Sivagangai (6) and Theni (8) recorded less than 10 cases each. The number of active cases in Madurai, which was above 300 for three days till Sunday, is on the decline. From 290 on Monday it came down to 260 on Tuesday. Madurai has the highest number of active cases in the region, followed by Kanyakumari (165), Tirunelveli (142) and Dindigul (142). Six districts have less than 100 cases each with Ramanathapuram (22) recording the lowest, followed by Tenkasi (35), Sivagangai (49), Theni (82), Tuticorin (89) and Virudhunagar (90). It was the second consecutive day that the central region reported cases below 100. It took ten days for the region to add 1,000 cases to its count after reaching 72,000 on December 12. While treatment was given either at hospitals or Covid care centres earlier, the patients are undergoing treatment at hospitals or in home isolation now. The Covid care centres were closed in most of the locations. While Perambalur recorded one fresh case after a few days, Trichy registered 22 fresh cases, the highest in the region. Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Karur registered fresh cases in single digits. Nagappattinam and Tiruvarur got 10 cases each, while it is 18 in Thanjavur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/128-fresh-cases-in-south-tn-79-in-central-districts/articleshow/79885361.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Madurai||5 arrested for killing man, 59, in Nagercoil||Kanyakumari: Kanyakumari district police arrested five men from Madurai for murdering a 59-year-old man and setting the body ablaze at Irulappapuram in Nagercoil on Monday night. The accused were identified based on CCTV footage from a nearby shop. Passersby found the partly burnt body of a man near the fish market at Irulappapuram on Tuesday morning. The victim, Chandran was separated from his family and doing odd jobs while the accused were identified as B Balaji, 20, I Ilangeswaran, 19, S Lakshmanan, 20, K Ponraj, 22, and S Balaeswaran. Kottar police said the five men who worked in a plastic making unit consumed alcohol on Monday. On their way back to their place, they saw Chandran who was also in an inebriated condition. They asked for a matchbox which led to an argument and the men strangulating him to death. Police said they set his clothes ablaze with the match sticks he had. The body was sent to Kanyakumari MCH for postmortem. They accused were booked under IPC sections 302 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code and sent to judicial custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-arrested-for-killing-man-59-in-nagercoil/articleshow/79885478.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Seven-day quarantine for flyers from Europe, Middle East||PUNE: All the people arriving from the Middle East and European countries at Pune airport will be put in seven-day mandatory institutional quarantine in designated hotels at their own costs, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations’ orders issues on Tuesday stated. “The decision has been taken as a precautionary measure. The directives are issued under the Epidemic Disease Act and the Disaster Management Act 2005,” Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner of PMC, said. As per the directives, if a passenger is found symptomatic on arrival, s/he will be shifted directly to the Naidu Hospital in Pune for further evaluation and treatment. If the report of the test is found negative, the passenger would be discharged from the institutional quarantine after 5-7 days with the advice of 7-day mandatory home quarantine. Agarwal said arrangements would be made by the PMPML to transport all the passengers coming from these nations to the hotels. The passports of all the passengers will be deposited with the hotels and returned at the time of discharge. The PCMC stated that passengers arriving through direct or indirect flights from the UK will have to undergo institutional quarantine. The PMC said passengers who travelled to the UK in the last 15 days must report via helpdesk on 020-25506800/01/02/03.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-day-quarantine-for-flyers-from-europe-middle-east/articleshow/79889488.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 23, 2020||Chennai||Plea seeks risk allowance for sanitary staff||Chennai: A lawyer has moved the Madras high court seeking direction to the central and state governments to provide risk allowance to sanitary workers on the frontline in the war against Covid-19. Coimbatore-based advocate N Paneerselvam also wanted the governments to take immediate actions to provide minimum wages and basic amenities, including housing facilities, to sanitary workers attached to local civic bodies. When the plea came up for hearing, counsel for the government sought more time to file a detailed report. Recording the same, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha adjourned the hearing to March 15, 2021.  “As per data collected by the National Commission for Safai Karamchari, since 2017, one sanitation worker has died every five days in India while cleaning septic tanks. ,” the petitioner said. Sanitary workers are next only to medical professionals, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/plea-seeks-risk-allowance-for-sanitary-staff/articleshow/79885344.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Madurai||15 migratory birds rescued from poachers in Ramnad||Ramanathapuram: Forest department personnel rescued 15 Northern Pintails from two poachers at Periyakanmai in Ramanathapuram district and released them in a bird sanctuary. Two dead birds were also recovered from the duo. The accused were identified as M Rethinam, 50, and K Mari, 40, from Anna Nagar. The duo were caught during the patrolling by forest department personnel led by the Ramanathapuram range forest officer, S Sathish, on Tuesday. A total of 17 Northern Pintail ducks were recovered from them and their bikes were also seized. Two of the birds were dead and were disposed of at the range office. Condition of the live birds was checked before they were freed into a bird sanctuary. Preliminary inquiries revealed that they were poached for their meat. The accused were booked under sections of The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and a fine of Rs 25,000 was slapped on them. Sathish said that the migratory birds were from Northern Europe. “They don’t breed here but came here during winter for the climate and food. They would fly back to Europe when conducive climatic conditions return,” he added. The forest department personnel expressed concern over migratory birds being poached for meat and made an appeal to people living close to bird sanctuaries and water bodies to extend support to the department personnel. They said that continuance of poaching would affect pattern of those birds landing in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/15-migratory-birds-rescued-from-poachers-in-ramnad/articleshow/79885465.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Madurai||Madurai police seize 128 bikes with altered silencer||Madurai: The city police have seized as many as 128 bikes for using modified silencers and creating disturbance to other road users in the last five days. With a large number of bikes having been found violating the motor vehicle act, police have decided to monitor the violation regularly.A traffic police officer said city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha instructed them to conduct a special drive to catch vehicles with modified silencers. This followed a series of complaints from motorists and residents. “We found 128 bikes within five days and all of them were seized. The bikes were released after checking vehicle documents. Their owners have been warned that the vehicles will not be returned next time,” said an officer. Silencers are modified to get a higher second decibel and thereby catch the attraction of people on the road. The violation not only creates noise pollution but also panic among other commuters. Women and elderly people riding vehicles are particularly affected by the act. “Modifying silencer is an offence according to the motor vehicle act. Henceforth, the offenders will be monitored and stringent action taken,” said another officer.Commuters however have demanded action against the mechanics and workshop owners to effectively check the issue. They said such drives are carried out every year, but the violation continues. V Pandiselvi, a regular commuter, said, “The action should strike at the root cause of the problem. When the mechanics doing the modification are taken to task, they will not do it again.” Traffic officials said that it was not just mechanics, even dealers selling the bikes involve in silencer modification. They will be monitored and action recommended, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-police-seize-128-bikes-with-altered-silencer/articleshow/79885499.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Police to inquire into alleged flouting of Covid norms at BJP MLA’s wedding||PUNE: The city’s joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve has directed senior inspector Sanjivan Jagdale of the Alankar police to conduct an inquiry into the alleged flouting of Covid-19 norms, including social distancing norms, at the wedding of a first-time BJP MLA from Solapur district at a marriage lawn on the DP Road in Erandwane on Sunday and submit a report at the earliest. The party’s state bigwigs, including state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and legislative council leader Pravin Darekar, among others, attended the event. Photos and videos of the event tweeted by some of these leaders kicked off a row over flouting of Covid-19-induced norms like maintaining six feet distance between each other, wearing masks and gathering of not more than 50 people, as prescribed by the government. “We came to know about the marriage details through our official channels the same night and I have asked the Alankar police station’s senior inspector to inquire into it and submit a report. We shall take a call on further action once we get the report,” Shisve told TOI on Tuesday. He said, “According to the government norms, police permission is not required when only 50 people attend a marriage ceremony. People are expected to follow this norm on their own. Our inquiry will also look into the aspect of if the MLA had taken any special permission from the government for the event.” Patil, the BJP’ s state unit chief, said, “The Covid-19 norms should be followed. It is not that a large number of people were invited, only restricted invitations were given. But it seems that many people turned up on their own at the venue to wish our MLA because of his public network.” Senior inspector Jagdale said, “A day before the wedding event, we had given a letter to the MLA to strictly follow the government norms, avoid inviting guests in large numbers and maintain noise pollution norms. The marriage function continued from morning to evening. We shall collect evidence to see if there was any crowding although we have information that people kept coming in small groups throughout the day.” Jagdale said, “We were present during the visit of important dignitaries. We have not received any complaint related to violation of social distancing norms. No FIR was registered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-to-inquire-into-alleged-flouting-of-covid-norms-at-bjp-mlas-wedding/articleshow/79889508.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sr Abhaya's death case: Won’t rest until the appeals are disposed, says Jomon Puthenpurackal||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On Jomon Puthenpurackal’s back, beneath the left shoulder, there is a nine-inch-long deep hack wound. The wound is the stamp of a murder attempt young Puthenpurackal had to face in 1994. It was nearly two years after he took over as the convener of Sister Abhaya action council and the attacker was his elder brother Uthuppan. Jomon who suffered serious wounds could save his life because neighbours rushed him to Goverment Medical College hospital, Kottayam. Puthenpurackal still believes that the attack by his elder brother was planned by the powerful Knanaya Catholic Church diocese of Kottayam to which he also belongs. The Church had been doing everything possible to bury the case and Puthenpurackal was perceived as a ‘potential trouble maker’ by them. A native of Areekkara near Uzhavoor in Kottayam, Puthenpurackal was 23 years old when Sister Abhaya was murdered. A middle-school dropout who was working as a daily wage labourer, Puthenpurackal had begun his public life as a Youth Congress activist. Later, he became a follower of freedom fighter K E Mammen who was living in Kottayam. It was Mammen who suggested his name as the convener when Sister Abhaya case action council was formed on March 31, 1992. That decision was the smartest one taken by the grieving local residents who wanted to find out the real culprits. The fight of Puthenpurackal since that day has defined the course of the investigation. Whenever there was a lapse from investigators, he had intervened with complaints. He was the one who sought the removal of CBI SP V Thyagarajan from the investigation after Varghese P Thomas quit. He filed intervening petitions whenever the investigators tried to wind up the case, citing lame excuses. During the trial that lasted for over a year, Puthenpurackal was present in the CBI court and was available on call for the prosecutor and CBI officials to clear any doubt. “I am ready to die today. My mission is complete,” he told an bevy of reporters who surrounded him at the CBI court compound on Tuesday. The 52-year-old who is still living as a bachelor says he won’t rest until appeals in the case are disposed of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/wont-rest-until-the-appeals-are-disposed-says-jomon/articleshow/79885634.cms||B Sreejan
December 23, 2020||Madurai||Service engineer caught nine months after stealing 35 phones||Madurai: Madurai: The Anna Nagar police on Tuesday arrested a service engineer for stealing 35 mobile phones from the service centre where he worked, nine months after the incident. The police recovered 34 phones worth 20 lakh, out of the 35 stolen.Police sources said employees of the service centre located on 80ft road said that the phones were stolen in mid-March. When the employees checked CCTV footage from the store, they found Manoj, a service engineer, carrying a box and leaving the store room. He had carried the new phones inside empty boxes of old phones under the pretext of discarding them while leaving office. He had gone underground since the incident.Based on a complaint from the service centre manager, the Anna Nagar police registered a case a few months after the incident. A team led by Anna Nagar crime police inspector Suresh could not trace him since he had changed his mobile number and stopped contacting anyone he knew in Madurai. Meanwhile, he had sold the phones to various people throughout the state through a few local mobile stores.Suresh said that Manoj had been hiding in various places such as Pollachi, Kerala and Chennai, came to his place in Madurai recently to collect his clothes. The police got information from the house owner and arrested him. “We traced all the phones he sold using IMIE number and asked the people to return the mobile phones to the respective stores and get back their money. We collected the phones from the stores. They are in the process of recovering the remaining phone, which has gone missing during shipment in parcel service,” Suresh said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/service-engineer-caught-nine-months-after-stealing-35-phones/articleshow/79885486.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu registers 1,052 new cases of Covid-19, 17 casualties||CHENNAI: The cumulative death toll for Covid-19 in the state crossed the 12,000 mark on Tuesday, after 17 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. The public health department revised the toll to 12,012. The state added 1,052 new cases which pushed its case tally to 8,090,14, while Chennai recorded 311 new cases and 8 deaths. There were 9,391 active cases people still under treatment as of Tuesday. Among those testing positive was a passenger who travelled from the UK and two other domestic passengers at the airport - one each from Bihar and Rajasthan. Three more passengers who came by road from AP, Kerala and West Bengal also tested positive. The state discharged 1,139 people and tested 64,977 people at the 235 authorised laboratories. All districts reported cases, although only seven out of 37 districts reported deaths. While Chennai topped the death table with eight deaths, there were three deaths in Coimbatore, two in Chengalpet, one each in Dindigul, Madurai, Thiruvallur and Thoothukudi. While Chennai topped the case table with 311 new cases, followed by 114 in Coimbatore all other districts reported less than 70 cases. A dozen districts – Karur(9), Ranipet (8),Theni (8), Kallakurichi(7), Pudukottai(6), Sivaganga (6), Dharmapuri (5), Ariyalur (3), Ramanathapuram (3), Tenkasi (3) and Perambalur (1) -- reported cases in single digits. Puducherry reported 49 fresh Covid-19 cases, with the total number of active cases reaching 360 on Tuesday. Of these, 173 are under home isolation. The territory has so far reported 37,811 cases of which 36,822 patients recovered. tnnPuducherry headquarters has the maximum number of patients with 178 followed by Mahe (122), Karaikal (51) and Yanam (9). Two more patients - a 73-year-old man and a 58-year-old woman - succumbed to the infection taking the death toll to 629. Puducherry headquarters has the maximum fatalities with 515 followed by Karaikal (61), Yanam (45) and Mahe (8). The fatality rate of the infection stood at 1.7%. registering a recovery rate of 97.4%. Healthcare authorities have sent 4.58 lakh swab samples of which 4.15 lakh samples returned negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-registers-1052-new-cases-of-covid-19-17-casualties/articleshow/79885455.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Madurai||Teachers stress need for innovation in imparting math skills||Madurai: More efforts are needed to help children develop themselves in the field of mathematics, said teachers while observing ‘National Mathematics Day’ on December 22, which is commemorated as the birth anniversary of renowned mathematician Srinivasa Ramanuja. Though maths is stereotyped to be a difficult subject, teachers said that the subject can be made enjoyable and exciting for students and has much scope for research.“Maths is inherently a challenge to teach and there is a need for innovation, especially in online classes. It is difficult as only through assignments, teachers can comprehend how well the concepts are grasped. Math teachers need more preparation,” said Jayendran Mani, correspondent, Sri Jayendra Group of Educational Institutions. Teachers said that the major challenge in the current system in learning math is that most students try to tackle math through rote learning, which is ineffective. “Often we find that students, even when they are in higher classes such as Class XI or XII, struggle in basics. It happens with both math and science subjects,” said Eswari Jayaraman, principal, National Vidyalaya Senior Secondary School. She further said that the onus is on math teachers to understand the reason why a particular student, from a young age, is facing difficulty in learning and correcting it. It was noted that many students struggle with math in engineering colleges due to poor foundational knowledge. “Science and other subjects require students to build knowledge by reading and studying concepts. But math is a skill. When students master it, they can easily do well. Teachers only need to find creative ways that effectively reach students,” a class XII math teacher at a government school said. “There is still a lot in the current system that needs change. Singapore math method, which is world-renowned, is focused on mastery achieved through sequencing of concepts. We need space for such methods in our SCERT and NCERT curriculum,” added Jayendran Mani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teachers-stress-need-for-innovation-in-imparting-math-skills/articleshow/79885547.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 23, 2020||Madurai||Guv nominates 3 members to MKU syndicate||Madurai: Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit has nominated three members to the syndicate of the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) for a period of three years. R Sudha, professor and head, department of French, School of English and Foreign Languages; M Thangaraj, professor and head, department of computer science, School of Information Technology; and S Nagarathinam, professor and head, department of communication, School of Linguistics and Communication, have been nominated as members. Sudha has 33 years of experience and previously held various positions at the university, including registrar (in-charge) at the university and director (in-charge) of Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMRC), MKU. Thangaraj has 31 years of teaching experience and has held multiple administrative responsibilities. Nagarathinam has 25 publications to his name and has been a professor and head of department of Communication since 2014. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/guv-nominates-3-members-to-mku-syndicate/articleshow/79885526.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Pune Metropolitan Region: Daily discharges surge to 905, eight more dead||PUNE: Daily Covid-19 recoveries surged to 905 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, taking its tally above 3.40 lakh. Both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits as well as the rural areas reported more recoveries than new cases in the 24 hours ended Tuesday night. While the PMC limits recorded 306 recoveries, the PCMC limits recorded 129 discharges, followed by the rural areas (470). On Monday, the region had reported 589 recoveries. The region added 496 cases on Friday, with the PMC limits reporting highest 234 new cases, followed the rural parts (135) and from the PCMC limits (127). PMR’s total positive caseload has reached 3.57 lakh so far. As many as eight patients succumbed to Covid-19 in PMR on Tuesday. Of these, six patients died in the PMC limits, two in the rural areas. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits did not report a single death due to Covid-19 on Tuesday. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the region’s active caseload stood at 8,246 on Tuesday night. The active count reported a drop by more than 400 from Monday’s tally of 8,663. Among Tuesday’s active caseload of 8,246, as many as 6,493 patients were in home isolation, while 1,753 patients were in yes hospital isolation. The report has stated that the region’s active caseload has been on drop since the last few days. Meanwhile, the region tested 6,726 samples for Covid-19 on Tuesday, pushing total sample testing above 18.08 lakh. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations conducted over 2,000 tests, while the rural areas tested over 1,700 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-discharges-surge-to-905-eight-more-dead/articleshow/79889535.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 23, 2020||Pune||Use serosurvey data to plan targeted vaccine drive: Experts||PUNE: Identifying vulnerable pockets where residents have reported low antibody levels during serosurveys can ensure judicious use of Covid-19 vaccine doses, epidemiologists have said. The plan, they said, could help pick the 27 crore at-risk individuals — including the elderly and those with medical conditions — for the third phase of vaccination. “Data from serosurveys should guide public health policy,” said epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee. “Countries like India where surveys have revealed high immunity levels in some parts should opt for judicious vaccine drives to get the best outcome with minimum cost.” Community medicine expert Arvind Singh Kushwaha said identifying vulnerable pockets will not be easy. “Finding such pockets is going to be difficult, especially in urban settings. Instead, what we could do quickly is vaccinate high-priority groups from the list of at-risk,” said Kushwaha, a professor at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur. He added, “For example, a 40-year-old man with hypertension and diabetes carries a higher risk of getting serious Covid than a healthy 60-year-old. So the 40-year-old should be vaccinated on priority. This way, we can economize vaccine utilization.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/use-serosurvey-data-to-plan-targeted-vax-drive-experts/articleshow/79889565.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 23, 2020||Madurai||Guj migrant worker under treatment found abandoned outside Madurai GRH||Madurai: State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Tuesday sought a report from the Director of Medical Education within two weeks after a migrant worker was found abandoned outside Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on the roadside while still under treatment. The commission took suo motu cognizance of a media report in this regard.GRH authorities said a guest worker from Gujarat, Mahendra, after sustaining injuries in his leg was admitted to the hospital on December 11. Doctors had treated him for fractures and placed an external orthopaedic fixation on his leg. However, after receiving treatment, he was found on the roadside near a ditch outside GRH. He spent many days there with passersby and nearby shopkeepers giving him food.Though it is being alleged that the worker was forced to leave the hospital as he had no attenders, hospital authorities strongly denied the claim. Since he knew only his native language and was unable to communicate properly, he reportedly left the hospital on his own. GRH dean Dr J Sangumani said the worker was admitted to the hospital again on Monday and is now recovering well. “He did not have any attenders but he was never forced to leave the hospital. Our doctors brought him back and treated him when they came to know about it. He is being given food and water and his condition is being closely monitored,” added the dean. Dr Sangumani further said there are also plans to set up a separate ward for patients who have no attenders in co-ordination with Red Cross and other voluntary organisations. A special team led by the dean is to be formed to exclusively monitor and provide care for all patients who are without attenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/guj-migrant-worker-under-treatment-found-abandoned-outside-madurai-grh/articleshow/79885564.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chennai||Heading Madras HC a pilgrimage: CJ||CHENNAI: “For a Chief Justice to be the Chief of Madras high court in my opinion is a pilgrimage,” Chief Justice A P Sahi said, at a virtual farewell organised by the Madras Bar Association. Justice Sahi will retire from service on December 31. “And it is such a pilgrimage that bar members of the court need not regret my non-elevation to the Supreme Court,” the Chief Justice said, while addressing members of the Bar. Judgments rendered by the Madras high court are cited with a sense of authority and receive approval from the highest court of land because its judgments remain unmatched with any other high court of the country, he said. “I have noticed that after a case ends every lawyer departs in the most humble way with folded hands towards their adversary and towards the court. This unique culture of humility and courtesy deserves to be maintained because this is not to be found in any other high court or court of the country,” the Cheif Justice added. Earlier, delivering his address, senior advocate and president of the bar association A R L Sundaresan said, “The bar is very fortunate to have you as the Chief Justice of this court, but it is unfortunate that it was a short tenure. And 75% of the same has been robbed by the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/heading-madras-hc-a-pilgrimage-cj/articleshow/79885487.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Shopping malls in Pune deck up ahead of Christmas to draw customers||PUNE: Malls in the city have jazzed up for Christmas and New Year in a bid to draw more customers, with footfall continuing to remain weak since they reopened after the lockdown. Phoenix Marketcity Pune has come up with an elaborate ‘The Midas Christmas’ theme décor, including a massive Pegasus, juxtaposing the icily geometric Mandala arches at the mall entrance. Then there are six geometrically sculpted gold reindeers about to take flight. At the base of it is a 40ft gold Christmas tree in the main atrium, an installation called The Frosty Wave powered by a kinetic source, and a completely edible gingerbread house made of biscotti and icing sugar on the ground floor. Arun Arora, centre director, Phoenix Marketcity Pune, said, “We are expecting decent footfall around Christmas and New Year and we have ensured all safety measures for customers so that they have a happy and stress-free shopping experience .” The Pavillion Mall has created a ‘Christmas Candyland’ featuring a 20ft ‘candy tree’ and 8ft gingerbread house, a 2D gingerbread man with base as a selfie point.  Kinjal Radia, centre director, The Pavillion Mall Pune, said, “Compared to last year, spends have been under check to ensure that we don’t overexpose ourselves at a time when revenues have taken a big hit.” “Going by past experiences, the footfall is likely to increase by 15-20% in the run up to New Year; yet the numbers are expected to remain under control,” Radia said. Some malls, however, have decided to forego any elaborate decorations due to budget restraints, staff shortage etc. They are instead focusing on attracting customers with discounts and sales. Mahesh M, chief executive officer Creaticity, said, “Our overall decor follows our theme of merry winter sale, a play of light on greens, with our entire pathways illuminated to bring cheer amid the onset of Christmas and the New Year. We have been seeing a steady increase in footfall. We have scaled the decor in line with expected traffic and visibility. Moreover, we have planned some interesting offers on our online portal with an aim to draw customers to our mall.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shopping-malls-deck-up-ahead-of-christmas-to-draw-customers/articleshow/79889627.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sister Abhaya's death case: ‘Stood for the truth, paid heavily, but it triumphed’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: While speaking to reporters at his residence in Pathanamthitta, former CBI DSP Varghese P Thomas couldn’t hide his tears. “Tears of joy”, he explained the journalists who had gathered there following the court’s verdict in Sister Abhaya murder case. Thomas was an investigating officer in first team of CBI which took up the case in 1993. On January 1, the next year, Thomas quit as CBI DSP alleging harassment from the then SP V Thyagarajan. Varghese who convened a news conference in Kochi alleged that there was pressure on him to conclude the case as a suicide, but he stood by his finding that the case was homicide. The events that followed led to Thomas applying for VRS. He alleged that Thyagarajan demanded to conclude the case as a suicide, in line with the findings of the crime branch which had probed the case earlier. The version of the crime branch was that Abhaya committed suicide as she scored only seven marks out of 100 in a first year pre-degree examination. “I had 10 years of service remaining and would have retired as DIG,” he said adding that he has no regret in quitting. “I can’t do anything against my conscience,” he said. “I have stood for truth and had to pay heavy price for that. Finally, the truth triumphed,” Thomas said. During the trial, he deposed as a prosecution witness and detailed his findings and the pressure he had to face from within the investigating agency before the CBI court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/stood-for-the-truth-paid-heavily-but-it-triumphed/articleshow/79885751.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||31-year-old man hangs self in Dhayari flat||PUNE: A 31-year-old man was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his flat in Dhayari on Tuesday. The Sinhagad Road police have identified the deceased as Rupesh Patil of Sharvil Society in Dhayari. He was an ayurveda practitioner. The police have recovered a suicide note in the flat, purportedly written by Patil, which states that he was ending his life over financial and health-related issues. The note added that no one was responsible for his death, police further said. According to the police, Patil had hanged himself on December 19. His wife and mother were in Gujarat at the time. The neighbours of the deceased got suspicious when he did not answer the door since December 19 and alerted the police. Patil was running an ayurveda clinic in the Dhayari area and had also started an event management company, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/31-yr-old-man-hangs-self-in-dhayari-flat/articleshow/79889720.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||PCMC mayor demands inclusion of undeveloped areas from PCNTDA into PCMC||Pimpri Chinchwad: Mayor Usha Dhore and BJP leader Namdev Dhake have demanded inclusion of undeveloped areas under the Pimpri Chinchwad New Township Development Authority (PCNTDA) in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Dhore said that the developmen work gets hampered because of involvement of multiple administrative agencies. Handing over undeveloped areas to the Pimpri Chinchwad civic body will ensure seamless development. The letter stated, “The twin towns already have PCMC, PCNTDA, and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), that look after road, residential, non-residential, industrial constructions, water supply, and basic development projects. Since these three organisations have different control over different works, it hampers many developmental projects. If the undeveloped areas too are given to the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), it will add another agency and create issues in the projects in the future.” It further stated that to avoid these complications, control of the undeveloped areas should be granted to the PCMC. Earlier, civic chief Shravan Hardikar had said that there was possibility of some land going to PMRDA for development as land bank. But whether they will be shifting all the undeveloped acquired land entirely or some of it has to be seen, he said. Established in 1972, PCNTDA has been instrumental in developing urban housing and commercial infrastructure for the rapidly growing population of Pimpri Chinchwad. PCNTDA looks after the construction of residential colonies and infrastructure projects in Nigdi-Pradhikaran, Wakad, Thergaon, Bijlinagar, Moshi, and Kalewadi areas in the PCMC civic body limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-mayor-demands-inclusion-of-undeveloped-areas-from-pcntda-into-pcmc/articleshow/79889797.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Vadodara||Sawmill in Makarpura GIDC gutted, none hurt||Vadodara: A sawmill in Makarpura GIDC was gutted in fire in the early hours of Monday.Fire that broke out around 5 am quickly spread through the facility. The flames and thick smoke billowing out from the sawmill was visible from a distance. “We suspect that fire was caused due to short-circuit and spread due to presence of wood. Our staff doused the flamed in less than an hour, but the smoke had spread in the area,” said a fire official.Huge flames and smoke had created panic among workers of other units of the industrial estate, yet hundreds crowded outside the sawmill. “There were no casualties as the unit had been evacuated in time, but everything was gutted,” the fire official said.Another fire was reported in a mattress shop at Anand Complex in Karelibaug on Monday afternoon. Firemen from Dandiya Bazaar fire station controlled the fire in a few minutes, but the shop owner reported a loss of Rs 1.5 lakh. “There was a lot of stock in the shop but the employees and other shop owners in the complex had moved some mattresses out of the shop before the fire could spread,” said another fire official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sawmill-in-makarpura-gidc-gutted-none-hurt/articleshow/79844032.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Have a bubble bash this New Year’s eve||Gourmet bubbles, virtual music performances and exclusive festive fare you can order home -- that’s what city hotels are offering Chennaiites to ring in 2021. Though lockdown restrictions have eased, the fear of the pandemic is still in the air. The festivities have toned down but the hospitality industry is coming up with innovative ways to ensure people get to enjoy the festive season while remaining safe. "Traditional new year parties and large crowds are a thing of the past. We want to ring in the new year with cautious optimism," said Zubin Songadwala, general manager, ITC Grand Chola and area manager – ITC Hotels South. That’s why ITC Chola has come up with ‘gourmet bubbles’ where guests can have a private venue, a bespoke signature menu, select premium beverages and an exclusive service team. "We are creating small pockets or bio bubbles – in our private dining rooms, poolside cabanas etc – where small groups of four to six people can dine," said Songadwala, adding that guests have to book in advance. All safety protocols will be adhered to and restaurants will close by 10pm as per rules. "It’s perfect for a family of six to eight people where you will be in a confined space where you won’t have to interact with others," he said , adding that the package will be available beyond New Year’s eve. Grand by GRT Hotels is offering dine-in options as well as room packages. "We will have a live band and a special menu at our restaurant ‘J.Hind’ while at ‘Bazaar’ we will have a buffet," said Vikram Cotah, COO, GRT Hotels & Resorts. People can also opt for room packages on New Year’s eve. "You can book a room or a suite and celebrate there with contactless food from room service," said Cotah. Since many people are choosing to stay at home and welcome the new year with family and friends, hotels have come up with exclusive festive takeaway menus too. "Our cloud kitchen offers a special New Year’s Eve menu that you can takeaway or order through food delivery apps," said Cotah. ITC Grand Chola offers celebration menu packs. "We have boxes for a minimum order of 10. We can also customise the menu, which will be available from December 24 to January 3, 2021," said Songadwala. The Indian Hotels Company Limited (IHCL) has introduced Qmin, a mobile application that will deliver dishes from guests’ favourite restaurants. In Chennai, guests can order specially curated set-menus from Taj Coromandel, Taj Connemara, Taj Fisherman’s Cove Resort & Spa and Vivanta Chennai, IT Expressway. Priced at `2,800 for two people, and `5,000 for a team of four people, it is available from December 23, 2020 to January 3, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/have-a-bubble-bash-this-new-years-eve/articleshow/79885625.cms||Priya Menon
December 23, 2020||Kochi||Sister Abhaya's death case: ASI who prepared FIR killed self after CBI recorded his statement||KOTTAYAM: V V Augustine, the fourth accused in the case, was found dead near his house under mysterious circumstances on November 28, 2008. He was one of the members of the police team which had conducted the inquiry into Sister Abhaya’s death in the initial stages. Police suspected that the 62-year-old retired assistant sub-inspector had committed suicide. He was found dead with his veins cut in the compound of his house at Ithithanam, near here. CBI had found that he had destroyed crucial evidence in the case. Augustine, who was subjected to interrogation several times by CBI, was said to be under mental trauma. His death came a day after CBI recorded his statement regarding the case. He was found dead barely a week after the arrest of the first three accused. His relatives had alleged that the retired officer took his own life because of the torture by CBI. The relatives had approached the high court in this regard. Augustine, who was the ASI of Kottayam West police station at the time of Abhaya’s death, was the first policeman to reach the spot after the nun’s body was found in the well. He had conducted the inquest and prepared the FIR in the case and was involved in the initial phase of investigation before the case was handed over to the crime branch, and later to the CBI. He was subjected to brain mapping by the CBI team and his statement was taken by the investigating team amid allegations that certain vital information were suppressed in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/asi-who-prepared-fir-killed-self-after-cbi-recorded-his-statement/articleshow/79885858.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chennai||RSS bets on small shakhas in hinterland to make it big in Tamil Nadu||Suresh Bharathi scrolls down the WhatsApp messages slowly checking the updates sent from various shakhas. “Today ten people attended the shakha at Othakalmandapam,” he says, eyes fixed on the phone. Shakha at another village, Ramapattinam, has far lower attendance, just four people. But that was no reason to complain. In fact, Suresh, Coimbatore-Nilgiris zonal joint secretary of RSS, felt proud. The shakhas at Othakalmandapam and Ramapatinam in rural Coimbatore are only one month old and a sign of the organisation’s growth. Till a few months ago, shakhas, the daily hour-long congregations of RSS workers, were alien to these villages. But now the meetings have become a regular feature here and in the region. While BJP has been making concerted efforts to expand its presence through activities like Vel Yatra, the party’s ideological fountainhead RSS has been slowly making inroads in the rural areas of Tamil Nadu to achieve the same. Shakhas are just a part of the activities of RSS and its affiliates like Seva Bharti and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, but they give us a peep into the growth of the organisation. In Coimbatore zone, which comprises Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and a part of Tirupur district, about 250 shakhas were held daily, mostly in urban areas in 2015. Now the numbers have increased to 460. The attendance in the shakhas ,too, has gone up from 10,000 five years ago to 25,000 now. Across the state the numbers have gone up from 1,355 shakhas to 2,060 during the five-year period. The participants include elderly, working middle-aged men, college students and school boys as young as 10. “I like the physical exercises and martial arts taught here,’’ said Avinesh Adithya, a Class V student, a regular at the Marappalam shakha in Coimbatore. “RSS wants to make India the guru of the world,” Avinesh says when asked what he knew about RSS. Avinesh got introduced to the shakha through his father, an RSS worker. But there are those -- like M Vishnu, a Class XII boy, from the same shakha -- who have no RSS/BJP background, but have been attending shakhas since 2018. “We have been working in this locality for years. During Covid we distributed kabasura kudineer, supplied household items, gave food and took care of the needs of the residents. Youth are drawn towards us because of the service we do here,” said Suresh Bharathi after the shakha on a small ground came to an end with “Bharat Mata ki Jai”. RSS’s sechriya karvavah (South India secretary) S Rajendran said that in the past three years there was a 30% increase in the number of youngsters joining the RSS. “There is a growth, but it is lesser compared to Kerala, because the political parties here misguide people,” he said. In addition to the BJP and the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, another reason for the growth of RSS was the failure of secular forces, says writer Stalin Rajangam. Secular forces have failed to understand the significance of religious and cultural space in society. Political movements have stayed away from cultural activities, he says. “But RSS understood that culture and society are intertwined. They found how to involve themselves in that cultural space, how to make it theirs and subsequently how to infuse their ideas into that space,” he said. RSS has now chosen to adopt a Tamil identity to diffuse criticism of being a ‘north Indian’ organisation and achieve faster growth in Tamil Nadu. RSS recently floated an affiliated outfit named Deiviga Tamil Sangam, exclusively for Tamil Nadu, named in Tamil to strike a chord with the people here. The sangam has started distributing pamphlets in various places. “We formed this outfit since we did not get the expected response when we went for door-to-door distribution of pamphlets earlier with the RSS identity,” said an RSS functionary. So far one crore pamphlets which talk about virtues of Tamil, ‘threat of religious conversion’, ‘danger of love jihad’ and ‘drop in Hindu population’ have been distributed. “The response is mixed now, but better than earlier,” said Karthik H P, an RSS volunteer. But there’s more to the organisation than the activity in the shakhas. Though RSS leaders say and write in their books that the organisation is inclusive and accommodative, many see the right wing outfit is seen as divisive and polarising. Dravidian parties, dalit outfits and left parties have been criticising RSS for influencing several decisions taken by the BJP like making NEET mandatory, New Education Policy and appointment of vice-chancellors. Dravidian party leaders allege that RSS is out to ‘subjugate’ and ‘eliminate’ Dravidian/regional identities and spread a monolithic Hindu religious identity. This identity is opposed because it would alienate religious minorities and lead to a society that would reinforce Brahmanical supremacy. “Only people who do not have an understanding about RSS say so. There are Muslims in this locality and they have been very supportive of us,” said Suresh Bharathi. Another RSS worker said they have started holding shakhas in dalit dominated villages. “RSS is completely against caste discrimination,” he said. Stalin Rajangam agreed that RSS doesn’t discriminate on caste basis and RSS workers follow the agenda given to them without any deviation on the ground. “Only then RSS would grow. But the growth of RSS is worrying because it will lead to religious majoritarianism,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rss-bets-on-small-shakhas-in-hinterland-to-make-it-big-in-tn/articleshow/79885853.cms||Mayilvaganan
December 23, 2020||Chennai||Farmhouses, cottages along Chennai's East Coast Road in demand||Cottages and farmhouses off East Coast Road have emerged as the most sought-after destinations for New Year-eve revellers, after the government banned celebrations in restaurants, hotels, clubs and resorts. Police have warned against events on such properties, but bookings are on in full swing. There are about 250 registered and unregistered beach houses, cottages and farmhouses between Kottivakkam and Muttukadu and several more farmhouses from Kovalam till the border of Chengalpet with Villupuram district. There are at least 45 registered hotels and resorts on ECR from Tiruvanmiyur to Mamallapuram, under both Greater Chennai Police and Chengalpet district police. Inquiries by TOI showed that a cottage at Kanathur with a swimming pool that can house 20 people can be rented for ₹45,000 for 24 hours from 10am on December 31. A representative said three of the four cottages on the property have already been booked. While the rent does not include food or beverages, bonfire services along the seashore can be had based on demand, he said, adding that celebrations can be facilitated as the cottage possessed the necessary licence. ECR cottages have always been in demand for New Year-eve parties, but they assume significance this year against the backdrop of the government’s announcement banning celebrations on roads and beaches as well as in restaurants, hotels, clubs, resorts including those along beach promenades. Unregistered properties are largely aloof, but police said the ban would apply to them as well. On Tuesday, Greater Chennai Police convened a meeting with managers of resorts, farmhouses and hotels over the issue. Neelankarai assistant commissioner Visveswaraya told TOI parties would not be allowed in cottages, farmhouses or hotels. "Steps would be taken to cordon off beaches to prevent movement of two-wheelers," he added. Chengalpet collector A John Louis told TOI that the government order will be implemented strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/farmhouses-cottages-along-ecr-in-demand/articleshow/79885815.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||Cops stop minister Bachhu Kadu from reaching Mumbai for farmers’ rally||NAGPUR: City police on Tuesday stopped minister of state for water resources and education Bachhu Kadu just as he was about to leave for city airport from the irrigation department guest house at Civil Lines to take a flight to Mumbai. Kadu had declared his intention to lead a rally to the office of the Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance group in support of nationwide farmers’ stir. Sources said Kadu had checked into the guest house on Sunday evening. The place was cordoned off by the police and its gates shut. Kadu said the Nagpur police stopped him without serving any notice. “I had to approach the state home minister (Anil Deshmukh) about this abrupt action. After his intervention, I was allowed to board a Pune-bound flight. The cops ensured my Mumbai flight was missed,” he said. Kadu said he was going to participate in a peaceful rally of the farmers which was to terminate at the office of the Reliance group to protest the farm laws. “The home minister has called for a report from the Nagpur police regarding action against me,” he said. City police chief Amitesh Kumar said they acted following instructions from state police chief that Kadu should not leave for Mumbai where he was supposed to participate in an agitation announced earlier. “We detained him as per orders,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-stop-minister-kadu-from-reaching-mumbai-for-farmers-rally/articleshow/79885871.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s lungs, Maidan, scarred by litter & vehicles in Covid season||KOLKATA: Covid has not just affected people with respiratory distress. The Covid season has left even Kolkata’s lungs — the Maidan — badly scarred. Trash has covered the vast expanse of green between Shahid Minar and Victoria Memorial, transforming one of the city’s most picturesque locations into an eyesore. While the Maidan does have to battle litter every winter when thousands or revellers descend on the patch to picnic on Christmas, New Year’s Eve and New Year’s day, littering began several months ago when people discovered it was the only entertainment venue available in a city in June this year with people choosing to spend the morning and evenings there. Though other places have eventually opened since November, the Maidan remains a favourite haunt as it is considered safe. The sprawling grounds ensure there is no crowding. But the very people who enjoy the greens have littered it with discarded cups, plates and plastic packets. The influx of people has also led to more hawkers selling phuchka, bhelpuri, masala muri and other snacks. This activity further adds to the litter. The worst section is the stretch alongside Chowringhee. Birendra Nath Saha, who has been frequenting the Maidan for past eight years, says litter and garbage has been piling up along the Maidan’s eastern edge from August. “During the lockdown, the Maidan had turned lush green. Now, it is a sea of grey due to the litter,” he rued. An official from the state Public Works Department (PWD) said temporary sweepers had been hired to clear the litter but they were overwhelmed by the volume of littering that happened every evening. Their clean-up efforts, he claimed, were obliterated in the evening. “We have sweepers who clear the road and the flanks. At times, they also maintain the Brigade ground. But that is primarily around year-end. This year, the task has become a herculean one as people have been spending the evening here for the past several months. We understand they feel safe to be here but they should also take care of the green and carry the paper or plastic that they bring here instead of just leaving them around,” the PWD official said. Jiya Kedia, who visits the Maidan once a week with friends and relatives, felt the authorities ought to install trash bins and conduct an awareness campaign to change people’s habits. “We have to inculcate civic sense among people. It’s curious that the very people don’t litter when they enter the Metro,” she remarked. Apart from litter, the edges of the Maidan have also been resembling a garage with people parking cars and two wheelers all over the area. Parking in the vicinity of the Maidan is prohibited under an earlier court order. Though police installed no-parking boards on Tuesday and forbade motorists to park there, bikes continued to flout the norms criss-crossed the greens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkatas-lungs-maidan-scarred-by-litter-vehicles-in-cov-season/articleshow/79885906.cms||Sudipto Das
December 23, 2020||Kochi||Sister Abhaya's death case: Convicts may be in jail for over a year, says legal experts||KOCHI: Those found guilty in Sister Abhaya murder case may have to spend at least a year in prison before their sentences would be suspended as part of hearing of appeals by the high court, point out legal experts. The high court normally doesn’t allow suspension of sentence in serious offences like murder, and a life sentence is suspended only in rare cases, like one in thousand, where there is no evidence linking the accused to the offence, said former additional advocate general K A Jaleel. In ordinary course, no bail is granted for life imprisonment, he added. Once an appeal on a murder conviction is filed, it takes up to two years to be heard by the high court now due to pendency of cases. There is an earlier judgment of the high court that bars hearing appeals out of turn and this could prove a bar for the accused in Abhaya case from pressing for an early hearing, the former additional AG said. Former senior public prosecutor Nooranad C Rasheed also concurs. The accused would move the Supreme Court when the high court declines to suspend the sentence and the apex court normally refers the matter back to the high court, sometimes after fixing a time limit for conducting the hearing. If it happens, the high court would then advance the hearing on the appeals but would not normally suspend the sentence, advocate Rasheed said. The time taken for hearing appeals in murder cases had come down to six months but it again went up to two years due to pendency of cases, advocate Jaleel said. A Supreme Court judgment says the judge can consider granting bail to the accused if an appeal is not heard in two years. But as there is a judgment that bars hearing appeals out of turn, it may take at least two years for the appeal to come up for hearing, said Jaleel. Legal experts also point out that convictions by lower courts are normally ‘moral convictions’, which means the judges also consider the moral angle along with the available evidence. When the case reaches the high court in appeal, evidence is strictly looked into and many convictions turn into acquittals, Jaleel added. When a trial court considers the case, it would consider the question why the murder was committed. The trial judge would know that and it would be taken into consideration while deciding to convict or acquit, said Rasheed. The high court would take minimum of one year to hear the appeal, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/convicts-may-be-in-jail-for-over-a-year-experts/articleshow/79885912.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Raman Patel accused of land grabbing||AHMEDABAD: An 85-year-old man from Thaltej Gaam in the city on Monday filed a complaint alleging that his ancestral agricultural land, measuring about 200 acres, located in Thaltej, had been grabbed by the owner of Popular Builders Raman Patel and his aides, by floating an agricultural cooperative in 1977. With this complaint, Patel could be the first person in the state to be booked under the Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act, 2020. In his FIR with Sola police, Khodaji Thakor said he recently obtained land documents though RTI after which he learned that his land was in the name of one Someshwar Kheti Sahkari Mandali, and had been transferred to the cooperative in 1977. Thakor said as he had become old and could not work, he decided to sell the agricultural land but learned that the plot, which was transferred to his name in 1956, was sold to the office bearers of Someshwar Kheti Sahkari Mandali. He said that neither he nor his wife, who was co-owner of the land, had made any land deal with any person. He said that the price of the land on the land deal document was shown to be Rs 6,078. The FIR says that Patel and four others hatched a criminal conspiracy and grabbed Thakor’s ancestral land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/raman-patel-accused-of-land-grabbing/articleshow/79885910.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Marriage ceremonies turning super spreader events, yet no punitive action||NAGPUR: Attendance at marriage ceremonies has been turning out to be a common factor among those testing positive in the city. Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) zonal medical officers engaged in survey of new positive cases found many people reported coming down with infection soon after attending a marriage ceremony. An average of 450 Covid cases have been reported daily for last over one month. Short of manpower, the NMC Nuisance Detection Squad (NDS) has so far penalized 11 errant marriage hall or lawns in Dharampeth, Dhantoli and Mangalwari zones, and 64 mandaps (home venues) in all 10 zones, excluding Laxmi Nagar, between December 1 and 22. Considering the ongoing marriage season, the action seems too mild to deter citizens from violating Covid norms. Also, NDS has been checking compliance regarding 50 invitees only on weekends because of multiple assignments. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said many cases are coming with a history of attending marriages. “I have also noticed that those wearing mask are ridiculed at public functions. Therefore, cautious people too are gradually shunning precautions. Yesterday, we admitted a person from Pusad, who had attended a marriage,” he said. Dr Gawande suggested that organizers must allow only those who follow norms. “Dos and Don’ts must be compulsorily pasted at marriage halls or lawns,” he said. Infectious disease specialist at Kingsway Hospital, Dr Ashwini Tayde said they have observed similar trend. “We have come across mild and moderate cases having history of attending marriages. We haven’t seen a severe case but that doesn’t mean it is not there,” she said, adding that people are careless among known people, and fail to follow precautions. NGO TogetherWeCan’s Anasuya Kale Chhabrani said the NMC must immediately start a window at its headquarters for submitting complaints at public functions. “Organizers must be asked to take complete responsibility and pay the penalty in case of violation. The fine amount should be hefty, around Rs50,000 to Rs1 lakh. Violator and venue name must be published in newspapers. Till this happens, people will not listen,” she said. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said there will be surprise checks by NMC squads and civic body will intensify efforts to enforce physical distancing at public places. Collector Ravindra Thakare didn’t respond to TOI’s queries on violations and action against such violators. The Nuisance Detection Squad (NDS) has collected a penalty of Rs29,000 from the 11 hall and lawn owners over violation of Covid norms and under Section 8 of MMC Act. In Dhantoli zone, a hotel was found to be hosting three receptions at a time. However, the zone officials let off the violator with mild action and warning. In the action on 64 individuals for illegal mandaps and crowding, NDS recovered a fine of Rs96,000. The squads found both types of violations in Dharampeth, Dhantoli and Nehru Nagar zones. Health officials feel NMC must have a special squad to keep a check on functions on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/marriage-ceremonies-turning-super-spreader-events-yet-no-punitive-action/articleshow/79885932.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Admissions for MBBS conclude||AHMEDABAD: MBBS admissions for the state quota concluded on Tuesday with the admission committee declaring that all seats in 11 medical colleges have been filled after the mop-up round. Students who have confirmed their admission will not be allowed to withdraw now for admission to other courses, as the mop-up round for the dental faculty is still under way with 585 seats yet to be filled on Tuesday. The in-person mop-up round began on December 18 and was to last till December 23, but the process was completed with a day to spare as all 5,342 seats were filled. After two rounds of admissions, 293 seats had remained vacant in undergraduate medical courses. The admission committee said the last student to get admission to the MBBS course at a government in general category was at No. 925 on the merit list. Admissions at GMERS colleges in the open category ended at No. 2,159 and at self-financed institutes at No. 4,337. In the economically weaker sections (EWS) quota, admissions stopped at No. 302 in government colleges; 698 at GMERS colleges and 1,430 at self-financed medical colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/admissions-for-mbbs-conclude/articleshow/79885976.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||City gets pet crematorium off Belgharia Expressway||Kolkata: The much awaited animal and pet crematorium set up by the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) was inaugurated by urban development and municipal affairs minister, Firhad Hakim, at Pramod Nagar near the dumping ground off Belgharia Expressway on Tuesday.  Hakim said the idea to set up the crematorium for animals had been conceptualised a few years ago after being prodded by the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee. After animal carcasses were left on the dumping grounds in the South Dum Dum Municipality area, the civic authorities felt the need to set up a crematorium for animals. KMDA took up the project to come up with the crematorium spread over around 10 cottahs of land. The cost of the project is Rs 4 crore. The South Dum Dum Municipality will operate and maintain the crematorium. The crematorium has two electric furnaces for cremating animals. The special features of the crematorium is that the trolley to carry the carcasses of animals can take a load of about 500 kg while the furnace coils can reach till 800°C temperature. There will also be a crane to place a large carcass into the trolley. There are also supporting amenities like waiting room and toilets. Officials said that till date, there were not many options in the South Dum Dum Municipality area for burying pets or other animals. In New Town, the Hidco authorities have developed a crematorium for pets. Hakim said the state government had allocated Rs 1,050 crore for cleaning the legacy waste in Pramod Nagar, Dhapa and Mollar Bheri. For Pramod Nagar, over Rs 650 crore will be spent to clean the 7.3 lakh MT of such waste while Rs 19 crore will be spent to dispose of 3 MT waste at Mollar Bheri. For Dhapa, Rs 260 crore will be spent to remove 40 lakh MT waste. Local MLAs and ministers Sujit Bose and Bratya Basu, along with the officials of KMDA and South Dum Dum Municipality, were also present during the inauguration of the crematorium. It was noticed by the civic authorities that the carcasses of animals used to be left on the dumpyard on a 20-acre of land off Belgharia Expressway. The dumpyard that caters to four civic bodies of Dum Dum, North and South Dum Dum and Baranagar Municipality for disposal of solid waste daily, has become a cause of concern in terms of pollution. South Dum Dum Municipality officials said that as they would be operating the crematorium, it is being worked out whether any maintenance charge would be taken for cremating pets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-gets-pet-crematorium-off-belgharia-expressway/articleshow/79885946.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Bypass fire guts 35 huts, hits peak-hour traffic||KOLKATA: At least 35 shanties were gutted at Gulmath Colony in the EM Bypass-Bengal Chemical area during a massive fire reported on Tuesday evening. The blaze also slowed peak-hour traffic to a crawl. Police sources said that with over 200 shanties in the area — adjoining the Purbasha Complex — many more could be affected. Unofficial sources put the number of affected hutments at 50. The blaze was huge and flames could be spotted from several kilometres away on the Bypass. However, no injury or death was reported. Till late evening, the cause of fire could not be ascertained. The most likely reason cited was a short-circuit or a gas leak. According to fire department officials, the blaze spread fast owing to a number of factors — the most important being combustible materials stacked in the area. The locals, including those in the adjoining complex, claimed that they heard blasts before the fire spread. Police sources said the blasts could have been from cylinders and stoves stored in the shanties. Fifteen fire engines were rushed to the spot to douse the fire. “Till 8.45pm, the fire was still not under control. However, we managed to contain it to a smaller area and stop its spread. We hope to begin the cooling process before midnight,” explained an officer. The fire also affected peak-hour traffic on EM Bypass — one of the busiest stretches of Kolkata — as the locals rushed out to the roads seeking safety. “There was a major snarl between Captain Bheri and Ultadanga. We tried controlling the situation by diverting north-bound vehicles from Chingrighata, Beliaghata Building More and Narkeldanga Main Road,” said an officer. Many remained stranded for hours as cops tried to untangle the traffic mess. The fire was noticed by locals around 6.38pm. “I was out for some work and rushed back after receiving a call from home. My family tried to stop the spread of the fire by themselves, but it was too late. We could not save any of our belongings. All my certificates and personal belongings, my hopes of landing a decent job have burned down,” said Aurobindo Mondal, whose house got burnt. “With the winters setting in, at least 150-200 people have lost everything they owned and will now be forced to spend the night out in the open. I have a one-year-old child. He has no clothes to wear in this biting cold,” said Parimal Das, one of the locals who tried to douse the fire locally. Chairman of the KMC Board of Administrators Firhad Hakim and fire minister Sujit Bose rushed to the spot along with DG (fire) Jagmohan. Police pressed its Disaster Management Group to rescue the people. “We concentrated first in removing everyone to safety,” said Hakim. “The fire brigade is investigating the cause of fire. We are also ascertaining the loss. The government will do everything to stand by the victims,” Bose said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bypass-fire-guts-35-huts-hits-peak-hour-traffic/articleshow/79885911.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||Duped, beaten by traders, Amravati farmer ends life, brother dies of shock||AMRAVATI: Allegedly cheated and beaten up by orange merchants, a 55-year-old orange farmer of village Dhanegaon in Anjangaon Surji tehsil of the district committed suicide on Monday in a farm near a Ganesh temple in the village. Tragically, his younger brother suffered a heart attack after the farmer’s funeral and died on way to hospital. Before ending his life, the farmer had written a note addressed to state school education minister Bacchu Kadu demanding justice. Police identified the deceased farmer as Ashok Pandurang Bhoyar (55), and his younger brother Sanjay (50), who died of heart attack. Accused was seen beating the farmer in CCTV footageOn the complaint of Ashok’s son Gaurav Ashok Bhoyar, Anjangaon Surji police have registered offences against orange merchants Sheikh Amin and Sheikh Gafur, and beat jamadar Deepak Shravan Jadhav. SPDO More is investigating the matter, DCP Shaun Ghuge said. Police said the orange farmer who took poison had sold his orange crop to two Anjangaon Surji merchants, who allegedly plied him with liquor, and then forcibly took his signature on payment receipt. They also allegedly beat him up. When Ashok reached Anjangaon police station to file a complaint on December 18 with the Dhanegaon police patil, he was allegedly beaten up by beat jamadar Deepak Jadhav in the police station itself. Bhoyar them wrote a note addressed to minister Bacchu Kadu demanding justice, went to a farm near Borala Ganapati temple and ended his life by consuming poison. Residents of Dhanegaon thronged the police station and demanded registration of offences against Anjangaon PI and beat jamadar besides the orange merchants. Tension mounted as villagers refused to accept Ashok’s body. Police then registered offence against Jadhav, who was see beating the farmer in CCTV footage of the police station, and the two orange merchants. After Ashok’s funeral at Dhanegaon, his younger brother Sanjay suffered a heart attack. He died on way to Anjangaon hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/duped-beaten-by-traders-farmer-ends-life-bro-dies-of-shock/articleshow/79885903.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka high court orders thorough probe in 2006 land case against B S Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: In a huge setback for chief minister BS Yediyurappa, the Karnataka high court on Tuesday dismissed his plea to quash a special court order for Lokayukta cases to probe a land denotification complaint lodged against him in 2013. Dismissing the petition, the court pulled up officials over pending investigation and ordered a thorough probe in the case registered against the CM. The complaint with the Lokayukta says Yediyurappa, as deputy chief minister in 2006, ordered illegal deletion of land notified for IT Park in and around Bellandur and Devarabisanahalli. In 2013, Vasudeva Reddy had filed a private complaint in the Lokayukta Special Court, saying Yeddyurappa ordered denotification of four acres 30 guntas in survey number 49 in Devarabisanahalli and survey numbers 10, 18, 46/1 in Bellandur. He further alleged that following denotification, the lands were diverted for residential purpose. The order comes at a time when talks are doing the rounds about a BJP high command plan to replace the CM ahead of the 2023 assembly polls. Refraining from ordering any action against the Lokayukta police, Justice John Michael Cunha directed the Lokayukta court to keep watch over the probe ordered by the criminal courts in respect of the misconduct of public servants and MPs and MLAs involved in the commission of criminal offences. BS Yediyurappa may approach SC when it reopens after winter vacationAt this juncture, it cannot be said Lokayukta police succumbed to pressure since Yediyurappa has been holding the position of CM. But being an independent body entrusted with the duty to probe the misconduct of public servants (it) cannot give rise to an impression that it is playing into the hands of political bigwigs,” the judge stated. Yediyurappa had claimed that proceedings in the FIR against former Congress minister RV Deshpande, another accused, were quashed by the HC on October 9, 2015 and probe against him on the basis of the same FIR amounts to abuse of the law. However, Justice Cunha said the probe in so far as Yediyurappa having not been stalled, the explanation offered by the Lokayukta police cannot be accepted. Karnataka Rashtra Samiti president Ravi Krishna Reddy said the CM should resign to facilitate fair probe. CMO sources said the CM will move the SC when it reopens after winter vacation early January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/court-orders-thorough-probein-2006-land-case-against-bsy/articleshow/79898065.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||Leopard poached near Mahendri||NAGPUR: The Mahendri forest in Warud tehsil under Amravati Circle witnessed its first casualty in the form of a leopard after it was declared a conservation reserve by the state wildlife board (SWBL) on December 4. According to sources, the male leopard carcass was found near Bhembali village on the fringes of Mahendri and is said to be two days old but the Warud foresters learnt about the incident on Tuesday afternoon. During a spot panchnama, foresters suspected the death must have occurred after the animal fell from the tree, the body of the leopard had grievous injury marks on the face and other parts. Sources apprehend it to be a case of poisoning as the tongue of the animal had turned black. It seems the animal must have been killed elsewhere and dumped at the spot. However, the post-mortem which will be conducted on Wednesday will only confirm the exact cause of death. The suspected poaching of the leopard has sparked criticism against the lack of protection in the Mahendri forest by the Amravati officials. Mahendri was initially proposed to be a sanctuary but a section of forest officials opposed the move. “If Mahendri is declared a sanctuary such incidents can be avoided. The killing of leopard also exposes poor protection and patrolling in the forest area,” said Rajendra Mane, a farmer from Warud who supported the sanctuary plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopard-poached-near-mahendri/articleshow/79886078.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bhopal||Covid recovery rate in Bhopal close to 93%||BHOPAL: The district administration on Tuesday said that the recovery rate of coronavirus patients in Bhopal has gone upto 92.91%. Among 37,618 coronavirus patients found in Bhopal district so far, 34,954 have fully recovered, but at the same time, 559 people died due to the deadly infection.  The data over the past five days shows that patients recovering from Covid-19 have far outnumbered the new patients found during the period. As against 929 new patients found during the period, 1,625 active patients recovered from the infection. Till date, 4.70 lakh samples have been taken for coronavirus and 37,618 of them tested positive and 34,954 recovered from the infection. District collector, Avinash Lavania, once again appealed to the people to observe caution to fight the threat of coronavirus infection and said the more cautious the people are, the better equipped we shall be to fight the deadly virus. Self-discipline is key to fight against coronavirus, he said. He further appealed to people to wear masks compulsorily while going to a public place, maintain safe social distancing and step out of the house only when essential. Special attention should be paid towards the health of pregnant women, children and elderly persons and if someone develops symptoms like cold, cough, fever and sore throat, he/she should consult the doctor at the nearest fever clinic or hospital without delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-recovery-rate-in-bhopal-close-to-93/articleshow/79885941.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Festive songs to light up Fountain of Joy||Kolkata: From Wednesday, the Fountain of Joy at the Maidan will dance to the tune of popular Christmas and New Year songs. Officials of the power utility CESC that operates the fountain said it had been renovated and reprogrammed to welcome 2021. The fountain in Kolkata is one among the only two 3-tier cascading fountains in the country. The other is located at Vrindaban Gardens, Mysore. The Fountain of Joy is the largest and widest dancing fountain in the country. Among the songs that will light up the shows between 5pm and 9pm will be Mariah Carey’s ‘All I want for Christmas is you’, Elvis Presley’s ‘Blue Christmas’, Michael Buble’s ‘Santa Claus is coming to town’, Bon Jovi’s ‘New Year Day’ and Europe’s ‘The final countdown’. The special show will be on from December 23, 2020 to January 7, 2021. The musical fountain uses DMX protocol by integrating a computer with embedded software that allows integration of musical choreography with water features, light and sound with 26 pumps of different capacities. The average water display is approximately 15,800 litres per minute, with the central nozzle spraying water to a height of 25m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/festive-songs-to-light-up-fountain-of-joy/articleshow/79886048.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Kochi||Sr Abhaya's death case: Knanaya Church refuses to comment on verdict||KOTTAYAM: The Knanaya Catholic Church chose to keep mum on the court verdict which found two of their members guilty. The official spokesperson of the church said that they will not be reacting to the developments. Father Thomas Kottoor, the first accused in Sister Abhaya murder case, was a vicar and taught Sister Abhaya psychology at the BCM College here. Kottoor, who was arrested in 2008, was also secretary to the then bishop of the archeparchy. He later rose to be chancellor of the Catholic diocese in Kottayam. He had also authored six books. He was also the member of the vigilance commission of the archeparchy of Kottayam. Kottoor was removed from the post of chancellor of Kottayam archdiocese last year when the trial was set to begin. The move came after the Supreme Court dismissed Kottoor’s petition to get charges against him dropped. Sources within the Church said that its leadership was forced to remove him from the post after the apex court dismissed his plea. However, the Church’s official version was that Fr Kottoor had requested that he be relieved from duty. The Church added that he had some health issues and was undergoing treatment and was free to opt for retirement after the age of 70 years. Another accused Sister Sephy stayed in the same ladies hostel as Sister Abhaya and was de facto in-charge of the hall. Sephy stayed on the ground floor and was assisting another nun who was in charge of the hostel mess. Though both occupied the same room, the other nun was not present in the hostel on the fateful day. Both Sephy and Abhaya belonged to St Joseph’s Congregation (SJC) of the archdiocese of Kottayam. Subsequent to the case, Sephy worked in various establishments of the congregation. Fr Poothrikkayil, another accused, was let off by the CBI special court in March 2018, citing poor evidence. Poothrikkayil was a Malayalam professor at BCM college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/knanaya-church-refuses-to-comment-on-verdict/articleshow/79886014.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||Muslim ‘groom’ on run, 8 more kin held||AGRA: Eight more relatives of the 28-year-old Muslim man, on the run after being accused of “kidnapping and unlawfully converting” a Hindu woman to Islam, were on Tuesday booked and arrested. With the recent arrests, 14 members of Mohammad Javed’s family, mostly distant relatives, are behind the bars in Etah. Sources in local police said that the arrests were meant to “create pressure” on the absconding couple to turn themselves in. Police believed that the woman was somewhere in Delhi, while Javed was still in UP, constantly changing his location. “Javed and his four close relatives are still absconding,” a police officer said, adding that they will also be arrested soon. A reward of 25,000 on each of the five men has also been announced. The case under the UP’s new anti-conversion law was filed on Thursday at Etah’s Jalesar police station on the basis of a complaint filed by the woman’s father, a local businessman. According to police, the woman has been missing since November 17. But her family filed a case last Thursday when they received a letter by Javed’s lawyer from Delhi purportedly informing about the woman’s conversion and the subsequent marriage in a court. The case was registered under IPC section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) and under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. Deputy superintendent of police Ram Niwas Singh said, “14 people have been arrested so far. Three police teams are trying to find the woman, and arrest the absconding accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/muslim-groom-on-run-8-more-kin-held/articleshow/79897623.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||IG-rank officer to probe Gadhada temple incident||Ahmedabad: The state government on Tuesday informed the Gujarat high court that an officer of the rank of inspector general is inquiring into the Gadhada’s Gopinathji Devmandir incident, where a Botad DySP, Rajdeepsinh Nakum, had allegedly barged into a meeting of trustees and misbehaved with them. The trust has approached the high court seeking action against the cop and for removal of police personnel from the temple premises. The trust has also urged the court to direct the police not to interfere in temple’s day-to-day affairs. The police officer’s advocate sought time from the court to reply to temple trust’s petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ig-rank-officer-to-probe-gadhada-temple-incident/articleshow/79886066.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||7-yr-old girl found dead at uncle’s house in Jaipur||Jaipur: A seven-year-old girl was found dead after suspected rape at her uncle’s house in the city’s Vishwakarma police station area on Tuesday. Police took her uncle into custody as a suspect and will treat the case as rape — even if it was a failed attempt — under provisions of the Pocso Act. The girl was last seen outside her house around 12 noon on Tuesday. When her family didn’t see her till 5pm, they panicked and alerted cops. A police team reached the spot and launched an investigation,” additional DCP (West) Bajrang Singh said. The team found the uncle very active in asking questions but looked nervous. “He was also drunk and people in the neighbourhood said the child was last seen going to his house, which is barely 300m from her residence,” Singh said. On checking the suspect’s house, cops found the girl’s body under a drum, covered with lots of blankets. “We are interrogating him. Prima facie it seems he tried to rape the child in an inebriated condition. When she resisted, he strangulated her and hid the body,” an officer said, adding that since the victim was a minor, it will be treated as a rape case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-yr-old-girl-found-dead-at-uncles-house-in-city/articleshow/79890078.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Builder to declare project done, Karnataka Rera to check||BENGALURU: In a bid to ensure that builders fulfil the promises made to homebuyers in ads and sales brochures, the Karnataka Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-Rera) has asked builders to submit a self-declaration affidavit specifying all details, which will then be verified on-site by authorities. The earlier system of self-declaration required a developer to upload only four documents on completion of the project on the K-Rera website. “We have introduced a self-declaration affidavit which they (builders) need to submit soon after the completion of a project, giving all details, including the status of amenities such as water and sanitary connections. Later, we (K-Rera) will conduct the spot inspection to verify that all things are according to the declaration,” said K-Rera secretary KS Lathakumari. Due to loopholes in the earlier system, builders could sell unfinished flats by producing four documents, namely the OC. There are instances of projects getting completion certificate without ensuring basic amenities like lifts, painting and floor work. As many as 840 projects have been declared completed as on October end and estimated 30% of them have complaints against them of being unfinished. With thousands of complaints pouring in, K-Rera has come with the new module. The documents builders now have to upload include no-objection certificate issued by the fire services department, consent for operation from pollution control board, sanction letter issued by the concerned Escoms for power connection and the details of the installed transformer, certificate issued by BWSSB on the working status of treatment plant and the details of external infrastructure such as driveway, play area, garden and water availability. Quarterly updates of projects mandatoryThe builder must also provide financial details, including the status of the bank account, to explain the cost of the project. The document of transfer of rights to the association of apartment owners, which is seen to be the final formality of the transaction, also needs to be uploaded. Earlier this year, RERA-K made it mandatory to publish the agreement of sale wherein the developer clearly mentions the date of completion and details of carpet area separated from built-up area. If the builder fails to deliver the project within the declared deadline, penalty can be imposed and compensation has to be paid to homebuyers with 12.75% interest for the delayed period. The declaration of carpet area separately ensures buyers are charged for the built-up area only. The authority has also made it mandatory for developers to submit quarterly updates of the projects. “Rera-K still has a long way to go and the government should give more powers to take on the erring builders like attachment of properties. As of now, it relies on the revenue department to attach properties,” said MS Shankar, general secretary of Forum for People’s Collective Efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/quarterly-updates-of-projects-mandatory/articleshow/79898272.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||Reconciliation in Nagpur city increases recoveries by 2,000||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s health department did a reconciliation of Covid-19 recovered patients on Tuesday in which it was revealed that 2005 recoveries were not reported till date. The NMC added these recoveries in Tuesday’s report which took the total number of day’s recoveries to 2310. As a result, Nagpur’s recovery rate which was under 92% for all 22 days of December, surpassed 93% mark and reached 93.43% on Tuesday. The cascading effect of Nagpur, which accounts for more than 50% Covid-19 cases and recoveries in Vidarbha was also seen. Vidarbha’s recovery rate shot to 94%, just a few decimal points less than the state average of 94.3%. Excluding the 2005 recoveries which were added post-reconciliation, the region reported 729 recoveries and 770 new cases on Tuesday. Total 15 Covid-19 deaths were reported in a day. Deaths came from Nagpur (7), Chandrapur (3), Yavatmal (2), Wardha (1), Gadchiroli (1) and Akola (1). Out of Nagpur’s 7 deaths, three were from Nagpur rural, 2 from city and 2 from other district/state patients. Total Covid-19 death toll of Vidarbha reached 6,441 with case fatality rate at 2.61%. This is still higher than the state average of 2.57% and national average of 1.45%. After a huge drop in Covid-19 tests reported on Monday, most districts improved their testing count on Tuesday. 770 new cases were reported in a day. These include Nagpur (341 cases/3518 tests), Chandrapur (82/731), Amravati (65/525), Yavatmal (57/294), Wardha (53/635), Bhandara (51/826), Buldhana (37/209), Akola (34/646), Gondia (22/515), Gadchiroli (19/340), Washim (9). Total 729 patients recovered in a day from Nagpur (305), Chandrapur (92), Amravati (71), Bhandara (54), Akola (48), Buldhana (40), Yavatmal (37), Gadchiroli (34), Gondia (25), Wardha (17), and Washim (6). Bhandara: The district reported 51 new cases, 54 recoveries and no death for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. This took the total number of Covid-19 cases in Bhandara to 12,030, recoveries to 11,207 and death toll remained at 286. Total 537 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district witnessed 22 new positive cases while 25 patients won the battle against corona on Tuesday. Now, the district has 13,399 cases, 12,918 recoveries and 177 deaths. Total 304 patients are under treatment. Of 304 active cases in the district, 164 are from Gondia tehsil. Gadchiroli: The district reported 19 new cases, while 35 patients recovered on Tuesday. An 80-year-old woman from Kurkheda tehsil died during treatment taking Gadchiroli’s death toll to 98. The district now has 8,833 total cases, 8,444 recoveries and 291 patients are under treatment. Akola: With 65 rapid antigen tests and 581 RT-PCR conducted in a day, Akola’s received 34 positive reports on Tuesday. District’s Covid-19 tally reached 10,218. On the other hand, 48 patients recovered in a day. This took the number of recovered patients to 9,135. A 71-year-old man from Telhara who was admitted on December 15 died during treatment. This took the total toll of Akola to 312. Now, 771 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district reported 37 new cases and 40 patients recovered in a day. These include 34 positive from RT-PCR tests and three came positive from Rapid Antigen tests. Now, the district has 12,227 total cases, 11,719 recoveries and 147 deaths. The district has 361 patients under treatment. Washim: With 9 new cases and 6 recoveries, Washim district’s total cases reached 6,541 and recoveries 6,154 on Tuesday. With no deaths reported in the last 20 days, total toll is unchanged at 148. The district now has 238 cases under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reconciliation-in-ngp-city-increases-recoveries-by-2k/articleshow/79892945.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Ramakrishna Mission gears up for Christmas Eve||KOLKATA: Even though Covid restrictions are in place and Belur Math, the headquarters of the Ramakrishna Mission, is out of bounds to devotees, Christmas Eve will be celebrated with equal fervour by the monks of the order here and across all centres of the RKM across the world. Preparations are on at Belur Math and other popular centres of the RKM, like the ones at Golpark and Narendrapur. At Narendrapur, the celebrations will be jointly done by the RKM monks and those from the Archdiocese of Kolkata, deputed by Archbishop Thomas D Souza. Welcoming the birth of Lord Jesus on Christmas Eve has been an age-old tradition of the RKM, after it was started by none other than Swami Vivekananda himself. “We will sing carols like Silent Night Holy Night, Joy to the World, Hark! The Herald Angels Sing and several Bengali carols, too. The natmandir of the main temple will be decorated with a photograph of Mother Mary with Baby Jesus,” said assistant secretary of the order, Ramjyoti Maharaj. At Golpark, similar arrangements have been made. But unlike previous years, Christian monks from the archdiocese of Kolkata and Jesuit fathers from St Xavier’s College will not be present. “But, we will allow a limited number of outsiders,” said secretary of RKM Golpark, Swami Suparnananda. Archbishop Thomas D Souza has deputed Father Rodney Borneo to conduct joint prayer service at Narendrapur. “I feel honoured and privileged to be part of this joint celebration. Religious divides melt and evaporate and bonds of deep human unison take place when we think of their divine lives and teachings,” Father Rodney said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rkm-gears-up-for-christmas-eve/articleshow/79886180.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||MVA bags 17 seats in Yavatmal district central cooperative Bank election||YAVATMAL: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has bagged 17 out of the 21 director seats on offer in the Yavatmal district central cooperative (YDCC) Bank election, and is set to rule the bank for the next five years. Congress party won 9 seats. After 13 long years, the election for the 21-member board of directors was held on December 21, and the counting on Tuesday. Votes for the post contested by Shiv Sena candidate Rajudas Jadhav and independent candidate Nana Gadbaile had to be recounted as there was a tie. Eventually, Jadhav was declared elected. He won the election by one vote. Nana is the former district president of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), but he contested the election as an independent from the district Ghat . The names of elected directors are: Prakash Patil Deosarker (Umarkhed), Anukul Chavan (Pusad), Sanjay Deshmukh (Digras), Shankar Rathod (Darwha), Snehal Bhakre (Ner), Radhedhyam Agrawal (Yavatmal), Aman Gawande (Babhulgaon), Babu Patil Wankhede (Kalamb), Varsha Rajendra Telange (Ralegaon), Prakash Mankar (Pandharkawda), Ashish Lonkar (Ghatanji), Raju Eltiwar (Zari Jamani), Sanjay Derkar (Maregaon), and Tikaram Kongare (Wani). Besides 16 tehsils, five seats are reserved for women (2), SC/STs, VJ/NTs and OBCs (1 each). Shailaja Ashok Bobade and Smita Kadam have been elected from the women's category. Sanjay Moghe has been elected in the SC/ST category, Shivaji Rathod of Mahagaon in the VJ/NT category, and Manish Patil of Arni in the OBC category, respectively. Vasant Ghuikhedkar has been elected in the district Ghat. During the last 13 years, Manish Patil was the president for a decade. Later, the lone BJP member Aman Gawande was unanimously elected as the president of the bank . It was the only period, the Congress -NCP alliance was out of power in the bank. Now again, the Congress-led MVA is set to muster power in the bank. The district deputy registrar Ramesh Katke was the returning officer for the election. The bank was kept under the district collector as its administrator, who was authorized to hold the election. The election was peaceful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mva-bags-17-seats-in-ydcc-bank-election/articleshow/79892968.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Coimbatore||It’s time to petition elephant corridor panel||Udhagamandalam: The deputy director of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) buffer zone have urged the people residing in the proposed Segur elephant corridor area to submit petitions objecting to the project, if any, at the office of the corridor committee that was located on Gymkhana Club Road at Finger Post in Ooty on or before February 14, 2021. Earlier, the Supreme Court had appointed a three-member committee, with justice K Venkatraman as chairman, to look into the concerns of the land and resort owners and inquire into the land, building and title disputes and other issues in the corridor area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/its-time-to-petition-elephant-corridor-panel/articleshow/79886197.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata hospital in expansion mode, to set up 2 more units||KOLKATA: Belle Vue Clinic will set up two hospitals at Rajarhat — a 164-bed general hospital and a 400-bed multispecialty facility — that will be operational within the next three years. Its existing Loudon Street hospital, too, will be expanded to a 372-bed facility, including the Priyamvada Birla Aravind Eye Hospital, by March, 2021. A nursing institute set up by the hospital at Rajarhat – a 15-storey facility that turned operational last October – will now have 700 students. The general hospital will be thrown open for public use from April 1, 2022 and will serve a large volume of patients at reasonable prices. The construction work of the hospital building is in progress. The multispecialty hospital is being developed over a two-acre plot and is expected to turn functional in April, 2024. It is designed to be one of the finest state-of-the-art hospitals in the eastern region, offering world class health services using high-end diagnostic and therapeutic technologies, according Belle Vue CEO P Tondon. The infrastructure will be of high quality imbibing green building concepts, said a statement issued by Belle Vue on Tuesday. It will be armed with medical equipment imported and will be of international standards. The hospital complex will consist of a large building and a smaller service block. The hospital building will be 11-storied, consisting of two basements, ground floor and eight floors. The building will also have a service floor. The service block will consist of four floors that include one basement, ground floor and two floors above the ground. “Belle Vue Clinic is investing Rs 500 crore for its expansion drive in Kolkata which includes the setting up of two hospitals in Rajarhat and increasing the number of beds at the Loudon Street facility. We have also recently invested Rs 103 crore in setting up the Priyamvada Birla Institute of Nursing in Rajarhat. We expect the nursing institute to meet the acute shortage of nurses in West Bengal to a great extent”, added Tondon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-hospital-in-expansion-mode-to-set-up-2-more-units/articleshow/79886198.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra Animal Prevention Act covers cow ‘flesh’, not ‘skin’: HC||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court last week observed that there is a difference between cow skin and cow flesh, when looked from the perspective of legal provisions under the Maharashtra Animal Prevention Act. This very interesting and detailed order quashed the 2018 FIR filed in Khamgaon against the driver of a truck in which cow skin was being transported. The driver had been intercepted by the complainant, who claimed to a member of the Bajrang Dal (Khamgaon) following which police action started with seizure of 187 skins of cow species. The animal husbandry department had verified the same. Advocate AV Bhide, who appeared for the applicant, contested that the actual owner of the cow hides had all the proper documentation and its possession and transportation did not violate any existing law. The owner of the transported cargo furnished documents which included a bill prepared for selling raw hide. Documents were also produced which showed that the owner was a ‘Skin Merchant and Trader’ at Khamgaon with Uddyog Aadhar memorandum and licence under the Maharashtra Shops and Establishment Act. The owner submitted before the court that there was no contravention of any provision of the existing Act. The bench headed by justices VM Deshpande and Anil Kilor in their detailed order dated December 14 referenced all the sections under which the FIR was filed. In a point by point analysis, it became clear that the law talks only about cow flesh or the animal itself. “The flesh is the soft substance consisting of muscle and fat that is found between the skin and bones of a human or an animal. The difference between skin and flesh is that the ‘skin’ is a soft outer covering the organ of vertebrates and the ‘flesh’ is a soft substance of an animal body that consists of muscle and fat”, the order noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maharashtra-animal-prevention-act-covers-cow-flesh-not-skin-hc/articleshow/79892978.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chennai||Jabbar, whose cricket commentary floored LTTE chief, no more||Tamil commentary for Indian Premier League games is a big hit these days but it was SM Abdul Jabbar who enthralled the audiences way back in the 1970s with the description of the game in the vernacular language. Jabbar, who first popularized Tamil commentary on the AIR (All India Radio) and subsequently on numerous other platforms, passed away due to age-related illness on Tuesday. The 81-year-old, hailing from Sathankulam town in Tuticorin district, was blessed with a mellifluous voice and had a deep understanding of the game which made him so popular. It was in the 1970s that AIR started offering Tamil audio commentary for Test matches played during Pongal, Tamil Nadu’s Ranji matches and Buchi Babu tournament. Jabbar, who grew up in India and Sri Lanka, was hooked to radio commentary from a young age. “Each time the commentator spoke in English, I would translate the same line into Tamil and say it aloud,” Jabbar had told TOI a few years ago. Interestingly, Jabbar had written to AIR expressing his anguish over the quality of Tamil commentary being aired. He wrote that barring V Ramamurthy, a distinguished IAS officer who was doing a good job, the others were quite ordinary. AIR, in reply, invited Jabbar to come over and do commentary in Tamil. The Kerala-TN Ranji game during the 1979-80 season was his maiden commentary gig and his wit bowled over the AIR team. “Anda Pande Panai Maram Melai Yezhi Pochu, Fielder Kadai Ke Poi Tea Kudichutte Kuda Vandu Catch Puditchirklaam (The ball went up so high -- it would have touched the top of a palm tree and the fielder -- could have quickly gone to a nearby shop to have tea and returned in time to take the catch). When I uttered those lines -- the fellow commentators cracked up,” Jabbar had recalled. He excelled in bringing a touch of humour into Tamil commentary and soon earned the trust of the masses. Among his many admirers was late LTTE leader Velupillai Prabhakaran. “When Prabhakaran told me that he was a fan of mine -- I thought it was the biggest award of my life. I even went on to write a book on the experience of meeting Prabhakaran,” Jabbar had said. From 1979 to 2004, Jabbar was part of the AIR Tamil commentary team. After it got disbanded, Jabbar offered his expertise in various other television channels. His skills as a Tamil commentator notwithstanding, Jabbar was also an accomplished writer who wrote numerous books. Dr Sumanth C Raman, an anchor with extensive commentary experience in both English and Tamil, believes Jabbar’s easy-going nature and discipline is what stood out. “We have done commentary on multiple occasions. Despite being so senior, he was always open to suggestions and ready to learn. He would always come prepared ahead of a match,” Raman recalled. Nanee Sathyanarayan, a senior commentator, hailed Jabbar for his command over the language. “Jabbar was someone who spoke impeccable Tamil and used minimal English words during commentary. There was old world charm each time one would hear him speak,” Nanee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jabbar-whose-cricket-commentary-floored-ltte-chief-no-more/articleshow/79886202.cms||Prasad RS
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Ex-mayor pays Rs5,000 fine for blocking road with marriage pandal||NAGPUR: The Laxmi Nagar zone of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has recovered Rs5,000 as fine from ex-mayor Nanda Jichkar for violating the terms and conditions in permission to erect a pandal. The Nagpur traffic police have also filed cases against her husband, retired RTO Sharad Jichkar, for blocking traffic in front of his house at Gittikhadan Layout in Pratap Nagar for his son’s wedding. The police have booked Jichkar under sections 102 and 117 of Bombay Police Act. Laxmi Nagar zone officials said ex-mayor and corporator Nanda Jichkar had sought permission to erect 150 sq ft of pandal on the road in front of her house for two days — December 19 and December 20 — for her youngest son’s wedding. She had also paid Rs750 fee to cover a portion of the road. Instead, the pandal had encroached on the entire road. Following complaints from residents of Gittikhadan Layout in Pratap Nagar, Laxmi Nagar zone officials carried out spot inspection, which revealed violation of terms and conditions of permission given to erect the pandal. The zone’s team found entire road had been encroached by the ex-mayor for erecting pandal measuring 500 sq ft, an official from the zone told TOI. The inspection was carried out following complaints received by zone officials from the residents stating that blocking entire road has disrupted smooth flow of traffic in Gittikhadan layout. A reader from the locality also alerted TOI about the illegal encroachment, and when TOI contacted Laxmi Nagar zone, officials there confirmed the news and clarified that no permission was given to fully block the road. On December 19, after the inspection, a team from Laxmi Nagar zone also removed a portion of the pandal. The marriage of Jichkar’s youngest son was solemnized on December 19, but the entire road in front of her house was blocked since the last two days. On December 21, the zone office issued a challan for violating the terms and conditions of the permission and also imposed Rs5,000 fine for blocking the road for vehicular traffic. “The ex-mayor has paid the fine,” the official said. Sonegaon traffic zone has also issued a challan to retired RTO Sharad Jichkar following a complaint filed by PSI Kishore Salao for blocking the entire road, which caused inconvenience to motorists. The challan was issued under sections 102 and 107 of the Bombay Police Act. As per rules, pandals can be allowed only in bylanes that have less traffic. Organizers or residents will have to take prior permission from the local police station, and authorities that own the road, besides taking a no-objection certificate from the concerned traffic police zone. In any case, entire road cannot be blocked by erecting pandal, said an official from NMC’s estate department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ex-mayor-pays-rs5000-fine-for-blocking-road-with-marriage-pandal/articleshow/79893125.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 23, 2020||Salem||History-sheeter hacked to death in Salem||Salem: A 40-year-old history-sheeter was hacked to death by an unidentified gang at Kitchipalayam in the city on Tuesday evening. Police identified the deceased as A Chelladurai, of Kitchipalayam. “Around 7pm, a gang came in a car, rounded him up and hacked him using sickles. He succumbed to the injuries on the spot,” said a police officer. The gang sped away in the car after committing the crime. Police said A Chelladurai had several cases pending against him with the Kitchipalayam and Annadhanapatty police. City deputy commissioner of police Chandrasekaran (law and order) and Senthil (crime and traffic) visited the crime scene and held an inquiry. The Kitchipalayam police have registered a case and further investigation is on. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/history-sheeter-hacked-to-death-in-salem/articleshow/79886241.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Rangers Club to fall silent this Christmas as city Goans break 100-yr-old tradition||Kolkata: For over 100 years, this is one evening that the city Goans have never missed. But the pandemic has prompted them to cancel the evening dance on Christmas Day. The community with many senior citizens is sad that they will not physically meet and greet over a shake of legs with some good music. The dance used to be organised by the Goan Association of Bengal for its 350 odd members at the Rangers Club on the Maidan, a space that used to be hired by the community, because its own outfit at Wellesley is too small for such a large gathering. There would be some traditional Goan music first and then some old foot tapping English numbers. The dance that would start around 9pm would go on till 2am. “Before the new rules made it mandatory to wind up the event at 2am, it would go on till 6am and we would head to the Tiretti Bazar for some Chinese breakfast. But this year we will not have our favourite annual event,” said president of the association, Derrick Fernandes. Every year, he takes to the keyboard as traditional Mando Dulpod song and dances happen. “At one go we would have over 150-200 people take to the floor. Then they would take rest for some time as the second batch would go up,” Fernandes added. Singers of the community like Alisha Alexandar, Debbie Saldanha, Maria Fernandez, Hector Almedia, Betty D’gama, Brenda Carneiro and Jane Rodrigues would bring alive some traditional favourites like Hanv Sahiba Poltodi Vetam punctuated with Maka Maka Go and they would get the community go ecstatic. “A pall of gloom descended on us when it was decided that the dance would be cancelled this year. But the cancellation of the event is meant for our protection in the pandemic,” said Louis Fernandes, another member of the association. Jeffrey Menezes, a member of the community, who also has a popular band, used to perform at the dance. Earlier, even Blue Mist had performed. Other than the popular Konkani numbers, the community would also groove to the beats of Abba, Tom Jones and Beatles. This year, the feast of St Francis Xavier, the patron saint of Goa, was also not celebrated at the Sacred Heart Church like previous years, the community rued. Some techies among the community members like Nigel Vincent and Christabel D’Gama have teamed up to lift the spirits of the community by arranging a mega virtual meet on Wednesday, where carols would be sung and members would chat. “This is the best that we could do this year to stay in touch,” Vincent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rangers-club-to-fall-silent-this-christmas-as-city-goans-break-100-yr-old-tradition/articleshow/79886321.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||No festive get-togethers at gated complexes across Kolkata this year||KOLKATA: Several housing complexes across the city have cancelled their Christmas get-together in compliance with Covid-19 guidelines and to protect the senior and vulnerable residents. A few complexes that have decided to go ahead with reduced cele brations have decided to keep it low-key and comply with all social distancing guidelines. Many gated communities have also requested residents to exercise caution while attending private parties. Shukhobrishti in New Town, which has hundreds of resident families, has decided not to hold any celebration this year. “We have cancelled all plans for Christmas celebrations this year due to the pandemic. If there are programmes, everybody would want to participate. There are hundreds of senior citizens residing at the complex and their well being is our responsibility,” said Mainak Kanrar, joint secretary of the residents’ association. Residents of City High in Action Area 3 of the New Town will be decorating their 14-storied high-rise, but there won’t be any get-together on December 24 or 25. “The year 2020, has not been very bright with the pandemic forcing us on the backfoot and lead a very cautious life. We want to usher in the New Year on a bright note. Hence, the complex will be decorated, but there will not be any celebrations in the public areas of the high-rise. Families can privately celebrate in their apartments,” said Shikha Ganeriwala, treasurer of the residents’ association. Since the outbreak of the pandemic in the country earlier this year, communities have made several changes to the way they celebrated festivals — from doing away with large gatherings to suspending prayers. Several churches across the city have also cancelled all programmes, barring the main Christmas prayers. Christmas is celebrated in Kolkata cutting across religious lines. Several neighbourhoods are decked up with lights and Christmas fineries and partaking cake has become a tradition. At Urbana off EM Bypass, there will be a programme on December 25 for the residents, but the organizers have arranged to ensure compliance with all safety guidelines. “It will be a low-key celebration and we will be ensuring that all safety guidelines are complied with,” said a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-festive-get-togethers-at-gated-complexes-this-yr/articleshow/79886214.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||KIFF screenings to pay reel homage||KOLKATA: Apart from paying tribute to Soumitra Chatterjee, the 26th edition of the Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF) will also be paying homage to two other legends who passed away due to Covid-related complications this year. While 84-year-old Argentine director and politician Fernando Solanas passed away on November 6 in Paris, 59-year-old South Korean director Kim Ki-duk breathed his last at a hospital in Latvia on December 11. The organizers are trying to screen at least one movie of both these directors who enjoy a cult status among Kolkata’s cine-lovers. The news of death of Solanas had come as a big blow to the city’s cine-lovers, many of whom remember him from his 1994 Kolkata visit to attend the 25th edition of International Film Festival of India (IFFI). During this festival, Solanas had queued up at Sisir Mancha to watch ‘L’Eclisse’ at Michelangelo Antonioni’s retrospective. Later in 2007, he again came to Kolkata to attend the festival where his five-film package was screened. Ananya Chakraborti, who is editing the KIFF brochure, had met Solanas in Kolkata. “I had met him during his visit to Kolkata. For the brochure, I am writing a piece on his films. Attempts are being made to screen one of his movies,” Chakraborti said, adding that KIFF had earlier screened Kim Ki-duk’s film package too.  Director Indrasis Acharya, who had met Kim Ki-duk at Kunming China in the Lanmei International film Week and was in touch with him over email till a month before his death, has written a piece about the director for the KIFF brochure. “I have written a short brief about Kim ki Duk’s important films and why he is a Korean auteur,” Acharya said. Sources said talks are on to show his ‘Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter... and Spring’ to pay tribute to the director.  Meanwhile, one movie each of Sushant Singh Rajput, Irrfan, Rishi Kapoor, Amala Shankar and Basu Chatterjee who also passed away this year will also be screened. While ‘Kalpana’ will be screened to pay tribute to Shankar, it is ‘Kai Po Che!’ in case of Rajput. ‘Paan Singh Tomar’ – the Tigmanshu Dhulia film – will screened in the memory of Irrfan.The actor, who passed away on April 29 this year, had bagged a National Award for Best Actor at the 60th National Film Awards for his performance in this film. On April 30, cine-world lost Rishi Kapoor. As a mark of respect to him, KIFF will screen Anubhav Sinha’s ‘Mulk’ that has a powerful performance of Kapoor in the role of a Muslim patriarch fighting for the dignity of his family.  It was in June this year that Hindi cinema’s chronicler of simple romances – Basu Chatterjee – breathed his last. Chatterjee, who made some 40 films, had made his directorial debut with ‘Sara Akash’ in 1969. This film, which is often regarded among the films that started the Indian New Wave film movement in cinema, will be screened to pay tribute to Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kiff-screenings-to-pay-reel-homage/articleshow/79886470.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
December 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Contagion dampens sale of Xmas decorations by 50%||Coimbatore: The sale of Christmas accessories, especially decorative items, has come down by 50% this year compared to previous years, as families continue to avoid large parties and get-togethers, and many offices and IT firms remain closed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Ban on import from China too has hit the business. Shopkeepers say many families that walk in to buy decorations often walk out empty-handed, as new varieties aren’t available. However, there are takers for the Christmas star and trees with LED lights that are new arrivals. Most of the popular stores that offer Christmas decorations at Gandhipuram and Town Hall say the sale has dropped by 50% this year. D Kumar, manager of Selvasingh Stores at Gandhipuram, says, “While the sale of home decorations is good, that of corporate and office decorations, which usually brings in more revenues, is nil.” According to him, families, especially with small houses, buy only select decor like newly-arrived Xmas stars and trees with LED lights, illuminations and wreath. J M Jenny, manager of S K Decorators at Town Hall, says the ban on import of decorations from China has also impacted the sales. “We didn’t get enough stock from our distributors, who have also run out of stock. Most Xmas decoration items such as dolls, colourful balls and illuminations come from China.” Pointing out that there are families that try one or two new decorative things every year, he says they don’t have anything new to satisfy the needs of such customers this year. “Hence, their shopping is limited to minimal purchases.” Many families, meanwhile, said their priority was on better food and a different experience, rather than decorations. “With no one to see the decorations, we decided not to buy new ones,” says Christy Austin, a resident of Podanur. “Usually, we invite our parents, my husband’s siblings and their children for dinner on Xmas. But since our parents are old and siblings are scared at the possibility of infecting others, we have decided to send them biriyani, pork vindaloo and other delicacies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/contagion-dampens-sale-of-xmas-decorations-by-50/articleshow/79886504.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris gets six Amma mini clinics||Udhagamandalam: District collector J Innocent Divya inaugurated six Amma mini clinics in the Nilgiris on Tuesday in the presence of Coonoor MLA Shanthi A Ramu. The hill district would get 28 such clinics in total. While inaugurating the clinic at Jegathala panchayat in Coonoor taluk, Divya said each clinic would have a physician, nurse and an assistant. “People residing in and around the clinic could utilize facility to the optimum.” Of the 28 Amma mini clinics that were announced for the hill retreat, 20 would come up in rural areas and five in town areas. The remaining three will serve as mobile mini clinics. Each mini clinic, which would treat people as outpatients and provide them medicines free of cost, is meant for a population of around 1,000 people. The inaugural function was attended by health and revenue officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-gets-six-amma-mini-clinics/articleshow/79886474.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: 1st record of Bengal tree flitter butterfly in region||NAGPUR: A rare species of butterfly, the Bengal Tree Flitter, has been recorded for the first time at Hemalkasa in Gadchiroli during a survey of insects by a group of students and experts. The butterfly species, scientifically called Hyarotis adrastus, is listed under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The survey was part of a two-day workshop on December 11 and 12 on insect taxonomy organized by Lok Biradari Prakalp, Hemalkasa. During the two-day workshop, entomologist Ashish Tiple did a survey of different types of habitant along with the students in and around Hemalkasa. During the survey, 40 species of butterflies, including rare Bengal Tree Flitter, and 30 species of dragonfly, were recorded. Tiple, who was the resource person for the workshop, informed the distribution of Bengal Tree Flitter is in Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Western Ghat (Sindhudurg), Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, North-East India, Uttarakhand, and West Bengal. “This is the first record for the Vidarbha region,” said Tiple. “The workshop gave special reference to butterflies and dragonflies for students. Most of Gadchiroli region is covered with dense forest and area around Hemalkasa has a rich butterfly and dragonfly biodiversity,” said Tiple, who is head, department of zoology, Vidyabharati College, Selu (Wardha). Samiksha Amte Godse, coordinator, said, “The aim of the workshop was to enhance interest in insects and their conservation.” The workshop was attended Dr Anagha Amte, Prachi Mahurkar, Pradyumna Sahasrabhojanee, Ashish Nagpurkar, and 50 school students and staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1st-record-of-bengal-tree-flitter-butterfly-in-region/articleshow/79893240.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 23, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra to treat symptomatic, positive international flyers as new strain cases||MUMBAI: A day after the Centre suspended all flights from and to the UK, and Maharashtra reimposed quarantine norms in the wake of the new Covid-19 strain, the state government has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for international flyers. While 14-day paid institutional quarantine is mandatory for all those arriving from the UK, Europe and the Middle East—South Africa was added to the list on Tuesday—the guidelines state that any passenger who develops symptoms or tests positive during the quarantine will be admitted to identified hospitals and shall be treated as having been infected with the new virus strain. In Mumbai, the quarantine norm has been tweaked. BMC has opted for a 7+7 approach, said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health). “Passengers from the identified regions will have to mandatorily undergo institutional quarantine for seven days, undergo an RT-PCR test and if they test positive, then they will be sent to an isolation facility and treatment. If, however, the person tests negative, then the person can go home, but must quarantine for seven days,” he said. Across the rest of the state, passengers will not be allowed outside the designated quarantine facility before 14 days, in any condition, mentioned the state guidelines. The municipal commissioner of the city where the airport is located shall appoint a nodal officer to oversee implementation of these SOPs. Transit passengers who land in Mumbai for onward flights shall be allowed to proceed only if they have a negative test report from an RT-PCR test conducted within 72 hours of boarding the flight, another circular issued by the BMC said. Pregnant and bereaved flyers to be exempt nowIf a passenger hasn’t undergone an RT-PCR test before departure then the passenger can take the test at the airport and he/she will be allowed to proceed once the report shows negative for coronavirus. “The passengers allowed to transit to a final destination out of Maharashtra shall have her hand stamped as ‘Transit Passenger from Europe/Middle East’ said the order. Women in an advanced state of pregnancy and those with a death in the immediate family will be exempt from hotel quarantine, said an order issued by P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC. The state’s SOPs also mention that at the designated hotel (quarantine centre), all the passengers should be monitored daily to check if they develop any symptoms. All airports and seaports in the state shall be alerted to the possible threat of the spread of the new strain. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in a meeting with all municipal commissioners and district collectors, asked them to coordinate with Delhi and other states to get information about international passengers coming to Maharashtra after travelling within the country. Officials should pay more attention to such passengers coming from other states, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-to-treat-symptomatic-ve-intl-flyers-as-new-strain-cases/articleshow/79893246.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: Maharashtra to treat symptomatic, positive international flyers as new strain cases||MUMBAI: A day after the Centre suspended all flights from and to the UK, and Maharashtra reimposed quarantine norms in the wake of the new Covid-19 strain, the state government has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for international flyers. While 14-day paid institutional quarantine is mandatory for all those arriving from the UK, Europe and the Middle East—South Africa was added to the list on Tuesday—the guidelines state that any passenger who develops symptoms or tests positive during the quarantine will be admitted to identified hospitals and shall be treated as having been infected with the new virus strain. In Mumbai, the quarantine norm has been tweaked. BMC has opted for a 7+7 approach, said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health). “Passengers from the identified regions will have to mandatorily undergo institutional quarantine for seven days, undergo an RT-PCR test and if they test positive, then they will be sent to an isolation facility and treatment. If, however, the person tests negative, then the person can go home, but must quarantine for seven days,” he said. Across the rest of the state, passengers will not be allowed outside the designated quarantine facility before 14 days, in any condition, mentioned the state guidelines. The municipal commissioner of the city where the airport is located shall appoint a nodal officer to oversee implementation of these SOPs. Transit passengers who land in Mumbai for onward flights shall be allowed to proceed only if they have a negative test report from an RT-PCR test conducted within 72 hours of boarding the flight, another circular issued by the BMC said. Pregnant and bereaved flyers to be exempt nowIf a passenger hasn’t undergone an RT-PCR test before departure then the passenger can take the test at the airport and he/she will be allowed to proceed once the report shows negative for coronavirus. “The passengers allowed to transit to a final destination out of Maharashtra shall have her hand stamped as ‘Transit Passenger from Europe/Middle East’ said the order. Women in an advanced state of pregnancy and those with a death in the immediate family will be exempt from hotel quarantine, said an order issued by P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC. The state’s SOPs also mention that at the designated hotel (quarantine centre), all the passengers should be monitored daily to check if they develop any symptoms. All airports and seaports in the state shall be alerted to the possible threat of the spread of the new strain. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in a meeting with all municipal commissioners and district collectors, asked them to coordinate with Delhi and other states to get information about international passengers coming to Maharashtra after travelling within the country. Officials should pay more attention to such passengers coming from other states, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maha-to-treat-symptomatic-ve-intl-flyers-as-new-strain-cases/articleshow/79904408.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Coimbatore||District to prepare for Covid-19 vaccination||Coimbatore: The district recorded 114 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally to 51,483. With 116 patients getting discharged, the number of active cases stands at 987 now. At least 49,856 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far at a recovery rate of 96.8%. The Covid-19 toll increased to 640 on the day, with three patients succumbing to the virus. The state government has, meanwhile, instructed the health department to take revenue, police, rural development and other departments’ help for administering the Covid-19 vaccine, which is expected to arrive within a couple of months. The government has also asked officials to prepare for some resistance and issues from the public and come up with ways to handle them. They have also been asked to identify ideal locations for administering the vaccine. An official said, “This is the first time we are implementing such a massive vaccine programme. In addition to enough manpower, we need to coordinate with other departments to make it successful.” While the district is yet to submit the final number of health workers, who will require the vaccine, field officials have been asked to start preparing for the vaccine’s arrival. “We have been asked to identify cold storages for the vaccine, refrigerated vehicles to transport them and ideal locations for administration. The locations for administration should be open, airy and preferably large,” an official said. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said they have cooler rooms in the public health office at Race Course that could maintain a temperature of 2C to 8C. “We also have ice lined refrigerators in all primary health centres. While we can’t tell the exact number of vaccines we could store at a time, we think we have enough space for the quantity of vaccine that the government would provide us.” The health department has also received funds to set up a freezer room in the public health office. “We will use that if the vaccine has to be stored in a lower temperature,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-to-prepare-for-covid-19-vaccination/articleshow/79886515.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra to treat symptomatic, positive international flyers as new strain cases||MUMBAI: A day after the Centre suspended all flights from and to the UK, and Maharashtra reimposed quarantine norms in the wake of the new Covid-19 strain, the state government has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for international flyers. While 14-day paid institutional quarantine is mandatory for all those arriving from the UK, Europe and the Middle East—South Africa was added to the list on Tuesday—the guidelines state that any passenger who develops symptoms or tests positive during the quarantine will be admitted to identified hospitals and shall be treated as having been infected with the new virus strain. In Mumbai, the quarantine norm has been tweaked. BMC has opted for a 7+7 approach, said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health). “Passengers from the identified regions will have to mandatorily undergo institutional quarantine for seven days, undergo an RT-PCR test and if they test positive, then they will be sent to an isolation facility and treatment. If, however, the person tests negative, then the person can go home, but must quarantine for seven days,” he said. Across the rest of the state, passengers will not be allowed outside the designated quarantine facility before 14 days, in any condition, mentioned the state guidelines. The municipal commissioner of the city where the airport is located shall appoint a nodal officer to oversee implementation of these SOPs. Transit passengers who land in Mumbai for onward flights shall be allowed to proceed only if they have a negative test report from an RT-PCR test conducted within 72 hours of boarding the flight, another circular issued by the BMC said. Pregnant and bereaved flyers to be exempt nowIf a passenger hasn’t undergone an RT-PCR test before departure then the passenger can take the test at the airport and he/she will be allowed to proceed once the report shows negative for coronavirus. “The passengers allowed to transit to a final destination out of Maharashtra shall have her hand stamped as ‘Transit Passenger from Europe/Middle East’ said the order. Women in an advanced state of pregnancy and those with a death in the immediate family will be exempt from hotel quarantine, said an order issued by P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC. The state’s SOPs also mention that at the designated hotel (quarantine centre), all the passengers should be monitored daily to check if they develop any symptoms. All airports and seaports in the state shall be alerted to the possible threat of the spread of the new strain. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in a meeting with all municipal commissioners and district collectors, asked them to coordinate with Delhi and other states to get information about international passengers coming to Maharashtra after travelling within the country. Officials should pay more attention to such passengers coming from other states, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maha-to-treat-symptomatic-ve-intl-flyers-as-new-strain-cases/articleshow/79904409.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Students get exam clarity after minister tweets on CBSE delay||Kolkata: Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank’s announcement on Tuesday that the Centre had decided not to hold CBSE board exams in January and February brought some clarity to students and teachers alike. “The exact dates will be announced soon,” the minister tweeted. Earlier, the CISCE clarified that its Class X and XII board examinations were unlikely to be held before June in 2021 and even chief minister Mamata Banerjee indicated that state board’s Madhyamik and Higher Secondary exams would not be conducted on schedule.  “We were expecting that the CBSE board exams would be postponed as the CISCE as well as the Bengal board took a similar decision. Now, we are finally told that the exams have been postponed. There has to be a uniform policy on conducting the board examinations,” said a parent of an CBSE board examinee. Birla High School principal Loveleen Saigal said board exams could not be held without pen and paper tests or without holding a single practical class. She pointed out the delay would make board examinees unnerved as the academic cycle would be disturbed. “In Bengal, there is not yet any directive on reopening of campuses. The pandemic situation varies from state to state, making it impossible for the Centre to decide on exam dates,” she said. “We can only hope to have board students back on the campus at some point in January.” The decision would allow students more time to revise and give clarity on exam pattern, said Birla Bharati School principal Apala Dutta. “The situation is unlike any other time. The exam schedule was expected to be altered,” she said. Chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) Gerry Arathoon has requested the chief ministers of all states to consider reopening schools for boards students from January 4. He has also requested the Chief Election Commissioner of India to share election dates for states slated for polls in April and May 2021, which would allow the Council to finalize the ICSE and ISC schedules. Mamata Banerjee recently announced that no selection test would be held for Madhyamik and HS candidates. “The exam dates will be announced soon. School education officials last week told Election Commission officials there was no possibility of holding the examinations at least till May,” said an education department official in Bikash Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-get-exam-clarity-after-minister-tweets-on-cbse-delay/articleshow/79886700.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 23, 2020||Business||New CTTA head||Kolkata: At the 123rd AGM of the Calcutta Tea Traders’ Association (CTTA) held on December 19, 2020, Anish Bhansali of Bhansali & Co has been elected as the chairman and Shiv Bhasin of Goodricke Group as vice-chairman of the association for 2020-21. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-ctta-head/articleshow/79890343.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Isolate yourself for a week: Health dept to UK returnees||Coimbatore: A day after the country banned flights from the United Kingdom (UK) and other airlines from flying in people with a recent travel history to that country, health department officials visited the city airport on Tuesday and ensured mechanisms were in place to trace flyers who have arrived from the UK in the past two weeks.Since there are no direct flights from the UK, the officials have asked the airport authorities to carefully check domestic passengers, who land from Bengaluru, New Delhi and Chennai with a travel history from the UK. They have appealed the people, who have arrived from the UK in the past two weeks, to isolate themselves for a week.With the daily count of Covid-19 cases falling below the 120-mark, active cases in the district have dropped below 1,000. The health officials and the district administration said they were taking all measures to prevent another wave of the virus, especially with a different strain.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “During the initial period of the Covid-19 outbreak, cases were reported in single digits in the district. It then rapidly multiplied to five digits in a matter of months. The best option is to stop and isolate infected people at the entry point.”The officers also inspected Walayar check post to see if people coming from Kerala were screened and following precautions. “We are checking if the public transport vehicles are equipped with had sanitizers and ensuring adherence to the standard operating procedures like wearing face masks,” an official said.Flights from the UK were banned from Monday even as that country went into complete lockdown, after scientists identified a much more infectious strain of Covid-19 after mutilation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/isolate-yourself-for-a-week-health-dept-to-uk-returnees/articleshow/79886524.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Goa||Fibreglass fire in Bicholim causes panic among locals||BICHOLIM: Fibreglass waste stored by a private company in Maina Navelim in Bicholim taluka caught fire releasing poisonous flames, causing panic among the locals. As per sources, the fire began around 1.30pm. Five fire tenders from Bicholim fire station were summoned. “The fire was caused because dry grass caught fire, which then came into contact with the fibreglass waste making it dangerous,” a fire officer attached to the Bicholim fire station, Shripad Gawas said. The residents of the area, especially children and senior citizens, were shifted to nearby fields to avoid any exposure to the poisonous gases and extreme heat. Local panch, Digambar Naik told TOI that the panchayat had requested the company to shift the scrap, but they did not pay any heed to their requests. “This has become an annual accident and now we have also requested the chief minister to look into the matter,” Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fibreglass-fire-in-bicholim-causes-panic-among-locals/articleshow/79890512.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman gone missing found dead in well||Coimbatore: A 32-year-old woman, who went missing from her residence on Vysial Street in the city on December 17, was found dead in a well at Bellathi near Karamadai on Monday. The Karamadai police identified the deceased as Radhika, wife of Muthukumar, of Vysial Street. An officer said she had learning difficulties and been taking treatment at a private hospital at RS Puram for the past three years. “Her family had a lodged a missing person compliant with the Big Bazaar Street police. The Karamadai police were, meanwhile, alerted about a woman’s dead body in a farm well at Bellathi on Monday. Her family members later identified the body,” a police officer said. The dead body was handed over to the family members after autopsy on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-gone-missing-found-dead-in-well/articleshow/79886740.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Hit by steel price rise, govt contractors slow down work||Coimbatore: Contractors executing government civil works in the district have slowed down the work because of the steep rise in steel price, which they said would raise the overall project cost by at least 10%. K Chandra Prakash, secretary, Coimbatore Corporation Contractors’ Welfare Association, said, “There will be a slight increase in the price of raw materials yearly. But the price of steel has gone up by 45% in the past three months alone.” It is to be noted that the price of a tonne steel has increased to Rs 62,000 from Rs 35,000 about six months ago. Explaining that they could stock raw materials for only a maximum of 15 to 20 days, Prakash said most of the government contractors have limited their works for the time being, as they were not able to cope with the steel price hike. “Only 20% of the work is being undertaken now. At the prevailing price of steel, the overall project cost will go up by 10%.” Pointing out that there were more than 500 contractors executing government projects to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore and private projects worth Rs 90 crore in South India, he said government projects to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore were being implemented in the district alone by employing thousands of workers. Ideally, the anti-profiteering committee of Goods and Service Tax (GST) should have probed the issue and taken necessary measures to control the price rise, Prakash said. “But till date nothing has been done. If the committee continues to remain silent, we will move the court. We also request the Union government to take steps to reduce the steel export from the country and distribute it in the local market. Presently, 70% of the steel is exported.” Meanwhile, pump manufacturers have decided to increase the price of pump sets by 25% from January 1 and they have started communicating the same to their dealers. K Maniraj, president, Kovai Power Driven Pumps and Spares Manufacturers’ Association, said, “Following the sudden price rise of raw materials, foundries have increased the cost of spare parts. Now, we were forced to increase the price of pump sets, as we won’t be able to continue the business otherwise.” With the price revision, he said, the price difference between their products and that of corporate companies would reduce to just 10%. “The more cheaper our products, the more business we get. Now that the difference has narrowed, micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are worried about losing their business. On an average, the price difference should be 30% to 40%. Only then, MSMEs could clock more business.” KV Karthik, president, Southern India Engineering Manufacturing Association, said the price rise could lead to industrial slowdown. “The cost of installing a new pump set with accessories like copper cable and other fittings will go up by more than 20%. It will affect the farmers, who are completely dependent on pumps for irrigation. There are about 18 lakh agricultural pumps in the state and 15% of them is replaced annually.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hit-by-steel-price-rise-govt-contractors-slow-down-work/articleshow/79886781.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 23, 2020||Goa||Waive road tax for lockdown period: AAP||Saligao: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday demanded that the state government waive road tax as commercial vehicle owners have suffered a lot of problems during the pandemic. In a letter addressed to transport minister Mauvin Godinho, AAP’s Calangute coordinator Manuel Cardozo said the chief minister had claimed that the transport department has waived taxes for the lockdown period including passenger tax which is an absolute lie as there is no notification to that effect issued by the department till date. AAP has demanded that the transport department immediately apologise for the lies stated earlier and issue the notification immediately, failing which, they will be constrained to launch a public movement against the lies by the department. Taxi owners, transport carriers,and other commercial vehicle owners who are struggling to find businesses have been compelled to pay fines and taxes for the lockdown period. “The government has to realise the genuine hardships of these people who are in distress and take immediate action and not make mere statements,” Shripad Pednekar of AAP’s Calangute unit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/waive-road-tax-for-lockdown-period-aap/articleshow/79890584.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Mercury may climb up slightly but chill to stay||KOLKATA: While the chill persisted, the minimum temperature climbed from 11.4 degrees Celsius on Monday to 12.5 degrees on Tuesday. It could rise further, though marginally, as the northwesterly winds lose intensity, said the Met office. But the mercury is predicted to hover around the 13-degree mark till December 26 after which a western disturbance might come in the northwesterly’s way. “The northwesterly has lost some intensity. The mercury is expected to rise another degree on Wednesday but may not go up further. The chill will persist,” said Regional Meteorological Centre director G K Das. He added a western disturbance was likely to form over Jammu and Kashmir. “It may affect the northwesterly flow but it’s not clear,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mercury-may-climb-up-slightly-but-chill-to-stay/articleshow/79886869.cms||---
December 23, 2020||World||20 flyers from UK test positive for Covid-19 in 2 days||NEW DELHI: Around 20 passengers and crew coming from Heathrow airport tested positive for Covid-19 virus at five international airports — Delhi, Amritsar, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, and Chennai — after all the passengers and crew of Air India flights from London were screened using RT-PCR test in the last two days. All the swab samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, to check if the virus is of a different strain — a more virulent one — detected recently in south England. While five flyers and crew tested positive at the IGI airport in Delhi, seven passengers and one crew member tested positive at the Amritsar international airport, even as two flyers at Kolkata, four at Ahmedabad, and one at Chennai tested positive on Tuesday. In light of the new Covid-19 viral strain found in the UK, said to be a super spreader with claims of it being 70% more transmissible, Indian government has temporarily suspended all passenger flights from the UK. The last two flights scheduled to arrive in Delhi before the given deadline of 23:59 hrs on 22 December were hence ordered to undergo mandatory RT-PCR tests at the airport. The passengers who came from the second of the two scheduled flights were also tested but none of them were reported to be positive until this report was filed. There were a total of over 470 passengers in both the flights combined, an official confirmed. GMR DIAL arranged a separate waiting lounge so that there is no scope of transmission. Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder and director of Genstrings lab, said the five positive samples at Delhi have been sent to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for research on the new strain using Next Gen Sequencing technology which will help understand the implications on ongoing vaccine efficacy. Seven passengers and one crew member of Air India London-Amritsar flight tested positive for Covid-19 virus at Amritsar airport on Tuesday. This was Air India’s last flight from London on Tuesday. In Kolkata, two flyers from London who arrived by the Air India flight on Sunday morning tested positive for Covid. In Ahmedabad, four passengers who arrived by an Air India flight tested positive. They were among the 269 passengers and crew members who arrived in the city from London. In Chennai, a passenger who arrived from the UK tested positive for Covid-19 virus at Chennai airport on Tuesday. The patient is asymptomatic and is admitted to the National Institute of Ageing in Guindy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/20-flyers-from-uk-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-2-days/articleshow/79898753.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 23, 2020||India||20 flyers from UK test positive for Covid-19 in 2 days||NEW DELHI: Around 20 passengers and crew coming from Heathrow airport tested positive for Covid-19 virus at five international airports — Delhi, Amritsar, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, and Chennai — after all the passengers and crew of Air India flights from London were screened using RT-PCR test in the last two days. All the swab samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, to check if the virus is of a different strain — a more virulent one — detected recently in south England. While five flyers and crew tested positive at the IGI airport in Delhi, seven passengers and one crew member tested positive at the Amritsar international airport, even as two flyers at Kolkata, four at Ahmedabad, and one at Chennai tested positive on Tuesday. In light of the new Covid-19 viral strain found in the UK, said to be a super spreader with claims of it being 70% more transmissible, Indian government has temporarily suspended all passenger flights from the UK. The last two flights scheduled to arrive in Delhi before the given deadline of 23:59 hrs on 22 December were hence ordered to undergo mandatory RT-PCR tests at the airport. The passengers who came from the second of the two scheduled flights were also tested but none of them were reported to be positive until this report was filed. There were a total of over 470 passengers in both the flights combined, an official confirmed. GMR DIAL arranged a separate waiting lounge so that there is no scope of transmission. Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder and director of Genstrings lab, said the five positive samples at Delhi have been sent to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for research on the new strain using Next Gen Sequencing technology which will help understand the implications on ongoing vaccine efficacy. Seven passengers and one crew member of Air India London-Amritsar flight tested positive for Covid-19 virus at Amritsar airport on Tuesday. This was Air India’s last flight from London on Tuesday. In Kolkata, two flyers from London who arrived by the Air India flight on Sunday morning tested positive for Covid. In Ahmedabad, four passengers who arrived by an Air India flight tested positive. They were among the 269 passengers and crew members who arrived in the city from London. In Chennai, a passenger who arrived from the UK tested positive for Covid-19 virus at Chennai airport on Tuesday. The patient is asymptomatic and is admitted to the National Institute of Ageing in Guindy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/20-flyers-from-uk-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-2-days/articleshow/79898355.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||T leopard population stands at 334, space for more: Report||Hyderabad: The first ever count of Telangana’s leopards, conducted alongside last year’s tiger census, has put the spotted cat population at 334 in and around tiger habitats across the state. The Telangana State Forest officials who studied the report on Tuesday said that population of leopards in the State seems to be doing well as per the count. “The number is decent, 334 leopards for Telangana are not less. While we can accommodate many more, we must also see if other necessities such as prey, water and hideouts are also available for them to thrive,” said A Shankaran, senior forest department official. Releasing the ‘Status of Leopards in India 2018’ report, environment minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday that the leopard population has been estimated using the same method, which was adopted for the tiger census, which involved getting pictures of animals through camera-trapping and gathering other evidence. The exercise covered 3,50,000 sq km of forested habitat across the Shivalik hills and Gangetic plains, central India and the Western Ghats landscape. 17,143 pictures of 1,647 individual leopards were obtained during the exercise that covered most forested landscapes, including the low-grade revenue forests. The officials said it is important to note that leopards are entering human habitations not because the numbers are increasing but because its habitat is getting reduced. “While it is instances of leopards entering human dominated areas that are increasing, the general perception is that the numbers are increasing in forest area. But because there is more disturbance in forest areas, forest areas are shrinking, habitat is becoming more degraded, prey density is reducing, ” said Shankaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-leopard-population-stands-at-334-space-for-more-report/articleshow/79886807.cms||Moulika.KV
December 23, 2020||Chennai||Remove fraudulent entry from document, record order in encumbrance certificate: Madras HC||CHENNAI: In a rare ruling that could end vexatious litigation in property disputes, the Madras high court has directed the state registration department to make its order that reversed fraudulent entries made in a property document as part of the registered document to ensure that the court ruling gets reflected in the encumbrance certificate (EC) of the property. All potential buyers and interested parties will be able see the court ruling in the EC. The ruling can set a precedent to end years of litigation to remove such disputed entries in civil courts. Justice N Anand Venkatesh resorted to the innovative solution since there was no provision in the Registration Act that enables officials to cancel any document or any entry made in property records. The only remedy for the property owner is to approach the jurisdictional civil court. “In a situation like this, expecting the parties to go before the civil court every time an illegal document is registered, makes it almost impossible for the real owner to deal with his property. It is a known factor that proceedings initiated before the civil court is a long-drawn journey,” the judge said. The issue pertains to a batch of pleas moved by owners of 3.11 acres of land falling under the jurisdiction of the Alandur sub-registrar office. They challenged a settlement deed registered in connection with the property owned by them by a third person. They also wanted the court to direct the sub-registrar to remove the fraudulent entry made in the property record. Representing the petitioners, advocate Abudu Kumar Rajarathinam explained the court as to how the petitioners were fighting various civil suits with respect to the ownership of the property since 1979 and succeeded in every suit. While the civil courts have declared the petitioners as rightful owners of the property, father of one D Suresh managed to get a ‘patta’ for the property from RDO, Tambaram, and also managed to get the necessary correction in the Town Survey Field Register, Abudu Kumar said. The ‘patta’ was challenged and the same was ordered in favour of the petitioners. However, in total disregard to the court orders, Suresh’s father executed a settlement deed in favour of his son with respect to the property. The petitioners had moved the HC against that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/remove-fraudulent-entry-from-docu-record-order-in-encumbrance-cert-hc/articleshow/79886819.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Man-eating tiger in Telangana: Suspect identified||HYDERABAD: Telangana forest department has shifted its focus on ‘A2’ tiger of Chandrapur while tracking the suspected man-eating tiger in Kagaznagar of Asifabad district. Though the identity of the suspected man-eater is yet to be confirmed, Telangana forest officials are focusing on A2 that had shown some erratic behaviour with the inputs from their counterparts in Chandrapur of Maharashtra. Kagaznagar FDO Vijay Kumar said, “We haven’t identified any tiger that is linked to two human kills. We are studying if any tiger is behaving erratic. A2 is only a suspicion. Nothing has been confirmed.” A2 is an adult male tiger which killed several cattle and was spotted by Singareni miners. Another forest official said, “We have shared the camera trap pictures of A2 that was found in Bejjur with Chandrapur forest officials. They said they found the same big cat in Chandrapur Thermal Power Station. Going by its erratic behaviour, the needle of suspicion is pointing to it. It is moving close to human habitations.” While expert trackers of Telangana forest department said both the human kills in Digida of Dahegaon mandal and Kondapalli of Penchikalpet mandal are linked to one tiger, Vijay Kumar said both could be seperate tigers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-eating-tiger-suspect-identified/articleshow/79886824.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Amaravati location note not prepared in sectt: CBI||HYDERABAD: In a significant revelation Andhra Pradesh government in an additional affidavit filed in AP high court said that the note on the exact location of the villages of the capital city of Amaravati was not been drafted in the municipal administration department or the revenue department of the secretariat. The employees deposed before the Guntur magistrate court as witnesses stating that the survey numbers and exact capital location were done outside and not by them. It was incorporated in note file after December 2014 much after the capital decision. CID additional SP V Gopala Krishna filed the counter affidavit n CG Murali Mohan's petition said that three witnesses of various ranks of MAUD and revenue departments deposed before the Judicial Magistrate of Guntur under 164 CRPC. "The statements of the witnesses make it evident that they did not prepare the note-files in respect of issue of government orders on December 30 2014 of MA&UD department in the office. This included the government order which specifies the exact villages which were to be designated as "The Capital City" are within the vast capital region. The details of the jurisdiction of the villages and mandals included in the capital city were never incorporated in the note file prior to December 30, 2014. It is against the general practice and is a gross violation that key decisions with immense financial implications emerge suddenly in the draft of a government order without there being anything on record regarding any deliberations or rationale as to why the decision was being taken." The three official witnesses deposed that they were compelled to issue all the above mentioned GOs pertaining to capital region on the same day on December 30 in 2014 and they were under tremendous pressure to issue them in violation of the prescribed procedure. CID additional affidavit further revealed, "This is an important aspect and a clear indication to a criminal conspiracy that the "capital city was declared to suit the interests of certain individuals and companies associated closely with the then chief minister Nara Chandrababu Naidu and the Telugu Desam party. That the concerned people were given a prior indication regarding the extent of the capital city enabling them to acquire large tracts of lands at throw-away prices before the declaration of the capital city is an associated fact. It is pertinent to mention that the then chief minister of Andhra Pradesh N Chandrababu Naidu also had approved and signed on the note file approving the above-mentioned government orders/notifications - which had no record in the notefile of any deliberations or rationale on fixing a specific area as Capital City -which was in clear violation of the general decision - without any query or seeking justification." "Certain benamis had proximity to the former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu. Therefore the investigation is pointing towards the role played by Sri Nara Chandrababu Naidu and his ministers in the erstwhile government of Andhra Pradesh involving a larger conspiracy in commission of offence in the case," said the CID in affidavit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-capital-location-note-not-prepared-in-sectt/articleshow/79886831.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 23, 2020||Amaravati||Amaravati location note not prepared in sectt: CBI||HYDERABAD: In a significant revelation Andhra Pradesh government in an additional affidavit filed in AP high court said that the note on the exact location of the villages of the capital city of Amaravati was not been drafted in the municipal administration department or the revenue department of the secretariat. The employees deposed before the Guntur magistrate court as witnesses stating that the survey numbers and exact capital location were done outside and not by them. It was incorporated in note file after December 2014 much after the capital decision. CID additional SP V Gopala Krishna filed the counter affidavit n CG Murali Mohan's petition said that three witnesses of various ranks of MAUD and revenue departments deposed before the Judicial Magistrate of Guntur under 164 CRPC. "The statements of the witnesses make it evident that they did not prepare the note-files in respect of issue of government orders on December 30 2014 of MA&UD department in the office. This included the government order which specifies the exact villages which were to be designated as "The Capital City" are within the vast capital region. The details of the jurisdiction of the villages and mandals included in the capital city were never incorporated in the note file prior to December 30, 2014. It is against the general practice and is a gross violation that key decisions with immense financial implications emerge suddenly in the draft of a government order without there being anything on record regarding any deliberations or rationale as to why the decision was being taken." The three official witnesses deposed that they were compelled to issue all the above mentioned GOs pertaining to capital region on the same day on December 30 in 2014 and they were under tremendous pressure to issue them in violation of the prescribed procedure. CID additional affidavit further revealed, "This is an important aspect and a clear indication to a criminal conspiracy that the "capital city was declared to suit the interests of certain individuals and companies associated closely with the then chief minister Nara Chandrababu Naidu and the Telugu Desam party. That the concerned people were given a prior indication regarding the extent of the capital city enabling them to acquire large tracts of lands at throw-away prices before the declaration of the capital city is an associated fact. It is pertinent to mention that the then chief minister of Andhra Pradesh N Chandrababu Naidu also had approved and signed on the note file approving the above-mentioned government orders/notifications - which had no record in the notefile of any deliberations or rationale on fixing a specific area as Capital City -which was in clear violation of the general decision - without any query or seeking justification." "Certain benamis had proximity to the former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu. Therefore the investigation is pointing towards the role played by Sri Nara Chandrababu Naidu and his ministers in the erstwhile government of Andhra Pradesh involving a larger conspiracy in commission of offence in the case," said the CID in affidavit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cbi-capital-location-note-not-prepared-in-sectt/articleshow/79915067.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmers seek enhanced compensation for land||Coimbatore: MP P R Natarajan, along with farmers, staged a protest in front of Bharathiar University on Tuesday, demanding the state government to provide enhanced compensation to the farmers whose land was acquired to set up the varsity in 1982. The MP warned that the farmers would enter the university premises with their cattle in January, if the government didn’t settle the issue. “In 1982, the state had acquired about 950 acres of agricultural land from more than 400 farmers at Bommanampalayam, Kalveerampalayam, Navavoor and surrounding areas to construct the university by paying them Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000 per acre. “When the farmers sought an increase in the compensation amount, the government asked them to move the court. Subsequently, the farmers sought the intervention of the high court and the judgement came in their favour in 2005,” said VP Elangovan, state president of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association. He said the court had directed the government to pay Rs 5,000 per sqft along with 12% to 15% interest. It means the government now needs to pay a total of Rs 220 crore for land and another Rs 72 crore as interest for a period up to 2013. Following multiple protests, former chief minister the late J Jayalalithaa had distributed Rs 42 crore - part of interest - to the farmers in 2013 and told the court that the compensation value was too high. “The case is still pending,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-seek-enhanced-compensation-for-land/articleshow/79886820.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Relocate liquor shop: Tirupur residents||Coimbatore: Residents and shopkeepers from Vavipalayam in Tirupur on Tuesday hoisted black flags to condemn the authorities for failing to shift a Tasmac outlet from their area. They urged the district administration to shift the outlet or else face more protests. Meanwhile, Tirupur MP K Subbarayan has also sent a petition to collector K Vijayakarthikeyan for the closure of the outlet. He said the residents had sought the closure of the outlet in August. Assistant commissioner (excise) and Tasmac officials, in a letter on August 21, promised to relocate the outlet within 90 days or close it permanently. But nothing has happened in the past four months, he added. A Ramasamy, one of the protesters, said the residents and shopkeepers first raised the issue on August 15 as two Tasmac outlets are already functioning in the Vavipalayam area and there was no need for the third outlet. Tasmac officials said the building owner of the outlet had obtained a stay order from the Madras high court on November 30 on the grounds that the request to shift the shop was politically motivated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/relocate-liquor-shop-tirupur-residents/articleshow/79886846.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||3 of family die after eating roti||Hyderabad: In what could be a case of suspected food-poisoning, three members of a family died in Sangareddy district after they consumed jowar (sorghum) roti. A 70-year-old woman of the family had died a fortnight ago after she had the roti made from the flour which was stored in the same pot. Two other family members who also had the jowar roti were rushed to Hyderabad for better treatment. Five of them started vomiting and suffered motions after eating the roti. Chandramouli (60) and Susheela (55) were first rushed to Jogipeta hospital. When their condition turned critical, they were taken to Sangreddy district hospital where they succumbed. Anasuya (50) Saritha (40) and Srisailam were rushed to Hyderabad, but the latter passed away. “From preliminary enquiries, it has been learnt that the family had the jowar roti prepared from the flour which was stored in a pot in the house. While it will be ascertained by health authorities if it is a case of food-poisoning, police are investigating if it is a deliberate act of poisoning the food,” TRS Andhole MLA Chanti Kranti Kiran said. After visiting the residence of the family, he said an ex-gratia of Rs 1 lakh each would be given to the kin of the deceased. Around 10 pm on Monday, the family members and relatives sat for dinner in their home at Polvatla village in Vatpally mandal. Children who ate rice did not have any problem||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-of-family-die-after-eating-roti/articleshow/79886932.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 23, 2020||Meerut||8 of gang arrested for selling cattle meat laced with ‘hazardous substances’ in Saharanpur||Meerut: Eight men of a gang were arrested in Saharanpur on Tuesday who allegedly used to target live cattle and then poison them with “hazardous substances” and sell their meat to several prominent hotels in the city and other parts of Meerut district. According to police, the gang had recently won a tender from the nagar palika to dispose of cattle carcasses in the city. Whenever they were called by the cattle owners to dispose the animals’ dead bodies at their place, the gang used to lace some “toxic substances” on live cows, so that they can take possession of cattle’s dead bodies legally.The police came into action after several cattle owners complained of “sudden death” of their cows. During a raid, the cops recovered aluminium powder, blue vitriol, jaggery, pesticide, and knives from the accused.“After receiving multiple complaints, a police team was pressed to into the matter. During an investigation, we came to know about the activities of a gang that had recently won a tender to dispose of cow carcasses. Based on a preliminary probe and several evidences, 8 accused were arrested. We have begun investigation and trying to find further links in this case.”When asked about the gang selling the cow meat to several hotels, the SP said, “We are also probing this matter.”BS Rawat, SHO of Mandi police station, said, “All were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the U.P. Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955. All of them have been sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/8-of-gang-arrested-for-selling-cattle-meat-laced-with-hazardous-substances-in-saharanpur/articleshow/79878266.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 23, 2020||Surat||7-year-old boy killed in road accident||Surat: A seven-year-old boy was killed and three others were injured when their car was hit by a container truck at the Derol-Dayadra village on the Bharuch-Jambusar state highway early Tuesday morning. A family of four including, seven-year-old Sajjar Diwan, all residents of Keshvan in Bharuch’s Vagra taluka were going towards Amod village in Bharuch to attend a function when the incident occurred at the bridge near the Derol-Dayadra village. Police said that the driver of the container truck was driving haphazardly and while overtaking the car, then he hit the car in which the family members were travelling. The driver, however, escaped from the spot immediately after hitting the car. Police said that father of the deceased, Samir Shah Diwan, a resident of Keshvan village in Vagra taluka registered a complaint against the unidentified driver for causing the accident and killing his son. According to the Bharuch rural police, the three injured were recuperating at the Bharuch civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/7-year-old-boy-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/79877387.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Wall of house razed, upset farmer hangs self||HYDERABAD: Anguished over the municipal authorities demolishing the wall of his house which he is constructing, a 47-year-old farmer died by suicide by hanging himself in his agricultural field in Sircilla. Locals gathered and staged a protest at Ambedkar Circle in Sircilla on Monday, demanding that action be taken against the erring municipal staff and also a councillor for the death of Salendri Anjaiah. Locals did not allow the body of the farmer to be taken for post-mortem until police intervened. Sircilla circle inspector Ventaka Narasaiah said that an FIR was filed against Anjaiah’s relative Salendri Devaiah and three other members of his family. “We booked case against them based on a complaint from Anjaiah’s family,” Narsaiah said. Anjaiah owned two-and-a-half acres of agricultural land in Peddur and wanted to construct a house in 200 square yards of land. Peddur used to be in Sircilla mandal before it was merged into Sircilla municipality. As it came under municipality, he sought permit from the municipal authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wall-razed-upset-farmer-hangs-self/articleshow/79886882.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 23, 2020||Delhi||Open-air dining in Delhi: Eateries in Aero City, Dwarka among first to get licences||NEW DELHI: If you want to experience culinary delights while enjoying the warm winter sun in Delhi, there is news that is bound to please you. Some of the restaurants in Dwarka, Aerocity and Kapashera will now have open-air dining facilities after South Delhi Municipal Corporation started issuing the first set of licences under its new open-air dining policy. An official of the civic body said that so far 11 restaurants had applied for permission to offer open-air dining and food services. “Licences have been granted in five cases. Most of these restaurants are located in South and Najafgarh zones and in places like Aerocity, Kapashera, Dwarka and Aurobindo Marg,” the official said. A few applications have also been received from Hauz Khas village. Civic officials say that while the open-air restaurant policy was already in the making before the pandemic hit the city, the importance of this new regulatory framework has actually increased due to the Covid restrictions. “The number of seats in dining areas and eateries were reduced due to social distancing norms. Open spaces with good circulation of air are considered safer than closed rooms with air conditioning,” the official explained. One of the first establishments to avail the licence is Kiyan restaurant in The Roseate, located in Kapashera. Kush Kapoor, CEO, The Roseate, said that they have been keen to start outside service for a long time. “During Delhi’s winter, everyone would love to be served outside in a relaxing space,” Kapoor said. “We will also be able to serve more people. Open air dining is a positive development for the city, both in terms of revenue as well as the quality of dining experience.” Sandeep Anand Goyle, managing committee member of National Restaurant Association of India, said that this was a welcome development, especially since NRAI had been pushing for such a policy for the last decade. Inclement conditions should not be a problem as technological interventions are available to manage vagaries of the weather, added Goyle. There are 2,000 eateries in south Delhi, and over one hundred restaurants have enough open space to take advantage of this policy. Goyle also said, “We are facing a cash crunch in the hospitality sector due to the pandemic. We have requested SDMC to charge a pro-rata licencing fee for the remaining part of the year so that more people can apply for the open-air dining licence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-covid-times-a-fresh-breath-of-air-and-a-meal-to-go-with-it/articleshow/79886998.cms||Paras Singh
December 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Local officials told to ready blueprints for model towns||Amaravati: The state government has asked district collectors and municipal commissioners to ready plans to develop municipal corporations and towns as model cities. The collectors and commissioners have been asked to ready blueprints by focusing on drinking water, solid waste management, sanitation, traffic management, energy management and greenery. The state government has identified three components as key parameters to make the cities and towns liveable and lovable areas. While strengthening the municipal services to the public is vital in the link, better governance and participation of citizens have also been identified as crucial to upgrade the standards of the cities. “The district collectors and commissioners have been directed to ready a 100-day plan on core issues like improvement of roads, sanitation and tax collection,” said a senior official of municipal administration. The commissioners must identify a team which should be held responsible for each task. For instance, all roads within the city or town should be made pothole-free within the next 100 days. “A team of officials from engineering department should track potholes and take up repairs with an app-based feedback,” said the official. Amenities secretaries in ward secretariat would be the first person to identify and report potholes in their localities and engineering officials should take immediate corrective measures. Since civic bodies would require funds to take up developmental works including repairs, the collectors and commissioners were asked to focus on improving tax collections. Field-level teams from revenue wing in civic bodies were told to focus on prevention of tax evasion and correction of anomalies. The state government found that the revenue collections in many Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) are around 65% of the tax demand. “We needed to plug the loopholes as we need funds to take up the works. We have advised collectors and municipal commissioners to explore innovative ideas to mop up revenue,” said Rajya Sabha member Alla Ayodhyarami Reddy, who is closely monitoring the issue in Guntur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/local-officials-told-to-ready-blueprints-for-model-towns/articleshow/79879069.cms||Samdani MN
December 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Police plan to ease traffic on city roads||Coimbatore: Officials have decided to remove encroachments from Textool to the Surya Hospital Junction on Sathy Road to ease traffic. Besides, officials may remove pedestrian pathways on Avinashi Road for the same purpose. The decision was made at a meeting convened by the city police with regional transport officers, TNSTC, National Highways, state highways officials and revenue department officials on Monday. In the meeting, deputy commissioner of police R Mutharasu said buses plying between Ganapathy and Madukkarai were being parked at Ganapathy bus terminal on Sathy Road. “We have asked TNSTC officials not to park the buses at the terminal. Hereafter, the bus terminal will be considered as a bus stop and the TNSTC and private buses should leave the area after a brief halt. We believe that this would help to reduce traffic congestions on the stretch,” said Mutharasu. He also added the revenue and national highways authorities would remove encroachments from the Textool bridge (Tamil Nadu bus stop) to Surya Hospital stretch. On easing traffic on Avinashi Road, the deputy commissioner said road works were posing problems. “Construction of pillars in a few stretches for the elevated corridor on Avinashi Road has forced the contractor to occupy the centre of the road. In this situation, we discussed the possibility of removing pedestrian pathways on both sides of the road. However, pedestrians can use 3-ft space on either side of the road and to safeguard their movements, the paths would be cordoned off with barricades,” he said. Also, cement blocks kept as centre median on Avinashi Road will be removed and used on Nava India – Chinnasamy Road, he added. The city police have also decided to make Dr Nanjappa Road (Avinashi Road flyover - Park Gate) as one-way soon. The stretch has been witnessing heavy traffic congestions. Vehicles coming from Gandhipuram, should take left turn at Park Gate and can reach Avinashi Road through Jail Road and the LIC Junction. To motorists using DB Road at RS Puram, Mutharasu said vehicles coming from Marudhamalai Road and Thadagam Road can use Cowley Brown Road and take right turn on Mettupalayam Road (near Central Theatre). Several developmental works are being carried out on DB Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-plan-to-ease-traffic-on-city-roads/articleshow/79886922.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Quash ED charges: Emaar case accused||HYDERABAD: Koneru Pradeep, son of Koneru Rajendra Prasad, a key accused in the Emaar-APIIC land scam, filed a petition in Telangana high court challenging the decision of the ED for making him an accused in the money laundering case in the scam case. Stating that the CBI had decided not to make him as an accused in the case, Pradeep said the ED, however, had chosen to make him an accused in its chargesheet in the same case without any proof of his involvement in the case. He said the decision of the trial court without any evidence was unlawful. “The only evidence ED is showing to support its case is statement given by an accused, Tummala Ranga Rao, before ED.” Stating that Ranga Rao’s statement is vague and referring to his father and not him, Pradeep urged HC to quash the ED case against him. The ED, in its chargesheet, said Rajendra Prasad along with Ranga Rao of Stylish Homes and others duped the state to the tune of Rs 167 crore, while Pradeep bought 36 acres of land in Rangareddy by using a part of the proceeds of the crime. The ED said Pradeep bought 36 acres in Bilkal and Mallikarjunagiri in Marpalli mandal in RR district. According to ED, Ranga Rao arranged Rs 2.5 crore to be paid to landowners for transferring this land in favour of Pradeep, which was part of the proceeds generated in the scam. Accordingly, the agency attached this property under PMLA. The only evidence ED is showing to support its case is statement given by an accused, Tummala Ranga Rao, before ED||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/quash-ed-charges-emaar-case-accused/articleshow/79886987.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||T earns Rs 20 cr with 4.8k docus registered||Hyderabad: On the second day of registrations in the old system, the trend on Tuesday was for registration of flats than layouts and plots For the second consecutive day, the state earned Rs 20 crore with 4,878 documents registered, many in GO 110 areas around Shamshabad were seeking registration of their plots and layouts too as many of them have applied for Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) for approval. A few realtors have accused the government of delaying the decision on LRS and called for a week-long protest programmes in various forms. “When the government is taking stamp duty same as approved layouts for unapproved ones, why are they stopping registration of properties without approval,” a real estate businessman from Shamshabad said on condition of anonymity. Experts claims there could be a dent to the registration income to the tune of 30% at least due to lack of clarity on LRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-earns-rs-20-cr-with-4-8k-docus-registered/articleshow/79887058.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant calf dies of intestine inflammation in MTR||Udhagamandalam: A female elephant calf was found dead in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris on Tuesday.A source said the forest field staff, who were on patrolling, had heard an elephant rumbling and trumpeting in the Theppakadu forest range in MTR in the early hours of Tuesday. “When they conducted a search in that area, a female elephant calf was found dead near a water tank.”Preliminary postmortem report revealed that the calf, aged around three months, was suffering from intestine inflammation, said Rajeshkumar, forest veterinarian who conducted the autopsy.Samples of the animal’s vital organs were collected from the carcass for lab tests. The carcass was later left inside the forest for natural decay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-calf-dies-of-intestine-inflammation-in-mtr/articleshow/79887015.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Reflectors on guard rails must to avoid crashes||Kolkata: With accidents on the rise and fog reducing visibility in winter, Lalbazar has instructed that all guard rails on main roads be fitted with reflectors. Officers out on night patrol have been asked to check and submit compliance reports. Police said all the 25 traffic guards in the city would have to see to it that the guard rails had yellow reflector tapes on them and replace those that had worn out over time or were no longer visible from a distance. “The idea is to finally replace the existing reflectors with solar blinkers. Around 95% guard rails on main roads have retro-fitted reflectors. Those on Bypass and its connectors as well as Basanti Highway, where visibility is an issue, have started getting solar blinkers,” said an officer. “In the recent accident on Anwar Shah Road connector, the accused motorist claimed he saw the guard rail late. His claim turned out to be fake, but that made us take note of the reflectors on guard rails all over again.” At night, especially when fog impedes visibility, drivers can often spot the guard rails at the last minute and have to brake suddenly. “We evolve our guard rail policy and how we set them up at night. For now, we have been told to set them up only near crossings and where there is a straight line visibility. No one can set up guard rails at bends,” a Lalbazar officer said. The Indian Road Congress (IRC) specifies three kinds of guard rails — for pedestrians, median dividers and moveable ones with wheels. The moveable guard rails, engineers said, should be in black and yellow. Ideally, the pipes that make up the guard rail frame should be wrapped in yellow or red prismatic reflective sheets so that they glow in the dark. But Kolkata motorists felt the older guard rails—covered in dust, its paint fading and the “go slow” reflectors peeling off—made sighting difficult. “They are often found arbitrarily placed with a cop pulling them to the middle of the road,” claimed Avik Pyne from Behala. But a sergeant said, “Without guard rails, it is hard to run campaigns against drink-driving or slow drivers down.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/reflectors-on-guard-rails-must-to-avoid-crashes/articleshow/79887114.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 23, 2020||Goa||Hearing in cases of deleted voter names in Mormugao begins||Vasco: Mormugao mamlatdar Dhiren Banaulikar on Wednesday began hearing of the cases where 800 names are proposed to be deleted from the electoral roll of Mormugao constituency. Of the 280 persons who were served notices to appear for the hearing on Wednesday, only around 70 appeared. Almost 800 voters have been served notices to attend the hearings that will go on till December 28. “ We are going through the cases one by one. Few voters have shifted to other parts so they would be voting from those constituencies. A couple of them are dead so their families have asked to cancel their names. A few have claimed that they are staying at the same place,” Banaulikar told TOI. “Once the hearing is over we shall decide whether the objected voters deserve to be deleted from the voters list or not,” he added. Vice president of Goa Pradesh Congress Committee, Sankalp Amonkar, said“The names are objected by certain people for political reasons. We had demanded the objectors should also be called but very few objections turned up and have failed to recognise the voters whom they have objected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hearing-in-cases-of-deleted-voter-names-in-mormugao-begins/articleshow/79890812.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Loan app kingpin has MS from US||HYDERABAD: K Sarath Chandra, the main accused arrested in the money lending app cases by Cyberabad police, has a Master’s (MS) from the US and an MBA too. Cyberabad deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Crimes, Rohini Priyadarshini said Chandra, 32, from Kokapet, had finished engineering in India and then pursued MS in the US. Police found that Chandra, who lives with his wife and children, worked in the US before returning to India and started two firms — Onion Credit Pvt Ltd and Cred Fox Technologies Pvt Ltd in 2018 and 2019 — with his mother as a director in one. Police said he developed the apps and started operating two call centres about a year ago. “Chandra and other accused had sold two apps to Asia Inno Networks Pvt Ltd in Delhi, another two to Blueshield Fintech Pvt Ltd of Bengaluru. He operated three apps through call centres in Hyderabad,” Cyberabad police commmissioner V C Sajjanar said. The accused had tie-ups with nine non-banking financial institutions (NBFCs) based in New Delhi, Ghaziabad, Nagpur, Bengaluru and Mumbai to operate two of his three apps. “The companies of Chandra have two nodal bank accounts. The money pooled from NBFCs goes into an account and gets disbursed to customers after deduction of various charges and the money repaid by customers lands in the second account and is transferred to NBFCs. The accused charged about 35% interest from customers,” Sajjanar added. One of three apps did not have any tie-up with NBFCs. Police asked NBFCs to furnish details of agreements. RBI officials have also been notified. The main accused in the apps, being operated from Begumpet and Gurgaon-based five call centres, Nagaraju, of Kurnool is absconding. “Nagaraju was operating from Delhi. He is aware of overall money transactions. All arrested accused confirmed that he has better knowledge of the fraud,” Cyber crime cops said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/loan-app-kingpin-has-ms-from-us/articleshow/79887081.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Erode||Power-loom units threaten to go on strike||Erode: Power-loom units in Erode district have threatened to go on an indefinite strike if the state and central governments fail to reduce the price of yarn, which has seen a step rise since Diwali. “We could not manage the loss incurred due to the hike in yarn prices,” president of Erode Power-loom Owners Association (EPOA) K Suresh said. Talking to TOI, he said power-loom weavers were not able to increase the price of their products despite increase in yarn prices. “The buyers were reluctant to pay more than the offered price,” he said. More than one lakh power-loom units are functioning in Erode district. Similarly, more than 20,000 units are functioning in Pallipalayam and Kumarapalayam towns in Namakkal district. The power-loom weavers use cotton and viscose rayon yarns to make clothes. “Majority of the weavers in Erode district use viscose rayon and only a few use cotton yarns, as per the request of the buyers,” Suresh added. A cone of viscose rayon, weighing 120gm, stood at Rs 150 before Diwali. “Now it has increased to Rs 180,” Suresh said, adding that an increase of Rs 30 will affect their profit when bought in large quantities. For example, one meter of viscose rayon cloth will be costing Rs 22 when the rate was at Rs 150 per 120gm cone. “As per the new rate, it would cost at least Rs 40,” he said, adding that the buyers were not ready to give the difference rate even after the unit owners inform them about the yarn price hike. The power-loom unit owners said that about 60% of the units stopped their business for one day in a week. Remaining 40% units are continuously working round the week as they must clear their orders. “Because of the price hike, power-loom unit owners have decided to avoid purchasing viscose rayon yarns,” a power-loom unit owner said. The entire power-loom business will be affected if all the power-loom unit owners stop purchasing viscose rayon, he added. Meanwhile, power-loom unit owners have decided to meet the officials concerned at the earliest in both central and state governments to request them to take steps to reduce yarn prices. “We will go for an indefinite strike if our demands are not met,” Suresh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/power-loom-units-threaten-to-go-on-strike/articleshow/79887096.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||To save wildlife, Maharashtra govt says no airport in Rajura||NAGPUR: The state government on Tuesday is said to have said ‘no’ to the Greenfield airport conceived by former forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar in Vihirgaon and Murti villages falling in the Tadoba-Kawal Tiger Reserve corridor. Two days ago, Mungantiwar had raised the proposed airport issue in the Rajura range under Central Chanda division in the Assembly session following which deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had called a meeting on Tuesday. It was attended by Mungantiwar, Maharashtra Airport Development Authority (MADC) and top government officials. “The said proposal already has negative remarks on the file on the ground that it is a tiger corridor and hence, the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, has already said ‘no’ but under alleged political pressure it agreed with stringent mitigation measures,” said sources. “The government is also against the proposal as the area already has the presence of tigers, leopards, and other Schedule-I animals. Recently, a full-grown male tiger RT1 was captured after it killed 10 villagers. It took at least 9 months to capture the tiger in the Rajura forest. The project will increase man-animal conflict,” they said. The then Chandrapur SV Ramarao had recommended the project in March 2020, but in his remarks, he clearly stated that compartment numbers 173, 200 and 593 fall in the functional tiger corridor between Tadoba-Kawal as per the Eastern Vidarbha Landscape (EVL) report on corridors by WII. The inspection report also mentions about the presence of tigers, leopards, sloth bears and herbivores. The Rs75-100 crore airport project needs 75.24-hectare forest land of which 47.41 hectares is a reserve forest and 27.830 hectares is a protected forest. Over 3,817 trees will be felled and overall, the project needs 800 acres of land. The rejection of the project seems to be a big blow to Mungantiwar, who is also MLA from Ballarpur. Talking to TOI, Mungantiwar said, “The proposed airport is in national interest. Apart from being used as an airport, it will bring in some defence products’ units under the ‘Make in India’ tag. The government has no problem while allowing the New Mumbai airport then why oppose it in Rajura? The project is being scuttled just because some officials are against it and putting wrong notings. The WII has said yes to the project with mitigation measures. Being a prop-development leader, I will follow the issue till its logical end,” said Mungantiwar. On the contrary, wildlife officials said, “With 200 tigers in Chandrapur district alone and considering the man-animal conflict, the project would prove disastrous. One of the mitigation steps includes a 4km compound wall, which would mean blocking the functional corridor. Besides, ancillary activities after the airport is in place will be detrimental to wildlife.” State wildlife board member Kishor Rithe, who was on the committee to grant clearance to the New Mumbai airport, says, “The location in Vihirgaon-Murti is risky. Most of the accidents during landing and take-off occur due to the deer family. Even leopards and tigers can enter the premises as it is a corridor. Besides, the compound wall will stop the free movement of wild animals. It will be dangerous to set up an airport near an area surrounding forests close by.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/to-save-wildlife-state-govt-says-no-airport-in-rajura/articleshow/79887140.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Action plan must to promote T Sona: Study||Hyderabad: Awareness about Telangana Sona rice is poor compared to other popular varieties even though its benefits are much superior to other brands, according to a study by two premier institutes. This fact came to light in a joint study by Indian School of Business (ISB), Hyderabad, Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agriculture University (PJSTAU) and the state agriculture department. Describing the Consumer purchase pattern of rice, the report said they give priority to health and taste when it comes to buying the staple. Agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy on Tuesday released the study, meant for finding a good marketing strategy for Telangana Sona. Telangana Sona or RNR-15048 is a paddy variety developed by PJTSAU. It has distinctive flavour, higher protein composition, carbohydrates, energy, and Vitamin B3, and low glycaemic index. PJTSAU says it is a climate-smart variety. It is fine-grain, high-yielding, good quality, and has high blast resistance. “It is advantageous for farmers, as it grows in a shorter time” PJSTAU experts claim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/action-plan-must-to-promote-t-sona-study/articleshow/79887125.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||AgriGold scam: Three arrested||Hyderabad: The ED arrested three accused in the Rs 6,380 crore AgriGold scandal. Sources in ED said the three accused — AgriGold chairman Avva Venkata Rama Rao, its MD Avva Venkata Seshu Narayana Rao and another director were arrested and booked under Prevention of Money Laundering Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/agrigold-scam-three-arrested/articleshow/79887089.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 23, 2020||Delhi||Twin gains as ‘ringed’ wetland is brought back to life in south Delhi||NEW DELHI: Stopping raw sewage from flowing into the Yamuna is considered to be a major step towards making it clean. Over the past six months, officials at DDA’s South Delhi Biodiversity Park have removed garbage, construction waste and raw sewage residue from the Yamuna floodplain near Kalindi Colony and revived a “ringed” wetland that ultimately feeds clean water into the river. With islands in the middle, it also supports migratory birds. This is in addition to a work being carried out to revive a 2.5km-long wetland, also fed by raw sewage from neighbouring colonies. The park, likely to open by the end of next year, will also have 12 “constructed wetlands” — natural systems made using boulders, pebbles and plants to purify dirty water, which will help in releasing clean water into the Yamuna. Times ViewHearteningly, several government bodies and educational institutions have started fresh initiatives to create and revive wetlands. These waterbodies play a critical role in bringing down pollution, recharging groundwater tables and providing a habitat for flora and fauna. In this case, the treatment of sewage water is another plus, which underlines how every positive initiative can be taken to the next level.“The water is being fed by a constructed wetland that then flows through parts of the park and into this ringed wetland. This will eventually reach the larger wetland and into the Yamuna,” said Yasir Arafat, in-charge at the park. When the work began, Arafat said, the wetland was partially filled only by sewage water, with garbage and malba dumped in it. Large-scale dumping also meant the wetlands had been disconnected from the Yamuna. This was first cleaned before the wetland was desilted. Next, water flowing through the floodplain was allowed through a constructed wetland and made to pass through several stages before entering this part of the park. “This has been done without any additional water being introduced. By next monsoon, it will fill up considerably,” said Arafat. Professor C R Babu, head of Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems, said each wetland would be inter-connected with small islands and larger mounds created around them, with 12 constructed wetlands naturally purifying the sewage water from nearby drains. The park is located along Kalindi Colony and fed sewage from Batla House, Zakir Nagar, Kheejrabad and Taimur Nagar. “One constructed wetland is functional, but the natural channel of the river Yamuna has been diverted and is being passed through the floodplain where the soil itself acts as a filter and removes impurities,” Babu said. The ringed wetland has been dug up to create an elevation difference and this will eventually connect to the larger wetland, which will enter the Yamuna, he added. Water hyacinth will be removed from the main waterbody in the next two to three months, once all constructed wetlands are completed, Babu said. Beneficial typha, phragmites, tamarix and altananthra are already growing in and around the water. Visitors will get to see how clear the water is, he added. Park officials said over 100 bird species had already been spotted in the area. Watch How a wetland is brought back to life in south Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/twin-gains-as-ringed-wetland-is-brought-back-to-life-in-s-delhi/articleshow/79887128.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||Agri minister & Ranikhet MLA sent notices over ‘non-implementation’ of Uttarakhand Hills Consolidation of Holdings and Land Reforms Act||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday issued notices to the state agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal and Ranikhet MLA Karan Mehra after a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed demanding implementation of the Uttarakhand Hills Consolidation of Holdings and Land Reforms Act of 2016. The Act provided for the consolidation of agricultural lands in the hills of Uttarakhand. The bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Alok Kumar Verma heard the PIL and has given both Uniyal and Mehra four weeks to respond. “We had filed the petition in October and made officials like the district magistrates and others as respondents. However, notices have now been issued to elected representatives since they too were approached several times but took no step on the issue,” said Dushyant Mainali, the counsel appearing for petitioner Kewala Nand Tiwari. The petitioner is a resident of a village in Ranikhet area where the voluntary consolidation of land was completed soon after the Act was introduced. And though the officials of the district administration visited the village and the locals also forwarded their application to the government, these are still pending. According to the petition, the consolidation of agricultural lands has been an essential and a long-standing demand of the people of Uttarakhand. “Due to fragmented agricultural land and multiple ownerships of small adjoining plots, the practice of agriculture in scattered fields has become a herculean task as well as a non-profitable business for the farmers,” read the petition. It added that migration started from the hills because of the non-profitability in agriculture. “The cultivable land has been lying barren and uncultivated. The small helpless farmers of the hilly areas have desperately lost their interest in agricultural and horticultural practices, leading to a large-scale migration from the hills to cities,” petitioner has said. “Hardly any effective measure has been taken by the respondent authorities in the direction of implementation of the Consolidation of Holdings and Land Reforms Act,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/agri-minister-ranikhet-mla-sent-notices-over-non-implementation-of-uttarakhand-hills-consolidation-of-holdings-and-land-reforms-act/articleshow/79878416.cms||Prashant Jha
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||China links being probed, say cops||Hyderabad: Police are suspecting that there could be a China link to money lending apps that have no tie-ups with non-banking financial institutions (NBFCs). Hydeabad joint commissioner Avinash Mohanty touched upon the similarities between online gambling racket involving Chinese nationals and the money lending apps fraud. “There are some similarities in the modus operandi like involvement of shell companies and money being routed through multiple bank accounts and digital wallets,” he said. The process of paying salaries for the call centre employees also has multiple layers. An outsourcing agency is depositing salary in the accounts of employees and the money to the outsourcing agency is coming through UPI transactions. We have found a passport copy of Chinese woman at Gurgaon office and a Chinese national came to the city call centres about two months ago,” Mohanty said. He said that so far they have identified 10 bank accounts and 75 to 80 digital wallets linked to the 30-odd apps being operated by Begumpet and Gurgaon cell centres staff. “Links to Jakarta and China are to be verified. We might contact ED and IT officials,” Hyderabad CP Anjani Kumar said. On Tuesday, Cyberabad police registered two more cases and continued raids at several locations. “We are verifying if some apps are being operated or managed from abroad. If required, we will inform agencies like ED,” Cyberabad CP VC Sajjanar said. So far Cyberabad police registered 7 cases and Hyderabad police registered 16 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/china-links-being-probed-say-cops/articleshow/79887127.cms||Mahesh Buddi
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||More arms, ammunition recovered from border area||AMRITSAR: Police have recovered an AK 47 rifle, a magazine and 30 rounds during a search operation conducted in border areas of the district on Tuesday, almost 48 hours after the recovery of 11 Austrian grenades. SSP Gurdaspur, Rajinder Singh Sohal informed TOI that police recovered the arms and ammunition along with packing material, nylon rope and wooden frame, among others from a field between Naomini Nullah and cremation ground in the area of Wazirpur village. He said no arrests have been made but police were looking at the past history of a few suspects. When asked whether the owner of the field where the grenades were dropped had any role to play, he said police didn’t find any suspicious record or past criminal history associated with the land owner. DGP, Punjab Dinkar Gupta said the arms and ammunition appeared to be part of the same consignment dropped by the cross-border drone on the night of December 19. Gupta said the assault rifle and magazines with 30 live cartridges were also attached with a wooden frame and lowered from the drone with the help of nylon rope as the grenades were dropped. After recovery of the 11 Austrian grenades, BSF and border zone police had expanded the area of search in view of the possibility of more consignments that could have been air-dropped by drones launched from Pakistan. A senior BSF official told TOI on Tuesday that they had been observing an unprecedented increase in violation of Indian airspace by drones originating from Pakistan in Gurdaspur sector over the past few months. “Recovery of 11 grenades made us believe that there could be more such consignments which could be recovered during the search,” he said. On Sunday, police recovered 11 Austrian-made Arges Type HG 84 series anti-personnel fragmentation hand grenades, which were found from a sugarcane field in Salach village near Dorangla town of Gurdaspur district. According to him, BSF does not have anti-drone technology and presently spots drones by sight or sound. Use of anti-drone technology, including jammers, radar, and geo-fencing could enhance the force’s capability to detect and destroy the drones as soon as they enter Indian airspace, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/more-arms-ammunition-recovered-from-border-area/articleshow/79887121.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Revanth filesdischarge plea||Hyderabad: Congress MP A Revanth Reddy on Tuesday filed a petition in the ACB court urging it to discharge him from the cash-for-vote case. He is one of the prime accused in the case wherein he was caught trying to bribe an independent MLA with Rs 50 lakh cash to lure him to vote for a TDP nominee in the MLC election held in June 2015. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-filesdischarge-plea/articleshow/79887146.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali police file 500-page chargesheet against former DGP Saini||Mohali: Police here on Tuesday filed a 500-page chargesheet against Punjab former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini on charges of kidnapping, disappearance and murder. The case is related to the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, son of a former IAS officer and then a serving employee with CITCO. Police have are yet to file the chargesheet against other accused. The court has summoned Saini to appear before the court by January 22. Saini has been charged with sections 302 (murder), 201 (disappearance of evidence), 219 (public servant corruptly or maliciously makes a report in contrary to law), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to extort confession or to compel), 364 (kidnapping) and 120-B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The chargesheet also mentions the names of approvers turned witnesses against Saini. The chargesheet also has many witnesses. The special investigation team (SIT) constituted to probe the allegations against Saini added Section 302 on August 21, after which the court issued his arrest warrants. However, Saini managed anticipatory bail before the addition of the murder charges to FIR. The state challenged the orders and Saini managed to get bail from the Supreme Court. The approvers, namely former UT cops Kuldeep Singh and Jagir Singh, have allege third degree torture of Multani at the behest and in presence of Saini. SIT also mentions names of two independent approvers against Saini for being witness to torture to Multani when they were also in police custody and saw Multani injured and crying in pain. These approvers are the eye-witness to the torture committed by the accused persons and subsequent events in 1991. It must be mentioned here that Inspector Jagir Singh is also co-accused along with Inspector Anokh Singh in another FIR registered at Kharar Sadar police station on July 27 on charges of fabricating evidences. They have been booked under Section 195-A (fabricating evidence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on a complaint by Kharar Sadar police station SHO Sukhvir Singh. Anokh and Jagir are also co-accused in the previous FIR registered at Mataur police station against Saini. They are on bail in this case. BOX What approvers stated in court? The approvers and eyewitnesses in the December 1991 disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani — former inspector Jagir Singh and ASI Kuldeep Singh — while narrating the incident before the court alleged that Jagir, the a sub-inspector and incharge of Sector 22 police post falling under Sector 17 police station, visited the police station in the late hours on December 13, 1991, and saw then SSP Sumedh Saini sitting on a chair in a room along with inspector KIP Singh, DSP Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Prem Malik and SI Satbir Singh, and they were interrogating Multani. SSP Sumedh Saini then instructed inspector Prem Malik to shove a “wooden log” into Multani’s rectum. Inspector Prem Singh, after inserting the log, kicked it deeper into his rectum, after which he started bleeding. When Jagir again visited the Sector 17 police station the next day, he saw Multani lying on the ground and crying in pain. After two-three days, Jagir was called by Saini to Sector 17 police station and informed him that Multani had died. Jagir alleged that he was informed that inspector Malik, DSP Baldev Singh Saini and SI Satbir Singh were put on duty by Saini to dispose of the body. On December 18, 1991, a team was prepared in which SI Jagir Singh was also a member to go to Qadian police station in Batala, where an FIR was registered against Multani under Section 223 (escape from confinement) and 224 (obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) as he was shown absconder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-police-file-500-page-chargesheet-against-former-dgp-saini/articleshow/79887135.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||T yet to giveits share toRIMS: Kishan||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Tuesday said the state government is not bothered to provide its share of Rs 30 crore for development of RIMS in Adilabad During a visit to RIMS, he said Centre had granted more than Rs 130 crore for the hospital. “But, the state government has failed to even recruit full staff,” he said. Adilabad BJP MP Soyam Bapu Rao said Kishan Reddy will be Telangana CM in future. Meanwhile, BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar flayed Karimnagar district officials for not according him importance as per protocol. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-yet-to-giveits-share-torims-kishan/articleshow/79887133.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Some clubs seek deferment of AGM, some hold meeting with Covid safety norms||Kolkata: The city’s premier clubs are facing a unique problem this pandemic. Most of the clubs being public limited entities under the Registrar of Companies (ROC), need to hold annual general meetings by December 31, like any other company. They include Calcutta Club, Saturday Club, Tolly Club, RCGC and Lake Club. But due to the pandemic, public gathering of over 200 people is not allowed. Besides, most of the members of these clubs are senior citizens and thus vulnerable to Covid-19. Clubs like RCGC held AGM on the virtual platform earlier this month, avoiding gathering on the premises. “We have around 2,000 members and organized e-AGM like most of the companies and leading chambers like ICC,” added a member. However, Lake Club had organized a physical AGM with limited number of members required for validity. “There was no election at Lake Club and so fewer people attended it,” a member said. It is not the same for other clubs. Tolly Club has decided to defer the AGM and sought permission from Registrar of Companies, West Bengal. The same is for Saturday Club. However, Calcutta Club, has decided to hold physical AGM on December 23. Incidentally, all the major companies from the city, including ITC, Exide, Berger Paints, CESC, Eveready and Birla Corp, have held online AGMs this year. An official of Tolly Club told TOI it had already requested RoC for extension of AGM. “We want to have a physical AGM which is not possible in the current scene. We have 1,700 voting members,” added an official. Dipu Doshi, president of Saturday Club, also added that it has requested RoC for extension as far as AGM is concerned. “We have got permission from authorities to hold AGM with 200 people which was not possible. The club has 4,000 member. Last year, in AGM, the turnout was nearly 1,000. So, we have sought extension of time,” he added. The chairman of law and statutory compliance committee of Calcutta Club, Pramit Kumar Ray, told TOI that through a notice dated November 11, 2020, all members were informed that the 105th AGM will be held at 2pm on December 23, 2020. “Accordingly, the meeting will be held,” he added. Calcutta Club has over 4,000 members. Ray also added that AGM would be held following all Covid norms and regulations. Meanwhile, Sandip Ghosh, a member of the club, has complained to ROC on alleged irregularities at the institution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/some-clubs-seek-deferment-of-agm-some-hold-meeting-with-covid-safety-norms/articleshow/79887218.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Varanasi||Three held in UP for ‘trying’ to convert family to Christianity||VARANASI: Three men were arrested on Monday in Azamgarh, UP, for allegedly trying to convert a family to Christianity. Villagers caught the trio when they were trying to flee and handed them over to police. Azamgarh SP Sudhir Kumar Singh told TOI on Tuesday, “Didarganj police arrested three men, namely Balchand Jaiswar of Jaunpur, Gopal Prajapati of Varanasi and Niraj Kumar of Azamgarh, after they had a brawl with the complainant Ashok Kumar Yadav who refused their offer to embrace Christianity.” In his complaint, Ashok Kumar Yadav of Kaitholi village under Didarganj police station alleged that the three men had arrived at the residence of his neighbour Tribhuvan Yadav and gave him lucrative offers for converting to Christianity. Ashok added that when he went to Tribhuvan’s house to see what was going on, the three men asked him also to take part in their prayer and convert to their religion. Yadav alleged that when he refused to take part in prayer and embrace Christianity, they started threatening him using abusive words leading to a brawl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/3-held-in-up-for-trying-to-convert-family-to-christianity/articleshow/79898954.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Goa||Mining resumption must for economic revival: IIT survey||PANAJI: A survey conducted by the Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of Mines) Dhanbad has revealed that early resumption of mining in the state is extremely vital for the revival of the state economy. The study was conducted to document the social and economic impact on the state due to the closure of mining activity. Nearly 99% of the population covered under the survey, irrespective of those affected or unaffected due to mining stoppage, supported its resumption. “The post mining stoppage phase has seen a decline in the monthly incomes thereby a decline in the monthly expenditure and savings. Over 90% of the people surveyed have acknowledged the negative impact on their livelihood,” survey revealed. “Overall, 34% of the sample lot have certain loan liability. Of these, trucks amounted to 31%, housing (9%), personal loans (13%) and 46% on others (gold loan, marriage loan, education, shop, vehicular, etc.),” the survey showed. It further indicated that the mining-hit have shown inability to switch over to alternate sources for livelihood, while only less than 10% have found alternate sources. It is also inferred that there was general reluctance towards displacement. Glenn Kalavampara, secretary, Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association said that the report reflects the worst fears of the government and the industry, that mining stoppage has not only exacerbated the precarious financial conditions of the state but has already resulted in widespread adverse impact on the people who were dependant upon miningfor livelihood. “The mining dependants in the state have been requesting the state and central governments to resume mining at the earliest especially as the state stands on an unfortunate cusp of 3 years without mining activities. There has been a loss of credibility in the markets and assets are getting attached due to non-repayment of loans,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-resumption-must-for-economic-revival-iit-survey/articleshow/79890865.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||JNTU-H opts for pen-paper mode for mid-terms||Hyderabad: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTU-H) has decided to hold mid-term exams for engineering and pharmacy courses, scheduled to commence from December 23, in the pen-paper mode at parent institutions. The university had constituted a committee to recommend different nature and modes to conduct the mid-term exams. Recommendations by the committee have been approved by the in-charge vice-chancellor, Jayesh Ranjan. As per the committee recommendations, the first mid-term exams of B Tech and B Pharm students would be conducted in ‘descriptive mode’ i.e. objective as well as descriptive components. The exam will last for 1 hour 20 minutes (20 minutes for objective and one hour for descriptive examinations). The university would hold two examinations a day on alternate days for students. “There will be four slots of examinations (9:30 am to 10:50 am, 11:30 am to 12:50 pm, 1:30 pm to 2:50 pm and 3:30 pm to 4:50 pm). In the first and third slots, second year examinations and on second and fourth slots, final year examinations will be scheduled. On the following day, first and third slots, third year exams will be scheduled,” JNTUH director, evaluation, Kamakshi Prasad. The seating arrangement would be in zig-zag manner and all Covid-19 norms would be followed. In view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation, JNTU-H has decided to allow students to appear for the exam at centres near their respective hometowns or villages. College principals have been asked to obtain three options from students in the order of preference for writing their examinations, provided the places have at least one JNTU-H affiliated college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntu-h-opts-for-pen-paper-mode-for-mid-terms/articleshow/79887164.cms||Preeti Biswas
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC mayor election to be held after February 10, says SEC||HYDERABAD: State Election Commission (SEC) on Tuesday announced that election of mayor and deputy mayor of Greater Hyderabad will be held after February 10, 2021. The names of elected members of GHMC council will be published in the gazette after January 10, 2021. “The first meeting of GHMC will be held within a month of the publication of names of elected members in gazette,” SEC said. In the first meeting, election of mayor and deputy mayor would be conducted. Five-year term of the council would commence from the date of the first meeting. For instance, if the names of elected members are published in the gazette before January 11, 2021 then the first meeting would be held before February 11, 2021 where the election for mayor and deputy mayor should be held. “The gazette notifications is likely to be issued on January 11,” a GHMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-mayor-election-to-be-held-after-feb-10-says-sec/articleshow/79887171.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 23, 2020||Lucknow||STF foils bid to encash Rs 125 crore draft of UPSHA||LUCKNOW: A sacked BSF sub-inspector and his aide were arrested for attempting to fraudulently encash a bank draft for Rs 125 crore of Uttar Pradesh State Highway Authority (UPSHA) by obtaining a fake authority letter from the financial controller of the department. Those arrested were identified as Amarnath Gupta of Bulandshahr and Prabhas Srivastava of Lucknow. They were arrested from near Fatima hospital in Mahanagar late on Tuesday night. Cops also recovered two mobile phones, Rs 1,000 and an Audi car from their possession. Inspector General of STF, Amitabh Yash, said that the force was tasked with the case by the additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. DSP, STF, Deepak Kumar, who worked out the case said that Gupta was a sacked sub-inspector from the BSF while Srivastava was a property dealer. "The duo in connivance with bank officials used to obtain fixed deposit receipt of accounts of government departments. Then with the assistance of bank workers used to take fake authority letters of that department and got the FDRs encashed," said Singh. In this case, Srivastava posing himself as Anil Goyal, the financial controller of UPSHA, sent a letter to a government bank branch of Mahanagar demanding a draft of Rs 125 crore in June this year. The same bank branch had received FD worth Rs 125 crore from the UPSHA in May. Further, Srivastava with the help of his associates opened an account in Dwarka, Delhi in the name of Goyal and submitted the draft in the account, the officer said. However, due to the high amount, the Dwarka bank thought of rechecking with the branch which had issued the draft. When it sent an email to the bank in Mahanagar for a confirmation, the fraud bid was exposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stf-foils-bid-to-encash-rs-125-cr-draft-of-upsha/articleshow/79890844.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||11pm to 6am: Night curfew starts in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Tuesday issued a notification imposing night curfew from 11pm to 6am across the city until January 5. Maharashtra government had on Monday announced night curfew in all major cities beginning December 22 to be cautious during Christmas and New Year celebrations and also in the backdrop of a new strain of the Coronavirus emerging in the United Kingdom. Around 2,000 cops would remain on road to enforce the night curfew. A substantial manpower of traffic police too would remain deployed. Radhakrishnan’s notification stated that the night curfew has been imposed as per the guidelines issued by the state government to operationalize Mission Begin Again for easing of restrictions and phase-wise opening for containment of Covid-19 epidemic in Nagpur city. The notification states the all earlier orders will be aligned with this order and will remain in force till further orders. Special squads would be present at eight entry and exit points of the city. Barring vehicles carrying essential commodities, no other vehicles would be allowed to enter the city. State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) too has been kept ready for pressing them into action. Citizens found violating the curfew would be booked, warned police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11pm-to-6am-night-curfew-starts-in-nagpur/articleshow/79887208.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Amritsar||ETPB tries to usurp land leased to Sikh||Amritsar: Having been discredited for allegedly disposing of gurdwara lands, Pakistan’s Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) has once again courted controversy after it allegedly tried to usurp a prime property, currently on lease with a Sikh of Nankana Sahib. According to reports, the ETPB had tried to construct a mosque on the said land which is on lease with Terrath Singh, but when it failed to do so, some of its officials in connivance with police, allegedly constructed rooms on the land. To show their resentment, Sikhs of Nankana Sahib staged a protest against ETPB and held a meeting with ETPB chairman Aamer Ahmad, who didn’t respond to TOI’s calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/etpb-tries-to-usurp-land-leased-to-sikh/articleshow/79887165.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 23, 2020||India||MP cabinet meet on ‘anti-love jihad’ law on Saturday||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government has called a special cabinet meeting on Saturday to approve the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill 2020 — touted as an anti-love-jihad law. Briefing reporters after the cabinet meeting on Tuesday, home minister Narottam Mishra said, “The bill was discussed today and various suggestions have been made. A special meeting has been called on December 26 for cabinet approval of the bill before it is tabled in the assembly.” The three-day winter session of assembly begins on December 28. Earlier, Mishra had said that the Madhya Pradesh anti-love jihad law will be stricter than those of other states — a prison term of two to 10 years if the victim happens to be a minor, or from an SC/ST community, plus a fine of 50,000. Concealing one’s religion will lead to three to 10 years’ jail under the new law and fine starting from 50,000. Mass conversions (two or more) will also be subject to imprisonment of five to 10 years and fine of 1 lakh or more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-cabinet-meet-on-anti-love-jihad-law-on-saturday/articleshow/79898955.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||All 107 ghats in Haridwar to be opened for ‘Snan’ during Kumbh||Haridwar: As a crowd-control measure, Kumbh Mela police has decided to open all ghats in Haridwar City for bathing rituals, or ‘Snan’ - there are a total of 107. According to officials, Har-ki-Pauri ghat can accommodate 25,000 to 30,000 pilgrims at a time. Authorities will be trying to divert the crowd from Har-ki-Pauri as most pilgrims are expected to throng to it for Shahi Snan. Inspector general (IG) Kumbh Mela Sanjay Gunjayal told TOI, “The main challenge before police is crowd management during the bathing festivals. As part of ‘Shahi Snan’, all saints and akhada members will take a bath in Har-ki-Pauri. Other pilgrims will also want to congregate at Brahmkund at Har-ki-Pauri to take a dip in the holy river. We aim to use other ghats in the city too, so that the crowd is evenly distributed among all banks of the river.” Mela police has put together a traffic plan for when the two-month-long mega event takes place early next year. The last Kumbh was attended by 5 crore pilgrims. The number is expected to be double this time. “The newly-constructed ghats on the main stream of Ganga and Kankhal region will play an important role. Most traffic will be brought in at Bairagi camp and Chandighat area and pilgrims can easily access these ghats from here,” Gunjayal said. “The Delhi-Haridwar highway is under construction right now, but it is expected to be completed by the time Kumbh commences,” he added. Union HRD minister and Haridwar MP Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank had recently expressed disappointment at the quality of works carried out at Har-ki-Pauri during an inspection earlier this month. Nishank had sanctioned Rs 33 crore under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds of a prominent Public Sector Unit (PSU) for the expansion of the capacity at Har-ki-Pauri, since the ghat is expected to draw a lion’s share of the crowd at Kumbh. However, according to the minister’s representative Om Prakash Jamdagni, an amount of Rs 18 crore was diverted to renovate Rodibelwala Ground and the rest was used to only renovate and not expand Har-ki-Pauri, as planned. A probe is on as to why the funds were diverted and who was responsible. Meanwhile, as part of Kumbh preparations, the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) conducted an inspection of all 13 akhadas on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/all-107-ghats-in-haridwar-to-be-opened-for-snan-during-kumbh/articleshow/79878482.cms||MS Nawaz
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Peaceful war camp, with own guard||Singhu Border (Sonipat): They reached here on November 26 after running down barricades, crossing deep pits, and walking through water cannon and tear gas. Nearly a month on, they have put together a well-served camp and fully settled for a peaceful battle. The 10-km protest zone starts from Rai in Sonipat, where the farmers rest their tractor-trailers. The sleeping cabins are on board. The site has a makeshift library, volleyball nets, medical camps, dispensaries, langar every 100 metres, Punjabi music, gymnasium, and foot spa. In 24 hours with the farmers, TOI saw what keeps the siege going in this cold, harsh weather of Delhi. Young volunteers with Walkie-Talkie sets patrol their assigned territories. Entry stops at 8pm. They manage traffic to make way for the ambulances and update the farmers through a network of roaming loudspeakers, carried aboard the tractors that go around motivating the farmers with ‘jaikaras’. The day starts with morning bath on the road. The toiletries, including towels, are free of cost. The breakfast is at the langars. Those short of place to sleep at night can tuck inside the NGOs’ small tents. They need more mobile toilets, though. The volunteers and farmers clean the campsite but have no place to dispose of that garbage. Besides three meals, the langars also serve pizza, pinni, fruits, milk, and jalebi. The service continues all day. One sees heaps of firewood all over the area. Even the road travellers can see the farmers eating. The protesters get only safe, mineral water. The water tanks on the site serve the kitchens and washrooms. Large provision stores feed flour, rice, oil, ghee, and vegetables to the agitation. Volunteers of Khalsa Aid, Baba Harbans Singh Car Sewa Delhi, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, Nirmal Sant Kutia Karnal, Delhi SGPC, and UK’s Midland Langar Sewa Society are on job. Dirty clothes? Use washing machines with spin-dry function. Some are permanent campers and some on short visits for community service or donation. Hakikat Bir Singh Bhatti, a resident of Mohali in Punjab and an MBBS intern in West Bengal, shared with TOI how professionals across the country ran social-media campaigns in support of the farmers. Bhatti came by air after adjusting his weekly day off with a colleague. Mounted Nihangs with traditional weapons guard their battlefield like knights in Sikh armour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/peaceful-war-camp-with-own-guard/articleshow/79887196.cms||Ajay Sura
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||Supplementary budget passed in House; Govt tables four bills||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand assembly passed the Rs 4,063 crore supplementary budget on Tuesday, the second day of the ongoing winter session. Also, the state government tabled four bills in the House on the day. Through the supplementary budget, which was passed with voice vote, the government would seek a grant of Rs 2,071 crore under the revenue head and a grant of Rs 1,992 crore under the capital head from the assembly. The supplementary budget also has a provision of Rs 200 crore for Kumbh 2021. On the day, the state government tabled four bills — the Uttarakhand Public Services (Reservation for Economically Weaker Sections) (Amendment) Bill, 2020, in the House, The Uttarakhand (The Uttar Pradesh Land Revenue Act, 1901) (Amendment) Bill 2020, The Uttarakhand Martyr’s Dependent Ex-Gratia Bill, 2020 and The Uttarakhand Subordinate Service Selection Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in the House. The debate on the four bills is scheduled for Wednesday. The Uttarakhand Martyr’s Dependent Ex-Gratia Bill, 2020, aims to provide one-time ex-gratia grant for livelihood in future to dependents, widows, parents of soldier of Defence Forces and Para military forces killed in war, border, skirmishes and internal security of Uttarakhand state. The Uttarakhand Public Services (Reservation for Economically Weaker Sections) (Amendment) Bill, 2020 has provision for filling any vacancy reserved for Economically Weaker Sections in case not filed due to non availability for a suitable candidate then, suitable candidate belonging to General Category in any recruitment year, by amending the section 3 of the Uttarakhand Public Services (Reservation for Economically Weaker Sections), Act, 2019. After the session, Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal told reporters, “The supplementary budget was passed and four bills were tabled in the house. The debate on the four bills is scheduled for Wednesday.” Meanwhile, Congress MLAs came to the assembly with sugarcane in their hands as a mark of protest against the farm laws. However, the security forces at the assembly gate did not permit them to bring sugarcane inside the building premises. Congress legislators also demanded a debate on the issue of unemployment. Manoj Rawat, the Congress legislator from Kedarnath said, “Unemployment is a big issue being faced by the youth of the state and the incumbent government has failed them. Besides, we strongly oppose the new farm laws and demand justice for cane farmers.” While addressing the house, the parliamentary affairs minister said that 801 people were recruited from 2014 to 2017 through the state Subordinate Commission and the number for the same was 6,000 from 2017 to 2020. “At present, the process to provide jobs to 7,000 through the Subordinate Services Commission is underway. Around 7 lakh people have been directly or indirectly provided job opportunities by the state government,” said the minister. On the issue of sugarcane farmers, he said that the entire dues of all government and private sugar mills for 2019-20 have been cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/supplementary-budget-passed-in-house-govt-tables-four-bills/articleshow/79878523.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Boost to startups: Govt, IIT-J & AIIMS ink MoU||Jodhpur: The IIT-Jodhpur and AIIMS have partnered with the Information Technology and Communication department of the state to nurture startup culture in Rajasthan. A tripartite memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between the three agencies on Monday wherein the I-Start scheme of the state government will be linked with the incubators at the IIT-Jodhpur and AIIMS. Additional director of the department S L Bhati, director (IIT-Jodhpur) Santanu Choudhury and director (AIIMS) Sanjeev Mishra were present on the occasion of this MoU. Bhati said that since both IIT and AIIMS are leading institutions in the fields of technology and medicine, respectively, the benefit of their expertise and infrastructure would contribute to further strengthening of startup ecosystem in the state. The MoU will pave the way for exchange of knowledge, faculty and other services among the stakeholders to create a better atmosphere of cooperation for mentorship and success of startups. Deputy director and in-charge of the incubation centre of the department in Jodhpur J P Jyani said that incubation centres were being set up and operated to provide required support to the startups under I-Start scheme of the government. “Through these incubation centres, we provide technical as well as financial assistance to the startups by way of coordination with the tech expert, mentors and venture capitalists,” said Jyani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/boost-to-startups-govt-iit-j-aiims-ink-mou/articleshow/79887253.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to track, test flyers from Europe, Middle East & S Africa||NAGPUR: To check and contain cases, if any, of coronavirus-2, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has chalked out a plan to track and test all air passengers who returned from Europe, Middle East or South Africa in the last one month. Also, it has been made mandatory for flyers who landed in India outside Maharashtra to sign an undertaking at airport that they did not travel from these countries in last 15 days. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B appealed to air passengers who returned from Europe, Middle East or South Africa in last one month to call up NMC’s control room (0712-2567021) with details of their travel. “Our team will visit them, check for symptoms and get them RT-PCR tested. Participation from public is must to check and contain this virus in larger interest of the public and city,” he said. The civic chief added NMC was expected to receive a list of air passengers from these countries from Bureau of Immigration in a couple of days. NMC officials will then visit all passengers. Radhakrishnan on Tuesday held a meeting with airport officials. NMC gave format of an undertaking that airport officials have to get signed by passengers coming from out of the state. Passengers who land at Mumbai and Pune will be tested and quarantined there itself. Those who land in other states and come to city on domestic flights will be checked here. “We will regularly get list of such passengers. They will have to voluntarily disclose. To avoid missing any passenger, we will take an undertaking at airport. If any person gives a false undertaking, we will register FIR and take further action,” the municipal chief said. Radhakrishnan on Tuesday also issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for passengers arriving in the city from these countries. Additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane (7045658186) has been appointed nodal officer for effective implementation of SOPs. Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) has been appointed dedicated health care facility for identified suspects. Dean of GMCH has been asked to make arrangements for effective implementation of NMC order. NMC has identified nine private hotels having 250 beds for institutional quarantine facility. It is not clear whether passengers will bear the cost or the civic body. As per NMC, international flights have not resumed at city airport. Two international flights from Sharjah and Doha used to land here which stopped with outbreak of Covid-19 in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-track-test-flyers-from-europe-middle-east-s-africa/articleshow/79887411.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Monday Hyderabad’s third coldest day in a decade||HYDERABAD: The city experienced its third coldest day in the last decade on Monday after the mercury levels nosedived to 10.4 degree Celsius, which is five degree Celsius below normal. Meteorologists said that cold wave conditions are likely to continue for the next two to three days across Telangana. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad figures, Hyderabad witnessed its coldest day in the last decade on December 21, 2010 when it shivered at 8.9 degree Celsius, followed by 9.5 degree Celsius recorded on December 31, 2019. On Monday, cold wave conditions prevailed at isolated places in Adilabad, Hyderabad and Medak in Telangana. According to the Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS), Rajendranagar witnessed lowest minimum temperature of 7.3 degree Celsius, followed by 7.8 degree Celsius at Lingampally and 9.2 degree Celsius at West Marredpally among others. “An anti-cyclonic circulation prevails over central India and northerly and northeasterly winds are prevailing over Telangana. Under the impact of these winds, Telangana is likely to experience cold wave conditions for the next two to three days over northern and western districts,” said Naga Ratna, director in-charge, IMD, Hyderabad, adding that misty conditions are likely to occur in Hyderabad and adjoining areas and northern districts during early morning hours. IMD, Hyderabad forecasts that at isolated places in other parts of Telangana, minimum temperatures are likely to drop by two to three degree Celsius to around 10-13 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mon-citys-3rd-coldest-day-in-a-decade/articleshow/79887234.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Sikhya da Langar’ satiates hunger for knowledge||SINGHU BORDER (SONIPAT): Food is not the only thing that langars (community kitchens) offer protesters at Singhu border. A“Sikhya da Langar” in one corner of the protest site is providing education to children from nearby slums and even satiating the intellectual hunger of those camping here. Groups of lawyers, businessmen, farmers and other professionals camping at the protest site have set up a “Sanjhi Chhat (A roof for all),” where they are providing basic learning skills and other creative activities to children living in slums around the protest area. Every day, around 50 children are taught by youngsters from Punjab who are into teaching profession. The children are not only being provided teaching material and stationery but also meal, juice and refreshments. A small library has also been set up in this area, where anyone can come and read Punjabi literature and books related to revolutionaries like Bhagat Singh and Fidel Castro. From 8 to 10 pm, people also share their ideas and thoughts about the major agitations in the world and how they succeeded and the factors that led to their failure. Although during the daytime it is open for all to visit and access, evening sessions are restricted and not permitted to be recorded by the media. According to Satnam, an arhtiya from Anandpur Sahib, ‘Sanjhi Chhat’ is the brainchild of their group comprising Garry Warring, Dinesh Chadha, Inder Bajwa and a few others. “After staying here for days, we realised we cannot spend an entire day roaming around the protest area and should do something creative,” Satnam added. Activist and Punjab and Haryana high court advocate Dinesh Chadha said when they noticed that small children from slum areas were visiting the protest site to collect plastic bottles, they decided to hold classes for them and also do something to keep the area clean. “We bought a large number of dustbins and fixed them on tractor-trolleys. With this, people started maintaining cleanliness around their area and these children started enjoying reading at Sanjhi Chhat. Luckily, we are also able to provide good food to them as long as they stay here,” Chadha added. Another activist, Inder Bajwa said to ensure youngsters and other visitors/elders can spend their time and read literature, they decided to set up a small library by providing books and daily newspapers. According to Satnam, they have also ensured these children are not unattended after the stir ends. They have tied up with a local NGO, which would teach these children and their group would provide assistance. In the evening, people come and share their ideas and thoughts about protests to keep morale high. Initially started with five persons, it has now turned into a large group which also is managing social media platforms of the protest and publishing a newspaper, called “Trolley Times”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sikhya-da-langar-satiates-hunger-for-knowledge/articleshow/79887280.cms||Ajay Sura
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||Pile of trash line Rudrapur streets even as sanitation workers end strike||Rudrapur: Even after sanitation workers ending their strike two days ago, garbage continue to pile up in several localities of the city. Areas like Awas Vikas, Civil Lines, Adarsh Colony, Indira Nagar, Jagatpura, Kalyani View, and Sanjay Nagar are among the worst affected. With several locals dumping household waste in open, heaps of refuse and overflowing sewers have become a common sight for commuters. The stench emanating from these piles have become unbearable, say locals. Further, stray animals often scatter the waste all along the road. Sanjay Juneja, president of the city traders’ union, said, “We are incurring loss as the stinking garbage piles are driving away customers. It is surprising to see garbage everywhere even after the strike is called off.” Earlier on Monday, Rinku Bisht, commissioner of Rudrapur Municipal Corporation, had claimed that she managed to pacify the “Paryavaran Mitras” and call off the strike. To recall, around 500 sanitation workers in the city had gone on a strike on December 15 to push three demands — EPF for two hundred outsourced workers, jobs to the dependants of the deceased sanitation workers, and deputing the outsourced workers through a committee. Sunil Rotaki, leader of Uttarakhand Safai Karamchari Sangh, said, “We called off the strike after we got a written assurance from the commissioner of the RMC. We are back on duty but if our demands are not met in another fortnight, we will be forced to stop the sanitation work across the city once again.” Meanwhile, Vikas Goswami, Sahayak Nagar Aayukt (SNA) of the RMC, told TOI, “As the strike continued for six days, garbage is scattered everywhere. We are now conducting a survey across the city and monitoring the situation. The garbage piles will be cleaned in another couple of days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pile-of-trash-line-rudrapur-streets-even-as-sanitation-workers-end-strike/articleshow/79878611.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 23, 2020||Trichy||EVMs with VVPAT machines from Maharashtra reach Trichy||Trichy: As Tamil Nadu gears up for the 2021 assembly elections, Trichy district received control units and voter verifiable paper audit trial (VVPAT) machines from Maharashtra on Tuesday. As many as 570 control units and 230 VVPAT machines have been brought from Akola district in Maharashtra. Trichy collector S Sivarasu said that an additional 1,220 ballot units, 2,920 control units and 4,560 VVPATs are being brought from Jalgaon district in Maharashtra. “The second consignment will reach Trichy on Monday after which they will be stored in the collectorate in the presence of the representatives of all parties,” the collector told ToI. The first level checking (FLC) by the engineers of Bharat Electronics Limited (BHEL) and the mock polling of 5 % will be done, added the collector. The collector said that the first and second randomisation processes will be carried out after the notification of the election following which the EVMs for each constituency will be sent to the strong rooms. The collector also said that the VVPATs will be used in all the nine constituencies in Trichy district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/evms-with-vvpat-machines-from-maharashtra-reach-trichy/articleshow/79890816.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University ‘Kamdhenu Chair’ to teach cow-breeding||PRAYAGRAJ: Allahabad University would soon be establishing ‘Kamdhenu Chair’ on its campus for teaching best practices of cow-breeding. For this, the AU administration has also prepared a proposal and sent the same to the ministry concerned. After getting approval from the Union ministry of education, work for the same would start on the campus. Through the new chair, students will be taught about the native breed of cow and also guide the rural population about the skill development and technological advancement in the field rearing cows and methods to increase productivity from them. The idea for establishing this chair at AU was mooted by vice-chancellor Prof Sangita Srivastava, following her participation at the national webinar addressed by national Kamdhenu Commission chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria. The webinar was about setting up Kamdhenu Peeth in universities in collaboration with the University Grants Commission (UGC), All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and American Intercontinental University (AIU). “This chair would serve as a bridge between urban technological enhancement towards proper care of our ‘national treasure’ and disseminate the know-how to our rural folks who need the knowledge. The research and knowledge transfer would be a boon for the cow population in rural area of not only Prayagraj, but also of the neighbouring districts there is a need to educate the youth about the agricultural, health, social and environmental importance of indigenous breed of cows”, said AU VC, Prof Sangita Srivastava. The government has begun to explore the potential of cows and the several products which she helps produce. In such a situation, research is needed and provides a platform to bring out the science related to indigenous cows and our education system. It is here that such a Chair would be handy, added the VC. AU would be first such institute in the country, which has also taken the initiative to establish Kamadhenu Chair. “We have prepared the proposal for establishing this Chair, and after getting the approval of the proposal from the Ministry, the students will be taught about the cow through this”, said AU public relation officer (PRO), Jaya Kapoor. A department at AU would be entrusted with the responsibility of running the activities under this Chair. The AU administration would decide the name of the department in the coming days. UGC would also be giving a grant of Rs 1.5 crore for the chair. Through this, efforts will be made to save old cows in rural areas. The volunteers and students will also provide the fodder and medicines to the cows, which would be on subsidized rate. Apart from this, the rate of milk will be determined in the interest of farmers. The conception of cows will be made free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-kamdhenu-chair-to-teach-cow-breeding/articleshow/79891034.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Delhi||Chandni Chowk revamp: Bid to remove temple fails||NEW DELHI: Despite assuring Delhi High Court, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has failed to relocate a small temple located in the middle of the carriageway in the Walled City, which is posing a hindrance to the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project. This has been the third such occasion when the plan did not materialise. On an earlier occasion, a large number of people had gathered at the site against the removal. Removal of encroachments remains a key obstacle in the completion of the ambitious pedestrianisation project. Recently, the high court had expressed “grave concern” over encroachment on public land “under the shelter of a place of worship”. It had said a large number of cases were being seen in which people were claiming a right over government land under the garb of temples or other places of worship. A senior north corporation official said that plans were made to relocate the temple on Sunday, but adequate police force was not provided to them. “We have again written to police to provide us personnel as we have already submitted an affidavit in court that the temple will be shifted on December 20. Now, the date of relocation will depend on the police department,” he added. On December 16, the civic body had told the court that it would shift the temple within four days. In its affidavit, it stated that caution was being exercised in consultation with police and other authorities before demolition began. Earlier, the corporation had planned demolition on November 1 and 22. The court had refused to grant any relief to the illegal temple and ordered its removal overruling the stand of the government’s religious panel. Sanjay Bhargav, who heads Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said all illegal structures and encroachments should be removed from the area for the project to be successfully completed. “We are against all illegal encroachment on public land. The civic body has repeatedly failed to carry out its part in successful completion of the project,” he added. Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Board had also stated in its letter to police that action should be taken on encroachments on footpaths as well as roads by vendors and hawkers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chandni-chowk-revamp-bid-to-remove-temple-fails/articleshow/79887394.cms||Paras Singh
December 23, 2020||Meerut||Over 15 hurt as several vehicles ram into each other due to dense fog||Meerut: At least 12 vehicles ran into each other on Eastern Peripheral Expressway near Singoli village of Baghpat on Tuesday morning due to low visibility caused by dense fog, leaving at least 10 people injured. Another pile-up of at least 10 vehicles took place in Ratanpuri area of Muzaffarnagar.According to police, at least 15 people got injured in both the pile-ups. All the injured were taken to hospital. According to one of the injured at Baghpat, Amit Singh, “The visibility was very low. Scores of vehicles hit each other and cranes had to be brought in to clear the road as pile-up had led to traffic jam.”Abhishek Singh, superintendent of police (SP) of Baghpat, said, "Help was provided to the injured almost immediately. The accident occurred in Chandinagar police station area. There were no major injuries, but a lot of vehicles got damaged.”Baghpat stretch of the Expressway is accident prone. Just a month ago, on November 10, 28 passengers were injured when a bus toppled owing to high speed. In September too, a 35-year-old man was charred to death after his car rammed into a petrol tanker and caught fire. While in Ratanpuri area of Muzaffarnagar, another six vehicles rammed into each other. Six occupants of these vehicles got injured and were moved to a local hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-15-hurt-as-several-vehicles-ram-into-each-other-due-to-dense-fog/articleshow/79878580.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||AIIMS-R to soon start organ transplant||Dehradun: All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Rishikesh (AIIMS-R) may soon become the first government hospital in Uttarakhand to start an organ transplant facility in the state. A team of Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, visited AIIMS-R last week and inspected the arrangements in place to start the facility. “The hospital will get the nod for the same after the Lucknow team that was here for inspection on 19th and 20th December will send its final report to the Government of India. Primarily, the team appears to be satisfied with our set-up and preparentions. The process of organ transplant will start from eyes and kidney transplant,” said Harish Thapliyal, PRO, AIIMS-R. He added that thousands of people die in road accidents in the state every year and their organs can save the lives of many others. The institution already has permission from the National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (NOTTO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-r-to-soon-start-organ-transplant/articleshow/79878604.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Sajjanar condemns BJP MLA’s remark||Hyderabad: Cyberabad commissioner VC Sajjanar condemned MLA Raja Singh’s comments on police in relation to cow slaughter allegations. Responding to a question about the MLA’s comments against police, Sajjanar said such comments do not suit a person in a responsible position. “If the MLA has any proof, he can approach DCP or me or the DGP. If any one makes irresponsible comments against the police, we will initiate legal action,” Sajjanar said. After intercepting a truck coming from Maharashtra with 45 cows and calves at Shamshabad on Tuesday, Singh alleged that the truck was headed to a slaughterhouse in Bahadurpura and the police were not doing their job properly. “When we can spot the cows in trucks and intercept them, why are police not able to see them. Some police have become brokers,” he alleged. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sajjanar-condemns-bjp-mlas-remark/articleshow/79887407.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 1,800 special buses to clear Sankranti rush||HYDERABAD: To tackle the extra rush of passengers during Sankranti festival, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) is making arrangements to operate around 1,800 special buses from Hyderabad and other parts of Telangana to Andhra Pradesh from January 8 to 13. According to officials, the number of special buses will be increased or decreased as per demand. These special buses will be operated from main points such as MGBS, JBS, CBS, Uppal X roads and LB Nagar. Apart from this, as many as 1,200 special buses will ferry passengers from the state to other parts of the country including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. While the ticket prices for the regular services will remain the same, the ticket prices for the festival special buses will be one and half times more than the regular charges. Similarly, the Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has decided to operate 3,607 special buses from January 8 to 13 to meet Sankranti festival rush. APSRTC Executive Director (Operations) KS Brahmananda Reddy said an adequate number of buses will be plied on major routes like Hyderabad-Vijayawada, Vijayawada-Visakhapatnam, Bengaluru-Vijayawada and Chennai-Vijayawada. “As many as 1,251 special buses will be run from Telangana, 433 from Bengaluru and 133 from Chennai to various districts in the State,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1800-spl-buses-to-clear-sankranti-rush/articleshow/79887315.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||BJP split into groups, can’t see devpt in Rajasthan: Minister Raghu Sharma||AJMER: Health minister Raghu Sharma on Tuesday claimed that the state’s excellent management during lockdown was reason for the low mortality rate. He said the BJP wasn’t able to see this development because the party was split in two groups in the state. While interacting with reporters after attending the monitoring meeting in the REET office of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education, he said while the BJP wasn’t able to see development, people were getting benefits. “There is a problem with the BJP and therefore they do not want to see people happy,” added Sharma.  He said that in local body elections, the Congress won on 38 out of 50 seats and BJP managed to bag only 12. “The BJP is actually split into two groups - one is established and the other is trying to overcome that group,” said Sharma  He asked the BJP to evaluate their performance and party in Rajasthan before making remarks about the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-split-into-groups-cant-see-devpt-in-raj/articleshow/79887447.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Farmers block Delhi-Meerut Expressway again, traffic hit||GHAZIABAD: Farmers protesting at UP Gate blocked the whole of Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) on Tuesday morning as their counterparts from several other districts of west UP were stopped from reaching the protest site. The blockade caused traffic snarls in Kaushambi and the arterial roads of Vaishali. The situation eased somewhat aft-er the blockade was lifted around 6pm. “The UP government is testing our patience. Despite repeated warnings, farmers on their way to the protest sites are being stopped by police. Some of them are being harassed too. A group of farmers called us from Rampur and complained of police excesses. This is something we could not have tolerated any more. So, we blocked the whole of DME on Tuesday,” said Rakesh Tikait, a Bharatiya Kisan Union leader who has been spearheading the protests at UP Gate. The trans-Hindon area was the most affected by the blockade. Traffic had to be diverted at all major intersections. “We are in touch with our Delhi counterparts, who also effected the diversion on their side and did not allow traffic on DME as it was closed,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, SP (traffic). “In Ghaziabad, the traffic load increased on the city’s arterial roads, causing snarls. The areas that were affected the most were Kaushambi and Mohan Nagar. We had to divert traffic through internal roads of Vaishali,” he added. The number of protesters is likely to swell at UP Gate on Wednesday as scores from other districts are expected to join an event where farmers will pay homage to prominent leaders. “We will conduct a havan at the protest site. It is for this that farmers from other districts are coming here,” said Tikait. Asked if they were planning a major agitation on Wednesday, Tikat said, “We would be protesting the way we had been for the past few weeks. It would be peaceful. No major agitation is planned for Wednesday.” Early on Tuesday morning, Choudhary Dheeraj Pawar from Baghpat, a farmer who had participated in the relay hunger strike on Monday, suffered a minor heart attack and was rushed to MMG Hospital. He was then referred to AIIMS. “The farmer who suffered the heart attack had participated in a relay hunger strike on Monday. His condition is stable now” said Shamsher Rana, BKU’s national media in-charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmers-block-dme-again-traffic-affected-till-evening/articleshow/79891037.cms||Abhijay Jha
December 23, 2020||Trichy||Three Bihar boys trafficked as child labourers rescued in Trichy||TRICHY: Railway Childline-1098 in Trichy railway junction thwarted an attempt to employ two minor boys from Bihar as labourers at a car accessories showroom in the city a few days ago. Government railway police (GRP) is on the lookout for two brokers for bringing the minor boys from their parents to employ them at the showroom in Trichy. The offence came to light when the Railway Childline field workers, Antony Jaikar, Duraisamy and Nirmala found a 14-year-old boy and two 16-year-old boys from Muzaffarpur in Bihar arriving at Trichy railway junction from Chennai in Pandian superfast express around 3 am on December 16. The team intercepted the boys and preliminary enquiry revealed that they were trafficked by Surathkumar, 27, and Kamalesh, 23. The boys revealed that they were taken to Trichy for working at Annai Lio Cars and Accessories at Cantonment in Trichy for upholsteries work. The boys said that they travelled to Chennai by flight before reaching Trichy by train. Project co-ordinator of Railway Childline J Revathi said that Surathkumar and Kamalesh played the role of brokers. “The boys told us that the company paid Rs 25,000 to each of their families through Surathkumar to take them,” she said adding that they will be made to work for 10 to 12 hours every day without salary. One of the three boys was already employed in the same company through Surathkumar. He went to Bihar and took the two other boys here. The GRP Trichy also joined the investigation and recorded the statements of the boys before producing them before the child welfare committee (CWC). The committee ordered the boys to be kept at the railway childline shelter in the city. Acting on a complaint from Revathi, GRP filed an FIR on Decenmber 18 against Surathkumar. “Surathkumar also accompanied the boys when our staff found them at the railway junction but he got away after sensing trouble,” said Revathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-bihar-boys-trafficked-as-child-labourers-rescued-in-trichy/articleshow/79890853.cms||Gokul Rajendran
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||53-year-old ‘daredevil rider’ beats chill to reach Singhu border||SINGHU BORDER (SONIPAT): While many may not think of leaving quilt in the current chilly weather, 53-year-old Gurjit Singh, a native of Jhampur in Fatehgarh Sahib, Punjab, reached the Singhu border half-naked on his motorcycle bike to express solidarity with the protesting farmers. Singh, who is an NRI and returned from the US two years ago after earning “sufficiently” to live in Punjab, rode to the protest site wearing only a vest to support farmers’ movement. Singh’s entire family is in the US but he shifted to his native village Jhampur in Anandpur Sahib where he has around 11 acre family land. He keeps touring on his motorcycle. “When I saw on social media about people sleeping in trolleys under extreme cold conditions, I decided to extend them some moral support by visiting them only wearing a vest. Though my gesture may be symbolic, it was an attempt to boost their morale as they are doing selfless service for the entire farming community,” he added. According to Gurjit Singh, he reached Singhu border in around five-and-a-half hours after covering around 240 km. He only had a small halt for tea and finished his journey late on Saturday evening. “I did not feel cold and realised that something was protecting me. I would say it was a miracle as I was prepared for any adverse impact on my health,” he said. After reaching the protest site, he got himself medically examined at one of the medical camps here and was found completely fit with all normal health parameters. He has decided to stay with the protesters for a few days. According to Gurjit, riding is his passion as for around 20 years he had worked abroad and used to drive trucks. He had finally settled in Fremont, California, USA, with his entire family. “Though I have given land on lease, my existence is because of the land left by my forefathers. Since now ‘kisani’ is in danger, I am with farmers at this time of crisis,” he concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/53-year-old-daredevil-rider-beats-chill-to-reach-singhu/articleshow/79887331.cms||Ajay Sura
December 23, 2020||India||Serum institute submits data from trials of vaccine||NEW DELHI: Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has submitted additional updated data from clinical trials of Covishield sought by the drug regulator’s panel evaluating Covid vaccine applications for emergency use authorisation, official sources said, reports Sushmi Dey. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid vaccine under the Drugs Controller General of India had asked Bharat Biotech and SII to produce updated data from ongoing clinical trials in India. The latest development may once again set the clock ticking for the launch of the vaccine, as the government is expecting to roll out vaccination against Covid-19 by mid-January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/serum-institute-submits-data-from-trials-of-vaccine/articleshow/79899095.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand BJP prez to start visit to all 70 assembly constituencies from Thursday||Dehradun: With barely a year left for assembly elections in Uttarakhand, the state president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Banshidhar Bhagat will embark on a visit to all 70 assembly constituencies from Thursday. Bhagat will first visit Mussoorie to take stock of the progress of development works in the state and interact with party workers. BJP media in-charge Manveer Singh Chauhan said that Bhagat will not stay overnight in the constituencies but will participate in three types of meetings. “In the first phase, Bhagat will visit Mussoorie, Rajpur Road, Kotdwar Jaspur, Kashipur assemblies where he will meet representatives from BJP’s Shakti Kendra Sayojak. The other two meetings will be with the senior cadres of the constituency who have various responsibilities in the organization. He will also meet the members at Panchayat level, ward presidents, block heads, directors of cooperatives, former MLAs, presidents of district cooperative banks, among others,” said Chauhan. In the third meeting, Banshidhar Bhagat will hold separate talks with senior workers residing in the respective assembly constituencies and hold talks about the current issues of the area. A state official has been appointed as the coordinator for the preparatory meeting two days before the program of the state president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-bjp-prez-to-start-visit-to-all-70-assembly-constituencies-from-thursday/articleshow/79878676.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||Member of infamous ‘Jabbar Gang’ arrested by Uttarakhand STF||Dehradun: Continuing its special drive against absconding and wanted criminals, Uttarakhand Special Task Force (STF) on Tuesday arrested an active member of the notorious ‘Jabbar Gang’, known for its criminal activities in western Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. The accused, who has been identified as Kapil Dev, native of Saharanpur district in Uttar Pradesh, was nabbed from a flat in Sahastradhara Road, where he was hiding to escape police action, said STF SSP Ajay Singh. STF sleuths also recovered a country-made pistol and live cartridges from his possession. There are cases of loot and dacoity registered against him in Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, according to a STF official. During questioning, Kapil told STF that he robbed a roadways bus in Gagalheri and also robbed a businessman in Saharanpur area in 2009. He also said that he was keeping a weapon with him for carrying out criminal incidents in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/member-of-infamous-jabbar-gang-arrested-by-uttarakhand-stf/articleshow/79878684.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board brings back new connection infra charges||NEW DELHI: After waiving infrastructure charges for new water and sewerage connections in November 2019, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has restarted levying them on the properties occupying over 200 sqm since the past two-and-a-half months. A circular on the new rates was issued by DJB’s revenue department in October after its apex body reviewed the earlier decision on September 24, said an official. “Plots with less than 200 sqm are still exempted. We have restarted levying infrastructure charges in both residential and commercial categories,” another official confirmed. Waiving off the charges, Delhi government had announced that people would have to pay just Rs 2,310. Earlier, a Delhiite had to pay between Rs 1.14 lakh and Rs 1.24 lakh towards these charges depending on a property size. DJB has now decided to increase these charges by 5% every year, but no sewer infrastructure charge will be levied on properties with zero liquid discharge systems. The circular states that the rates vary as per the property tax classification of the colonies. For a new water connection, commercial properties need to pay between Rs 100 and Rs 350 per sqft. DJB is charging Rs 350 per unit from properties in A and B category colonies, Rs 250 from those in C, Rs 150 from those in D and Rs 100 for E-H colony properties. The commercial category includes hotels, motels, restaurants, malls, industries and offices. For the institutional category, which includes schools, colleges, hospitals etc, the charges vary from Rs 75 per sq ft to Rs 250. For residential properties, including religious places, cremation grounds and hostels of educational institutions, the rates are between Rs 50 and Rs 200 per sq ft. In case of sewer infrastructure charges, the rates in residential properties vary between Rs 30 and Rs 120 per sq ft. Commercial property rates range between Rs 60 and Rs 210 per sq ft and institutional rates between Rs 45 and Rs 150. Slamming the move during the ongoing pandemic, Praveen Khandelwal of Confederation of All India Traders said people in some colony categories would have to shell out several lakhs for new connections. The confederation will meet the lieutenant governor to demand withdrawal of these charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-brings-back-new-connection-infra-charges/articleshow/79887448.cms||Paras Singh
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||HC issues notices in plea against power lines through Ambazari biodiversity park||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has admitted the petition against laying of 132 KV transmission towers by Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL) through Ambazari reserve forest, now rechristened as biodiversity park. Justices Sunil B Shukre and Avinash G Gharote on Monday waived notices to respondents returnable in three weeks. The writ petition has been filed by city environment activist Jaydeep Das through his lawyer Manish Jeswani. The MSETCL project was granted forest clearance on August 19, 2013, to erect transmission towers and lines through the forest but the project proponent did not start work for the last seven years. Over 900 trees will be felled for the project. The area was declared a reserve forest in 2017 due to the criticality of the biodiversity around the Ambazari lake and also realizing the fact that it was important to protect such areas in an urban scenario for the future, to save grasslands and water bodies. Very few cities in the country are gifted with such natural wealth. The petitioner has argued that over the last seven years Ambazari has been developed as a biodiversity hotspot and it required environment clearance (EC). The MSETCL needs a forest diversion of 8.83 hectares land to install six huge towers. However, Nagpur chief conservator of forests (CCF) P Kalyan Kumar on December 11, 2020, has said that EC is not mandatory for the project, keeping in view migratory birds’ habitat in Ambazari. He has asked MSETCL to take mitigation measures seeking advice from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun. The CCF has also asked to reduce the felling of a number of trees and possibly transplant such trees in the same area by contacting Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), Nagpur, or Tropical Forest Research Institute (TFRI), Jabalpur. Only after fulfilling these two conditions the user agency would be allowed to execute the work. FDCM in 2017 successfully transplanted over 200 trees on a pilot basis. These trees were to be felled for zoo work. MSETCL is in the process of constructing line-in-line-out (LILO) on 132KV Mankapur-Hingna-I transmission line for Lendrapark substation. LILO means a new substation formed by tapping the transmission line between two substations. It has already installed one tower in Littlewoods, the forest patch in possession of Mahametro, and work on installing another tower is in progress. “While MSETCL is laying underground lines outside forest areas, it is reluctant to implement the same through Ambazari forest. Though it would cost a little more, it would save rich flora and fauna and grasslands for future generations. The huge towers would be an eyesore in the beautiful forest and detrimental for bird life,” said avid bird watcher and wildlife lover Vinit Arora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-issues-notices-in-plea-against-power-lines-through-ambazari-biodiversity-park/articleshow/79887465.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Degrees awarded to students virtually at MLSU convocation||Udaipur: Mohan Lal Sukhadia University became the first higher education institute in Rajasthan to honour students through online convocation ceremony here on Tuesday. Governor Kalraj Mishra, who is the chancellor of the university, virtually presented doctoral degrees to 91 scholars while vice-chancellor Prof America Singh honoured 51 gold medal winners in the function held physically at Vivekananda auditorium on MLSU campus. Of the gold medal recipients, 41 were girls. Addressing the students and the audience on the occasion, the governor said that students are the energy source of the nation and with their light the country shines. Praising the project of the Constitution Park, Mishra said that every student should know about the Constitutional values because the Indian Constitution is not just a document but philosophy of Indian culture and a way of life. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/degrees-awarded-to-students-virtually-at-mlsu-convocation/articleshow/79887446.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Civil society groups observe fast in solidarity with farmers||Jaipur: The civil society groups observed a day-long fast at Shahjahapur-Kheda border to extend support to the protesting farmers on Tuesday. The groups include activists of Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan, Rajasthan Pragitisheel Mahila Andolan (RPMA), Jamait Islami-E-Hind, Sangwan Khap, Ahlawat Khap Panchayat and Meo Panchayat. This was the first in a series of fasts to take place at the protest site. Half of these groups have joined the protesters in the last few days. They have set up their tents and are helping the protesting farmers as per their capacity. Isha Sharma, member of RPMA, who observed the fast, is helping the farmers in relaying their message to the media and social media platforms. "I come from a farmer’s family in Ganganagar. I fully understand that these three laws are meant to put the farmers at the mercy of the corporates. It is painful to see that leaders of a political party are trying to call protesters Khalistanis, Jihadis or ant-nationals sponsored by the Pakistan. Our group is here to debunk the myths and bring out the real stories of farmers on social media, said Sharma. More and more protesters from several states like Haryana, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh are joining the protest site at Shajahanpur with each passing day. "The site has swelled from 100 metres on the first day to 5km on the day 10," said Sanjay Madhav of Sayunkt Kisan Morcha on Shahjahanpur-Kheda border. He informed that by Thursday over 2,000 farmers from Maharashtra will join them at the protest site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civil-society-groups-observe-fast-in-solidarity-with-farmers/articleshow/79887445.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Trichy||Home bakers in Trichy see rise in demand for cakes this Christmas||Trichy: With Christmas just two days away, home bakers in Trichy are meeting the demand for cakes and pastries this year amid the Covid-19 pandemic as locals are seeking hygienic products. V Devaki, a 28-year-old home baker from Thillai Nagar, said that she took up baking as a passion primarily for her family and shared pictures of cakes casually on social media platforms. But, soon she started getting requests to bake fresh cakes from friends. Quality, customisation and hygiene were cited as factors for people to prefer home bakers run by women over established bakeries. The number of home bakers in the city has increased significantly especially during the lockdown. “In a few months, I have managed to bake more than 300 cakes. Orders for plum cakes were placed in bulk for this Christmas,” Devaki, who operates ‘Brown sugar home bakes’ added. Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram groups were the mediums of home bakers to receive orders.The demand for home-baked cakes has made Abirami Sakthivel, a 33-year-old home baker from Manachanallur to establish an additional kitchen in her house exclusively to prepare cakes. Preparing diet-based cakes such as low carbohydrates but high protein cakes, people following paleo and keto diets are placing orders with her. “We only prepare cakes based on pre-order. So the products will be fresh and can be customised. Exotic cake varieties such as keto cakes are not available much in the bakeries,” Abirami, who runs ‘Q-Noms bakes’ said. The women said that their family members pitch in to door-deliver the cakes to customers besides the online food aggregators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/home-bakers-in-trichy-see-rise-in-demand-for-cakes-this-christmas/articleshow/79890952.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 23, 2020||Udaipur||Nine arrested for ostracising two men in Chittorgarh village||UDAIPUR: The Chittorgarh police on Tuesday arrested nine men for allegedly imposing illegal penalty on two men and socially boycotting them. The two men had already paid half the penalty amount, said police. All this was allegedly done because the two men reported late when summoned in the community panchayat meeting and argued with the members. The incident is said to be a year old but the police came to know of it last week when the victims lodged a case against the community heads. "We received a complaint on December 13 from Kamlesh and Kishanlal Dhakad, who are brothers and residents of Nayi Abadi, Chittorikheda. They said that the panchayat boycotted and forced them to pay Rs 20,000 each as penalty for disobedience in February this year," Tulsiram Prajapati, SHO, Kotwali police station (Chittor), told TOI. The complainants alleged that they were made to carry shoes of members of community panchayat on their heads for an hour. The SHO, however, said, "We interrogated many people but the 'shoe punishment' was not proved in the investigation." The arrested men include Bherulal, Narayan, Bherulal, Nandram, Hariram, Dinesh, Kishanlal, Bherulal and Tarachand. The police officer said that in the FIR the complainants said that their younger brother Rakesh was given in adoption to their paternal aunt Mangi Bai. Rakesh bore the expenses of rituals when Mangi Bai's brother Bhura passed away some time back. However, due to some mutual differences, Mangi Bai announced that she would not let Rakesh inherit her property after her death. Rakesh was disappointed and he asked Mangi Bai to return the money he had spent on Bhura's rituals to which she refused. Rakesh took the case to his community panchayat in December 2019. The panchayat summoned Rakesh's brothers Kamlesh and Kishanlal to be present in his support. In February this year, the panchayat sat to hear the case but Kamlesh and Kishanlal reached late. The complainants also said that when they expressed their inability to pay the fine in the given time, pamphlets were distributed in the households announcing their boycott. They arranged Rs 11,000 each and deposited with the panchayat but the harassment continued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/nine-arrested-for-ostracising-two-men-in-chittorgarh-village/articleshow/79887444.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh govt starts tracing flyers from UK and EU nations||LUCKNOW: In light of a new, faster spreading mutant strain of novel coronavirus being detected in the United Kingdom, the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday announced starting an extensive contact tracing exercise to trace all passengers who arrived from Europe after December 7 and putting them under two-week surveillance. It has also made it compulsory for all those coming from the UK to get themselves tested for Covid-19. A senior official said the government has asked the Airport Authority of India to furnish a list of passengers who arrived in UP from UK, Italy, France, Netherlands and other EU countries. “We will contact all these people and see if anyone has any symptoms. If they are, we will get them tested immediately and quarantine them if they test positive. Otherwise, the state will keep them under surveillance for a week or two to see if they develop symptoms later,” said a senior official. Additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said it is compulsory for those who have come from the UK to get themselves tested. He also appealed to those coming from other countries to get themselves tested. “Flights from the UK have been stopped from Tuesday night since a new strain of coronavirus has been detected there. A lot of people have come from Europe to UP in the past two weeks. I appeal to all such people, who have come from the UK and other European countries after December 7, to get themselves tested. Even otherwise, they should quarantine themselves for at least a week,” he said. Prasad said all such passengers should contact their nearest Covid Command Centre, chief medical officer or find the nearest testing centres on ‘Mera Covid Kendra’ app. “Anyone who has travelled recently and is showing any kind of symptoms should definitely get themselves tested, so that we are able to keep the infection under control in the state. The government has already started making arrangements for quarantine facilities for such passengers,” Prasad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-starts-tracing-flyers-from-uk-eu-nations/articleshow/79891039.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Trichy||Construction begins on TNHB’s Rs 103cr high-rise project in Trichy||Trichy: The Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) has started construction work on a high-rise residential project in the city at Old Circuit House colony near Mannarpuram, at an outlay of Rs 103.5 crore. Four skyscrapers with 14-15 floors each will come up at the site with 464 flats.The existing housing units at the site were demolished months ago and the the foundation work for the buildings was taken up after TNHB availed environmental clearance from the state environment impact assessment authority on December 1. Block 1 and 2 shall have 14 floors each, while block 3 and 4 will have 15 floors each. The sewage from the buildings will be connected to the underground drainage network and sewerage from the blocks is proposed to be recycled and used for watering the green space proposed on the site. Trichy corporation will be supplying 213 KLD to meet construction requirements. The facility is estimated to generate 1,242 kg of waste per day of which non-biodegradable waste will be recycled through scrap vendors. As for amenities, the TNHB complex will get green space with play area for children, community hall and likely a library. “The project is being taken up under Tamil Nadu government servants rental housing scheme and will be utilised as housing quarters for various department officials. The work is expected to be completed in two years,” a TNHB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/construction-begins-on-tnhbs-rs-103cr-high-rise-project-in-trichy/articleshow/79891035.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cross 87k-mark, Doon worst affected||Dehradun: With 611 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in Uttarakhand on Tuesday, the coronavirus tally shot up to 87,376 in the Himalyan state. Dehradun reported the maximum of 237 new infections on the day. Notably, the state capital accounts for every third Covid-19 positive case in Uttarakhand. According to the health bulletin, 16,350 people tested negative on Tuesday. Besides Dehradun, Nainital recorded 101 new infections, followed by Almora (49), Uttarkashi (43), Haridwar (35), Chamoli (34), Udham Singh Nagar (30), Tehri (22), Pithoragarh (19), Champawat (18), Pauri (15), Bageshwar (6), and Rudraprayag (2). Apart from new cases, 13 deaths were also reported in the state among which nine were recorded in Dehradun and the remaining four in Haldwani, said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Also, with 655 people recovering from Covid-19 infection on Tuesday, the total number of cured cases reached 79,341 in Uttarakhand. According to health watchers, there were 76 Covid-19 positive cases per lakh population in Uttarakhand in the last fortnight. “Dehradun district has the highest of 149 cases per lakh population, followed by Nainital, Pithoragarh, Chamoli, and Uttarkashi. Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts have the least per lakh cases. If we analyse the data, every third case in the state is from Dehradun,” said Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation, an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cross-87k-mark-doon-worst-affected/articleshow/79878691.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie traders concerned as DM order prohibiting parties on New Year and Christmas||Mussoorie: Local businessmen, including hoteliers, restaurant owners and shopkeepers, have expressed concern as the Dehradun district magistrate on Tuesday issued an order prohibiting parties in hotels, bars, restaurants and other public places on Christmas and New Year in Dehradun district. The businessmen feel that the order could have adverse impacts on tourism in the hill town. “We would abide by the directions of the administration but it is also a fact that guests invariably come for celebrations on Christmas and New Year. Cancellation of parties could result in widespread cancellation of hotel bookings which might impact tourism and lead to losses,” says Sanjay Aggarwal, secretary of Mussoorie Hotels Association. He added that the hoteliers have already made arrangements for parties like booking of DJ, orchestra, anchors etc. and cancellation at this stage would cause losses for them. Another hotelier, who wished to remain anonymous, said, “Mussoorie is generally packed on New Year’s eve as tourists come here to celebrate. A ban or parties might hamper the tourist influx.” The order has also not gone down well with restaurant owners and shopkeepers who feel that once the tourists come to know that there would be no parties then they might cancel their plans to visit the town. “All business establishments are trying to recover from the financial losses that they faced during the lockdown. However, this announcement would have a major impact on tourist arrival to the town as tourists might choose to head to some other destinations,” believes Rajat Aggarwal, president of Mussoorie Traders' Association. Meanwhile, some locals, including a few hoteliers, feel that this order may help in preventing the spread of Covid-19. “While this order would definitely impact tourism and cause financial losses for all businesses, it must also be noted that the government is taking necessary precaution to check the spread of Covid-19,” says RN Mathur, president of Mussoorie Hotels Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-traders-concerned-as-dm-order-prohibiting-parties-on-new-year-and-christmas/articleshow/79878713.cms||Anmol Jain
December 23, 2020||Delhi||Singhu Border: For these angry young men, seva is the only drug||NEW DELHI: Gurbaj Singh, a 32-year-old Indian Army soldier posted in J&K, took the decision to support the farmers’ protest at Singhu border instead of spending time with his family at Gurdaspur. He felt that serving the elders was more important as, at the end of the day, everyone came from a farming background. But his brother, Gurpreet (25), was a bit cynical and said that despite the presence of army officers and their kin, many were ready to malign the protesters with fake news. He was alluding to an incident on Sunday evening when farmers caught a person allegedly looking for “Chitta”, the synthetic drug made from heroin. “There is relentless propaganda online against us, which makes me very angry. We don’t wake up daily at 4am to clean the roads, wash utensils, cook and serve food all day for some random person to accuse us of being drug addicts. There are thousands of young people here assisting the elders and serving people. No one is doing any drugs,” Gurpreet added. Dilbarpreet Singh, a 22-year-old civil engineer from Tarn Taran, and Jasdeep Singh (28) from Jalandhar were seen sitting under the sun reading books on Sikh history taken from a small library set up by the farmers. The library had a poster that said, “Udta Punjab nahin Padhta Punjab”. Both were angry at the “propaganda to smear the names of the protesters”. “You can see with your own eyes the disgusting attempt made against us. We have come from our villages to serve people. I’m a state-level judo player, yet I’m hearing all this,” said Dilbarpreet. His friend, Jasdeep, said, “Most young folks here are busy with protests and seva. Those who have time, either read books or attend classes online.” Iqbal Singh, a 22-year-old mechanical engineering student from Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, takes out a few hours daily from his busy schedule of cooking for online classes. “Chitta users will never come to such places. This is just propaganda to spread hate so that we lose the support we are getting from across the world,” he said. He added that Sunday’s incident had prompted many youngsters to guard their trolleys and langar tents. Kabaddi player Gurdeep Singh from Madhopur also rebuked “the lies”. The 24-year-old, who has been living at Zessel Grand highway mall along with many other kabaddi players, asked, “Do you think healthy and fit men like us would ever do drugs? We wake up early, do seva the entire day and also practice the sport for the national team.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-these-angry-young-men-seva-is-the-only-drug/articleshow/79887541.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 23, 2020||Meerut||Eight months on, Ayush wing in Meerut’s dist hosp remains locked as doctors sent on Covid duty||MEERUT: Eight months on, the Ayush (ayurveda, yoga & naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy) wing in Meerut district hospital remains locked and continues to turn away patients as the doctors concerned have been put on Covid-19 duty. While hundreds of patients who look up to these alternative medicine systems for treatment are being turned back, the stock of medicines, too, remain untouched. Dr Vinod Dwivedi, medical officer, homoeopathy, said, “Ever since the lockdown started, we were deployed at different health centres where testing of suspected cases of Covid-19 is being conducted. Every day, hundreds of patients seeking treatment of ayurveda, yoga, unani and homeopathy medicine systems have to return home because of our unavailability at the centre.” Dr Anees Ahmed, medical officer, Unani medicines, said, “There is an entire stock of medicines, which will approach its expiry date if the wing continues to remain closed for longer. At least an alternative measure should be thought of, so that neither Covid-19 patients face issues nor the Ayush patients face any problems.” Dr Akhilesh Mohan, Meerut chief medical officer, said, “Currently, the entire health department is on its toes for Covid-19 and due to the shortage of manpower, we have to utilise them in the best possible manner. At this crucial juncture, the Ayush wing can wait but Covid-19 cases cannot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/8-months-on-ayush-wing-in-meeruts-dist-hosp-remains-locked-as-docs-sent-on-covid-duty/articleshow/79878723.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Man, live-in partner killed by sons, grandsons over property||LUCKNOW: An elderly man and his live-in partner were murdered allegedly by his sons and grandsons following a land dispute in Madiaon in the wee hours of Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Ram Dayal (70) and Shanti Devi (60) of Semra Garhi in Madioan. Police have arrested Ram Dayal’s sons Ram Milan, Praveen Kumar and Santosh, and grandsons Rahul and Avnish. Police officials probing the case said the accused were agitated as Ram Dayal was planning to give his entire property to his live-in partner Shanti Devi’s sons from her first marriage. Lucknow police commissioner D K Thakur said the police arrested the accused a few hours after the incident. “They have confessed to the crime,” he added. “Ram Dayal had 6.5 biswa agricultural land at a prominent location in Itaunja. He sold the land for Rs 57 lakh allegedly after being persuaded by Shanti Devi. Ram Dayal deposited Rs 11.5 lakh in his bank account and gave Rs 4 lakh to Monu, one of Shanti’s sons, while the other was identified as Sanjay,” Thakur said. “The news of land deal infuriated Ram Dayal’s wife and her sons. Around 9pm on Monday, the accused confronted Ram Dayal and asked him to cancel the deal. When he refused to do so and Shanti Devi told them that they would not get anything from Ram Dayal’s remaining property, the accused strangulated the couple,” he added. Shanti’s son Sanjay informed police control room about the murders. He later told cops that Ram Dayal used to have verbal spats with his sons and his wife over property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-live-in-partner-killed-by-sons-grandsons-over-property/articleshow/79891047.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||Govt: New virus variant can be super spreader, but no case in India so far||NEW DELHI: The new variant of coronavirus discovered in the UK can be a "super spreader" with its higher transmissibility potential though the mutation has not been detected in India and is not seen to affect the severity of the disease or have a bearing on deaths, V K Paul, member-health, Niti Aayog, said on Tuesday. The government balanced its message, saying the tendency of the new strain of SARS-COV2 to infect more people was a cause of concern and it was in conversation with experts in the UK where the mutant has been detected in significant numbers. “We have not detected this mutation. Our own deep assessment is that we do not need to panic. We have to be more vigilant but that is also because we still are fighting the pandemic,” Paul said, emphasising the need to continue Covid-appropriate behaviour and avoid crowds during Christmas and New Year. Read AlsoSerum institute submits data from trials of vaccineNEW DELHI: Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has submitted additional updated data from clinical trials of Covishield sought by the drug regulator’s panel evaluating Covid vaccine applications for emergency use authorisation, official sources said, reports Sushmi Dey. The Subject ExpertThe government also said the vaccine candidates under evaluation would not be impacted by the new strain of the virus and the treatment protocol for Covid-19 remained the same. A new variant of SARS- CoV 2 virus [Variant Under Investigation (VUI)-20212/01] was reported by the UK government to the WHO over the weekend. This variant is estimated by the European Centre for Disease Control to be more transmissible and affecting the younger population. While the new variant is defined by a set of 17 changes or mutations, the one that is worrisome is an N501Y mutation in the spike protein that the virus uses to bind to the human ACE2 receptor. “Such mutations are common in viruses but changes in this part of the spike protein may result in the virus becoming more infectious (ability to enter a human cell) and spreading more easily between people. Therefore, we need to practise caution and be more vigilant,” Paul said. The health ministry has also issued detailed protocols for passengers who arrived from or transited through the UK in the past four weeks from November 25 to December 23. RT-PCR test on arrival has been made mandatory for such passengers. While the government has not detected the new strain of the virus so far in India, Paul said labs have been asked to do genome sequencing of all positive samples collected from people with history of international travel in the last few weeks. States have also been alerted and asked to keep a close check on such people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-new-virus-variant-can-be-super-spreader-but-no-case-in-india-so-far/articleshow/79899158.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||Locals take out candle march seeking justice for 11-year-old girl who was sexually assaulted, strangled||Haridwar: Local residents, including small children, came out in large numbers to participate in a candle march organised by parents of the 11-year-old girl who was found dead on Monday, having been sexually assaulted and strangled, allegedly by a neighbour. The participants sought speedy justice for the child. With locals blocking roads and staging protests, police teams have been deployed in Rishikul, where the incident took place. At the candle march, local resident Rajeev Chaudhary told TOI, “It is a heinous crime and the culprits should be hanged publicly. Police should arrest the second accused immediately.” Two people have been booked in the case. The main accused, who lured the girl with the promise of flying kites and then allegedly sexually assaulted and murdered her, has been arrested, while another accused is on the run. Haridwar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “Several teams have been pressed to nab the other accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-take-out-candle-march-seeking-justice-for-11-year-old-girl-who-was-sexually-assaulted-strangled/articleshow/79878771.cms||MS Nawaz
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre: Hospitalise mildly symptomtic patients early||Chandigarh: With high fatality rate showing no signs of dropping in Punjab, the Central government has asked Punjab to ensure timely treatment to patients with mild and moderate symptoms. The number of daily deaths has fallen in the state, but not in proportion to the drop in case tally. Punjab has been at the receiving end for long from health experts and the central government for its inability to bring down the fatality rate which stands at 3.2% against the country’s average of 1.45%. The Centre has been pressing all the states and Union territories to bring down the fatality rate. In Punjab, infected people with mild symptoms are allowed to opt for home isolation. The state government from time-to-time has been easing the norms for home isolation. It also allows asymptomatic/mild symptomatic elderly positive patients, aged above 60, having co-morbid conditions to opt for home quarantine. During the weekly review meeting on Tuesday, the Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan expressed concern of a rise in the number of infected people dying within 74 hours of hospitilisation and he asserted that people are coming late to hospitals for treatment. He laid stress on ensuring that patients with mild and moderate symptoms should be brought to hospitals at the earliest for which there is a need to strengthen house-to-house surveillance of active cases and ambulance service. Bhushan also advised the state government to ensure compliance with the standard treatment protocols. The health ministry had held a meeting with officials of Punjab last week in which the experts gave suggestions to control the situation. “The health ministry and domain experts are constantly in touch with states where there has been a surge in positive cases and deaths,” shared Bhushan. Haryana, Punjab and Himachal features in the list of top 10 states in the country having the most number of active cases. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-hospitalise-mildly-symptomtic-patients-early/articleshow/79887588.cms||Vinod Kumar
December 23, 2020||Goa||Disability rights body holds day-long hunger strike||Panaji: In a bid to bring to the government’s attention the dire need for welfare schemes which have not been granted to them for over four months, the Disability Rights Association of Goa (Drag) carried out a day-long hunger strike in Panaji on Tuesday. “The DSS scheme amount is for the poorest of the poor – those who don’t have a monthly income. Not getting the money has put a great financial strain on the disabled,” said Drag president, Avelino D’Sa. He said that there are a total of 12,000 persons that are still waiting for the amount to be sanctioned. “Members of the disabled community are not able to make ends meet due to which they have been making us calls for help. We hope that the government will sanction the amount of all the pending months before December 31,” he said. He further said that Drag’ attempts to seek an appointment with the chief minister have been in vain. “We want to tell him our grievances but he does not have even half an hour to spare for Goa’s disabled population,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/disability-rights-body-holds-day-long-hunger-strike/articleshow/79891295.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Jilted friend throws acid on 17-year-old girl||LUCKNOW: A 17-year-old girl in Bahraich district suffered burn injuries after she was attacked with acid-like substance while returning from her coaching classes on Monday evening. Doctors said the girl’s face, chest and hands got burnt in the attack which took place near Duldul House locality in Kotwali police station area. Police have arrested the attacker using CCTV cameras while his aide is yet to be arrested. Superintendent of Police, Bahraich, VP Mishra said that the youth arrested was identified as Mohammed Athisham, 24, who worked as a motor mechanic, while his aide Suhail is still at large. He was arrested from city bus stand by police team. The officer said that the National Security Act (NSA) would be invoked on the attackers. Circle officer, City, Trayambak Nath Dubey, told reporters that the accused was on a friendly term with the victim. However, of late the girl had stopped talking to Athisham. “Feeling jilted, the youth approached one Suhail of Dargah Sharif Colony who is also known as ‘Baba’ and is deep into the practice of wizardry,” the CO said. On his insistence, Athisham threw dry mud on the girl so that she begins to talk to him like before. But when it yielded no result, Baba gave a chemical to sprinkle on the girl on Monday evening, Dubey said based on interrogation of the accused. “Things will become clear once Baba is nabbed,” the officer added. The girl sustained 10% injuries on the skin surface and was discharged on Tuesday evening from district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jilted-friend-throws-acid-on-17-yr-old-girl/articleshow/79891159.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||IMCR norms in mind, Hry finds 20k vaccination sites||Chandigarh: With the coronavirus vaccine expected to reach Haryana in January, the state government, acting on the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has planned the roll-out. Sources said Haryana has identified 20,000 Covid points to vaccinate 64 lakh beneficiaries, including health workers, frontline workers, municipal and sanitary workers, state and central police forces and defence force personnel deployed in the state. Sources said though the state has been working on an action plan for the past few months, final preparations began from December 2 during the high-level meeting chaired by additional chief secretary (home and health), Rajeev Arora. Arora will head the state steering committee as well as state task force while National Health Mission (NHM) director Prabhjot Singh will be convenor and supervising officer of the state task force. Deputy commissioners will head the district task force. There will be task forces at the block level too. Sources said besides frontline and health workers, Haryana health department has identified persons with co-morbidities above the age of 50 years and persons with morbidities below the age of 50. “This is the roll-out we have as and when the vaccine is formally launched in the state. The state-level steering committee and special task force will hold review meetings every fortnight while the district-level meeting will be held on a weekly basis,’’ a senior official said. “As far as VIPs are concerned, we have no idea yet. We shall act as per guidelines given by the Union government,” the officer added. Referring to the supply chain, officials said as many as 687 vaccine stores have been planned across the state. This includes a state store in Kurukshetra, four regional stores in Hisar, Gurgaon, Kurukshetra and Rohtak in addition to 22 stores in all districts and 659 stores at various PHC, CHC, rural and urban health centres and dispensaries. “The vaccination will be done on the election model with the involvement of other departments,” said Rajeev Arora, ACS, health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/imcr-norms-in-mind-hry-finds-20k-vaccination-sites/articleshow/79887560.cms||Manvir Saini
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun district judge suspended||Nainital: Dehradun district judge, Prashant Joshi, was put under suspension by the high court registrar general on Tuesday evening after he allegedly used the official board of district judge on a luxury car owned by a man who has been booked under several charges, including forgery. According to the office memo published by the HC, Joshi travelled to camp court at Mussoorie in the vehicle of Kewal Krishan Soin against whom an FIR has been registered at Doon’s Rajpur police station. In his order, registrar general Hira Singh Bonal said that the conduct of Joshi “touches upon his integrity” and “amounts to grave misconduct”. It added that this conduct is “unbecoming of a judicial officer". Joshi has now been attached to the district judgeship in Rudraprayag district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dehradun-district-judge-suspended/articleshow/79878855.cms||Prashant Jha
December 23, 2020||Goa||GIM students take up sustainability study of Morlem, Harvalem villages||Panaji: Students of Goa Institute of Management (GIM), Sakhali, have taken up sustainability study of two remote villages in the state – in Morlem in Sattari taluka and Harvalem in Bicholim taluka. The students have studied the electricity and water consumption patterns in the villages as also waste management systems there. The students are now exploring funding options through which, over a period of five years, the villages can be helped to adopt sustainable practices like installation of solar roof-tops. As a community outreach programme under GIM’s Give Goa Project, successive batches of students will help draw a roadmap for Morlem and Harvalem and also aim to achieve the targets set over a five-year period. “The project is focused towards identifying needs of the villagers, mapping data, identifying funding opportunities, while the student outreach initiative also aims to work with children in the villages to educate them about judicious use of natural resources, waste segregation, water usage and energy saving methods,” said Vithal Sukhathankar, associate professor and faculty guide on the project. The Give Goa Project at GIM began as a way to help the B-school’s students to engage with the local community and to sensitise them as well about local issues. “When we met with the local authorities, school teachers and villagers in Morlem, we realised that children and adults alike were not aware of basic waste segregation practices and about natural resources. Climate change is a global issue and we felt we needed to educate children on reducing use of plastics and keeping surroundings clean,” said a GIM student Sonali Sahoo. The GIM student teams for Morlem and Harvalem planned contests, art sessions and interactive workshops for the children to drive home the point on sustainability. “The residents were very accepting of the suggestions on sustainability practices. The panchayat representatives and school authorities, especially the headmistress, came on board with our plans and offered whole-hearted support to the initiative,” said another GIM student, Shruti Chandra. The GIM teams have recommended creation of a localised grid connected solar power system for Morlem and Harvalem to meet their energy needs, as their power requirement was found to be low. “The average use of energy in each household in the village is relatively low, yet power outages are frequent, especially during the monsoons. The initial investment will be fairly high, but it will prove to be lucrative in the long run,” said GIM student Michelle Barretto. The student-led team discussed the solar project concept with the local panchayats and with Goa Energy Development Agency (GEDA) as also the feasibility of solar panel installation on the roof of the Morlem panchayat structure. The students went a step ahead and also contacted dealers and received the cost estimate which was presented to the authorities concerned. “Give Goa Project offers opportunities of holistic learning that complement the institute classroom-based programmes. Ethics, values and corporate governance has been at the core of our pedagogy,” said GIM director Ajit Parulekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gim-students-take-up-sustainability-study-of-morlem-harvalem-villages/articleshow/79887741.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||4 die in HP, 332 new cases found||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported four Covid-19 deaths and 332 positive cases on Tuesday, while 423 patients recovered. Two deaths were in Kangra district and one each in Mandi and Hamirpur. The state’s 52,955 positive cases till date include 4,791 active, 47,240 cured, 877 dead, and 35 migrated. Out of 6,93,244 tests, 6,38,988 were negative, while the results of 1,301 samples is awaited. The new positive cases include 69 in Shimla district, 59 in Mandi, 51 in Kangra, 48 in Solan, 20 in Hamirpur, 19 each in Una and Bilaspur, 18 in Sirmaur, 16 in Chamba, seven in Kinnaur, five in Kullu, one in Lahaul-Spiti. The recoveries include 152 in Mandi district, 100 in Shimla, 30 in Sirmaur, 27 in Chamba, 25 in Bilaspur, 24 in Solan, 22 in Kinnaur, 21 in Una, 15 in Hamirpur, and seven in Lahaul-Spiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-die-in-hp-332-new-cases-found/articleshow/79887689.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||Lko Diocese claims authority over Sherwood, requests HC to be party in case along with dismissed principal Sandhu and 60 staff members||Nainital: The Diocese of Lucknow, dismissed principal of Sherwood College Amandeep Sandhu and the school’s staff have approached Uttarakhand high court, seeking to be party to the ongoing case of Agra Diocese seeking police protection for Peter Dhiraj Emmanuel, who it appointed as interim principal. The Agra Diocese, responsible for the administration of Sherwood College, had, in October, suspended then principal Sandhu over financial irregularities and placed Emmanuel as interim principal. Agra Diocese had moved HC after Emmanuel was denied entry to the school. Sandhu had claimed there was a conspiracy against him and that the Diocese of Lucknow, not Agra, was responsible for the school’s administration. Like Sandhu, the Diocese of Lucknow also claimed that the school, alma mater of famous personalities like actor Amitabh Bachchan and field marshal Sam Mackenshaw, falls under its jurisdiction. The counsels for the all three parties appeared before the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Alok Kumar Verma on Monday, saying that they had filed applications to be made party to the case. The court has now listed the case for further hearing on Monday, when it will decide whether to grant the applicants’ request or not. The counsel appearing for Sandhu argued that he is the aggrieved party in this case, since the court granted police protection to Emmanuel and the school’s staff, including Sandhu, were booked when the interim principal wasn’t let in. “All the three parties have said that they should be heard before the court passes orders in the matter. All of them have claimed to be aggrieved parties and therefore the court has said that it will hear them in the (case’s) next hearing,” said an advocate present at the hearing. Sandhu was appointed principal of Sherwood in 2004. Disputes between him and the Diocese of Agra started breaking out in 2018 as he allegedly did not convene the meeting of the governing council. Finally in 2020, the Diocese of Agra dismissed him and appointed Emmanuel as the new principal in October. In the last two months, Emmanuel made several attempts to assume office but was denied entry into the school. Sandhu continued to serve as the principal, claiming the Agra Diocese had no authority over the school. Consequently, police booked Sandhu and 60 staff members of the school over criminal intimidation and wrongful restraint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lko-diocese-claims-authority-over-sherwood-requests-hc-to-be-party-in-case-along-with-dismissed-principal-sandhu-and-60-staff-members/articleshow/79878860.cms||Prashant Jha
December 23, 2020||Goa||Banastarim, Parra lakes inch closer to wetlands category||Panaji: After Bondvoll lake, five more waterbodies in the state inched closer to being declared wetlands under the Union environment ministry’s wetland rules. Now, the Goa State Wetlands Authority is preparing a brief document for nine other waterbodies in Goa. Once the document is ready, a draft notification will be issued for these lakes too to be declared as wetlands. These nine waterbodies include Parra lake, Banastarim lake, Vodle tollem and Dhakte tollem in Benaulim, Sapu tollem in Velim, Maimollem lake in Mormugao, Curca lake, Canturlim in Malebhat and Gawali-Moula waterbodies in Curca. The Goa State Wetlands Authority had issued a draft notification in November , proposing to declare as wetland Sarzora lake in Salcete, Toyyar or Chimbel lake, Dashi lake in Revora, Saulem lake in Pilerne and Xeldem lake in Quepem. Of the 35 waterbodies the authority is working on to declare as wetlands, 20 are at the initial stage where they have been just identified as potential wetlands. After a body is declared as wetland, several activities will be prohibited in and around them as per the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017 of the central government. The waterbodies are proposed to be declared wetlands as they are ‘considered to be critically significant for its ecosystem services and biodiversity values for the local communities and society at large’. Once the areas are declared wetlands, the activities prohibited in the areas include its conversion for non-wetland, setting up of any industry and expansion of existing industries, disposal or handling of any construction waste, solid waste dumping, discharge of untreated wastes, among others. Encroachment or any construction of a permanent nature, except for boat jetties, will also be disallowed from notified wetlands. The process of declaration as wetlands requires that a draft notification be issued, where the authority calls for any objections or suggestions within a period of 60 days to the draft notification of the waterbodies being declared wetlands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/banastarim-parra-lakes-inch-closer-to-wetlands-category/articleshow/79887665.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 23, 2020||Lucknow||BJP to take PM Modi’s farm law message to 20 lakh farmers in UP||LUCKNOW: As farmers’ protest against new farm laws continues, the UP BJP has rolled out an elaborate arrangement of taking Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message on the birth anniversary of BJP stalwart and former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on December 25 to over 20 lakh farmers in UP. This would be almost one-fifth of the total 1 crore targeted audience across the country. BJP sources said that the party would be making arrangements in 1919 organisational divisions besides reaching out to farmers in gram sabhas, cooperative centres and land development banks in the state. This will be apart from the government supported programmes organised in 826 developmental blocks in which ministers, MPs, MLAs, block pramukhs, zila panchayat chairman, cooperative chairpersons and other government officials would be involved. This way the farmers’ outreach would be carried out through over 2,500 centres. The move is seen as the BJP’s attempt to blunt farmers’ protest which has been gaining support from the opposition parties. The PM is scheduled to address farmers after transferring Kisan Samman Nidhi in the bank account of 9 crore farmers of the country. UP alone would account for over 2 crore farmers who would be benefited. Notably, the programme of transferring samman nidhi in the bank account of farmers was kicked off by the PM from Gorakhpur, the home turf of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha elections. UP BJP vice-president, Vijay Bahadur Pathak said that UP happens to be the biggest state in terms of population and therefore maximum outreach is planned here. “The party plans to take PM’s message to the maximum possible farmers in the state on Atalji’s birth anniversary which is being celebrated as ‘Sushasan Diwas’. Therefore, besides making arrangements in divisions, the party seeks to reach out to institutions and organisations with which farmers are associated,” Pathak said. UP BJP general secretary Govind Narain Shukla said that the party’s outreach to farmers will be parallel to the one planned by the state government. “We would be setting up LED screens in maximum possible divisions so that farmers who get assembled can listen to the PM’s message,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-to-take-pms-farm-law-message-to-20l-farmers/articleshow/79891279.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||DGP reviews STF operational preparedness, annonces cyber police station for Kumaon region||Dehradun: Uttarakhand's director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar on Tuesday visited Special Task Force (STF) headquarters in Dehradun and reviewed the operational preparedness of the force. Kumar announced that the state's second cyber police station will be operational at Pantnagar in Udham Singh Nagar district from January 1. The cyber police station will cater to complaints from the whole Kumaon region regarding online frauds, banking frauds and frauds related to online money transactions. At present, there is only one cyber police station at Dehradun catering to the cyber-related complaints from the entire state. The DGP also handed over the mobile phones, recovered by the mobile recovery wing of STF, to their owners. He informed that STF has recovered 756 mobile phones worth Rs 1.12 crore, which were either stolen or lost. Ashok Kumar directed STF officials to ensure that at least 50 wanted criminals are arrested in one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dgp-reviews-stf-operational-preparedness-annonces-cyber-police-station-for-kumaon-region/articleshow/79878909.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry’s Covid count stays low for 5th day||Chandigarh: Haryana reported low new case count for the fifth straight day on Tuesday with 534 new cases and 10 deaths. As many as 662 persons have recovered. With this, the covid tally has reached 2,58,731 cases with 2,50,502 recoveries and 2,842 fatalities. There are now 5,387 active cases, including 179 critical patients who are on oxygen and ventilator support. Because of more recoveries, recovery rate has gone up to 96.82%. Fewer cases have resulted in positivity rate coming down to 6.06% and fatality rate remaining stable at 1.10%. Also, the state conducted 34,895 tests during the day. Rewari and Jhajjar districts reported two deaths each while one death each was reported from Gurgaon, Faridabad, Ambala, Panipat, Bhiwani and Fatehabad districts respectively. For the first time after a long gap, Gurgaon reported less than 100 cases. Faridabad reported 69 new cases, Karnal reported 65 new cases followed by 42 in Panchkula, 39 in Sonipat, 32 in Panipat, 29 in Yamunanangar, 24 in Kurukshetra, 21 in Hisar and 20 in Ambala district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hrys-covid-count-stays-low-for-5th-day/articleshow/79887618.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||289 fresh cases and 18 deaths in Pb||Chandigarh: Punjab reported 289 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 18 deaths on Tuesday. The total number of cases has now reached 1,63,665, recovered cases has reached 1,53,382, deaths has reached 5,230, and active cases to 5,053. Three deaths each were reported in Mohali and Ludhiana, two each in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Muktsar, and one each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Sangrur. A total of 49 fresh cases were reported in Mohali, 39 in Ludhiana, 37 in Patiala, 25 in Amritsar, 19 in Gurdaspur, 18 in Hoshiarpur, 17 in Jalandhar, nine in Bathinda, 14 each in Kapurthala and Ropar, 12 in Pathankot, nine in Fazilka, six in Sangrur, five each in Ferozepur and Faridkot, three each in Mansa and Nawanshahr, two each in Muktsar and Fatehgarh Sahib, and one in Moga district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/289-fresh-cases-and-18-deaths-in-pb/articleshow/79887649.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Lucknow||Kashi to get state-of-the-art pack house for agri exports||Lucknow: Spurred by the increase in export of veggies, fruits, and agriculture produce from east UP this year, the state government has decided to construct a pack house of international standards in Varanasi to promote it as an agri export hub. A pack house is a facility for packaging and processing fruits, vegetables and agricultural produce while ensuring hygiene and global food safety standards .“With the formation of farmer producer organisations, vegetables, Banarasi Langda mango, black rice from Siddharthnagar and green chillies were exported this year,” said a government spokesperson.“In April 2020, three tonnes of green chillies were exported to London and in May, three tonnes of Langda mangoes were exported to Dubai while another 1.2 tonnes were exported to London in June,” he added.The pack house, built jointly by state and central governments, will further prop Varanasi on the international agri export map.“Varanasi is being developed into a centre for agricultural export and food processing and will become an agri export hub once the pack house is ready,” said an official. The recent exports spurred the Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) into opening an office in Varanasi where it has started a training programme for farmers. APEDA’s regional in-charge Dr CB Singh said, “The proposal to make Varanasi an Agri Export Centre was discussed in November 2019 during a buyer-vendor meet. An MoU has now been signed between four FPOs and the Fresh Vegetable and Fruits Export Association, Mumbai.”In June, Chandauli exporters took 80 tonne of black rice through APEDA for Rs 68 lakh, benefitting 152 farmers. Doha also imported 520 tonnes of rice from Chandauli last week.The government has also started training farmers in organic farming. Geographical indication (GI) registration has also started and will help export of bananas, amla and flowers.Varanasi commissioner Deepak Aggarwal said a five-tonne capacity cold chamber has been built at Lal Bahadur Shastri Airport in Varanasi for helping in export of perishable items. A river port is already in place to transport containers from Varanasi to Kolkata for export to South East Asia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kashi-to-get-state-of-the-art-pack-house-for-agri-exports/articleshow/79891289.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||SOPs issued for HP civic elections||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh State Election Commission issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) on Tuesday to conduct Pancyhati Raj and Urban Local Body elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic. During door to door campaigning, candidates will be accompanied by a maximum of five persons while maximum of 50 persons will be allowed in public or nukkar meetings. Wearing of masks will be mandatory for those enter`ing polling stations and the mask is to be removed only in case of a doubt about a voter’s identity. Voters will be allowed entry inside the polling station only after sanitisation and all polling stations will have thermal scanners. In case the body temperature of a voter is found to be above normal during thermal scanning, temperature will be checked again after 30 minutes. If the temperature is found to be above normal again, such voters will be asked to come only in the last one hour of polling. The presiding officer will issue token or certificates to them and their details will be noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sops-issued-for-hp-civic-elections/articleshow/79887737.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Goa||Mumbai man held for murder of Pune native||Calangute: Calangute police on Monday arrested a resident of Navi Mumbai for allegedly murdering a transgender person at Baga, Calangute. The decomposed body of the victim, a 24-year-old native of Pimpri, Pune, was found in an abandoned house at Baga on Sunday. In the course of their investigation, the police identified a suspect and formed a special team to trace the accused, Calangute PI Nolasco Raposo said. On Monday, after a meticulous combing operation, police nabbed the accused Manoj Rajan Narayan, 23, Raposo said. SP North Utkrisht Prasoon and SDPO Porvorim Edwin Colaco visited the spot where the body was found and also interrogated the accused. The accused was on Tuesday remanded in six days police custody by JMFC, Mapusa. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mumbai-man-held-for-murder-of-pune-native/articleshow/79887742.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||Haldwani Medical College may lose accreditation for general surgery after MCI flags loopholes||Dehradun: The Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani may lose accreditation for its general surgery residency program as a team of Medical Council of India (MCI), in its report, have raised several objections on the unavailability of sanctioned academic staff and issues related to academic papers. The MCI has put the accreditation of nine seats in the general surgery programme on hold and has asked the institution to remove the shortcomings in a month’s time, “otherwise the affiliation will not be given for the next academic session”. The Susheela Tiwari Medical College is the only government medical college in the state that runs post graduate courses in surgery. The MCI had already cancelled the accreditation for radiology and biochemistry departments in 2019 due to shortage of teaching staff. According to sources, the MCI team had conducted an inspection in June. The team submitted its report in which it clearly stated that there is a shortage of three assistant professors and three senior residents in the department. “Also, no faculty member provided any information related to the academic publications at the time of inspection. In view of this, the MCI refused recognition for the nine seats of PG of General Surgery for the next session,” the source said. Acknowledging the shortcomings raised by the MCI report, Dr CP Bhaisora, principal of Susheela Tiwari Medical College, said, “We will get the affiliation for nine seats. We have already started the hiring process and other issues are also being sorted out.” The medical college has a shortage of 13 associate professors for departments like forensic medicine, community medicine, dermatology, radiology, psychiatry, general surgery, orthopedics, obstetrics and gynecology, nephrology, cardiology, urology and anesthesiology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haldwani-medical-college-may-lose-accreditation-for-general-surgery-after-mci-flags-loopholes/articleshow/79878964.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 23, 2020||Goa||Innovators to get Rs 20,000 for developing prototypes||Panaji: In order to encourage innovators to develop prototypes, Goa State Innovation Council (GSInC) is offering up to Rs 20,000 to students, research scholars and startups who have innovative products.  The scheme, said chairman of GSInC Jose Manuel Noronha, was launched in November as part of the Virtual Innovation Register (VIR). Noronha said that 19 projects listed under VIR in Goa have already received funding based on interviews conducted on November 13 and on December 18. “True to its commitment to foster technology-based innovations in the state, the government has launched this grant-in-aid to help students, research scholars and startups take their inventions to the prototyping stage,” said Noronha. Of the 19 projects that received funding, 16 are student-led projects, while the remaining three are from startups. Several innovators or startups fail to convert a design or a concept into a functioning product due to lack of funds. The prototyping grant-in-aid for technology-based inventions is a vital step towards solving this problem, said Noronha. GSInC expects the scheme to improve the innovation landscape in the state. The projects that received funding so far include a drone for spraying pesticides on coconut trees, medical clinic that can be set up within days, Dronile – drone missile combo, a facemask with a filtration system, a multi-purpose vibration test rig, electronic stethoscope, diabetic retinopathy detection using machine learning and KARNA, a semi-autonomous unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) for military and tactical operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/innovators-to-get-rs-20000-for-developing-prototypes/articleshow/79887762.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Cop collects Rs 1.25 lakh for treatment of childhood friend’s son||NAGPUR: Assistant police inspector (API) Dinesh Labde took initiative to collect over Rs1.25 lakh for a friend’s five-year-old son Chinmay, who is fighting cancer. Labde, now posted at state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), had come across an appeal posted on the social media by his childhood friend Amol. The API, part of the 100th batch of sub-inspectors, was supported by his batchmates when he appealed for help in a WhatsApp group PSI Centurion regarding Chinmay’s treatment. Within a day, the officer is learnt to have collected more than Rs 80,000 from across the state which was beyond the expectation for the helpless father who worked under a private contractor. By another couple of days, the donation amount went up to over Rs 1.25 lakh. Labde, who expressed gratitude to his batchmates for their selfless help, said he was not even sure about the identity of his childhood friend when he had come across the social media post. “I was seeing him after 20 years. We played cricket together in my native village in Amravati district. When I inquired, it finally came to fore that the appeal on social media was by none other than my childhood friend Amol,” said Labde. “Amol sounded helpless as he had sold off most of his assets and also lost his savings for the treatment of his son and now needed money for chemotherapy,” he said. “He was expecting Rs10,000-20,000 which may help him foot the bills of couple of sessions of chemotherapy. The donations from across the state were simply overwhelming for him,” he said. The ‘PSI Centurion’ group, which is so called because of it’s members being part of the 100th batch, had earlier donated, in similar way, for the cause of martyr’s family in Gadchiroli and also for a cop’s closest kin after his death on duty. “Instead of spreading rumours and dividing the society, the social media should be utilized for humanitarian services,” said the API.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-collects-rs1-25-lakh-for-treatment-of-childhood-friends-son/articleshow/79887768.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 23, 2020||India||Bengal minister skips meet, reveals TMC rift||KOLKATA: West Bengal forest minister Rajib Banerjee’s unexplained absence from the state cabinet meeting on Tuesday, a day after his rapprochement talks with party secretary general and senior minister Partha Chatterjee, indicated a rift between Banerjee and the Trinamool Congress. Three other ministers — Gautam Deb, Rabindranath Ghosh and Chandranath Sinha — were also absent from the meeting but were busy in day-long party work. Forest minister Banerjee has been invited to the state Assembly on Wednesday along with Chatterjee, who is also the parliamentary minister, and other ministers for the inauguration of the annual winter flower show. It is not clear whether he will attend, sources indicated. Banerjee has been skipping state cabinet meetings for nearly three months now. Chatterjee has already spoken to him twice, first on December 13 and again on Monday, and sources indicated the party will again speak to him. Deb, sources said, had informed the CM about his inability to attend the cabinet meeting due to the on-going “Bangodhoni” outreach programme. Ghosh had also informed the CM that he had to attend the ‘Duare Sarkar’ programme, while Sinha told reporters he was busy with Mamata Banerjee’s programme to be held on December 28 and 29 in Bolpur and could not reach Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-minister-skips-meet-reveals-tmc-rift/articleshow/79899365.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Goa||GSL to build 12 advanced patrol craft for Army||Panaji: The Indian Army’s capabilities to take on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army at Pangong Tso will be augmented by Goa Shipyard Limited as the defence sector shipyard has emerged as the lowest bidder in a contract to build 12 high altitude super speciality patrol crafts. The boats, said a source, will be used to monitor and counter China’s activities within the waters of Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh. “Goa Shipyard Ltd has emerged as L1 (lowest bidder) for construction of 12 advanced fast patrol crafts for Indian Army though competitive bidding,” said a GSL official. “The craft will be a new product for us and based on an in-house design.” Pangong Tso has emerged as a focus point in the ongoing stand-off between the Chinese PLA and the Indian Army since May. China has mobilized troops and vessels to patrol the waters of the Pangong Tso and prior to winter setting in, blocked Indian patrols. The Indian Army already has 17 boats purchased from USA for quick-reaction team which patrol the lake located at an altitude of 13,900-feet. However, given China’s aggressive posture, the need has been felt to further augment India’s capabilities to match the heavier Type-928B patrol boats being used by the People’s Liberation Army. “The Indian Army floated a tender a few months earlier for high altitude super speciality craft and GSL emerged as the lowest bidder. These craft will be fast and agile and will benefit the Indian Army,” said a source. There have been incidents of aggressive manoeuvrers by patrolling Chinese vessels in the lake, including instances of PLA ramming their boats into the Indian boats. The 134-km-long Pangong lake, two-thirds of which is controlled by China as it extends from Tibet to India, has been a major flashpoint between the two countries over the years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsl-to-build-12-advanced-patrol-craft-for-army/articleshow/79887770.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Goa||‘Will not allow transportation of live cattle to meat complex’||Panaji: While chief minister Pramod Sawant has allowed registered traders to get live animals to Goa for slaughtering, Goavansh Raksha Abhiyan, an anti-cattle slaughter organisation, on Tuesday warned that they would not allow live animals to be transported to Goa Meat Complex in Usgao-Ponda. Abhiyan president Hanuman Parab, in a representation made to the chief minister, demanded that the Goa government also implement the cattle slaughter ban like Maharashtra and Karnataka. The state government is trying to protect the interests of the 30% beef-eating population , while ignoring the religious sentiments of the majority,” the gau-rakshak organisation said. “There are goushalas in Goa that are in urgent need of help. The feeding cost and medical cost of injured cattle that meet with road accidents are borne completely by us. Instead of helping us, the government is serving the interest of minorities and beef traders. We have Uttar Pradesh where a Ram-Rajya rule is seen, but in Goa what we see is the complete opposite,” Parab said. He further added that the organisation has sought a meeting with the directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services in this regard. “We condemn the Goa government’s decision to help facilitate the beef trade in the state. They have reopened cattle slaughter for Eid in the past and may plan to reopen it soon now,” Amrut Singh, member of the organisation said. Swati Shilkar pointed out how the stray cattle management scheme is not being properly implemented. “What we require is night patrolling to keep a check on stray cattle and missing animals. Every civic body must have a cattle pound. The government must see to it that the stray cattle have a home,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-not-allow-transportation-of-live-cattle-to-meat-complex/articleshow/79887795.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Trichy||Walkers now have to watch out for snakes on Race Course Road||Trichy: The spacious walking track on Race Course Road near Anna indoor sports stadium in Khajamalai is losing its sheen owing to poor upkeep by the corporation. With weeds invading the walking and bicycle tracks laid for about 700m, residents complain of spotting reptiles in the vicinity. Morning walkers say they feel insecure walking on the stretch. Race Course Road is dotted with colleges and police officers quarters and is considered a safe zone for morning walkers from Khajamalai and KK Nagar localities. The walking track was refurbished in 2019 has several 100w LED lights and 20 stone benches. After the Covid-19 lockdown, lack of maintenance on the walking tracks has resulted in overgrowth of weeds on a portion of the platform. Residents said that they had spotted snakes recently among the overgrowth. The street lights are either malfunctioning or not bright enough to illuminate the tracks, making matters worse.“Nearby apartments are even casually dumping their domestic waste on the walking tracks. With lights not functioning properly, women hesitate to use the tracks owing to fear of chain snatching attempts,” H Ghouse Baig, a resident of Khajamalai said. Apart from the walking tracks of Trichy Corporation near the district court, Race Course Road is the only other place where long walking tracks are available for locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/walkers-now-have-to-watch-out-for-snakes-on-race-course-road/articleshow/79891245.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||Dry weather recorded in U’khand; AQI worsens in Haridwar||Dehradun: Dry weather prevailed in Uttarakhand on Tuesday with maximum temperatures gradually increasing and settling above the normal level. In Dehradun, the maximum temperature was recorded at 24.4 degree Celsius, almost four notches above normal, while the minimum settled at 6.2 degree Celsius. Similarly, Pantnagar in Udham Singh Nagar district also recorded a maximum of 24.8 degree Celsius, three notches above normal. However, shallow-to-moderate fog is likely to occur in plains, especially in Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts of Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, the air quality worsened in Haridwar with the AQI level reaching 241, very unhealthy. Similarly, Dehradun also recorded an AQI of 176, which is considered to be unhealthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dry-weather-recorded-in-ukhand-aqi-worsens-in-haridwar/articleshow/79878967.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Cut syllabus and delay exam, demand academics||NAGPUR: Both school trustees and academics have demanded that the state education department must go for both a cut in syllabus as well as delay in SSC and HSC exams. By first week of January, all major associations will be writing to state education minister to delay board exams till schools reopen physically everywhere. Zafar Khan, president of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA) said without physical classrooms, there is no point in proceeding for board exams. “We have always maintained that minimum three months of physical classes are needed before board exams begin,” said Khan. The biggest reason for Khan’s demand is that very few students have access to online education. “You go to remote Gadchiroli villages, Melghat etc and there they don’t even have Internet facility. Even in our cities, there are numerous slums where parents cannot afford smartphones. In such a scenario, how can you expect these kids to appear for board exams,” said Khan. Usually HSC exams begin in February, followed by SSC on March 1 or whichever is the next working day. Exams are wrapped up before March-end. While it’s a given that both exams will be delayed, there is no clarity about the exact dates. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) said the government is working on the assumption that every student is attending classes, either online or offline. “Education department does not even realize that majority of SSC and HSC students have not even attended a single day of school. Online classes are for at the most middle class families. When you start looking at lower middle class and poor families, their children have gone without online classes,” said Gavhankar. Ashnarayan Tiwari, executive member of SHCA said the government is also not talking about further syllabus cut. “They slashed about 25% of the syllabus, but that won’t work in the current scenario. We have a situation where majority of students have been deprived of education and that’s why we need minimum of 50% reduction in syllabus,” said Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cut-syllabus-and-delay-exam-demand-academics/articleshow/79887810.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Gaur enters human habitat for second time in fortnight||PUNE: A gaur, also known as Indian bison, was spotted on Tuesday morning near the HEMRL factory on the Bavdhan-Pashan road, prompting the forest officials to mount an elaborate rescue effort. This was the second instance of a gaur straying into the human habitation in the city in the past fortnight. A gaur had on December 11 strayed into a housing society in Kothrud and ran over 3km for over four hours before it was tranquillized and captured by forest officials with hundreds of people around. The animal, however, could not be revived and it died. This time though, there was no attempt to capture or tranquillize the animal because it was close to its natural habitat — the forest area behind the High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL). Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests, Pune, said, “The male gaur, aged around 5 years, returned to its habitat around 7.15pm,” he said.  A team of fire brigade was also placed on standby, as the effort to capture the wild animal — believed to have strayed into the urban pocket from the forest areas abutting the busy Katraj-Dehu road bypass that links the Mumbai and Bengaluru highways — was in progress on Tuesday afternoon. Patil said, “Our endeavour was to guide the animal back to its natural habitat. We had deployed our people at strategic points and fenced some gaps to restrict the animal from crossing or entering into nearby residential areas. Around 7.15pm, the wild animal returned to the forest area of Mulshi through a safe natural passage .” Additional principal conservator of forests Sunil Limaye said, “We have in the past recorded presence of the gaur in the forests around Bhukum and Mulshi. We will now investigate the reasons behind the wild animal repeatedly straying into the urban areas.” Volunteers of NGO RESQ, animal husbandry veterinarians and Pimpri Chinchwad police were present at the spot. The riot control team of the police controlled the crowd and regulated traffic on the highway. The fire brigade personnel set up a net at a drainage line to stop the animal from entering any residential zone. “Young gaurs usually wander hundreds of kilometre in search of new habitat. These animals could have come closer to the city for the same purpos,” wildlife expert Vidya Athreya said. “We recently saw two to three gaurs. They roam with cows and return to the forest in the night,” said Ajay Ranpise, a farm owner in Pashan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gaur-enters-human-habitat-for-second-time-in-fortnight/articleshow/79887809.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 23, 2020||Pune||Bajaj to set up new auto plant in Chakan||Pune: Bajaj Auto announced on Tuesday that it would establish set up a new manufacturing unit for high-end motorcycles and electric scooters in Chakan. The Pune-based automaker plans to invest Rs650 crore in the plant, expected to start production in 2023. Bajaj said that the plant would manufacture electric scooters under its revived Chetak brand, as well as high-end motorcycles, under the KTM, Huqsvarna, and Triumph brands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bajaj-to-set-up-new-auto-plant-in-chakan/articleshow/79887769.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||BJP makes protester its ‘poster boy’||CHANDIGARH: A farmer from Punjab on Tuesday took exception to the alleged use of his photograph by BJP to put across a point that the MSP will continue, saying he himself was part of the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws. A poster with Harpreet Singh’s picture appeared on the Punjab BJP’s Facebook page. After an uproar, the poster was removed. “The Punjab BJP used my photo on its Facebook page,” claimed Singh adding that it was an old photograph taken 6-7 years ago. “I am sitting at the Singhu border,” he said, adding that the BJP used his picture without seeking his permission. “We (farmers) will return only after getting these laws repealed,” said Singh. Meanwhile, when questioned about the use of the farmer's photograph, Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma said that he had also learnt about it. “We will check it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-makes-protester-its-poster-boy/articleshow/79899368.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Civic body blacklists 18 contractors||Pimpri Chinchwad: The civic administration has blacklisted 18 contractors who were found to have submitted bogus fixed deposit receipts (FDR) while undertaking contracts for civic works. The PCMC commissioner, Shravan Hardikar, said the number of contractors involved in the fraudulent activity could increase as the civic body continues to probe such incidents. Hardikar said there was a possibility of involvement of a some cartel in the bogus FDR submissions.When asked about how the scam came to light, Hardikar said in January this year, the BJP MLA Laxman Jagtap from had written to inspect the FDRs and bank guarantees submitted to the civic body. Hardikar said there are over 800 incidents that are being probed for the submission of bogus FDRs. The erring contractors will be blacklisted and criminal cases will be initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-blacklists-18-contractors/articleshow/79887874.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Crook siphons off Rs 3.86 lakh from Pune businessman’s bank account||PUNE: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police are investigating a complaint lodged by a city-based businessman alleging that a man posing as a representative of a telecom company duped him of nearly Rs4 lakh earlier this year. The amount, totalling Rs3.86 lakh, was withdrawn from the bank account of Devidas Vitthal Bhabad, who runs a signboard business in Ambegaon Khurd. The police are trying to ascertain whether this is a case of debit card cloning, or if the fraudster(s) gained access to Bhabad’s account through another method. As per the FIR, on May 8, Bhabad answered a phone call from the suspect. The caller told Bhabad that his SIM card would be upgraded from 3G to 4G and asked him to forward an SMS he would get to a mobile number. “Two-three days later, the caller got in touch with Bhabad again, this time enquiring about his bank balance,” assistant inspector Vaibhav Pawar said. Bhabad, who got suspicious, disconnected and checked his bank statement. He found that Rs3.86 lakh was withdrawn from ATMs on May 8. He had the card blocked immediately and approached the cybercrime police, who transferred the case to the Bharati Vidyapeeth police earlier this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crook-siphons-off-rs-3-86l-from-businessmans-bank-account/articleshow/79887837.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh: CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy asks health staff to be on alert||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked staff of the health department to be alert on threats of a second wave of Covid 19. Cautioning health staff, he said some nations like Britain have imposed another lockdown. Speaking to officials of the health department at his Tadepalli camp office on Tuesday, the chief minister wanted senior officials to prepare staff at every level. He also told them to spruce up health clinics from the village level to district level hospitals to face the new challenge. The chief minister congratulated health officials for being in the frontlines of the fight against Covid-19. He said the active participation of the staff, right from the village level, had helped the state in limiting the number of cases, besides conducting tests in large numbers. Recalling the services of Asha workers, ANMs, Aarogya Mitras and other staff, the chief minister askede officials to keep village and ward secretariats ready to receive and distribute the Covid-19 vaccine. He also told them to plan distribution of the vaccine to the grassroots level and ensure it is stored and preserved in village secretariats as well. The chief minister wanted doctors and other medical staff to visit villages and give the vaccine to the people. He suggested transporting the vaccine in 104 ambulances. Besides, medical teams should plan door-to-door visits in villages and urban areas, the chief minister said, adding that the government is ready to add more vehicles to the 104 ambulance fleet if required. The chief minister told officials to ensure that critical cases are referred to the district hospital or other superspecialty hospitals for better treatment. The patient should have a follow-up programme, he said, adding that Aarogya Mitras shoould play a key role in monitoring patients. Deputy chief minister Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas and senior officials of the medical and health department were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-asks-health-staff-to-be-on-alert/articleshow/79879050.cms||Gopi Dara
December 23, 2020||Pune||Overcrowding & maskless visitors spur Janjira fort closure for public||PUNE: Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari on Tuesday said Janjira fort would be closed to the public by the end of this week in view of the extreme overcrowding situation at the monument during the weekends, which leaves no room for social distancing in the current Covid times. Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials had notified the Raigad collector about how visitors were not following social distancing and mask norms at the fort. ASI said it was having a tough time managing the crowds at the fort during the weekend, with social distancing and mask rules going for a toss. On Sunday, at least 3,000 tickets were sold to visitors for Janjira fort visit, ASI officials said. “The boating activity at the tourist spot saw 30-35 people cramming on each boat as against the safe limit of 10 per boat, that too without life jackets,” an ASI official pointed out. Raigad district collector Choudhari told TOI, “We have been notified about the extreme crowding situation at the fort and we would be closing it for tourists by the end of this week. ASI has spoken to me and informed me about too much of crowding at the monument. We are awaiting for a formal report from the police department and ASI in this regard.” She said with so many people thronging the fort, there was a risk of Covid spread. Besides, the boat rides were a risky affair too. “There is no jetty as such at the location and the boats are also seen to have more people than the safe limit.” Choudhari said the entire tehsil and district was facing this problem, with too many people thronging tourist spots and not following Covid-appropriate behaviour there. “We are also planning to send police squads to various tourist destinations to check if people are following mask and social distancing norms,” she said. During the recent weekend, thousands of tourists visited the fort at different times, but began returning in the evening at the same time, causing huge rush and social distancing issues, ASI officials said. An ASI official said, “ASI has limited staff at the monument and repeated requests to public by ASI personnel on site to follow social distancing and masking norms have been falling on deaf ears. This is the situation every Saturday and Sunday.” The official said with fears of a second wave and a new Covid strain in the UK and some other countries, such situations can be extremely risky, aiding the Covid spread in big way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/overcrowding-maskless-visitors-spur-janjira-fort-closure-for-public/articleshow/79887901.cms||Neha Madaan
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Doctors hail night curfew, urge people not to let guard down||NAGPUR: City doctors have welcomed the state government’s move to impose night curfew in municipal limits, saying it may not have any benefits vis-à-vis controlling Covid-19, but it will certainly instill a sense of precaution among citizens. The move comes following discovery of a new, more contagious strain of the novel coronavirus in South-East England. Doctors said the administration needs to trace any person who has started his journey from England in the last one week and quarantine them. Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) president and senior pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat said the night curfew will create pressure on the minds of people in general, as they may otherwise take precautions lightly. “Citizens need to be alert as we don’t know if the new strain has already entered the country or not. People must avoid crowding and adhere to same precautions as they do at places like hospitals,” he said. VHA secretary Alok Umre said whether it is night or day, people need to follow simple precautions. “I am not much in favour of the night curfew. Perhaps, the administration may have noted increased activity at night and to control that it has imposed the curfew for specific time. But, using mask, hand hygiene and distancing are still the key, even to tackle the new strain. Besides, we should have very strict policy of quarantine for travellers,” he said. Infectious disease specialist Dr Ashwini Tayde feels the move is basically intended to prevent crowding at parties during the upcoming New Year celebrations. “It will cut down gatherings at late night parties. As new cases are not increasing, the plateau must be maintained or it will go up if people become lax. If people follow the curfew sincerely, to some extent, it may prove beneficial,” she said. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said the new strain is highly transmissible and hence everyone needs to be on high alert. “More people will get involved because of the new strain. We still don’t know its virulence. It is also not known if the vaccine will have cross-immunity. Till then, people must have proper diet, good sleep and take immunity boosters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-hail-night-curfew-urge-people-not-to-let-guard-down/articleshow/79888054.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Over 70% votes cast in first phase of gram panchayat polls||BENGALURU: More than 70% of voters exercised their franchise in the first phase of polling in gram panchayat elections in Karnataka on Tuesday held amid fears of a second Covid wave. Polling was held in 3,019 gram panchayats in 117 taluks across 30 districts. The polling began at 7.30am and ended at 5.30pm amid tight security arrangements at 23,000 polling booths. The second phase of polls will be held on December 27. Results will be declared on December 30. Nearly 5,000 members have been elected unopposed. However, the Election Commission will officially declare them elected after confirming the victory was not achieved through dubious means. This comes amidst rumours that several seats have been auctioned to the highest bidder, with other potential candidates withdrawing nominations. At least five districts clocked 90% voting. The 2015 GP elections had seen a 90% turnout. GP elections: Social-distancing norms flouted at many placesThe State Election Commission had issued guidelines for ensuring compliance of Covid-19 protocols. But, there were reports of violation of social-distancing norms. In the morning, Covid-19 rules were followed and it became a lax affair as hours wore on. Policemen stopped interfering after a few hours and focused only on maintaining peace. In many polling booths, people were standing in queue. Panchayat polls are not fought on party lines and no party symbols are used. However, most candidates are backed by political parties. The state’s three main outfits – BJP, Congress and JD(S) -- are keen on asserting their dominance in this grassroots election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/gp-elections-social-distancing-norms-flouted-at-many-places/articleshow/79884096.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 10 BDA officials under lens in Rs 140 crore site scam||BENGALURU: Six years ago, when a few huts were destroyed in a Hosakerehalli slum in Banashankari III Stage, the government decided to rehabilitate the displaced families by allotting them sites. Cut to the present: The gesture was exploited by vested interests and has now turned into a Rs 140-crore site allotment scam. Ten officials in Bangalore Development Authority (BDA), who allotted sites to ineligible persons and land- grabbers instead of giving them to families which lost their homes, have come under the scanner. Preliminary reports suggest these officials had prepared a list of 564 beneficiaries, while in reality hardly 40 families were to be rehabilitated. BDA commissioner HR Mahadev has issued show-cause notices to the 10 officials, including three Karnataka Administrative Service officers. TOI has copies of the notices. Mahadev said the civic body was in the process of filing an FIR against the officials. On their involvement, he said: “A few of them have allotted sites to ineligible people and, in some cases, they have registered the sites without even collecting any money. In some instances, the officials have allotted multiple sites to the same individual. These are gross violations and they caused huge financial losses to the exchequer.” BDA will also file cases against those who got sites allotted by colluding with the officials. The scam came to light recently when a BDA vigilance team raided a production house on Cunningham Road and found documents pertaining to 60 sites. The documents had been allegedly taken away from the BDA office and were being readied to be sold to site buyers at high prices. During investigation, it was found that the 10 officials were part of a cartel that was allotting sites in the name of the Hosakerehalli families. Sources said a resolution had been passed by BDA in 2018 to provide land to displaced families of the Hosakerehalli slum. Instead of giving sites to the actual beneficiaries, the officials were changing records and allotting premium sites to others for a price. There is a pattern to the scam, sources said and added: “The officials would keep increasing the number of beneficiaries every time the BDA commissioner would be transferred and get approval for the updated list from the new commissioner. As every document looked genuine, no one questioned their authenticity and in some cases, it was done without the knowledge of BDA bigwigs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/10-bda-officials-under-lens-in-140cr-site-scam/articleshow/79884437.cms||Kiran Parashar
December 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Duo’s arrest for woman’s murder leads police to currency racket||BENGALURU: Bommanahalli police, who arrested two persons recently on charges of murdering a home-alone woman at her Kodichikkanahalli residence on December 3, have now found that they were also running a currency racket. The accused are Pradeep, 37, from SRY Layout on Begur-Koppa Road and Ansari alias Ansari Shahul Hameed, 35, from Vaddarapalya near Electronics City. Ansari was arrested on December 13 in connection with the murder of Nirmala Mary, 65. The duo allegedly stabbed Mary to death and fled with valuables on December 3. They burgled several houses and snatched chains too. Based on Ansari’s statement, police arrested Pradeep on Sunday, who then spilled the beans about the fake currency. “On Monday, we seized a colour printer, ink bottles and other materials used to make photocopies of currency notes from Pradeep’s house. There were also 20 counterfeit notes of Rs 500 and 15 notes of Rs 2,000,” a police officer said. Murder for gain Mary from Kerala, who used to run a provision store, was murdered for money. She was found dead in a vacant house she wanted to rent out. She owned the shop in the same building and had rented out two of the three houses. At 6pm, a neighbour noticed Mary was not in the shop though it was open since afternoon and alerted her niece Jyothi who lived nearby. Jyothi rushed to Mary’s house and found the door open. She found three keys of the rental houses lying on the sofa. Jyothi opened the door of the vacant house to find Mary lying in a pool of blood. Her gold and other valuables were missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/duos-arrest-for-womans-murder-leads-police-to-currency-racket/articleshow/79884439.cms||Santosh kumar.B
December 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Journey ticket pass to travel in night curfew hours, say police||PUNE: Train or bus journey tickets would be good enough to commute during the 11pm-to-6am night curfew hours, which came into effect from Tuesday till January 5 in areas under the jurisdiction of the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionertaes following orders to this effect. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also issued guidelines for the night curfew on Tuesday. The advisory from the civic body in Pimpri Chinchwad is awaited. Pune’s joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve told TOI, “We shall strictly enforce the night curfew norms, but with a humane approach. All essential services like transport and distribution of milk, vegetables, fruits and newspapers, will be exempted from the curfew restrictions.” He said, “Medical stores and services, including movement of doctors, nurses and pharmacists, and all emergency medical movement will be exempted from the restrictions.” Pimpri Chinchwad’s additional commissioner of police Ramnath Pokale told TOI, “There won’t be any let-up in the enforcement of the night curfew norms, but people engaged in essential services will be allowed to carry on with their jobs. Only those found loitering around during the night curfew hours without any valid purpose will face action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for disobedience or other relevant cases.” The state government on Monday announced a night curfew measure from December 22 across all municipal corporation areas in Maharashtra as a precautionary measure following reports of a new strain of the coronavirus in the United Kingdom, and to curb crowding and flouting of social distancing norms in the period between Christmas and the New Year’s Eve. Shisve appealed to people to avoid travelling during the night time unless it was an emergency. “Those travelling out or coming into the city during the curfew hours must carry their journey tickets and produce the same when asked for by the police at the check-points,” he said. He said, “We are expecting all shops, trade and establishments to start folding up their day’s activities and shut their establishments between 10.30pm and 11pm. Anybody violating the curfew norms will face a case of disobedience or under the provisions of the Epidemic Act or the Disaster Management Act.” Shisve said, “To reduce the movement of night duty goers on streets, we are approaching IT and private companies to see that their night shifts begin an hour earlier — at 11pm instead of 12 midnight.” He said, “There will be adequate police deployment on roads, night patrolling and nakabandi operations. Besides, considering the week between Christmas and the New Year ahead, we shall launch a campaign against people indulging in drunk driving.” According to the PMC’s guidelines, those working in night shifts and those transporting them to work/home have been exempted from the restrictions. Senior citizens, children below 10 years and pregnant women would be allowed to venture out only for emergency medical needs during the curfew period. “The main aim of the order is to ensure that unnecessary commuting during night time is avoided,” said Rubal Agarwal, the additional commissioner of the Pune civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/journey-ticket-pass-to-travel-in-night-curfew-hours-police/articleshow/79887858.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 23, 2020||Pune||Travellers in haze till late evening||Pune: The 11pm-6am curfew, which came into effect in all municipal corporation limits across the state on Tuesday, sparked concerns among those travelling within the state till the civic bodies and police came out with their directives, clearing the air. Amey Tipnis was to travel on a Kolhapur-bound bus scheduled to leave Pune at 10.30pm on Tuesday. “I have been calling the transport company for clarity with no luck. How will I will reach home once I get off the bus in Kolhapur?” he asked. Transporters too face this dilemma. “Around 100 private buses leave Pune for Nashik, Kolhapur and Aurangabad, among other places, after 11pm. When the passengers reach the destination during the curfew, how will s/he reach home?” Kiran Desai, secretary of the Pune Bus Owners Association, said. Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC’s Pune divisional controller, said they have yet to receive any instructions to this effect from the headquarters. “Until we get the instructions, the buses will operate as usual,” he said. “Will people be allowed to come in their private vehicles to pick up relatives from the station?” wondered Sanjay Kumar, director of Pune railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/travellers-in-haze-till-late-evening/articleshow/79887943.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 23, 2020||Lucknow||Govt suspends four dist khadi officers, shunts 2||Lucknow: Four district Khadi Gramodyog officials were suspended while directions for transferring two others were issued for their failure to meet targets. The directions were issued by Khadi Gramodyog minister Sidharth Nath Singh on Tuesday during a review of the department, along with additional chief secretary (khadi) Navneet Sehgal. During the review of the CM Gramodyog Scheme, PM Employment Generation Programme, CM Maati Kala Rozgar Yojana, it was observed that in districts Etah, Shravasti, Maharajganj and Gautam Budh Nagar, the officials concerned were not showing any urgency in ensuring that the benefits of these schemes reached the intended beneficiaries. Out of 75 districts, these four had the worst performance. Officials of these districts had been given warnings in the past as well, said Sehgal but there was no improvement in their performance and therefore, directions were given for their suspension. Other than this, directions to transfer the district gramodyog official of Sultanpur and an official from Gorakhpur were also issued. Singh said that these schemes were being run for the weaker sections of society and no carelessness would be tolerated. He said that no department is to surrender their budget without a valid reason. Sehgal said that to provide greater visibility to khadi, attempts were being made to connect all khadi production centres to large supply chains like Raymonds. He said that the Board has prepared a plan for manufacturing government school uniforms from khadi and all production centres would be upgraded for this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-suspends-four-dist-khadi-officers-shunts-2/articleshow/79891474.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh: UK returnees to be screened to avoid spread of new strain||VIJAYAWADA: Amid concerns over a new strain of Covid-19 in the United Kingdom and parts of Europe, the state government has decided to screen all persons arriving from there. The returnees will be traced, tested, and quarantined as a precautionary measures. So far, the state has been successful in the battle against Covid-19 with number of infections and mortality coming down significantly. However, as the new strain is likely to create problems for health planners, the government has decided to ensure that people who may be carrying the mutated virus do not enter the state without undergoing medical tests. The Centre on Monday had alerted all state governments over the new strain of coronavirus. In accordance to the Centre’s orders, the Andhra Pradesh government decided that all travellers from UK will be screened and tested using an RT-PCR test. Those testing negative will be cleared and have to observe a 14-day mandatory home quarantine. The norms will apply to anyone entering Andhra Pradesh directly from the UK, through connecting flights and those who entered the state by any other means of transport. “We have issued orders to collectors and SPs to track those who are coming in from abroad and ensure they take the preventive measures,” said health and family welfare commissioner, Bhaskar Katamneni. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who reviewed the challenges posed by the new strain, said “We should be cautious and do the needful to ensure that we do not let the new strain impact the citizens as adversely as it has in other parts of the world”. Due to the government’s planning, the mortality rate in the state continues to stand at 0.8% with as many as 3,992 active cases. The government has formed surveillance teams for physical monitoring of all those who have tested negative in the RT-PCR test and are under home isolation. The teams are to ensure their proper isolation, monitoring of parameters and ensure follow up RT-PCR test after seven days of disembarkation. The field surveillance teams consist of a medical officer and ANM who must visit the international travellers on a daily basis and update their vitals in the home quarantine app. In case any such persons develop symptoms before seven days, they must be shifted to hospitals and tested again immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/uk-returnees-to-be-screened-to-avoid-spread-of-new-strain/articleshow/79878984.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad restaurants fear Rs 7 crore losses due to fresh curbs||PUNE: Restaurateurs in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad are bracing themselves for a loss of revenue to the tune of Rs7 crore because of the night curfew imposed across the state till January 5. Owners and operators of these restaurants said they had only just begun to get back on their feet after dine-in services resumed in October, after six months. The curfew, which comes into force at 11pm, brings forward the closing time for restaurants by 30 minutes. “Now, the last order will be taken by 10pm and by 10.30-10.45pm, patrons will be expected to finish their meals and leave. Customers will either come to dine early or won’t come at all,” Vikram Shetty, vice-president of Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA), who manages Sagar restaurant near Pune railway station, told TOI. Patrons flocking to restaurants poses a fresh problem, as they cannot seat more than 50% of their capacity, Shetty said. PRAHA president Ganesh Shetty said no establishments had planned to hold Christmas or New Year’s Eve parties this year. “They anyway expected to do less business this year-end. These fresh restrictions are likely to cause financial losses to the tune of Rs6-7 crore to the restaurant industry in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad,” Shetty said. Praful Chandawarkar, director of Malaka Spice, spoke in support of the curfew. “Many citizens are not following the safety protocol, so we support these stricter measures to contain Covid-19 spread during the year-end festive season,” Chandawarkar said, adding, “That said, the curfew order is a tremendous blow to the industry, already reeling from financial losses.” He urged the government to give the industry the necessary subsidies, such charging excise licence fee “only for the months we have been operational” this year and not the entire fiscal. Just last week, the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India had written to the state government, seeking a two-hour extension in operational timings for restaurants, till 1.30am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurants-fear-rs-7-crore-losses-due-to-fresh-curbs/articleshow/79888021.cms||Neha Madaan
December 23, 2020||Pune||MahaMetro set to extend rake trials till Phugewadi||Pune: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) is set to extend trial runs of the rakes across a 7km stretch between the Sant Tukaramnagar and Phugewadi stations.The priority stretch falls on the PCMC-Swargate Metro corridor. Trials are already underway on smaller stretches on both sides of these two stations. The new trials will allow MahaMetro to test various parameters. MahaMetro said it has completed constructing the viaduct, laying tracks and installing the overhead traction cable network between these two stations. Work on a crucial portion around Nashik Phata was the last to be finished — a couple of months ago. “The trial runs will begin soon. We have chalked out a plan to test all parameters. Some final work is pending and will be done in the next few days,” Hemant Sonawane, general manager (public relations) of MahaMetro, said. “As things stand, the rakes are running in phases for a few metres beyond both stations. All these trials have been successful so far,” Sonawane added. Sonawane said the trials will help MahaMetro check if work was done to specification, as well as check major parameters, including the speed of the rakes, their brakes, the viaduct’s gradient, the alignment of tracks, and the functioning of the overhead traction network. Both stations are located on the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to Dapodi priority stretch of the Metro project. Sonawane conceded that work on this stretch — expected to be finished around April-May this year — was affected by the lockdown, and that they have made up lost ground in the past three months. “We first completed the viaduct and then simultaneously laid tracks and the overhead cables,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mahametro-set-to-extend-rake-trials-till-phugewadi/articleshow/79888004.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 23, 2020||Pune||Restrictions prompt Pune churches to tweak Christmas, New Year’s Eve mass timings||PUNE: The Maharashtra government ordering a night curfew in all municipal corporation areas of the state till January 5 has put paid to the plans of some churches that had planned scaled-down midnight masses on Christmas and New Year’s Eve. Some of the churches have advanced the timings of their gatherings. The Roman Catholic Diocese of Poona stated that their plans have not been affected, as they had already decided to wrap up services by the evenings, including at the St Patrick’s Cathedral, the main church of the diocese. “We had planned to wrap up Christmas and New Year’s Eve masses by 9pm on December 24 and 31 respectively. Our plans remain unchanged as of now,” said Malcolm Sequeira, the vicar-general of the diocese. Churches under the diocese have planned staggered services, starting at 7pm, till around 9pm to 10pm, for the midnight mass, with physically-distant arrangements for communion as well. Some of the most prominent Anglican churches in the city, under the Church of North India, had planned to hold midnight masses on Christmas and New Year’s Eve. The state government’s night curfew order has, however, made those churches prepone their Christmas and New Year’s Eve services. “Churches will hold services in the morning on Christmas and New Year’s Eve,” said Paul Dupare, Bishop of the Pune Diocese of the Church of North India. “Following the recent government order, we have now decided to hold the midnight mass services at the churches around 7pm and wrap up the gatherings before the night curfew comes into force,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restrictions-prompt-churches-to-tweak-christmas-new-years-eve-mass-timings/articleshow/79888051.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Bhandup man poses as cop, dupes woman||PUNE: A recovery agent from Bhandup was arrested on Monday night on the charge of posing as a police officer and duping a woman (42) from Mangalwar Peth of Rs68,000 on the pretext of helping her son secure a job in the state police force. The arrested recovery agent, Suresh Ishwar Pednekar (36), would be in police custody till December 24. Assistant inspector Sandeep Jore from Samarth police said Pednekar often met policemen for work while working in a finance firm. He started posing as “assistant inspector Suhas Patil” from Thane police to get his official work done. Jore said, “During one of his visits to Pune, Pednekar met the complainant through a known person. He introduced himself as ‘assistant inspector Patil’. He said he had good contacts with senior officers and promised to help her son in securing a job in police force. The woman then paid him varying amounts, collectively Rs80,000.” After lockdown enforcement was curbed, the suspect got a job of a recovery agent in a Pune-based financial firm. He continued communicating with the woman and returned Rs12,000. He said he would repay the balance amount of Rs68,000, but failed. “A beat marshal on Monday spotted a man wearing police shoes quarrelling with a woman over returning money. After the marshal inquired, the woman told him the man duped her. He was taken to the police station. Aadhaar and PAN cards from his possession established his identity as Pednekar.” The woman’s FIR was lodged under sections 419, 420 (related to cheating) and 170 (impersonation) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhandup-man-poses-as-cop-dupes-woman/articleshow/79887921.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP logs another 402 Covid cases, 4 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 402 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,79,339. This is for the fifth day that the state recorded less than 500 cases. The toll increased to 7,082 as four more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus. This includes two from Krishna and one each from Guntur and Kadapa. As many as 412 people were declared cured on Tuesday. There are currently 3,978 active cases with 8,68,279 cumulative recoveries and 7,082 fatalities. Chittoor reported 86 new infections on Tuesday. The remaining 10 districts posted less than 50 cases each with Kurnool reporting the day’s lowest of five cases. The active cases in Kurnool dropped below the 100-mark to 99, becoming the second district to have less than 100 active cases. The active cases are less than 500 in 10 districts, excluding Krishna (687), Guntur (550) and Nellore (555). Kurnool achieved a 99% recovery rate on Tuesday. East Godavari, West Godavari and Vizianagaram reached the 99% recovery rate milestone about a week ago. Andhra Pradesh conducted 56,425 Covid-19 tests and detected 402 cases on Tuesday. This translates to a positivity rate of about 0.7%. The state has so far conducted 1.13 crore tests with an overall positivity rate of 7.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-logs-another-402-covid-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/79879198.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Trichy||Pandemic takes toll on Xmas carol rounds||Trichy: While many of the city churches chose to skip carol singing rounds this year due to the pandemic, some have decided to limit the celebrations as it would be difficult to maintain social distancing. Carol being an integral part of Christmas celebrations sees groups of people from the church visiting Christian families singing about the birth of Jesus, mostly in the evening. The practice begins a few weeks before Christmas so that all member families of the church could be visited. There are roughly 500 families with membership in CSI St Luke’s church inside Bishop Heber College in Trichy. It has been a ritual to visit all these families on four Sundays before Christmas every year as part of carol rounds by singing and blessing the families. “This year we could not go for carol rounds because of Covid-19,” said Raja Man Singh, chaplain of the college chapel. Covid-19 has changed the way Christmas was celebrated over the previous years, he said adding that children and elders are not coming to church though lockdown norms were relaxed in recent days. While elders attend online church service, they may come to church on the day of Christmas due to cancellation of carol rounds. “We are making elaborate arrangements to ensure safety of families,” he said. Parish council member of St Antony’s Church at Duraisamy Puram S Sahai said they took out carol round, but it was on a limited scale. “We used to take many children along. Further, elders too used to accompany as it also becomes an opportunity for them to visit the families who they didn’t meet for long. But we had to strictly keep children and elders away from the carol rounds this time,” he said. Joe Joe Lawrence, parish priest of St Theresa church, Crawford said it was disappointing to find many churches cancelling carol rounds. While they too had plans initially, they chose to organise them in a limited manner to ally the fear among people. “We kept carol rounds in streets and avoided visiting houses which helped us maintain social distance. It was an opportunity to give hope to the families and at the same time ask them to ensure their safety,” said the priest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pandemic-takes-toll-on-xmas-carol-rounds/articleshow/79891426.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 23, 2020||Lucknow||Russia’s Covid vaccine to reach India soon: Rajnath||Lucknow: Defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 will be available in India soon. Addressing the 114th and 115th foundation day of King George’s Medical University (KGMU) virtually from his office in New Delhi, Singh said: "I have been told that a consignment of Russian Sputnik vaccine will reach India soon.” Singh said the vaccine would first be administered to healthcare workers. “We are hopeful that scientists will complete all the trials and tests shortly,” he added. Calling frontline health workers the real superheroes, Singh hailed the medical fraternity for its sacrifices for humanity in the hour of crisis. “No Batman or Superman could have saved the world. This was made possible by these wonder women and supermen (health professionals). We will forever be indebted to the medical fraternity for it,” Singh said. The defence minister went on to reiterate that the Indian healthcare expenditure was a mere 1.16% of the GDP, which is one of the lowest among all BRICS nations. “Almost 59% of expenses are out of pocket expenditure on health, which is enough to break the back of our middle class and poor. Had it not been for the private sector, the state of health services would have been even more concerning. Work under Ayushman Bharat Scheme is being done to cover this responsibility and Rs 17,000 crore have been spent by the central government for 1.5 crore beneficiaries,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/russias-covid-vaccine-to-reach-india-soon-rajnath/articleshow/79891517.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||One held on charge of extortion||Pune: A political party office-bearer was arrested on Monday on the charge of extorting Rs1 lakh from the officer of a private firm in Chinchwad MIDC for withdrawing the complaint he had filed against the company with the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) . Sub-inspector Dinkar Gawde of the Pimpri police told TOI, “We are also investigating if anyone from the board is involved in the crime.” The suspect, Kailas Narke, of Talegaon Dhamdhere was caught red-handed at Kalyaninagar hotel on Monday night while accepting Rs 1 lakh as the token amount. “The court has sent Narke in police custody till December 25,” Gawde said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-on-charge-of-extortion/articleshow/79888062.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Mayor appeals to people to avoid gatherings||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation has appealed to citizens to not conduct any public programmes and avoid gatherings on the New Year’s Eve. The mayor’s office issued the appeal in the backdrop of a new strain of the coronavirus emerging in the United Kingdom (UK). “The threat of pandemic still exists. Physical distancing norms are being violated in night clubs and pubs. Citizens should not go out for celebrations this New Year’s Eve,” mayor Murlidhar Mohol said. Health experts have warned people that the spread might increase during the festive seasons due to crowding and laxity in abiding by mask and social distancing norms. Though second Covid wave is yet to hit the state, the experts said, it would be prevented completely if people did not throw caution to the wind and continued to exercise caution, especially during the New Year Eve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mayor-appeals-to-people-to-avoid-gatherings/articleshow/79888056.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Elderly man on scooter dies in crash||Pune: An 83-year-old man riding a scooter died of head injuries after he came under the wheels of a garbage container on Monday. The accident occurred around 11.45am at Sarasbaug on Bajirao Road, when Hiralal Motilal Lalwani was on his way home after visiting a temple. The driver of the garbage container lost control of the vehicle and hit Lalwani’s scooter, killing him instantly. The driver is in police custody. “Lalwani wasn’t wearing a helmet,” senior inspector Bramhanand Naikawadi of the Swargate police said on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-man-on-scooter-dies-in-crash/articleshow/79888137.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Lucknow||In her success, medico gifts comfort to father||LUCKNOW: When Shikha received three gold medals during KGMU’s Foundation Day programme on Tuesday, her father Vijendra Singh felt relieved of the burden of a mistake that he had been carrying for 21 years. It was in 1999 when Singh did not allow his wife to join the Provincial Civil Services (PCS) due to patriarchal pressure – a decision he still regrets. However, when his daughter went up the stage to receive the honour, the proud father, who was watching the event online from Meerut, got so excited that he immediately called her up to share his emotions without waiting for the event to get over. “I told her how proud I was feeling today,” said an overwhelmed Singh while talking to TOI over the phone. “My daughter helped me in correcting the mistake that I made by stopping my wife from joining PCS after her selection in 1999. We are a family of landlords and the elderly members were of the view that a government job means serving politicians. They felt it would be below the dignity of ‘ghar ki bahu-beti’. Hence, I had to call my wife back from her training in Gwalior,” he added. “Later, I realised my mistake and decided to promote my daughters. My elder daughter is already working as an executive in a private company in Hyderabad and the younger one bagged medals for excellence today,” he said. Shikha’s mother, Anita, said: “At that time, I didn’t oppose the family's decision but over the years I kept trying to change the family’s perception on allowing girls to take up jobs. Eventually, the attitude changed. I cannot express my joy in words.” Shikha, a 2014-batch MBBS student who is the first doctor in her family, said her grandmother also appreciated her success. She won three gold medals including Prof BG Prasad gold medal for obtaining highest marks in final professional (MBBS Part I). She did her schooling (till Class 12) from Delhi Public School in Meerut and later prepared for MBBS entrance at Kota, Rajasthan. “My father always stood by me and motivated me to move ahead,” she said, giving the credit of her success to parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-her-success-medico-gifts-comfort-to-father/articleshow/79891530.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
December 23, 2020||Udaipur||RBSE exam: Students can fill forms till January 8||AJMER: For the second time, Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) on Tuesday extended the date for filling board examination forms-2021 because of the pandemic. Now, the last date to submit forms is January 8, instead of the earlier December 22. According to the board, on Tuesday about 20 lakh students through their schools applied for the board examinations scheduled in 2021. The board was getting requests that since the schools were closed, many students were unable to apply for board examination. Looking to this, the board on Tuesday decided to extend the date of filling the board examination forms till January 8 with normal fees of Rs 600 for government school students and private students can apply with Rs 650. The last date for filling the board examination forms was in November, but because of Covid conditions in the state, the board first increase the filling date to December 22 and now to January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rbse-exam-students-can-fill-forms-till-jan-8/articleshow/79922712.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jodhpur||RBSE exam: Students can fill forms till January 8||AJMER: For the second time, Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) on Tuesday extended the date for filling board examination forms-2021 because of the pandemic. Now, the last date to submit forms is January 8, instead of the earlier December 22. According to the board, on Tuesday about 20 lakh students through their schools applied for the board examinations scheduled in 2021. The board was getting requests that since the schools were closed, many students were unable to apply for board examination. Looking to this, the board on Tuesday decided to extend the date of filling the board examination forms till January 8 with normal fees of Rs 600 for government school students and private students can apply with Rs 650. The last date for filling the board examination forms was in November, but because of Covid conditions in the state, the board first increase the filling date to December 22 and now to January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rbse-exam-students-can-fill-forms-till-jan-8/articleshow/79922709.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Corona tally breaches 3 lakh in Rajasthan, casualty count at 2,634||JAIPUR: Covid cases in the state breached the 3-lakh mark on Tuesday riding on 807 fresh infections. The current tally stands at 3,00,716. It took 50 days for the number of cases to reach 3 lakh from 2 lakh. It had taken 51 days to reach 2 lakh from 1 lakh cases and the first 1 lakh cases came in 194 days. The virus spread at an alarming rate post-festive season, municipal polls, marriage season and onset of winters. From November 2 to November 24, the state had reported 50,000 cases, the next 50,000 cases were added in 28 days, indicating that the virus spread faster from November 2 to November 24 in comparison to the last 28 days. A health department official said, “Not only in the state but in the entire country, the number of Covid infections reported daily are going down. In the state, the cases increased with the onset of winter, following the festive season, municipal polls and marriage season. Now, the cases have been going down for the past 20-24 days.” In the last 24 hours, eight persons died taking the casualty count to 2,634. Jaipur reported its 492nd Covid death, Jodhpur 279th, Pali 107th, Sikar 94th, Nagaur 90th, Jhunjhunu 50th, Barmer 47th and Banswara 32nd Covid death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/corona-tally-breaches-3l-in-raj-casualty-count-at-2634/articleshow/79888139.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Hospital to train ‘first responders’||Pune: The Lokmanya hospital on the Senapati Bapat Road on Tuesday launched a programme for training citizens to become first responders. The hospital officials stated the objective of the programme was to train 1 lakh volunteering citizens to become first responders who would be instrumental in saving lives in various types of emergencies, including accidents, heart attack and stroke. The volunteers would be offered hands-on training in basic life-saving techniques for free. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hospital-to-train-first-responders/articleshow/79888089.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Ludhiana||3 die of Covid, 38 test positive||Ludhiana: Three residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 38 tested positive on Tuesday. Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district casualties included a 69-year-old man of Vijay Nagar, Jagraon; a 60-year-old diabetic man of Model Town; and a 72-year-old woman of Kartar Nagar, Model Town.The district toll tally has increased to 952 and that of outsiders to 437.On the day, 48 positive reports were received. Of these, 38 were Ludhiana residents, he added.The district case count is 24,456. Of them, 22,979 (93.96%) have recovered. On the day, 2,425 samples were collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-die-of-covid-38-test-positive/articleshow/79879223.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Man from UK tests positive, Tamil Nadu to trace flyers from Europe||CHENNAI: State authorities are on high alert after a passenger who arrived from the UK, via Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19 at Chennai airport. With the UK struggling with a new strain of the virus, authorities have decided to trace and test all those who arrived in TN from Europe in the last month. The passenger who tested positive was a 25-year-old returning home after a year’s study abroad. He is asymptomatic and has no comorbid conditions, said Dr K Narayanasany of the National Institute of Ageing in Guindy, where the youth has been quarantined. His swab sample has been sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for genome sequencing, said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Twenty-three others who arrived with him via Delhi have tested negative; the test results of six passengers were awaited. Fifteen domestic passengers seated close to the UK-based traveller on the Delhi-Chennai Air India flight (AI553) have also been asked to go into quarantine. “These passengers are from Chengalpet, Chennai, Villupuram, Andamans, Puducherry and Villupuram. All other passengers on the flight have been asked to come to the nearest government hospital for testing if they experience any symptom,” the health secretary said. The health department will also be monitoring all passengers arriving the US and countries in Africa. An official of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that there would not be any direct flight from the UK from tonight. “But passengers may arrive via transit airports including Delhi and Mumbai. There is a likelihood that stranded transit passengers may be allowed to fly via any international hub. These passengers will be monitored. Checks are also being done at Trichy, Coimbatore and Madurai airports.” In the last 10 days, 1,078 people came to Tamil Nadu from the UK and other European countries. “All passengers have been asked to quarantine themselves at home. We have also made arrangements to collect samples from them for an RT-PCR test,” said the health secretary. The state government has devised a ring fence strategy to identify and test the passengers who have arrived from the UK and Europe in the last one month. Under it, health authorities have identified that 218 passengers have arrived in the last 48hours, 1,791 in the last two weeks and 965 passengers in the two weeks before that. The initial estimate is that around 2,974 passengers have travelled to the state in the last one month. “All these passengers carried a RT-PCR negative report and had been advised strict home quarantine for 14days. Of the 2,974 passengers, priority testing will be done on those with symptoms and their close contacts. In the first week all of them will be tested,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-from-uk-tests-ve-tn-to-trace-flyers-from-europe/articleshow/79888093.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Brain-dead worker’s organs benefit four in Pune, Mumbai||PUNE: The wife of a brain-dead construction worker (39) donated his vital organs, benefiting four patients suffering from end-stage heart, liver and kidney diseases in Pune and Mumbai on Tuesday. This is the 35th organ donation since the beginning of this year and the 21st during the Covid-19 pandemic period. The man fell from a height last week and suffered grievous head injuries. He was rushed to DY Patil hospital and medical college in Pimpri. Despite all efforts, he could not be saved and was declared brain-dead on December 20. His wife gave her consent to donate his vital organs — heart, liver and kidneys — the next day. “As there was no suitable recipient in Pune, the man’s heart was allocated to a patient enrolled with Jaslok hospital in Mumbai. The harvested heart was transported to the hospital in an ambulance during the early hours via a green corridor. The transplant in the 19-year-old patient was successful,” said Aarti Gokhale, the transplant coordinator at Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee. His kidneys were allocated to two patients of renal failure enrolled with DY Patil hospital and Ruby Hall Clinic. The man’s liver was allocated to a patient of DY Patil hospital. Mayuri Barge, the transplant coordinator at DY Patil hospital and medical college, said, “The liver has been successfully transplanted into a 38-year-old doctor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/brain-dead-workers-organs-benefit-4-in-pune-mumbai/articleshow/79888102.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra man murders wife using chutney pounder||VIJAYAWADA: A 34-year-old woman was brutally murdered by her husband who smashed in her head using a chutney pounder at their residence in Tiruvuru town in Krishna district on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Yaramala Nagamani (34), a farm labourer. According to Tiruvuru police, the incident happened at around 5.30 am when Nagamani was asleep. Police said Nagamani’s husband, Narsireddy who had been unemployed for the past few months, had been suspecting his wife’s fidelity. Police noted that Narsireddy would pick fights with his wife whenever she interacted with another male during work. “Quarrels ensued between them frequently for the past few months over the issue. Investigation revealed that he had killed her on the spot using the chutney pounder and fled from the spot,” a station official said. After locals discovered the crime, they informed the police who reached the spot and found Nagamani in a pool of blood. Police said that they are on the lookout for Narsireddy. A case has been registered under section 302 of IPC (murder) at Tiruvuru police station. Meanwhile, her body was sent to a local government hospital for postmortem. Further investigation is still on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-murders-wife-using-chutney-pounder/articleshow/79879231.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Ajmer||RBSE exam: Students can fill forms till January 8||AJMER: For the second time, Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) on Tuesday extended the date for filling board examination forms-2021 because of the pandemic. Now, the last date to submit forms is January 8, instead of the earlier December 22. According to the board, on Tuesday about 20 lakh students through their schools applied for the board examinations scheduled in 2021. The board was getting requests that since the schools were closed, many students were unable to apply for board examination. Looking to this, the board on Tuesday decided to extend the date of filling the board examination forms till January 8 with normal fees of Rs 600 for government school students and private students can apply with Rs 650. The last date for filling the board examination forms was in November, but because of Covid conditions in the state, the board first increase the filling date to December 22 and now to January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rbse-exam-students-can-fill-forms-till-jan-8/articleshow/79922716.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Traders don’t mind drop in sales due to farmers’ stir||Ludhiana: Participation of farmers and villagers in the kisan andolan has affected the wholesale and retail traders in the Old City and other markets here, where rural customers from all over Punjab come for shopping. However, businessmen are not minding the fall in sales and are supporting the farmers’ agitation. Businessmen said neither retail nor bulk customers from rural areas are turning up in the markets as members from almost all households are going to join the farmers’ agitation. This has also led to deferment of marriages in rural Punjab. They are estimating a drop of more than 30% in the footfall of customers, but are hoping for the demands of the agitators to be met soon.Kamal Gupta, president of Saban Bazaar Association, said, “Old City markets, like Saban Bazaar, Gur Mandi, Chaura Bazaar, Sarafan Bazaar and Purana Bazaar, are largely dependent on rural customers, especially from nearby villages and towns. For more than a month now, we are seeing a fall in the number of customers from rural areas. As compared with the previous year, there has been more than 30% fall in our business. For farmers’ agitation, they are even cancelling weddings and other functions in their families and sending their kin to Delhi to make the protest a big success.”“Though there is no denying that traders and shopkeepers of the city are affected, there is not a single person who is not supporting this agitation that is for a right cause. We will not like to call this drop in business a loss, rather it is our small contribution for our farmers. We hope that their demands are accepted soon,” he added.Ashok Jindal, chairman of Wholesale Rice and Dal Dealers’ Association, said, “This time of the year is the wedding season which continues till January second week. During winter months, a large number of customers from villages throng the markets for bulk purchases. But this year, there has been a huge drop in the number of customers because people from rural areas are participating in the agitation and have deferred marriages. Our businesses have certainly been affected, but we have no complaints because farmers are fighting for their rights and we support them.”The jewellery business has also been hit due to lull in the marriage season. Jeweller Suraj Partap Rudra said, “We are dependent on rural customers, but for the past one month there has been a drop in sales. Our inward supplies like boxes, specialised packaging of ornaments, too, have been affected. But we have no problem, and are hoping the agitation will get over soon.”Inderpal Singh, wholesaler and retailer of cosmetics, said, “Along with a huge drop in the rural customers who used to come in the wedding season, the routine customers too are not coming. This time, the shopkeepers of rural areas are sending small orders. However, we stand in solidarity with our farmer brothers and losses will be compensated once their agitation yields success.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/traders-dont-mind-drop-in-sales-due-to-farmers-stir/articleshow/79879230.cms||Mohit Behl
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Don’t change colours like a chameleon: Capt to Kejriwal||Chandigarh: Ridiculing the allegations levelled by the AAP leader as absolutely baseless and politically motivated that he met Union home minister Amit Shah with regard to the ED cases against his family, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for attempting to unleash a campaign based on lies and deceit. Asking him to refrain from indulging in politics of the “lowest order and mudslinging”, Capt Amarinder on Tuesday clarified to AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal that his meeting with Shah was exclusively on one point agenda to discuss issues related national security being the home minister of the border state facing a hostile neighbour. Amarinder said it was his foremost responsibility to appraise the Centre on the developments in the state and he would not hesitate to meet the Prime Minister and the Union home minister whenever issues of internal security were fanned by neighbouring hostile nations. He clarified that there was no case filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against him. There was, however, a case filed by ED against his son Raninder Singh, which had been going on for more than a decade that too under FEMA, which at most is a civil or fiscal matter. The Punjab and Haryana high court had also stayed all the earlier incorrect income tax (I-T) assessment orders served on his son. As a measure of desperation, the I-T department had now vindictively targeted him, along with his whole family and not even left out his minor grandchildren by sending them notices under the black money act, which were also being legally dealt with. “Only a political novice and no do-gooder like Kejriwal could jump to such conclusions whereas the real picture is starkly different from what is being painted by him,” said Amarinder, adding, “The Delhi CM who should not cross the limits of decency.” “You just joined agitating farmers cursorily to score brownie points while you and your party is remotely concerned about their woes,” alleged Amarinder, asking the Delhi CM “not to change colours like a chameleon”. He said in view of seizure of 11 hand grenades dropped by a drone launched from Pakistan five days after they busted a drone module with international linkages in Amritsar Rural district, it was his bounden duty to apprise the Centre about it so as to enable the state and central security agencies to work in tandem in formulating a concrete strategy to foil the nefarious designs of Pakistan. Amarinder “dared” Kejriwal to come clean on his dubious stand on the draconian farm laws, which were earlier notified by his government earlier and now he was shedding crocodile tears over this sensitive issue by showing fake sympathy with the farmers, which was “nothing but sheer theatrics on Kejriwal’s part”. He described Kejriwal as a “hypocrite of the highest order and his rag-tag bunch of camp followers who were solely eyeing on the 2022 assembly polls in Punjab”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dont-change-colours-like-a-chameleon-capt-to-kejriwal/articleshow/79888131.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Vijayawada||CM to leave on 3-day tour today||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy will be visiting his home constituency and native place in Kadapa district on December 23 for three days. According to information, the chief minister will leave his camp office at Tadepalli on the afternoon of December 23 and reach Kadapa airport from Gannavaram airport. He will fly to Idupulapaya in the evening. On December 24, the chief minister will participate in a special prayer service at YSR Ghat in Idupulapaya followed by special Christmas prayer services in the local church. The chief minister would also join Christmas prayer services in Idupulapaya church on December 25. After the prayer service and lunch, the chief minister would reach Kadapa airport and take a special flight to Rajamahendravaram. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-to-leave-on-3-day-tour-today/articleshow/79879217.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||RBSE exam: Students can fill forms till January 8||AJMER: For the second time, Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) on Tuesday extended the date for filling board examination forms-2021 because of the pandemic. Now, the last date to submit forms is January 8, instead of the earlier December 22. According to the board, on Tuesday about 20 lakh students through their schools applied for the board examinations scheduled in 2021. The board was getting requests that since the schools were closed, many students were unable to apply for board examination. Looking to this, the board on Tuesday decided to extend the date of filling the board examination forms till January 8 with normal fees of Rs 600 for government school students and private students can apply with Rs 650. The last date for filling the board examination forms was in November, but because of Covid conditions in the state, the board first increase the filling date to December 22 and now to January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rbse-exam-students-can-fill-forms-till-jan-8/articleshow/79888087.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Trichy||Churches to advance timing of spl service, split prayer sessions||Trichy: As Covid19 lockdown relaxations have been announced ahead of Christmas celebration, churches in Trichy are preparing to hold special services by adopting proper norms issued by the state health department. Church authorities are planning to advance the timing of the prayers and split the services to avoid crowding. Rev Father Arockiaraj, parish priest of Holy Redeemer's Basilica in Palakkarai in Trichy said that they are already following the protocols such as providing sanitizer, screening temperature and making church members wear face masks, he said. "As per the government instructions to avoid crowding, we have asked our church members, who are above 50 years of age, to avoid their visit to the church and asked parents not to carry their children to the church. We have advanced a special service by one hour to complete the proceedings earlier," he added. All the required precautionary measures have been taken in all aspects, Rev Father Mari Valan, Parish priest of Our Lady of Lourdes Church in Teppakulam said. "Seating arrangements have been altered at the church so that social distancing can be maintained. Usually, we have only one special night mass at 12 am. However, to avoid crowding we have added one more service at 9 pm and we have advanced the regular night mass to 11 pm," he told TOI. Meanwhile, in a notification issued by the district collector, S Sivarasu has stressed the need for the churches should get prior approval from the district administration to conduct special services for Christmas celebration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/churches-to-advance-timing-of-spl-service-split-prayer-sessions/articleshow/79891522.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
December 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sister Abhaya's death case: Sr Sephy burst into tears, Fr Kottoor kept a stoic face||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The court room of the CBI special court was jam-packed, both inside and outside, on Tuesday despite the Covid-19 scare. Besides the usual attendees in black—the advocates, nuns and priests in their white habits filled up the court room in support of the accused awaiting judgement. The veranda was also filled to the brim, thronged by many, including junior advocates and public who had gathered there just to witness the moment that was nothing short of historic. By around 11am, the judge K Sanilkumar arrived at the bench and pronounced the verdict. While the verdict left Sister Sephy, who was sitting on a bench in the dock, in tears, Father Thomas Kottoor sat on the other end of the bench, with a stoic face. Occasionally, they spoke up whenever someone from their legal counsel’s team or the nuns and priests approached them. The nuns who gathered at the courtroom too broke down when the verdict was pronounced. When the law enforcement team escorted the Sister Sephy and Father Thomas Kottoor out of the court room, the nuns rushed towards them and huddled around. A few of them embraced Sister Sephy and planted a kiss on her forehead. Some of them followed them from the court room in the second floor of the court complex till they were in the police vehicle parked on the ground. When the police vehicle exited the court premises and reached the media persons gathered at the main gate, Father Kottoor responded to their queries. He maintained that he was innocent in the case. He also said that God was with him. However, he kept mum when asked about his thoughts on the court verdict. He also did not respond to questions about their future course of action such as challenging the court order before a higher court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sr-sephy-burst-into-tears-fr-kottoor-kept-a-stoic-face/articleshow/79884553.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
December 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Son-in-law of BJP district general secretary held for peddling drugs||LUDHIANA: The son-in-law of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) district general secretary and former deputy mayor RD Sharma was arrested for drug peddling on Tuesday. Five-kg poppy husk was recovered from Ammy Kalra, a resident of New Janakpuri, Salem Tabri, while he was waiting for his customers in Transport Nagar. He used to procure the contraband from a dismissed head constable of Punjab Police, said cops. Moti Nagar police station SHO inspector Parmod Kumar said, “Kalra was arrested on a tip-off that he sells poppy husk to truck drivers at Transport Nagar. During checking, 5kg of the contraband was found on him. He is the son-in-law of former deputy mayor RD Sharma.” Kalra started peddling drugs about two months ago. “He was earlier a transporter. About one-and-a-half years ago, his father fell ill and passed away. He then faced huge losses in business and had to sell his house. Thereafter, he started peddling drugs,” the SHO added. During interrogation, Kalra told the police that he procured poppy husk from Karnail Singh of Kakowal Road–a dismissed head constable of Punjab Police. An FIR has been registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act against Kalra. The dismissed cop would also be booked after verification, said the SHO. Banned tablets seized from central jail inmate During a checking drive, the Ludhiana Central Jail authorities recovered 75 intoxicating pills from an inmate, Bahadar, on Monday. A case has been registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/son-in-law-of-bjp-dist-gen-secy-held-for-peddling-drugs/articleshow/79879233.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 23, 2020||Lucknow||AGDC student council pledges to make college fun despite Covid||Lucknow: Introducing more digital and offline activities so that students don’t miss out on their college life is one of the main aims of the newly elected members and representatives of Avadh Girls’ Degree College (AGDC). On Tuesday, the college held its annual investiture ceremony wherein the college appointed student office bearers of 10 clubs running in the college. BA final year student, Harshita, was appointed as the college president while Anusha Dubey of BA final year became the vice-president. Taking the oath of her office as the president, Harshita (20) said she would be taking a holistic approach towards her office duties and her fellow students. “The college has taken up several digital initiatives in the past months and aims to continue it in the future. As a student leader, we can provide suggestions to our teachers and principal for arranging events. Due to the pandemic, several students missed their classes and suffered. However, now that the college is open and working through both online and offline mode, I wish to organise several programs for our students like getting the freshers together online and many more digital activities,” said Harshita, adding that she has achieved her dream of becoming the president of the student council. “As representatives, we would work as a team for the betterment of our college and extend full cooperation in achieving academic excellence,” she added. Reiterating the same, vice-president Anusha Dubey said she looked forward to helping her classmates and juniors and mooted the idea of having more webinars. “Online seminars and guest lectures amid the pandemic were an enriching experience for all the students. Our college has its own YouTube channel and Facebook page wherein our students have remained active throughout the lockdown and continue to do so. Apart from that, we would take all necessary steps for the redressal of grievances of our classmates and juniors,” said Dubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/agdc-student-council-pledges-to-make-college-fun-despite-covid/articleshow/79891539.cms||Aditi Singh
December 23, 2020||Pune||Motorcyclist killed in accident||Pune: A construction worker (35) died and two others suffered injuries after the motorcycle, on which they were riding triple seat, crashed into the main gate of the Pimpri court in Morwadi late on Sunday night. A Pimpri police officer said, “The deceased, Murali Morya of Hadapsar, could not control the vehicle because he was speeding and subsequently crashed into the court’s main gate.” In another accident, a pedestrian was killed after being knocked down by a pickup van at Kuruli village on Pune-Nashik highway on Sunday night. The Chakan police have booked the driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/motorcyclist-killed-in-accident/articleshow/79888150.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||3 minors injured in Punawale||Pune: Four minors had a narrow escape when the car they were travelling in flipped and turned on its side on Tuesday evening. The accident occurred at Punawale off Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. Balkrishna Sawant, senior inspector, Hinjewadi police, told TOI, “Three minors sustained minor injuries. We will file a case against the man who allowed a minor to drive the car.” Sawant said,“The youth driving the car lost control and crashed into a roadside eatery to avoid dashing against a vehicle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-minors-injured-in-punawale/articleshow/79888172.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP raising SYL only to divide Pb, Hry farmers, says Abhay||Chandigarh: Senior INLD leader and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala said instead of staging drama by holding fast on SYL, if the BJP starts implementing the SC verdict to provide Haryana’s share on SYL water, his party would help them block the boundaries of Punjab. “Let the government take the decision today. We will support them till the time we do not get our rightful share of water. We will not allow anyone to enter through Haryana’s borders with Punjab,” Abhay told the medipersons at his Chandigarh residence. Abhay, however, said despite being in power for the past six years, BJP has never shown any seriousness on the SYL issue. He said amid the protests of farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws, the state BJP leadership was raising the SYL issue only to divide the farmers of both the states, but the same is not going to happen. Farmers would make the Centre repeal the agriculture laws, he added. “Had the chief minister been so concerned on the water issue, why would he allow his government to scrap Dadupur Nalvi canal project, on which Rs 340 crore had already been spent and which would have been beneficial to help irrigate lands in Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar,” Abhay said. The senior leader also questioned why Haryana BJP president O P Dhankar, who was the agriculture minister in the previous term of the Khattar government, did not show concern on SYL then. “Earlier, when we used to raise the SYL issue, they would say that the matter was pending before the Supreme Court. But now when the apex court has ruled in our favour, why is this government doing drama of fast,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-raising-syl-only-to-divide-pb-hry-farmers-says-abhay/articleshow/79888153.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD supports call of farmer outfits to observe ‘Kisan Divas’||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) urged its rank and file to support the appeal of farmer organisations protestting against the three farm laws to observe a one-day hunger strike on December 23. Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra said a decision to this effect had been taken by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal. He urged all party workers to participate in the mass one-day hunger strike to send out a message that Punjabis were united against the laws. He said these would destroy future generations in case they were not repealed. Prof Chandumajra also appealed to Punjabis to support the hunger strike call. Prof Chandumajra also visited the residence of Rajpura Arhtiya Association president Jatinder Lada and condemned the income tax raids conducted at his premises as well as those on other office-bearers of the Punjab Arhtiya Association. Addressing arthiyas on the occasion, including Bhunerheri president Kulwinder Singh Rana, he urged them not to come under any pressure of the central government which wanted to browbeat them and force them to withdraw support from the ongoing farmer agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-supports-call-of-farmer-outfits-to-observe-kisan-divas/articleshow/79888141.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Youth activists hang banners on flyovers||Bathinda: Some youngsters in Moga have put up large banners atop flyovers in Moga which have slogans written against the new farm laws. The banners are in three languages — Punjabi, Hindi and English. They have mostly been put on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur highway passing through the town. Five activists of All India Youth Federation (AIYF) and All India Students Federation (AISF) have gotten the banners printed and put these up to demand a repeal of the laws. “Agriculture is our culture and our land is for growing food grains for all, not for profit to corporates. The government must ensure guarantee of MSP on all crops in the entire country. Earlier, the activists had set up a bookstore on Singhu border,” AIYF activist Sukhjinder Maheshri, who is being helped by painter Sukha, Raman Gill, Gurtej Charrik and Karamvir Kaur Badhni. Maheshri said their activists were on Delhi borders. “They are holding protests in villages and we are putting up banners. We want to reach out to maximum people by any means of protests,” Maheshri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/youth-activists-hang-banners-on-flyovers/articleshow/79888185.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||No flight from UK landed in Jaipur: Officials||JAIPUR: Rajasthan currently appears to be safe from the latest Covid strain as no flights from the UK have landed here. Officials said since no direct flight lands here, chances of the new strain entering the state is minimum. India on Monday suspended all passenger flights to and from the UK between December 23 and 31, joining dozens of countries that have clamped limited or comprehensive travel bans in a worldwide scramble to keep out the new coronavirus strain spreading fast across Britain. “We have never had direct flights from the UK in the past as well and none has been started afresh. Even if someone wants to take a connecting flight to Jaipur before the ban comes into place, they would have to take the mandatory test at the respective airports where they land. Usually passengers travelling from the UK land in Delhi from where they take a connecting flight to Jaipur. But now they will not be allowed to travel further,” said an official at Jaipur International Airport. Travellers from the UK landing at any Indian airport before the flight ban kicks in at midnight on Tuesday will have to undergo mandatory RT-PCR tests, based on which institutional quarantine for at least 14 days or monitored home isolation for a week will be advised. In a circular to all airlines, aviation regulator DGCA asked them to strictly adhere to the arrival deadline of 11.59pm on Tuesday for flights from the UK. Meanwhile, the regular Vande Mataram flight of Air India landed in Jaipur from Doha and after testing, passengers were sent to the quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-flight-from-uk-landed-in-city-officials/articleshow/79888167.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||Farmers protest: Agriculture minister Tomar again indicates govt will not roll back farm laws||NEW DELHI: Amid farmers’ agitation against the central farm laws, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday said whenever path-breaking reform was initiated, there was a tendency to first make fun of it, then oppose it and finally accept it. “We are currently passing through this process,” Tomar said in a clear signal to protesting farmers that the government will not back down from the three laws which will provide them freedom to sell their produce outside regulated ‘mandis’ and encourage them to go for contract farming in a secure way. The minister’s remarks came during his interaction with members of the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of South Asia on the issue of farm laws and the ongoing agitation which entered the 27th day on Tuesday. The interaction was part of an outreach to inform the media about the government’s viewpoint. Read AlsoFarmers protest: ‘Repeal laws’ our core demand, farm unions to tell govt todayThe group of 40 protesting farmers’ unions, which earlier participated in talks with the Centre, unanimously decided on Tuesday to respond to its proposal for further talks on Wednesday, marked across the country as ‘Kisan Diwas’, and reiterate their demand of repeal of the three new agri laws.Responding to a question on farmers’ outburst against two corporate houses (Adani and Ambani) as they believe the farm laws will only benefit them, Tomar said he would not consider such people farmers who either initiate or end discussions taking names of these corporate houses. Noting that taking names of these corporate houses in any discussion was only meant to divert attention from real issues, the minister said farmers’ representatives should ideally stick to issues which were being discussed with the government. Appealing to farmers’ unions to come for talks, Tomar said the answer to any ‘andolan’ (movement) in history was not ‘andolan’. “Solutions can be found only through discussions and I am confident to arrive at solutions through discussions in the coming days,” he said, adding that he was pained at farmers’ plight in this cold and pandemic situation. During the interaction, Tomar explained how these farm laws were the “biggest agricultural reforms in the country so far”. He said, “The reforms will provide farmers market freedom and access to technology, and encourage entrepreneurship that will transform agriculture.” On farmers’ demand for legal guarantee to procurement at minimum support price (MSP), the minister said MSP was an administrative decision would continue. Watch Farmers protest: No rollback of Farm Laws, indicates Narendra Singh Tomar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-protest-agriculture-minister-tomar-again-indicates-govt-will-not-roll-back-farm-laws/articleshow/79899570.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 23, 2020||Trichy||Trichy student wins Kala Utsav competition||Trichy: S Vasanth, a government school student from Trichy district, has secured first prize in the national level Kala Utsav competition – 2020 in the visual art category. The Class XI student from Siruganur village received an award and Rs 25,000 from CM Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday. Kala Utsav is an initiative of the ministry of education to promote arts in education by nurturing the artistic talent of school students. The competition was held in Bhopal in January this year. Vasanth chose poikaal kuthirai attam (dummy horse dance) and Thappattam – a regional folk art for his painting. A lot of efforts went into researching the folk-art form from various sources, says Vasanth. Besides 2D painting, we had to explain the historic value of the traditional art form in writing, said Vasanth. After winning the school, district and state level competitions, Vasanth’s painting has bagged an award in the national arena by defeating participants from West Bengal and Chattisgarh, said K Ravi, art teacher of the school who identified the artistic skills of Vasanth when he was in Class V. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-student-wins-kala-utsav-competition/articleshow/79891526.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Stray bull hits bike, kills villager||Ludhiana: A 31-year-old resident of Jangpur village, Mullanpur Dakha, was killed and his friend injured after a stray bull hit their motorcycle in Dhanaula, Barnala, around 8am on Tuesday.Deceased Harminder Singh was driving the motorcycle and his friend, Gurjeet Singh, also of Jangpur, was riding pillion. They were on way home from Tikri border, Delhi, when the accident took place.Gurjeet said, “Our village had collected firewood for farmers protesting at Delhi borders. On a bike, Harminder and I escorted the truck loaded with firewood to Tikri border four days ago. The truck returned the next day to bring people to Tikri border. On Tuesday, we left for our village on Harminder’s bike.”When they reached near Dhanaula, Barnala, a stray bull was running in the middle of the road. “The bull hit a car and then our bike. Harminder received severe injuries and I escaped with minor ones,” he added. Two men of their village, who were ahead of them on their bike, came to their rescue. They called an ambulance and rushed Harminder to a nearby hospital. He was referred to Barnala civil hospital and then to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana. However, when he reached CMCH, doctors declared him dead. Gurjeet said, “Around 7am, Harminder had called up his mother and asked her to prepare breakfast for him, as he would be home in one-and-a-half hour. It was his last call to his family.” Harminder, who worked at a welding shop in his village, is survived by his elderly parents, wife and two children, including an 8-year-old daughter and a 5-year-old son. His father is a labourer. Tajinder Singh, Janpur president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) said, “Harminder’s family is poor. He had been to the Delhi borders a couple of times to support the protesting farmers. We have given a representation to deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, seeking compensation for the family and a government job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/stray-bull-hits-bike-kills-villager/articleshow/79879331.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Students can fill SSC board exam forms till January 11||PUNE: Regular students of standard X from the state board can fill up their forms to appear for the board examination to be conducted in 2021 from December 23 to January 11. Repeaters and private students need to fill up their forms from January 12 to 25. As of date, no physical classes have started in the urban areas for SSC students. A notification about the forms was released by the Maharashtra State Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education on Tuesday. The entire process of form-filling as well as paying examination fee would be completed online. Regular students need to fill up their forms in the respective schools using the Saral database. Results of the repeat examination will be declared online on Wednesday, another notification on Tuesday said. The repeat examinations for standard XII were held between November 20 and December 10 while the same for standard X were held between November 20 to December 5. The results will be made available online at www.mahresult.nic in from 1pm onwards. Students who wish to apply for verification, re-evaluation or photocopy of their answer sheets need to apply online and further details can be taken from the divisional board. For any kind of verification, re-evaluation, the standard X students need to apply online at www.verification.mh-ssc.ac.in and standard XII students can apply online at www.verification.mh-hsc.ac.in Those who wish to apply for verification of marks can apply online between December 24 and January 2 while those who wish to apply for photocopy of answer sheets must do it between December 24 and January 12. Students who wish to apply for re-evaluation need to compulsorily apply for a photocopy of their answer sheets. Once they receive these answer sheets, the students must apply online for re-evaluation between five working days from the date of receiving the answer sheets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-can-fill-ssc-board-exam-forms-till-jan-11/articleshow/79888330.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||UK flyers on RGIA radar to keep new strain of Covid at bay||HYDERABAD: State health authorities on Tuesday said that in the face of the threat of a new variant of Covid-19 spreading in UK, all precautions are being taken at the Shamshabad airport. On Monday, all seven people who arrived in the city from UK tested negative while a total of 358 people have come to the city since December 9th, so far. Contact racing for the 358 is on currently. State health authorities have asked people who have come back to Hyderabad to call the phone number 040-24651119. Urging people to remain extremely cautious in meeting unknown people, health authorities asked people to go for covid testing at the instance of slightest suspicion. “We have been alerted to a new type of virus in the UK by the Ministry of health and Family Welfare, Government of India. While people should be cautious, there is no need to worry about the new variant of Corona virus. Although the new variant seems to be spreading fast, it is reported that the deaths are very low. However, the chief minister has issued orders to take all precautions and we have begun contact tracing of all the people who have arrived from the UK in recent days,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana. Also people have been advised to exercise precautions while celebrating Christmas and New year and avoid going to large gathering including Christmas and New Year parties. “Elderly people over 60 years of age should not go out for festivities. For the next two weeks, pregnant women, children and the elderly should remain extremely vigilant and strictly follow Covid-19 precautions,” added the official stressing that spread of the virus in currently under control in the state with just 500-600 cases being recorded daily. He also pointed out that the Covid vaccine will be made available in the next four to five weeks. Meanwhile, the Director Medical Education, Telangana State Dr K Ramesh Reddy said that mutations are common when new viruses arrive. “So far in Telangana no one has been infected with the new variant. For those who have already come from the UK, it is a good idea to stay at home for a fortnight and celebrate New Year at home. There is no need to worry about being infected with the new virus. We will treat the patients like we have treated previously,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uk-flyers-on-rgia-radar-to-keep-new-strain-at-bay/articleshow/79888285.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya mosque against Shariat: AIMPLB||AYODHYA: All India Muslim Personal Law Board executive member and convenor of Babri Masjid Action Committee Zafaryab Jilani has said that the mosque Dhannipur of Ayodhya, the blueprint of which was launched three days back, was against the Waqf Act and also against Shariat. Talking to TOI, Jilani said the proposed mosque violates the Waqf Act as according to it, mosques or land of mosques cannot be bartered. It also violates Sharia law because the Waqf Act is based on Shariat, he added. At a meeting of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board’s executive committee held on October 13, the issue was raised by member of Parliament Asaduddin Owaisi. All members were of the view that exchange of mosque land is not permissible under the Waqf Act. “We have already rejected the proposal to accept land for the mosque at any other place. As we lost the title suit we don’t need any land for a mosque,” said SQR Ilyas, executive member, AIMPLB. He added that “the SC in its judgment has stated that Babri Masjid was not built by demolishing any temple.” “Sunni Central Waqf Board is working under government pressure . Muslims have rejected land at Dhannipur. The mosque trust constituted by the Sunni Central Waqf Board is only symbolically making the masjid there,” he said. Meanwhile, secretary of secretary of Ayodhya Mosque Trust Athar Hussain said, “When the SC has mandated the land it cannot be illegal and different people use to define the Shariat in their own ways. Mosques are places for offering namaz. What is wrong if we are building a mosque.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-mosque-against-shariat/articleshow/79891623.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 23, 2020||Pune||Pune shivers as cold winds lower night temperature to 8.1°C||PUNE: Warm easterly or westerly winds that were expected to raise the minimum temperatures in Pune and other parts did not blow over Maharashtra. Instead, the cold northerly wind that has been lowering the minimum temperatures in North India, continued to influence the weather in Pune, and the rest of the state. So much so that on Tuesday, Pune’s minimum temperature was 8.1 degree celsius in Shivajinagar, 8.8 degree celsius in Pashan and 10.6 degree celsius in Lohegaon, single digits in two of the locations in the city, for the second day this December. These were the lowest night temperatures so far this winter and the city’s coldest winter morning on Tuesday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) data on Tuesday showed that Pune was the coldest spot in Madhya Maharashtra on Tuesday, and third coldest in the state after Parbhani’s 7.6 degree celsius and Gondia’s 7.8 degree celsius. An IMD official said that the North winds were responsible for the fall in temperature. “We are not seeing easterly or westerly wind from the ocean influence parts of Maharashtra, including Pune. Like in parts of North India, chilled winds are coming to Pune without interruption,” he said. On Tuesday, day temperatures in the city fell further to 27.6 degree celsius in Shivajinagar and 27.7 degree celsius in Lohegaon. The lack of sunshine also added to the chill factor. JR Kulkarni, founder of Internet Weather Radio Station and a former scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology said when Pune’s minimums were above normal during the initial period of the current season, some systems over the Bay of Bengal caused night time clouding in parts of western and peninsular India. “At that time, winds were coming from the Bay of Bengal. These winds moist and relatively warm,” he said. Kulkarni added that currently, there are no systems over the Bay of Bengal or Arabian Sea to influence the weather over Maharashtra, and cold winds are penetrating the region. “Also, solar radiation is decreasing as the sun reaches its vertical position over the Tropic of Capricorn on or around December 21–22. Less solar radiation, relatively lower day temperatures, and dipping night temperatures are all lending a chill to the air,” he said. The next few days are likely to be cold in Pune as IMD has forecast day temperatures to be below 30 degree celsius and night temperatures will range between 9-11 degree celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-shivers-as-cold-winds-lower-night-temp-to-8-1c/articleshow/79888271.cms||Neha Madaan
December 23, 2020||Vijayawada||YSRC leaders’ holy trek caught on drone camera||Tirupati: Images of the holy trek embarked upon by a group of YSRC leaders, including state government whip G Srikanth Reddy, former legislator A Amarnath Reddy and other persons through the Annamaiah Margam to Tirumala, were captured by a devotee using a drone camera near Tirumala on Tuesday. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) officials who swung into action after the incident created a flutter, seized the drone camera and erased the images. Former Railway Kodur legislator A Amarnath Reddy, a devotee of Lord Venkateswara, treks up to the Tirumala hills along with his followers along the Annamaiah Margam route on Kadapa ahead of the eve of Vaikunta Ekadasi every year. Following tradition, Amarnath Reddy, along with G Srikanth Reddy and nearly 2,000 followers began their trek to Tirumala on Monday and reached the hill town on Tuesday. While it is not clear whose idea it was, a member of the group used a drone camera to capture images of the holy trek, an act that is considered a violation of security norms at Tirumala. The incident prompted officials from the vigilance and security wing of the TTD to swing into action. TTD executive officer (EO) Dr KS Jawahar Reddy told TOI that the drone camera used to capture the images was immediately seized and all images deleted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-leaders-holy-trek-caught-on-drone-camera/articleshow/79879263.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||6 Karnal villages ban entry of BJP, JJP leaders||Karnal: Residents of six villages in Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s home district of Karnal on Tuesday banned the entry of the ruling BJP and JJP leaders. Agitated over the Centre’s three contentious agri laws, the villagers announced social boycott and put up banners at the entry of the villages banning entry of BJP and JJP leaders. “Jo kisano ke sath khadega, vo gaon me badega (Only persons who stand with farmers will be allowed entry in the village),” said one of the banners. Chhatrapal Singh Sindher, Assandh block vice-president of BKU (Arya) said the villages included Jaisinghpur, Khizrabad, Dera Gama, Jhinda, Ratat, and Dera Pandoriya under the Assandh subdivision. “We have decided to ban the entry of BJP-JJP leaders as they are supporting these anti-farmers laws. Any BJP-JJP leader who visits our village will have to face strong opposition and will have to apologise to the villagers,” Sindher said. He alleged that the Modi government had attacked the farming community by enacting the three agricultural laws. The farmers have been struggling for justified demands in bone-chilling cold, under the open sky for 26 days, but the Union government is not ready to give up its stubborn attitude. Local farmer Sukhvindra Jabbar said it is very unfortunate that those who feed the nation are victims of government apathy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-karnal-villages-ban-entry-of-bjp-jjp-leaders/articleshow/79888217.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Bring gangster in bulletproof vehicle, use commandos: HC||Chandigarh: Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi should be brought from a jail in Rajasthan to the city in a bulletproof or armoured vehicle that is escorted by armed and trained commandos and the transit exercise be videographed, according to the directions of Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill of the Punjab and Haryana high court passed on Monday while disposing of two petitions filed by Bishnoi. The detailed 11-page judgment made available on Tuesday stated, “The entire operation shall be monitored and supervised by Omvir Singh Bishnoi, DIG, Chandigarh. Although in the affidavit furnished by SSP, Chandigarh, it has been deposed that as many as 20 police officers/officials shall be deputed, Omvir Singh Bishnoi shall himself assess the position again and in case he is of the opinion that more personnel are required, the same shall be deputed so as to rule out any possibility of an untoward incident.” “The accused shall be brought in a bullet-proof or armoured vehicle duly escorted by trained commandos armed with sophisticated arms and ammunition. The entire transit shall be videographed by the Chandigarh Police and Haryana Police when the accused is in their custody,” the order said. The court made it clear that in case of any default, the officials concerned shall be held personally liable and responsible. In the backdrop of the recent encounter of criminal Vikas Dubey by Uttar Pradesh Police, Bishnoi had approached the court apprehending a threat to his life in case he is brought from Rajasthan to Haryana and Chandigarh in relation to criminal cases. A murder case was registered against him at Dabwali in Sirsa district of Haryana on July 21, while Chandigarh Police have wanted to question him in connection with two shooting incidents in sectors 9 and 33. Bishnoi, lodged in Central Jail, Bharatpur, Rajasthan, had also demanded that he be handcuffed in cases of his requirement in relation to the murder case registered against him at Dabwali. Claiming innocence, Bishnoi had asserted that he had been a student of DAV College, Sector 10, and was actively involved in student politics as a member of student organisation, SOPU. His main plea was that he was on July 21 wrongly nominated as an accused in the case at Dabwali. It was submitted that he has no role or concern with the FIR registered while he was lodged in Central Jail, Jodhpur. According to him, as the investigating agency was unable to make any substantial progress, he was arrayed as an accused to cover its shortcomings. In connection with the Chandigarh case, Bishnoi through his counsel had submitted that his physical presence in respect of investigation in the FIRs be dispensed with, or he be interrogated through videoconferencing; or he be handcuffed if he was required to be taken out of the jail. Further apprehending the threat to his life and liberty, Bishnoi had also attached some representations made by his mother to the DGP seeking protection of his life. A native of Dutaria village of Fazilka district in Punjab, Bishnoi in January 2018 had allegedly given death threat to actor Salman Khan ahead of a court hearing of 1998 blackbuck poaching case and his men were nabbed doing a recce of his house in Mumbai. ‘DIG TO MONITOR OPERATION’ Lawrence Bishnoi shall first be brought from Rajasthan to Chandigarh after obtaining requisite production warrants and produced before illaqa magistrate to seek remand. The operation shall be monitored and supervised by Omvir Singh Bishnoi, DIG, Chandigarh. If he feels more than 20 cops, as mentioned by SSP, are needed, they will be provided to rule out any possibility of an untoward incident. Lawrence Bishnoi shall be handcuffed and shackled during transit. This will be helpful for the police as well as the accused as the apprehension of the police that he may escape and that of the petitioner of a fake encounter will be minimised The police before proceeding to Rajasthan shall intimate the police so that adequate arrangements are made for a safe transit and there is effective coordination between the police of both the states regarding the safest route to be taken It shall be ensured that all the vehicles are in perfect condition and serviced beforehand and checked to rule out any chance of breakdown After the Chandigarh Police have interrogated the petitioner, he shall be handed over to the Haryana Police In case of any default, the officials concerned shall be held personally liable and responsible||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bring-gangster-in-bulletproof-vehicle-use-commandos-hc/articleshow/79888351.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer’s JLN hosp to have 100 ICU beds||Ajmer: Health minister Raghu Sharma has cautioned that the threat of Covid was not over in the state and it was important to remain alert to fight the virus. He said the isolation ward of JLN Hospital in Ajmer will be upgraded from 30 beds to 100 and there will be a new CT scan machine installed to help fight the virus. Sharma and agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria on Tuesday held a meeting of district officials on Covid preparation in Ajmer. Sharma said people have to remain cautious against the virus. He directed officials to increase tests according to new guidelines and said officials should follow new guidelines to curb infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmers-jln-hosp-to-have-100-icu-beds/articleshow/79888422.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Two get life term for raping two Baran minors||KOTA: A POCSO court in Baran on Tuesday sentenced two persons to life for abducting and raping two minor girls for nearly two months in March 2015. The court imposed a penalty of Rs 1 lakh on each convict. "Naresh Panchal (25) and Sheru alias Shahid (24), both residents of Anta town of Baran district, were sentenced to life term for abducting, confining and raping two minor girls," said special public prosecutor (SPP) Mahesh Tyagi. "The father of a 15-year-old girl had lodged a report in Anta police station on March 21, 2015 alleging that his daughter and her friend (16) were missing from home for a day. He suspected the neighbours identified as Naresh Panchal and Sheru of abducting them as the girls were last seen with these youths," Tyagi said, adding that police lodged a case under sections 363 and 366 of IPC and initiated investigation. The two minor girls were rescued after around two months from separate places in MP and Gujarat following which the police incorporated sections of rape and POCSO Act and arrested the two accused, he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-get-life-term-for-raping-2-baran-minors/articleshow/79888364.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Land survey starts in Bheemili||Visakhapatnam: The Vizag district administration started the land survey at Ramayogi Agraharam in Bheemili mandal. Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao and Rajya Sabha MP V Viajaysai Reddy said the YSR Jagannana Bhoo Hakku and Bhoo Raksha schemes will provide permanent land rights to landowners. They urged people to bring to the government’s notice encroachment of common land. — Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/land-survey-starts-in-bheemili/articleshow/79879432.cms||Siva G
December 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||50 kilos of ganja seized in Vizag, 4 held||Visakhapatnam: The Vizag police, in collaboration with city task force (CTF), conducted surprise raids at various places in the city on Tuesday and arrested four youngsters including a BTech student while they were trying to transport 50 kilos of ganja. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) (CCS), S Sravan Kumar, said that the raids were carried out on the basis of credible information to nab the drug peddlers and as part of the anti-drug drive going on since December 15. Kumar further said that in one case a 20-year-old BTech student, K Rama Rao, was arrested along with 20-year-old D Hantal while transporting 15 kilos of ganja at Pendurthi in Vizag. In another case, the Pendurthi police along with CTF officials held a raid near Agnampudi toll plaza and arrested three persons, S Suresh (20), D Varahanandham (27) and P Govida Raju (24), all residents of Munchingiput, while they were allegedly transporting 34 kilos of ganja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/50-kilos-of-ganja-seized-in-vizag-4-held/articleshow/79879350.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Fake’ excise men turn out to be cops, sacked||Mohali: The alleged fake excise department officials who had thrashed a 54-year-old man in an attempt to loot him of gold and cash at his house in Sector 17 on Sunday were two Punjab Police cops posted in the district. Both have been identified as assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Rashpreet Singh and constable Devinder Singh. They are absconding. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said, “Both have been dismissed. They will be arrested soon.” On April 26, police had arrested four gangsters after a shootout during a raid at their hideout in Panchkula. Rashpreet Singh, who was head constable then, had been shot in his leg when he tried to nab one of the gangsters. Later, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta had promoted him to the rank of ASI. On Sunday, Rashpreet and Devinder had rang the doorbell of Naresh, a vice-president in a private company. “They claimed they were from the excise department. One of them claimed to be a DSP. They took out a gun and asked me to show gold and cash. When I asked them for their identity cards, they started thrashing me and hit me with the pistol butt,” he had alleged. The accused took his mobile phone and fled with a man waiting for them in a Maruti Swift car. Naresh, who is admitted to a private hospital, claimed he did not know them. Police had registered a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 458 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night after preparation for hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint), 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to the committing of the theft), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act. DISMISSED Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said, “Both the cops, ASI Rashpreet Singh and constable Devinder Singh, have been dismissed from service. Further investigation is on and raids are being conducted. They will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fake-excise-men-turn-out-to-be-cops-sacked/articleshow/79888460.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 19 linked to loan app racket held||HYDERABAD: Sleuths from Hyderabad and Cyberabad police have arrested 19 persons from the city and Gurugram in the nationwide instant loan app racket days after three persons killed themselves in state over harassment by the financiers. Suspecting the possibility of fraudsters from China, top cops said they would soon involve the ED and I-T departments in the multi-crore money-lending racket involving at least 30 loan apps. “We have written to banks and frozen 18 bank accounts holding Rs 1.52 crore,” Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar said. Police said thousands of people across the country were targeted after lockdown and only a multi-city probe would reveal the extent of the racket in India. Accused were speaking to thousands, threatening themThe raids were carried out in three call centres in Hyderabad and two in Gurugram. All the five call centres raided are registered in Bengaluru and sources said CID Bangalore was also carrying out an operation against such apps. The cybercrime police of Hyderabad arrested 11 persons, including the Gurugram operators and the Hyderabad gang members led by Madhu Babu Singi, centre head; Manoj Kumar Singhi, assistant manager; Mahesh Kumar Singi, administrator, among others. Separately, Cyberabad police arrested six members of a gang operating two call centres and three money lending apps. Two of the three money lending apps operated by one Sharath Chandra's companies have tie ups with nine NBFCs. “The three apps have over 70,000 active customers based across the country. Police booked a case against the accused under sections 420, 506 of the IPC and section 66 of the IT Act,” said an officer. Sajjanar and Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said the arrested persons were talking to thousands of borrowers and blackmailing them with threats, if there was any delay in payments. “The call centres in Hyderabad employed 600 telecallers and at Gurugram there were nearly 500 telecallers, offering services to 30 money-lending apps. We have arrested the heads of call centres and key managers. These money-lending app companies are illegally operating without following RBI guidelines and subjecting people who borrowed money to harassment, forcing some of them to commit suicide,” Anjani Kumar said. Cyberabad commissioner Sajjanar explained said: “One of the victims applied for Rs 5,000 loan and after the amount was sanctioned, he received Rs 3,820 in his SBI account with Rs 1,180 deduction for various charges. Subsequently, he repaid Rs 5,000 in one week and later he applied for a loan of Rs 30,000 from different apps between January 8, 2020 and September 21, 2020. He received only Rs 20,000 and till September 12, he paid Rs 29,000.” “The call centre staff asked him to pay Rs 8,634 more and started using abusive language. They contacted people in his contact list and started blackmailing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-linked-to-loan-app-racket-held/articleshow/79891683.cms||Mahesh Buddi
December 23, 2020||Pune||Savitribai Phule Pune University puts off practicals to 2nd semester||PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University has postponed all practicals, oral, seminars, projects examinations for the first semester to the second semester. Mahesh Kakade, director of examination and evaluation, said colleges have not reopened and students have not been able to conduct practicals hence the decision to postpone it to the end of the term. “The kind of exposure in a laboratory that the students are expected to get has not happened this year. After a discussion with all board of studies and other bodies of the university, it was decided that while the theory examinations conducted by the university will happen as per the plan, the practicals will be pushed to the next semester,” Kakade said. However, students have to fill up forms in a regular way, mentioning their willingness to appear in the respective semester’s practical exam. Results will be given only in the online format at the end of the first semester. Only after the student completes both the semesters, will they receive the physical copy of their results. The university will conduct exams for students with backlogs in their practicals or viva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-puts-off-practicals-to-2nd-semester/articleshow/79888450.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||13k volunteers for Covaxin’sphase III trials||Hyderabad: Covaxin, India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech, has been successful in roping in 13,000 volunteers for its Phase III trials, which is half the number of volunteers targeted for the efficacy studies. The Phase III human trials began in mid-November with NIMS Hyderabad. The company plans to conduct the efficacy studies on 26,000 participants at 25 sites across India, making it the first and largest Phase III efficacy trials ever conducted for any vaccine in the country. Bharat Biotech joint MD Suchitra Ella, termed the Covaxin efficacy trials as unprecedented. “We sincerely thank all the 13,000 volunteers for their support in enabling us to bring out a safe and efficacious Indian vaccine for Covid-19,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/13k-volunteers-for-covaxinsphase-iii-trials/articleshow/79888371.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Lions kill girl in Junagadh village, eat her body parts||RAJKOT: In a rare brutal attack on humans, two lions mauled to death a 17-year-old girl, fed on her body parts for nearly 15 minutes, in a village of Junagadh district, on Monday night. Forest officials say the attack was another classic case of the lions mistaking humans for some animal when they are wrapped in a blanket and answering nature’s call. The girl Bhavna Bamania and her cousin Rekha had gone out of their house in Dhanfuliya village o Vanthli taluka sometime between 9:30pm and 10pm to relieve themselves. As it was bitterly cold, the girls had wrapped themselves in a blanket. Suddenly two lions, believed to be three to four years old, came from nowhere and pounced on Bhavna. A shocked Rekha jumped into the water tank nearby and the lions grabbed Bhavna by her head. Rekha started screaming for help and her family members and a lion tracker living in the village rushed in her direction. However, the lions dragged Bhavna’s body for around 100-150 m away and ate the portion from thigh to knee. The tracker and villagers even tried to move away the lions from the girl’s body by making loud noise but the felines sat stubbornly feasting on the body parts. In about 15 minutes, a team from the forest department reached there. Seeing more people gather there, the lions left the body and went away into the wild. Bhavna was the nephew of a migrant agriculture labourer who lives in a small house near the farm. The family from Panchamhal had moved to Vanthli in search of work at a farm of one Jeram Chavda. The forest department has set up cages to capture the lions. SK Srivastava, chief conservator of forest, Junagadh told TOI: “The girls had gone to attend nature’s call in the open and they were wrapped in some dark colour shawl or blanket. It appears that the lions mistook the girl for some small animal. They killed the girl and dragged the body.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lions-kill-girl-in-junagadh-village-eat-her-body-parts/articleshow/79879473.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: CET cell declares MBA & MMS plan, first list on December 28||PUNE: The State Common Entrance Test (CET) cell declared new dates for the centralised admission process on Tuesday after Bombay high court on December 11 permitted the addition of ATMA, MAT and XAT results for the management admission process for the academic year 2020-21. The eligibility criteria says that students must have a non-zero score in MAH MBA/MMS-CET 2020 or obtained a non-zero positive score in any one of the examinations like GMAT, CAT, MAT, ATMA, XAT and CMAT. The last date for online registration is December 25 and the first provisional merit list would be declared on December 28. The move brings relief to students who had previously applied on the basis of their CET score despite getting a better score in ATMA or the other examinations. “The candidates who have already registered and confirmed their application form through e-scrutiny centre (E-SC) and want to apply for MBA/MMS courses on the basis of ATMA, MAT, XAT examination can submit a grievance at the E-SC. After approval of such grievances, candidates can add their additional CET details through their login and submit for re-verification to the E-SC,” the directive on the official website said. Parag Kalkar, professor and director at Sinhgad Institute of Business Administration and Computer Application, said all students are brought at par after they fill up their forms. “All examinations have different difficulty levels and characteristics. The CAP committee uses formulae where the total number of students, the highest score, the lowest score and other factors are used to arrive at the equivalent score for the student who has qualified in an examination other than the state CET,” he said. The academic activities will begin from January 11 while the cut-off date for admissions will be January 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cet-cell-declares-mba-mms-plan-first-list-on-dec-28/articleshow/79888384.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Three friends die as car rams into truck||JAIPUR: Three friends were killed and two others injured when a car in which they were travelling rammed into a truck near Ridhi Sidhi in the city on Monday midnight. Police were recording the statements of the injured and were into other medical examinations to ascertain if the driver of the vehicle was under the influence of alcohol. According to police, the accident spot was already having a very less flow of traffic especially due to the night curfew. The incident took place at 1 am on Tuesday when five friends were coming through Mansarover area. “It appears that the speed of the car was high which resulted in the accident. Suddenly the car rammed into a truck passing through Ridhi Sidhi chauraha,” said a senior police officer. Police stated that it was a nasty collision due to which the front of the car was badly smashed and all the five persons, including two sitting on the front seat, got trapped inside the car. “Some locals informed the police control room and a team of police rushed to the spot. With the help of metal cutters, the trapped passengers of the car were brought out. Three identified as Rakesh (32), Mukesh (30) and Pushpendra (30) died on the spot. Two others who were sent to the hospital have been identified as Daljit (23) and Vivek (24). “It was found that Pushpendra has hotels on the bypass and he got a call from a friend to meet. So, he left to meet them along with others who were in the car,” said police. According to locals, all the persons got trapped inside the car for a long time until ambulance and police reached at the spot. All the bodies were sent to the mortuary of the SMS Hospital. However, police claimed that since many policemen were on duty to maintain night curfew, a team of police rushed to the accident site within 15 minutes after the accident. Police have also recorded the statements of the injured to ascertain if they were under the influence of alcohol. “Prima facie it is negligent driving by the driver of the car, however, we are also probing other angles,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-friends-die-as-car-rams-into-truck/articleshow/79888474.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Civic body likely to be flooded with objections||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is expected to be flooded with objections over the ward reservations from political workers and candidates interested to contest in upcoming civic body . The process of reserving the wards for scheduled, backward and women category candidates were held on Monday at Keshavrao Bhosale Natyagruha. Through the process of drawing lots, 11 wards were reserved for the scheduled category, 22 for backward category and 50% of the overall 81 wards for women candidates. The entire process took over three hours. Though the KMC had barred people from raising objections, several political workers raised objections which hints that the election process is going to heat up in coming days.  RK Powar, senior Nationalist Congress Party leader said, “We are witnessing the wards have been reserved for various categories depending on the population of that scheduled category in that ward. However, the KMC has changed the extent and boundaries of the wards which should have been reflected in the reservation process. Also, we were told in 2015 election that there will be no change in the ward structure for 10 years despite that the several localities in many wards have been exchanged with other nearby wards.” Avinash Sanas, deputy commissioner of state election commission who was called to guide the KMC authorities, said, “There is no law as to keep the ward structures unchanged for 10 years. Also, the commission has approved the ward delimitations with minor changes. The process is held as per the directions of the Bombay high court and orders of the commission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/civic-body-likely-to-be-flooded-with-objections/articleshow/79844594.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to PU, admn for January 12||Senate Polls Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday issued notice to the Panjab University (PU) and UT administration on a petition filed by seven former PU senators demanding senate elections. Justice Fateh Deep Singh issued the notice for January 12 to PU vice-chancellor, Registrar and UT home secretary, seeking their reply. The petition was filed by Keshav Malhotra and six others. The former senators want the quashing of the August 15 orders of the VC to defer the elections indefinitely. An appeal was also made to set aside the October 16 communication of the administration asking PU to defer the elections. PU senate is a 91-member supreme governing body of the university, in which 36 members are nominated by the chancellor. The senate term ended on October 31. The petitioners have alleged certain candidates owing allegiance to the ruling political dispensation at the Centre in order to avoid an unsuccessful contest initially pressurised the university administration and their political bosses to defer the elections. They have now started another agenda for replacing the senate with a committee comprising representatives of the ruling political party who would be nominated by the office of the chancellor, also the vice president of India, through the home affairs ministry, it was alleged. According to the petition, the VC did not have jurisdiction to defer the election and should have brought the matter before the syndicate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-pu-admn-for-january-12/articleshow/79888468.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Condition of kids worse than animals, says RSCPCR chief||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR) team, including its chairperson, visited juvenile justice home in Bharatpur on Tuesday and found that the kids were living in miserable conditions. The chairperson found that the living conditions were “worse than that of animals” and ordered an inquiry into the matter. RSCPCR chairperson Sangeeta Beniwal said, “I reached Bharatpur on Monday night and decided to visit the home and was aghast to find the conditions in which the minors were being put up. In two rooms, 14 boys were being put up in cramped spaces.” TimesViewThe dismal state of living at the juvenile justice home in Bharatpur found during an inspection on Tuesday revealed that minors were treated worse than animals. The state government must act against the guilty. Though the juveniles are sent to these homes to motivate them to leave the world of crime, the living conditions may force them to do just the opposite. It would negate the whole purpose of having such homes.Beniwal said she spoke to the boys and found that they were not even allowed to go to the verandah outside the rooms. “The boys told me that despite the fact that there were CCTV cameras in the area, they were not allowed to step outside the rooms. Considering that all of them are teenagers, they require exercise and the home supervisor could not give a reason for caging the boys like this.” The chairperson also got to know that the boys were not getting their meals on time. The detainees claimed that breakfast was almost always late and they had to keep shouting for it before it was provided. “I fail to understand the logic behind this kind of treatment. The juveniles also alleged that few days ago, cops in uniform came and beat them up. This is actually against the law as no police personnel is supposed to appear in front of the minors in uniform,” added the official. Beniwal also claimed that while she had visited many juvenile homes across the state, she had never seen condition similar to the one in Bharatpur. “The boys told me that none of the officials spoke to them at all. I will meet the district administration officials to gather more information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/condition-of-kids-worse-than-animals-rights-chief/articleshow/79888462.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Indore||SOTTO will soon shift to Bhopal||BHOPAL: Exactly a year after Indore-based State Organ Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) was conferred with a national award, it is now being relocated to Bhopal. The institution was set up in Indore in early 2016 after a rigorous tug-of-war between experts from the two cities – Bhopal and Indore. “SOTTO nodal officer being stationed in the state capital at the directorate of medical education (DME) would ease administrative work,” said a senior DME official, requesting anonymity. Head of the department, ophthalmology, Gandhi Medical College (GMC), Dr Kavita Kumar has been given the additional charge of state SOTTO nodal officer. She has been involved in organ and tissue donation for long and has the right credentials for the job. Supposed to be governing authority, SOTTO takes decisions on organ transplant and harvesting issues; its office-bearers are appointed by the state. As per the initial mandate of National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO), SOTTO should be in the city, which has AIIMS. AIIMS Bhopal, however, did not express the willingness to host SOTTO. In 2016, after much ado, Indore finally got the sanction for SOTTO at MGM College on the grounds that the city was far ahead of Bhopal in number of transplants. That scenario has not changed in 2020 even though Covid-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the deceased donor programme across India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/sotto-will-soon-shift-to-state-capital/articleshow/79905751.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Vijayawada||492 leopards counted in Andhra Pradesh: Union report||VIJAYAWADA: The leopard population in Andhra Pradesh is estimated to be around 492, according to the latest Status of Leopards in India 2018 report released by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change on Monday. The report suggests that leopard population in AP is the fifth-largest among the seven states situated in the central and Eastern Ghats. The report is based on data recorded manually on forms or digitally using M-STrIPES (Monitoring System for Tigers: Intensive Protection and Ecological Status), an ecological Android mobile application. State forest officials who were part of the sampling and survey teams said the report arrived at 492 based on camera trap sites and pegged that the overall population in the state could be between 461 to 523, as mentioned in the report. Officials point out that the leopard population has substantially increased compared to the report in 2014, in which combined AP had a leopard population of 343. Now, both AP and Telangana combined stands at 140% more than what it was in 2014. Similarly, the other six states in the central and Eastern Ghats show a drastic increase compared to the 2014 report. However, the 2018 and the 2014 reports conducted the census only across tiger habitats, while there have been several instances in which leopards have strayed into human habitats. Experts point out that the initiative to conduct a leopard census is still in its nascent stage and that it would be premature to conclude that the overall population has seen a boom in the last few years. A concrete picture can be arrived at over the next two decades, they said. The overall leopard population in the central and Eastern Ghats stands at 8,071, which is an 81% increase compared to 4,456 in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/492-leopards-counted-in-ap-union-report/articleshow/79879486.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 23, 2020||Bhopal||SOTTO will soon shift to Bhopal||BHOPAL: Exactly a year after Indore-based State Organ Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) was conferred with a national award, it is now being relocated to Bhopal. The institution was set up in Indore in early 2016 after a rigorous tug-of-war between experts from the two cities – Bhopal and Indore. “SOTTO nodal officer being stationed in the state capital at the directorate of medical education (DME) would ease administrative work,” said a senior DME official, requesting anonymity. Head of the department, ophthalmology, Gandhi Medical College (GMC), Dr Kavita Kumar has been given the additional charge of state SOTTO nodal officer. She has been involved in organ and tissue donation for long and has the right credentials for the job. Supposed to be governing authority, SOTTO takes decisions on organ transplant and harvesting issues; its office-bearers are appointed by the state. As per the initial mandate of National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO), SOTTO should be in the city, which has AIIMS. AIIMS Bhopal, however, did not express the willingness to host SOTTO. In 2016, after much ado, Indore finally got the sanction for SOTTO at MGM College on the grounds that the city was far ahead of Bhopal in number of transplants. That scenario has not changed in 2020 even though Covid-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the deceased donor programme across India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sotto-will-soon-shift-to-state-capital/articleshow/79884514.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Now, peddlers dial food apps to supply drugs, hoodwink cops||HYDERABAD: Peddlers in the city are coming up with novel ways such as packing drugs along with idlis and getting it delivered to clients without direct contact. In two such instances recently, cops stumbled upon food and grocery delivery service providers being used by peddlers to deliver the contraband in the guise of supplying food parcel. In the second week of December, an excise team nabbed a drug user at Ram Nagar and found him in possession of ganja. While checking his phone data, the sleuths were shocked to find that he had placed an order for LSD blots and received them from an unidentified supplier through a food delivery executive. Police have managed to arrest one such offender who was caught supplying hashish oil. A second offender who was believed to be delivering LSD after receiving orders on Instagram, however, managed to escape despite police laying a trap through an informant. Cops: Payment made through e-walletsPolice confirmed that payment is made through e-wallets and in the form of bitcoins. Explaining the modus operandi, a senior excise official said the supplier provides access to only those recommended by his trusted customers and accepts payment through bitcoin. “Once the amount is transferred, he delivers the drugs like LSD through food/grocery delivery executives by placing them in a sheet to make it look like a food parcel,” said an excise official. While a manhunt is on for the elusive peddler who uses Instagram, food/grocery delivery services and cryptocurrency to cover his tracks, the special operations team (SOT) of Rachakonda managed to arrest an engineering degree dropout from Manikonda for peddling hashish oil to his customers through the food delivery executives. SOT inspector Naveen Kumar said the 24-year-old accused, V Laxmipathi, would carefully pack the contraband to make it appear like a parcel of food or a stationery item. “Laxmipathi was buying hashish oil from a seller in Visakhapatnam and mixing it with isopropyl alcohol before packing it in 10 ml bottles. He was delivering the hashish oil to his known clients for Rs 3,000 per 10 ml through various food apps,” Naveen Kumar said. Laxmipathi, who was sent to judicial remand, will be questioned by Hayathnagar police on how executed the supply of drugs. “Laxmipathi was clearly using food/grocery delivery apps to deliver the drugs. A few more will be arrested soon,” Hayathnagar inspector M Surender said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-peddlers-dial-food-apps-to-supply-drugs-hoodwink-cops/articleshow/79891757.cms||Mahesh Buddi
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to develop facilities to study new strain of Covid||JAIPUR: In the wake of the mutated Covid found in the UK, the Rajasthan government is proactively taking measures to develop facilities to check if the strain of the SARS-CoV-2 has changed. The Sawai Man Singh Medical College in Jaipur will start virus sequencing to detect the mutation. The sequencing lab is expected to start functioning from January. As of now, the state depends on a laboratory in Delhi to find out if the strain of the virus has changed. “Our sequencing lab will become functional soon. In due course of time, we are sending samples to a lab in Delhi to find out if there is any mutation in the virus. So far we have sent 100 samples and no mutation has been reported in the dominant strain of the virus,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. At the sequencing lab coming up at the microbiology laboratory of SMS Medical College, Sanger sequencing machines will be used to study Covid genes. The lab will study spike in protein and specific genes such as RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), open reading frame (ORF) and n-gene, which are part of family genes like E, N, S, ORF and RdRp, which are targeted as a part of screening and confirmation of Covid cases. “Initially, we will not do whole genome sequencing. But, we will study spike protein and specific genes such as n-gene, RdRp and ORF. If there is any change spike protein found, it shows infectivity of the virus has changed. If the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 undergoes mutations, we will be able to identify it at our lab,” said Dr Nitya Vyas, head of the department, microbiology department, SMS Medical College. In Covid, spike proteins play key role in infecting human cells. If there is mutation in the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, the infectivity of the virus may increase. “Apart from spike protein, the lab will also be able to find the effectiveness of RT-PCR test kits, which are being used in diagnosis of Covid. If there is change detected in specific RdRp, ORF or e-gene, it means that the diagnosis of Covid by prevelant diagnostic RT-PCR kit will become difficult,” said Dr Vyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-to-develop-facilities-to-study-new-strain-of-covid/articleshow/79888541.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Nurse steals jewellery of deceased, held||JAIPUR: The police arrested a male nurse for stealing jewellery of a woman who was killed in an accident at Chandwaji in Jaipur (Rural) district. The accused has been identified as Saddam Hussain (28) who was working on contract at 108 ambulance. The couple, Mahesh Yadav and his wife Sanjana Devi, was killed in a road accident. Another person, identified as Mohan Lal, was also arrested for stealing mobile phone of the deceased.  Gyan Chand Yadav, additional SP, Jaipur(Rural) said the relatives of the deceased approached police after her death. Thus, based on evidences, the nurse was interrogated and later arrested, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nurse-steals-jewellery-of-deceased-held/articleshow/79888497.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Police to be extra cautious in honeytrap cases, HC told||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has issued instructions to all its police stations to be extra careful in cases of honeytrap, without harassing the accused persons. It informed Delhi High Court on Tuesday that “a circular has also been issued to all police stations and units with instructions that in all cases of honeytrapping, action may be taken as per law without harassing the accused persons.” The submission was made before Justice Suresh Kait who, in September this year, directed Delhi Police to call for reports from all police stations in cases of “'honeytrap” or extortion and issue standing orders for taking action. The high court’s order came while granting anticipatory bail to a businessman, accused in a rape case, who claimed that he was trapped and tricked under a well-designed, meticulously planned and thoroughly woven racket of extortionists. The court had then also directed police to find out if the woman complainant and her neighbour/associate were involved in any other similar cases, while also seeking details about similar cases in other parts of the city. In response, police told the court that three cases having similar “modus operandi” as the current one were found in Rohini and in all three, the complainants were another set of two women. As regards the complaint against the businessman, the police said one of the women had lodged a similar complaint in 2016. In view of the submissions made by the police, the court said no further orders need to be passed and disposed of the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-to-be-extra-cautious-in-honeytrap-cases-hc-told/articleshow/79884515.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Mumbai||How government changed track on Mumbai Metro car shed||MUMBAI: Barely months before the Centre opposed the state’s bid to shift the Metro car shed to Kanjurmarg, the Union ministry of commerce may have been preparing to hand over the same plot for the Metro 6 depot. In a letter dated July 31, 2020, under secretary P K Pattnaik wrote to the salt commissioner: “You are requested to conduct joint survey and submit joint survey report within one week (along with revised market value of the land, if there is any change in the area of the land after joint survey), so as to enable this department to prepare the proposed cabinet note.” The subject of Pattnaik’s letter was “Transfer of 43.76 hectares of Salt Department’s land under CTS No 657A & 853 of Kanjur Village to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for construction of car depot for Mumbai Metro Line 6.’’ On November 1, 2019, MMRDA commissioner R A Rajeev had written to the ministry saying MMRDA was ready to accept the Kanjurmarg land on “as is, where is’’ basis. But it was when the Maha Vikas Aghadi government unilaterally decided to shift the Metro 3 car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg that the Centre objected. “The Kanjur plot was always to be used for the Metro 6-line depot. It is only when the suggestion came to move the Aarey Depot to Kanjur that a bogey of litigation was created where there was none,’’ said activist Zoru Bhathena. “The previous state government had started Metro 6 project in 2016 with the depot in Kanjurmarg, for which all agencies including the salt department had agreed. Unfortunately, in 2020, these same departments approached the court to stop the land from being acquired,’’ he added. The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs red-flagged the state’s decision to have a common car shed at Kanjurmarg in a letter dated December 1, 2020. Secretary of the ministry, Durga Shanker Mishra, wrote to state chief secretary, Sanjay Kumar: “…the way integration of Line-3 and Line-6 is being planned may create huge operational difficulties for both the metro lines within 5-7 years after commencement of their operation. This is not desirable for a cost intensive project like metro,’’ it said. “Line 3 is in the advanced stage of construction with 90% of tunnelling work and 60% of station work completed,’’ said Mishra to the chief secretary. The letter said that a 2015 committee constituted by the government of Maharashtra had considered the possibility of a shed at Kanjurmarg for Line-3. It had also recommended extending it by 7.5 kms from Aarey up to Kanjurmarg by developing this extended section as a natural part of Line-3. Mishra recommended that the state government conduct a techno-economic feasibility of proposed shifting of the depot before going for a detailed project report as has been presently decided by GoM. Last month, in a major setback to the MVA government, the Bombay high court stayed the suburban Mumbai collector’s October 1 order, transferring the 102-acre Kanjurmarg plot for the metro car shed. The court also halted all on-going work at the site. The Centre through its salt department, claiming ownership of the Kanjurmarg land, filed a petition to challenge the collector’s order transferring the land to MMRDA and also a 2018 order of the Maharashtra revenue minister declaring the state as owner of various salt pan lands and declaring some to be privately held, in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-planned-to-give-kanjur-plot-for-metro-6-depot/articleshow/79899772.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
December 23, 2020||Dehradun||Due to shortage of funds, 392 canals lying closed||Dehradun: In reply to a question by Congress MLA from Manglaur Qazi Nizam-ud-din, irrigation minister Satpal Maharaj told the state assembly that out of the 3,005 canals under the department, 392 were lying closed due to their poor condition and as a consequence, water cannot be taken to 17,000 hectares of land for irrigation. The Congress MLA asked the minister whether the state government had plans to revive and restore these canals, which are a major source of irrigating fields. In his reply, the minister said that most of these canals were damaged by heavy rains, floods, landslides, road construction, and natural calamities. He added that as per the availability of funds, the repair of damaged canals is being carried out. Congress MLA from Kedarnath Manoj Rawat said that while the state requires Rs 162 crore for repair of canals, only Rs 31 crore has been provided. “This shows the commitment of the state government towards providing irrigation water to farmers and their commitment towards the farmers, who provide us food. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched Pradhan Mantri Krishi Yojana, a Rs 65,000 crore project, to provide irrigation water to all fields. The minister needs to tell everyone how much is Uttarakhand getting for the project or it is just another gimmick of the BJP government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/due-to-shortage-of-funds-392-canals-lying-closed/articleshow/79879500.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four on London-Ahmedabad flight test Covid positive||AHMEDABAD: Four passengers who arrived by Air India flight AI-1172 from Heathrow airport in London to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International airport in Ahmedabad at 10.30am on Tuesday tested Covid-19 positive. They were among the 269 passengers and crew members who arrived at the city airport from London. They flew into the city just a day before the suspension of flights to and from the UK following the reports of the emergence of a new, highly infectious strain of Covid-19 virus there. All the four passengers — three men and a woman — were taken to SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad and are currently being treated there. “Their blood samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genome sequencing. We will soon know about the strain of the virus,” said O P Machra, deputy municipal commissioner, AMC. Health department officials said the samples will also be sent to the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) for confirming the strain of the virus locally. “We need to determine if the viral strain is the newly discovered mutated variant or something different,” said a top official. “Of those who tested positive, two are from Anand and one each from Bharuch and Diu. All passengers who tested positive are persons of Indian origin,” a top official said. “The passenger from Bharuch, however, is a British passport holder.” Based on Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) guidelines, all flights to/from the UK have been suspended till December 31. In accordance with the instruction, the state-owned carrier Air India, which operates Vande Bharat flights connecting Ahmedabad to London twice a week, cancelled its flight AI-1171 from Ahmedabad to London, scheduled to depart on Tuesday. Swab samples of all the AI-1172 passengers and crew were collected for RT-PCR tests soon after their arrival. When the passengers entered Terminal 2, they were contained on the first floor itself. Besides health department officials, a team of CISF personnel were deployed to cordon off the area. Passengers who tested negative could leave the airport by about 5pm. However, they will have to remain under quarantine as stipulated by the revised norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/strain-check-for-samples-of-4-ve-fliers-from-uk/articleshow/79884658.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bhopal||New Covid strain: Madhya Pradesh to follow Central norms on UK fliers||BHOPAL: The state government will follow the guidelines issued by the Central government for passengers arriving from the UK in the wake of a fresh surge in coronavirus cases there. Secretary, health, ministry of health and family welfare, Rajesh Bhushan, has written to the state government officials on the guidelines in question. Additional chief secretary, home, Rajesh Rajora, told TOI, “We are going to follow these guidelines and the health department, government of MP, will release the protocol.” He further said that guidelines relating to international flights and international airports won't apply to MP since there is no international flight originating or culminating in the state, but guidelines for passengers, who arrive in the state, from the UK, will still be relevant for MP. The guidelines laid down by the ministry of health stipulates that passengers arriving from the UK in all international flights (flights in transit) should be subjected to RT-PCR tests on their arrival at the airport and those found positive on arrival must be sent for institutional quarantine/isolation by the state/UT governments concerned. Those who are found negative in RT-PCR tests should be advised to isolate themselves at home for seven days, to be medically monitored by the states/UTs concerned. Relevant information in this regard may be prominently displayed in the arrival area/waiting areas of the airport. The state/UT governments are being separately asked to set up helpdesks at the airport to facilitate this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-to-follow-centre-guidelines-for-passengers-from-uk/articleshow/79884516.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Delhi||Man posing as UP cop held for rape in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 28-year-old man, who had befriended a woman in Delhi posing as an Uttar Pradesh police officer, has been arrested for allegedly raping her in a hotel in central Delhi’s Paharganj in September. Police have found that Sandeep Kumar was also in touch with some other women. A fake cop’s nameplate was seized from his rented house in Meerut. Kumar got married in 2009 and has a son, but he later married again, police said. According to police, the woman said she was raped on September 6 by a UP cop whom she knew for some time. DCP (central) Sanjay Bhatia said the identity proof used by the accused to book the hotel was fake. Kumar’s photographs were shown at bars he used to frequent and he was arrested from one of them. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-posing-as-up-cop-held-for-rape/articleshow/79884539.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt allows mining of sand on private land||Lucknow: The UP government has decided to allow mining for construction material like sand, etc on private land, by giving mining licence to the private land owner at double the royalty, reports Neha Lalchandani. The proposal was cleared by chief minister Yogi Adityanath during a review meeting of the geology and mining department on Tuesday. Department secretary Dr Roshan Jacob said that the sand, etc is found in sizable quantities on private land as well but there were no laws governing mining on private land. Private land owners can now get a licence by paying twice the royalty and get mining carried out on their land. During the review, the CM said that people should get minerals like sand and other construction material at reasonable rates. He said that a constant supply of such raw material must be maintained so that people do not face any problems. Jacob said that compared to previous years, the rate of construction raw material is stable in the state. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the department earned Rs 420.8 crore in revenue this financial year, which is 21.5% more than the previous year. Other than this, import of minerals from other states added to revenue by Rs 120.2 crore through interstate transit pass fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-allows-mining-of-sand-on-private-land/articleshow/79891771.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana may get Covid vaccine shots from 3 firms, say health officials||HYDERABAD: Covid vaccine roll-out in the state in January will be a mixed bag with shots from different companies to be administered to four categories of beneficiaries. In all probability, vaccines from three different companies will be available, senior health officials have said. Speaking to TOI about the roll out plan, director public health Dr G Srinivasa Rao said, “Vaccines will not be from a single company. We will be looking at having vaccines from two to three companies, including Bharat Biotech, Moderna and Serum Institute.” Meanwhile, officials training district and primary health centre (PHC)-level healthcare force, who would be responsible for the roll out of the vaccination programme, have been asked to ensure beneficiaries complete the same company doses of vaccines (most vaccines come in two doses, while some are three shots). “Most candidate vaccines follow a two-dose schedule. Vaccines are developed using multiple platforms and they are not interchangeable. Therefore, a beneficiary must complete vaccination schedule using the same vaccine product,” internal guidelines for the roll out of the vaccine said. Since most vaccines, likely to be available in the state, require storage temperature of 0-8 degrees, this would make it easier to stock up and transport them. The entire cold chain, storage and insulated vehicles, which would be used for transportation of vaccines, would suffice for all the different vaccine candidates currently under various stages of development in the country. “Almost all vaccines being developed and manufactured in India can be stored at 0-8 degree temperature. They can be easily stored and handled with the existing infrastructure. We have, however, augmented infrastructure for additional capacity. Also, there is a possibility of shifting the roll out of the vaccine to January-end. The vaccine roll out will be held simultaneously in all the states,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-may-get-vax-shots-from-3-firms-say-health-officials/articleshow/79888583.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 23, 2020||Patna||Set up centre of excellence at all polytechnics: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar asked the science and technology department officials, on Tuesday, to set up a centre of excellence in each government-owned polytechnic in the state. The state has 44 such polytechnics. While reviewing the schemes of the science & technology and the labour resources departments that are to be implemented under the Saat Nischay Part-2 programme, Nitish also asked the officials to ensure that new technologies are taught in the state’s polytechnic and engineering colleges. “The teachers of polytechnics and engineering colleges must always remain updated with new technology so that they can impart better information to the students about the latest technologies, besides imparting proper education about the courses,” Nitish, himself an engineer, told the officials. CM also asked officials to constitute a dedicated team for improved technology, which would work for knowledge upgradation regularly. “I have been informed that students at the state’s polytechnics have also been imparted the training of communication skill and etiquettes, besides their diploma education. Such training has ensured better placement of our students, and it is a matter of happiness for us,” Nitish said at the review meeting. The CM asked officials of the labour department to set up at least one Mega Skill Centre in each district as early as possible so that more youths can get training of new skills and get more employment opportunities. He further asked the labour department officials to assess the technical training facilities at the Kushal Yuva Kendra and the district registration and counselling centres (DRCCs). “Several works of developments have been executed in rural areas. Youths should also be imparted training for maintenance of the development works done in the villages,” CM said. Nitish also said that the state government launched several schemes for generating employment for youths in Bihar. Earlier the science and technology secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh and the labour resources secretary Mihir Kumar Singh made presentations about their department’s schemes before the CM. Science and technology minister Ashok Kumar Choudhary, Labour resources minister Jiwesh Kumar and state’s chief secretary Deepak Kumar also were present at the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/set-up-centre-of-excellence-at-all-polytechnics-nitish/articleshow/79884616.cms||Madan Kumar
December 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sr Abhaya's death case: A habitual offender turned out to be crucial witness||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It was on August 29, 2019, the third day of trial, that Adakka Raju was examined as a witness in the case by the CBI. On the first day, Sister Abhaya’s hostel mate Sister Anupama and on the second day neighbour Sanju P Mathew had turned hostile, forcing the CBI counsel to allege that all witnesses were influenced. Raju walked into the dock and without any doubt he said that he had seen two men, including Fr Thomas Kottoor, the first accused in the case, in the St Pius X convent compound in the wee hours of March 27, 1992, the day Abhaya was found dead in the convent well. “I was on the terrace stealing copper components of a lightning conductor installed atop the convent building. It was my third visit as I had come there twice before for stealing the components. I saw two men walking up the stairs with a torch and they were seen surveying the surroundings. One of them was a tall man and the other one is Fr Kottoor who is in this court. As they were there, I abandoned my plan and left the place,” Raju alias Adakka Raju told the CBI special court. The statement of Raju was in line with the sworn statement to the judicial first-class magistrate in Ernakulam. He also identified Fr Kottoor who was also present in the court. During the hearing, Raju also levelled serious allegations against the crime branch team which had initially probed the case. He said he was picked up by the crime branch sleuths and kept in custody for 57 or 58 days. “Samuel sir (crime branch officer) asked me to take up the crime. He said I would get a new house, my children would get good education and my wife would get a new job if I agreed to the proposal. I was brutally tortured in custody. At one point, I had thought of owning up the crime. By then, another person who landed up in custody there helped me by telling the court about my plight. Then, I was handed over to Kottayam West police and booked for a theft case,” said Raju. The defence counsel had tried to defame Raju by listing out around 10 criminal cases in which Raju was an accused. Senior counsel B Raman Pillai had said Raju had been admitted to a juvenile home for two years. However, Raju didn’t deny Pillai’s comments regarding his criminal past which also included cases for stabbing a man and abetting the suicide bid of his own wife. It now seemed that the effort of the defence lawyer to prove that the witness had a blemished character turned counterproductive. With Raju saying the truth even in incidents that defamed him, the court might have prompted to take his witness statement also on face value. Another witness Kalarkodu Venugopalan who stood by his statement also proved crucial in the course of trial. Venugopalan, a social worker, told the court that Kottoor had confessed to him that he had a forbidden relationship with Sister Sephy, the third accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/a-habitual-offender-turned-out-to-be-crucial-witness/articleshow/79884796.cms||B Sreejan
December 23, 2020||Delhi||Air test gives hazy result in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A layer of haze engulfed Delhi on Tuesday after the air quality deteriorated and touched “severe” category. Air Quality Index (AQI) of the national capital was 418 as against 332 on Monday. Experts said low wind speed and high moisture content affected the air quality. Track the pollution level in your cityThis was the second “severe” day reported this month. Delhi’s AQI had crossed 400-mark on December 5. The capital had recorded nine “severe” days in November. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Shallow fog was observed on Tuesday morning as the visibility dropped to 300 metres. The moisture level, which increased due to fog, made the particles heavy and affected the dispersion process. The calm wind prevailed over the city from Monday night to Tuesday morning. Though the wind speed picked up during the day with an average speed of 6 kmph, it was low and slowed the process of dispersion of pollutants.” According to Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the air quality is likely to improve marginally but remain in “severe to very poor” category on Wednesday. The air quality is likely to remain in “very poor” category over the six subsequent days. Meanwhile, cold wave conditions are predicted in parts of Delhi over the next four days and the minimum temperature is likely to hover around 4 degrees Celsius. Met officials said moderate to dense fog was forecast from Wednesday to December 26. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature was recorded at 5.3 degrees Celsius. However, the day time remained warm as the maximum temperature recorded was 23.9 degrees Celsius. “Though the minimum temperature is predicted to dip to 4 degrees Celsius over the next two days, the maximum temperature is expected to remain around 23-24 degrees Celsius,” said a Met official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-test-gives-hazy-result/articleshow/79884707.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||No distress calls from UK nationals: Envoy||Hyderabad: After India suspended flights to and from United Kingdom (UK) amid fears of a new coronavirus strain in that country, the British deputy high commissioner to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Andrew Fleming, on Tuesday said that his office has not received any distress calls from British nationals until now. Speaking about concerns leading to travel restrictions, he said, “The government of India decided to suspend international travel between December 23 to 31 and to say what happens post that will be speculative.” Highlighting the achievements of his office this year, Fleming said that during the Covid-19 induced lockdown, the exercise to identify all who wished to leave the country and bring them from across the region to join a flight out of Hyderabad during lockdown was a huge challenge. “My small team rose to a huge challenge and over one night we moved a number of people a distance equivalent to a journey from London to Melbourne,” he said. The senior diplomat said a lot had been done in 2020 to improve ties between India and UK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-distress-calls-from-uk-nationals-envoy/articleshow/79888654.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Ensure those duped get justice: CM Ashok Gehlot to co-op dept||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has asked the co-operatives department to make changes in the laws if required to ensure those who were duped get justice.  In a review meeting on the complaints received against credit co-operative societies on Tuesday, Gehlot said, “The concerned agencies should study the existing legal provisions and if necessary, make changes, to provide relief to people and make the system robust.” He said that these societies have spread their network across all villages and hamlets and have duped people of their hard-earned money. “All concerned agencies including SOG and co-operatives department should work in tandem with each other to ensure that no person gets duped by errant co-operative societies and those who were duped get their deposits back. The state agencies should also coordinate with central agencies for effective functioning,” said Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ensure-those-duped-get-justice-cm-to-co-op-dept/articleshow/79888619.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||No carol singing or mass: X’mas to be a low-key affair in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The pandemic has put a dampener on the celebration of Christmas this year. Without any mass, carol singing or gatherings, Christmas this year will be a simple event. Due to coronavirus, the government has already banned any big religious gatherings or processions. Hence, all the churches in the city have decided to connect with the public through social media. St Andrew’s Church in Chandpol will not be having any gathering on December 24 and 25 and all the prayers will be telecast live on YouTube and Facebook. Deepak Baristo, Reverend of Chandpol Church, said that these are tough times so they are just cooperating with the government in it. "We cannot gather hundreds of people so our archbishop from Ajmer will visit the Church on Christmas who will organise the event. It will be live-streamed. Carols will be sung online instead of going door-to-door. Gates of the church will be closed but after the prayers on December 25, we will allow five people at a time to visit the church," said Baristo. Similarly, in All Saints’ Church, C-Scheme, Reverend Sandeep Samuel Hiskiel said that in solidarity with the people who died due to Covid this year they have decided to celebrate Christmas in a low-key way. He explained, "We will have just one prayer on December 25 from 9-10 am with a few committee members and carry it on social media. After that, from 11 am to 1 pm we will open the church for outsiders but not in groups. We have slashed our funds to avoid any lavish celebration. Prayers will be for the well-being of the nation and to cure people in pandemic." In St Xavier’s Church, instead of a midnight mass on December 24, an evening mass will be organised and on December 25, prayers will be held in phases to maintain social distancing. Church members have been asked to avoid entering the premises if they won’t get a seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-carol-singing-or-mass-xmas-to-be-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/79888573.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Bareilly||Brawl at Shahjahanpur court premises as girl’s kin engage in fist fight with her husband, lawyer||Bareilly: A brawl ensued on a local court’s premises in Shahjahanpur after the family of a girl, who had eloped and married a man against their wishes, attempted to take the 21-year-old along forcefully after the judge allowed the girl to live with her husband. The incident took place on Monday. After the court’s proceedings ended, the girl was sitting in the chamber of her lawyer along with her husband when the girl’s family members dragged her outside and attempted to take her along. During the commotion, the girl’s kin attacked the advocate and her husband’s family members. Later, several people came in support of the 21-year-old and the lawyer, and thrashed the girl’s family members. The high voltage drama continued for nearly an hour at a distance of only 200 metres from the office of superintendent of police Shahjahanpur. A video of the incident has also gone viral on social media. The girl had eloped with her boyfriend nearly two months ago and her father had registered an FIR at Mirzapur police station. The girl got married and informed the court about her wish to live with her husband. SHO of Sadar Bazar police station, Ashok Pal told TOI, “The couple had eloped nearly two months ago and returned to Shahjahanpur with directions from Allahabad High Court. The family members of the girl attempted to take her along despite court’s order and indulged in a brawl with the boy's family and a group of advocates. We have not filed any FIR as none approached us with a complaint. No one was grievously injured so we didn’t arrest anyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/brawl-at-shahjahanpur-court-premises-as-girls-kin-engage-in-fist-fight-with-her-husband-lawyer/articleshow/79879678.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||RERC fixes Rs 6/unit power tariff for EV charging stations||JAIPUR: To pave the way for the growth of electric vehicles (EV), Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (RERC) has fixed the tariff for charging stations at Rs 6 per unit by creating a new category of consumer. The standard operating procedure (SOP) for establishing these electric vehicles (EV) charging stations were released by the department. The regulatory body has also decided to provide relaxation in permanent fee from Rs 135 to Rs 40 per month for these stations. An official said, “Under the ‘Time of Day’, method 15 % relaxation will also be provided to owners, who will charge their EV between 11 pm to 6 am.” Electric vehicles’ charging infrastructure will also be soon developed at 75 locations in the Pink City. The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will identify locations for setting up EV stations within a week. In Jaipur, a total of 54 stations will be established by the Rajasthan Electronics & Instruments Ltd (REIL) and remaining 21 stations will be set up by the Energy Efficiency Services Ltd (EESL). An official said, “Electric vehicle chargers are being installed by REIL under the FAME Scheme of department of heavy Industry, Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises, Government of India with the objective to promote electric mobility by creating charging infrastructure and creating awareness.” The city will have two types of charging stations - fast and slow. The fast-charging station will take 60 minutes and slow charging station will take 6 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rerc-fixes-rs-6/unit-power-tariff-for-ev-charging-stns/articleshow/79888732.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Co-operative banks funds used to give silver coins to collectors||The distribution of silver coins to seven district collectors during the ongoing farmers protest by Rajasthan State Co-operatives Banks (APEX) at a meeting on Sunday has stirred a controversy. A total of 10 kg of silver was distributed among 40 persons including collectors and chairman of co-operatives. BJP has called the move insensitive and said it reflected the state of affairs in Rajasthan during the pandemic. BJP state president Satish Poonia tweeted, “This is what we are saying that people in the state are yearning for Covid treatment and right under your nose officers are busy in silver cutting. This is why your management is seen as an example in the country.” TOI repeatedly called up co-operatives minister Udaylal Anjana and secretary co-operatives Kunjilal Meena but received no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/co-operative-banks-funds-used-to-give-silver-coins-to-collectors/articleshow/79888682.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Rajkot||Pride of 10 attack Rajkot's Jetpur gaushala||RAJKOT: Residents of Arab Timbdi village of Rajkot’s Jetpur taluka woke up to the deafening roars of lions and shrieking of hapless cattle on Monday night when a pride of 10 lions attacked a gau shala located on the fringes of the hamlet. The pride unleashed complete bedlam in the tiny village as they killed at least eight cows within just a few minutes. The lions dragged away two cows and feasted on them while injury marks of claws were found on the bodies of other six cows. The lions remained in the gau shala for nearly 30 minutes and later strayed back into the forest area of the adjoining Junagadh district. Sources said there were nearly 80 cows in the gau shala. Though the village falls in Rajkot district’s Jetpur taluka, it is located very close to Junagadh. Ravi Prasad Radhakrishna, deputy conservator of forest, Rajkot circle said “This area is in the close proximity of Junagadh and a group of lions launched a sudden attack. There was complete commotion and fear.” The cattle shed is located on the fringes of Arab Timbdi but lions have been often seen venturing into the village and preying on domestic cattle on the streets. This pride, officials said, did not include the three other lions which have been spotted frequently in Jetpur and villages of Thana Galor, Amrapar, Reshmdi Galor, Rupavati, Dedarva, Devki Galor, Aarab Timbdi and Bordi Samadhiyala. “We are constantly tracking those three lions and get regular updates about their movements. But we had no alert about this big pride,” said Radhakrishna. A month ago, sarpanches of these villagers had submitted a memorandum to the mamlatdar a month ago, demanding that the lions be shifted out of these areas. They had also expressed apprehensions about lion attacks when they went to their farms in the night. Lion movements in the border villages of Jetpur have been reported for the past few months. The villagers also report about the remains of lion prey to the forest department on a daily basis. Jetpur MLA and cabinet minister Jayesh Radadia had also shot off a letter to the forest department against the lion’s ‘menace’ but officials say that they can only track the movement and can’t move them from one place to another place. The department has already started awareness programs in the villages of Rajkot district to educate people about lion behaviour to reduce any conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pride-of-10-unleash-brutal-attack-on-gau-shala/articleshow/79879739.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Ocugen to co-develop Covaxin with Bharat Biotech for US market||HYDERABAD: In a major booster for ‘Make in India’, vaccine maker Bharat Biotech has inked a binding letter of intent (LoI) with US-based biopharmaceutical player Ocugen Inc for co-developing India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin for the US market. Covaxin, a whole-viron inactivated vaccine candidate developed on the vero cell manufacturing platform, is currently undergoing Phase III human clinical trials in India on 26,000 volunteers. The Phase I and II trials involved around 1,000 volunteers. As per the LoI, Ocugen will have the US rights to Covaxin and will take up clinical development, registration, and commercialisation of the vaccine candidate for the US market in collaboration with Bharat Biotech, the two players said in a joint statement. The two companies have already begun collaborating and will be finalising the details of the definitive agreement in the next few weeks. The collaboration is slated to leverage Ocugen’s vaccine expertise as well as its R&D and regulatory capabilities in the US. “The development and clinical evaluation of Covaxin marks a significant milestone for vaccinology in India. Covaxin has garnered interest from several countries worldwide for supplies and introduction, and we are excited to collaborate with Ocugen to bring it to the US market,” said Bharat Biotech CMD Dr Krishna Ella. In preparation for the development of Covaxin for the US market, Ocugen has already assembled a Vaccine Scientific Advisory Board (VSAB) featuring leading academic and industry experts to evaluate the clinical and regulatory path for approval in the US market, Ocugen said. “Vaccines such as Covaxin, that can potentially elicit a broad immune response and limit future Covid-19 severity, could be important to have in our arsenal,” said David Fajgenbaum, director, Center for Cytokine Storm Treatment & Laboratory, University of Pennsylvania, and member of Ocugen’s VSAB. “We are very pleased with the safety and immunogenicity demonstrated by the Phase I and II trials of Covaxin and encouraged with the progress of Phase III trials in India. We believe this unique yet traditional approach to vaccination holds great potential to appeal to a broad range of the population,” said Dr Shankar Musunuri, chairman, CEO and co-founder, Ocugen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ocugen-to-co-develop-covaxin-with-bharat-biotech-for-us-mkt/articleshow/79888722.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bareilly||Azam Khan’s wife released from jail after 10 months||RAMPUR: Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan’s wife Tazeen Fatma, who is also an SP MLA, has been released from Sitapur jail after getting bail from the court in a forgery case. The 71-year-old was on Friday granted bail by a court in a case of alleged forgery of documents to capture a piece of land falling under the Enemy Property Act. The court has granted bail to Tazeen Fatma in all the 34 cases registered against her. Fatma, who walked out of jail late on Monday night, said that she had been a professor in a government college and suddenly she was branded a criminal. “It is because of the judiciary that I am free today. I did not get any special facility in jail,” she said. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday termed the release of party MLA Tazeen Fatma from jail as a "victory of those who rely on justice". "The bail of Rampur MP Azam Khan's wife Tazeen Fatma has proved that those who practice politics of hatred face defeat in front of the truth. The path of lies on which the BJP is moving leads to injustice and downfall. This is victory of those who rely on justice," Yadav said in a tweet Her husband Azam Khan and son Abdullah Azam continue to remain in jail. The Khan family has spent ten months in jail. They had surrendered on February 26 this year. Azam Khan, who faces more than 100 cases, will remain in jail till he gets bail in all the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/azams-wife-released-from-jail-after-10-months/articleshow/79879727.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||617 new Covid cases in Telangana; recovery rate over 97%||HYDERABAD: Altogether, 617 new Covid-19 infections and three fatalities were recorded in Telangana on Tuesday, taking the overall toll to 1,518. There are 6569 active Covid-19 cases in the state, but the recovery rate is improving, which doctors said has crossed 97%. So far, a total of 65,20,993 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state, of which 2,82,347 persons have tested positive and 2,74,260 persons have recovered. In the data released by the health department officials, 45,227 Covid tests were conducted in the state in the past day, while reports of another 592 samples were awaited. The director of public health and family welfare, in its guidelines, once again mentioned that children less than 10 years of age and elders above 60 years of age are advised to avoid going outdoors unless mandatory. They are advised to stay indoors. The GHMC limits saw 103 new cases followed by 52 new cases in Medchal Malkajgiri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/617-new-cases-in-t-recovery-rate-over-97/articleshow/79888785.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||Kerala guv denies nod for special House session against farm laws||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala governor Arif Mohammed Khan has refused permission to the state government to convene a special assembly session on Wednesday to pass a resolution against the three contentious farm laws enacted by the Centre. The cabinet had on Monday recommended to the governor to convene the special session. It is reliably learnt that the governor has cited that he was not convinced about the urgency for convening a special session for one hour when clearance has already been given for a session from January 8 next year, for which only 15 more days are left. The governor had given clearance for the session from January 8 prior to the latest recommendation from the cabinet. Apparently the government could not provide a convincing reason for its change of mind. The governor is empowered to summon the House as and when he thinks fit, according to Article 174 of the Constitution. Now with the governor giving a thumbs-down, the one-day session planned by the government cannot be held on Wednesday. It is not clear if the government will push for a session on another day. Meanwhile, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala termed the governor’s decision unfortunate and undemocratic. He urged law and parliamentary affairs minister AK Balan to convene a meeting of MLAs in the assembly lounge and pass a resolution against the farm laws. The assembly was expected to pass a near-unanimous resolution during the special session with both LDF and UDF opposed to the farm laws. Kerala had passed a resolution against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 earlier by convening a special one-day session, becoming the first state to do so. Lone BJP member O Rajagopal had then asked the Speaker to not take up the resolution against a law passed by Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-guv-denies-nod-for-special-house-session-against-farm-laws/articleshow/79899571.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||KT Rama Rao backs Gulf workers decrying wage cut||HYDERABAD: Lakhs of Indians who take up jobs in Gulf countries have been affected as the Centre has agreed for reduced wages for Indian workers there. This decision has resulted in an outcry, particularly in Telangana, as thousands of youngsters are employed there, especially in the construction sector. On Tuesday, some Gulf workers staged a demonstration at the Nizamabad district collectorate demanding that the Centre withdraw the circulars which affect their earnings. Sharing their concern, municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Tuesday tweeted to external affairs minister S Jaishankar to look into the issue. He said the recent circular circulated by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) reducing minimum referral wages by 30%-50% is a cause for huge concern as wages of lakhs of migrant workers from Telangana working in the Gulf countries would get adversely impacted. “Already, there is considerable disquiet among migrant workers due to wage losses as a result of Covid-19 and lockdowns. I request you to use your good offices to ensure that our migrant workers’ interests are protected,” he said, urging Jaishankar to take up the matter at the earliest. Migrant rights activist Bheem Reddy Mandha told TOI that the minimum referral wages are nothing but the monthly wages that workers receive.  “Because of the pandemic, people did not go to take up jobs in the Gulf. But in the last few weeks when they started going, this was detected,” Bheem Reddy said. The wages being offered were based on the new circulars issued in September by the MEA (OE and PGE) division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-backs-gulf-workers-decrying-wage-cut/articleshow/79888798.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Second shot of trial vaccine from December 25||AHMEDABAD: As part of the ongoing clinical trial of Covaxin – a Covid-19 vaccine by Bharat Biotech – the second shot will be given from December 25, said the Sola Civil Hospital authorities on Tuesday. Dr Parul Bhatt, professor and head of the medicine department at GMERS Medical College, Sola, and the principal investigator of the vaccine trial, said that so far 525 volunteers have been administered the first shot of trial vaccine. The trial intends to enrol 1,000 volunteers by the end of December. “The second shot is the booster dose of the first one, which is administered after 28 to 30 days of the first shot. We decided to start the second shots after completion of one month of the first shot on December 20,” said Dr Bhatt. She said that after the two shots, the efficacy of the vaccine will be measured through regular medical check-ups of the volunteers. “So far, we have not reported any side effects of the trial vaccine,” she added. The initial results of the trials, which are going on across various centres in India, will decide whether the vaccine will be available for the general population next year. Sola Civil Hospital has already put out an appeal for the healthy volunteers for the trial. The volunteers should not have contacted Covid-19 so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/xmas-gift-2nd-shot-of-trial-vaccine-from-dec-25/articleshow/79884820.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||RERA notice to 95 builders over pending projects in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Rajasthan-RERA) has issued show-cause notices to 95 builders and promoters in the state over pending projects. After developer failed to adhere to self-set deadlines, the notices were slapped under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 at this massive scale, for the first time. RERA registrar Ramesh Chandra Sharma said, “As per the rule, the builder and promoters are required to submit a completion report with RERA before the final date of project completion declared by them during registration. In case of any delay in project completion, they are required to apply with the regulatory authority for an extension to complete the remaining work. Total of 95 builders and promoters have not fulfilled any of the two conditions. Notices have been issued to them seeking a response in one month. Penalty will also be imposed on them if they fail to respond.” The notices talk of imposing penalties on the guilty builders and for the RERA to arrange completion of remaining works with assistance from third parties. An official said, “Directions were also issued to lapsed projects to stop further booking or sale of any apartment, plot or building in the project. Also, the promoter could be penalised under Section 61 of the Act if this requirement is not met. Under this section, the promoter shall be liable to a penalty which may extend up to 5% of the estimated cost of the real estate project,” said the official. This year in May, on the ground of force majeure, extension of 12 months was granted to the real estate projects expiring on or after March 19. As lockdown in the state was imposed two days before the Centre announced such a lockdown, the state RERA fixed the above date. Those projects that had lapsed before March 19 were also allowed the benefit of extension if the promoter first applies for usual extension and pay the extension fee, standard fee and penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rera-notice-to-95-builders-over-pending-projects-in-raj/articleshow/79888792.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Killing of youth: Locals seek FIR against Delhi cops||JAIPUR: Over a 100 locals staged a protest in Kama tehsil in Bharatpur on Tuesday demanding FIR against nine Delhi police personnel in connection with the killing of a 19-year-old youth in the police firing on December 17. Report says that Delhi police had raided a village Khedli Nanu under the Jurara police station in search of an accused who had committed a crime in Delhi. “The villagers fired on the police and in exchange Sadaam alias Jilshad Khan was killed. The autopsy of the body has been conducted, but the family has refused to take it even after five days of the incident,” said a police officer. During the rally this afternoon, they alleged that police killed Sadaam who was innocent and not involved in the crime. “Until a FIR is filed against the police, we will not take the body. The investigation will expose the role of Delhi police behind the killing of our boy,” said a protesting relative. The protesters alleged that local police are working at the behest of the Delhi police and hiding the names of nine policemen who opened fire on the villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/killing-of-youth-locals-seek-fir-against-delhi-cops/articleshow/79888808.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit farmers carrying supplies to Delhi border stopped, Moradabad SSP injured in violence||PILIBHIT: After the Uttar Pradesh-Delhi border, Pilibhit has now emerged as another flashpoint in the ongoing farmers’ protest. After UP Police stopped movement of around 200 farmers from Pilibhit, who were headed to the Delhi border with tractors full of essential supplies for the protesters, there were skirmishes leading to Moradabad SSP receiving injuries. Farmers, however, have claimed that the local police “acted like rioters” to stop their movement and lathi-charged them twice between Monday and Tuesday. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who rushed to the spot on getting the information, termed the action of the local police a “reminder of British Raj”. With over 100 women and children, a group of 200 farmers from different villages of Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur and Kheri, who had assembled outside Kajri Gurdwara on Monday morning and started their journey for the UP-Delhi border along with 22 tractor-trolleys full of grain, pulses, wheat flour, rice, quilts and blankets, were stopped by police on Pilibhit-Basti NH 730 near Bhopatpur village on Monday. But foiling all attempts of police to stop them, they crossed the border of Pilibhit district at Bareilly-Haridwar NH-74 to continue their journey with the support of local agriculturists. “We had been detained by a heavy police force on the outskirts of Rampur city on NH 24 at 11 pm on Monday. Policemen wanted us to return to our starting destination, which we declined outright. We had to spend the whole night on the roadside in chilly weather,” said Kuldeep Singh, a farmer from Andbojhi village in Pilibhit. On Tuesday, the farmers, who parked their tractor-trolleys on the spot, were joined by other local agriculturists and activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union. The farmers again moved towards Delhi pushing through police barricades but they were again detained near Munda Pandey in Moradabad where a heavy police force equipped with water cannons blocked their way. This resulted into a heavy traffic jam on NH 24. Meanwhile, the commissioner and DIG of Bareilly division along with all the top district administration and police officials were present on the spot all day long. Four companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) besides local police were deployed at a dozen spots on the road leading to Delhi. Bareilly DIG Rajesh Kumar Pandey said, “The protesting farmers in Delhi have abundant food supplies. They are rather arranging ‘langar’ for common citizens as well. The farmers from different destinations are merely pretending to carry essential supplies to the Delhi border while they are actually politically motivated and moving towards Delhi with intention to disrupt peace at the national capital border.” He further said that causing injuries to the Moradabad SSP in an assault “was a crime and not a peaceful activity”. The farmers have denied all such allegations, claiming that police were “framing false charges against them with intent to implicate them in criminal cases and tarnish their image”. This was the third occasion when the administration had deployed heavy police force to foil the attempt of farmers to carry essential supplies to the Delhi border for the protesting farmers. Prior to this, three tractor trolleys had been stopped by the administration at midnight on December 19 and another two in the late hours on December 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-farmers-carrying-supplies-to-delhi-border-stopped-moradabad-ssp-injured-in-violence/articleshow/79879762.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 23, 2020||Goa||If no beef, bring live animals to Goa meat complex: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday that the state government has permitted registered agents to source live animals from other states if beef isn’t available. Speaking to reporters, the CM said that Goa Meat Complex has started (functioning), and has communicated to agents to get live animals for slaughter in a hygienic manner. On Monday, Sawant had said that he directed the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services to source live animals and beef from other states to ensure that there’s no shortage of it in the state. Dealers have reached out to DelhiSince very little beef is coming from Karnataka, some dealers have reached out to Delhi for supplies, while others are contemplating sourcing the red meat from Kerala. “I worship the cow, but as chief minister of the state, it is my duty to take care of the minority population,” he said, replying to a question on BJP having a different position on beef in other states. “There is a 30% minority population in Goa that eats beef,” Sawant had said. Beef supply from Karnataka started on Saturday after eight consecutive days of meat stores being shut. However, the quantity is far less than usual, leading traders to make inquiries if it can be transported by rail from Delhi, and from Kerala. There has been a 75% drop in the quantity of beef coming in from Belagavi after supply resumed over the weekend, a cold storage dealer had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-if-no-beef-bring-live-animals-to-goa-meat-complex/articleshow/79888845.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Rajkot||Two demand Rs 75L to allow windmill farm to operate, booked||Rajkot: Two persons were booked for trying to extort Rs 75 lakh from a windmill maintenance firm by threatening its employees in Sadodar village of Jamjodhpur taluka of Jamnagar An FIR in this regard was filed by Narendrasinh Jadeja (46), assistant security officer of the company Wind World India, that is in charge of maintaining the 32 windmills owned by Tata Power at Sadodar village. According to the Jadeja’s complaint, the accused Naressh Bera and Buddha Bharwad, both residents of Sadodar village had allegedly damaged electricity transmission lines from the sub-station at the windmill farm on December 13. This had disrupted power supply to the main grid transmission line.The complaint further stated that on December 16 when Jadeja along with his technical team headed by Kanti Bariya went to repair the electricity transmission lines and electricity poles that were damaged allegedly by Bera, they were stopped outside the village by the accused.Bera and Bharwad demanded Rs 75 lakh for allowing them to operate the windmill farm in Sadodar village. The accused even tried to run over the complainant and his team with an earthmover, the FIR stated.Jadeja further stated that Bera had used similar tactics and extorted Rs 58 lakh from a windmill company in Haripar Mewasa village in Kalavad taluka of Jamnagar. However, he did not provide details of the case in his complaint.Based on Jadeja’s complaint the accused duo was booked for extortion, criminal intimidation and other sections of the Indian Penal Code at Sethvadla police station in Jamjodhpur. Circle inspector A J Patel is probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-demand-rs-75l-to-allow-windmill-farm-to-operate-booked/articleshow/79879759.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Patna||Begusarai murder: Angry mob lynches man||BEGUSARAI: An angry mob lynched a man who had allegedly killed a 35-year old woman at Ulao village under Singhaul police outpost in Begusarai district on Tuesday. Police said the incident occurred when the accused, Jaishankar Singh (47), was trying to flee after allegedly killing the woman, Nitu Devi, over a land dispute. “Jaishankar had a dispute with Nitu’s husband, Subodh Sah, over a plot of land. On Tuesday, Jaishankar reached Nitu’s house and allegedly shot her dead after heated exchange of words. After committing the crime, he tried to flee on his motorcycle. However, a mob caught Jaishankar and beat him with iron rods and bamboo sticks. He later succumbed to his injuries,” police added. While Nitu was mother of three teenagers, Jaishankar was also father of three children. Family members of Jaishankar, who used to run a fertiliser shop at the village, said his wife had died last year. Begusarai SP Awakash Kumar said police were investigating the matter. “A pistol and an empty cartridge were recovered from the spot. Police personnel are camping at the village to avoid any untoward incident,” another senior police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/angry-mob-lynches-man/articleshow/79884841.cms||Rajiv Kumar
December 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Painter arrested for raping minor||Hyderabad: A 21-year-old painter has been arrested for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl and sent in judicial remand. RGI Airport police are opening a history sheet against him. The victim stayed for two months in a neighbouring flat of the accused between October and December. “The victim’s parents went to their native place to attend on an ailing family member, leaving their two daughters in the custody of a family member. The accused was a neighbour of the family member,” deputy commissioner of police, Shamshabad, N Prakash Reddy said. When the victim was alone, the accused called her to his flat and allegedly raped her by threatening to kill her. Based on a complaint, a case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/painter-arrested-for-raping-minor/articleshow/79888819.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wife files FIR over hidden impotence in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 26-year-old woman from Saijpur-Bogha on Monday filed a complaint alleging breach of trust against her husband and in-laws, for concealing that he was impotent, and when she raised the issue they allegedly assaulted her. In her FIR at Women’s police station (east), the woman, a bank employee, states that she married the accused in November 2018 and on their first night, he avoided her and did not have sex with her. She alleged that he slept separately for five days but she did not mind, thinking he may have been overburdened. When they went to Thailand for their honeymoon, he continued to avoid her and even after she made all possible efforts to have sex with him, and even gave him medicines, he failed to establish a sexual relationship with her, she alleges in the FIR. She said when they returned their home and she raised this issue with her mother-in-law, she was blamed for their son’s impotence. She said her mother-in-law even removed the latch from their bedroom door so she could enter their room any time, she alleged in the FIR. The woman told police that her husband later told her that he had met with an accident in childhood, in which he suffered injuries to his private parts and this may have been the cause of his impotence. In August, when the woman asked her in-laws why they hid the fact that their son was impotent, they assaulted her and dropped her off at father’s home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-files-fir-over-hidden-impotence/articleshow/79884848.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sister Abhaya's death case: Narco test result not part of marked evidence||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: One major hurdle the prosecution faced during the trial was the inadmissibility of narco analysis test performed on the accused. The prosecution had listed two doctors, Praveen P and N Krishnaveni who had conducted narco tests on the accused at a forensic science lab in Bengaluru as 100th and 101st witnesses. As Praveen is no more, summons was served to Krishnaveni. During the narco analysis, both Fr Kottoor and Sister Sephy had admitted to the crime and even detailed how they had committed the murder. But, the defence counsel challenged the summons in the court and argued that the narco analysis test result couldn’t be treated as evidence as the Supreme Court had ruled against it. They argued that as the result doesn’t have any evidence value, examining the witnesses concerned wouldn’t be of any use. The CBI court had said whether the evidence collected from the doctors would be admissible as evidence could be considered at a later stage and ordered the examination of Krishnaveni. Challenging the decision, the accused approached the high court, which ordered that there was no evidence value for narco analysis results. The HC cited the 2010 SC order delivered by the then chief justice K G Balakrishnan that narco analysis, brain mapping and polygraph tests conducted on any person without their consent were ‘illegal and a violation of personal liberty’. Further, any confession of guilt during the tests couldn’t be treated as evidence in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/narco-test-result-not-part-of-marked-evidence/articleshow/79884871.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan cops run camps to help people quit addictions||JAIPUR: Balbeer Singh (62), a native of Sriganganagar, always had a misconception that if he quit his addiction of liquor, tobacco and narcotics, he would die. Now, after quitting all these vices, he is often seen in camps organised by local police and NGOs urging people to quit narcotics and other addictions. These de-addiction camps organized by the Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh and Bikaner police are attended by people of all age groups where they are requested to quit all addictions that can harm the body. Sriganganagar police also runs a de-addiction centre in which a specialist doctor tries to convince people to quit narcotics. “One of my patients, Roop Singh (62), came to me said his grandson inspired him to come to me. He told me that his 11-year-old grandson was attending our camps and one day he asked his grandfather to quit narcotics else he will quit eating his meals. After his counseling and some de-addiction medicine course, he is now fully cured. So, the idea of running these de-addiction camps in schools, villages, community centres and others is to ensure people who are under any kind of addiction should at least know how addiction not only spoils their health, but also dents financial condition of their families,” said soctor Ravikant Goyal, in-charge of a de-addiction centre run by police at Sriganganagar. He said the camps are fetching good results. “We have youngsters who are taking sedatives. To address this problem, we are getting into the root cause. In many cases, teenagers start addiction for fun while in many cases spoilt family relations including poor treatment by stepfather or stepmother pushes these teenagers and youngsters into addiction of pills, doda post and other narcotics,” Goyal added. At Bikaner range, the IGP has asked all his police stations, especially those where addiction of narcotics, is rampant to adopt villages. “We have prepared a database of those who are under addiction of narcotics and banned pills. We keep calling up the addict to take medications,” Sriganganagar SP Rajan Dushyant said. Police in Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh are getting calls from teenagers and youngsters requesting us to help them in getting their parents or grandparents de-addicted. “Just seizures of narcotics or arresting some people won’t solve the problem. Thus, by taking the help of people who have quit addiction and NGOs, we are trying to ensure people to get away from addiction,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-run-camps-to-help-people-quit-addictions/articleshow/79888820.cms||Ashish Mehta
December 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Came back from UK in last 1 month? Expect govt’s knock on your door||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has started contacting people who returned from the United Kingdom since November 25. All those contacted on Tuesday reported doing well, but their health will be monitored by the authorities. Health minister Satyendar Jain directed teams to go on house-to-house visits to test returnees from the UK where a mutated variant of the Covid virus has been discovered. Around 7,000 people have arrived in the city from the UK since December 9. Jain said on Tuesday that travellers coming from the UK to Delhi were being traced, tested and advised quarantine if they showed symptoms. RT-PCR tests are being conducted at Indira Gandhi International Airport and people testing positive are being sent to Covid hospitals, while those testing negative are allowed to go home under strict directives for a seven-day home isolation. Paid quarantine facilities, including a five-star hotel at Aerocity, are being created for those who do not want to avail of free government accommodation. Times ViewFollow-ups are imperative to prevent the virus’ mutant variant spreading in the city. These supplementary checks must be sustained with rigour. It goes without saying that this worrying development further reinforces the importance of continuing with Covid-19 safety protocols such as wearing masks and washing hands.An official said wards in Lok Nayak and the Sardar Patel Covid facility in south Delhi may be used for housing UK-returned Covid-positive travellers. The health of these individuals will be monitored for 28 days. In South-West district, 85 people were contacted on Tuesday and 24 in East, said sources. About the mutation of the coronavirus, the health minister said, “It is spreading fast in that country. According to data, cases have spurted to around 30,000 per day. This is why we requested the central government to ban flights to the UK, which they did.” Sharing Delhi government’s strategy on preparedness to deal with the new crisis, Jain talked of a two-fold process: identification of people coming from the UK and door-to-door testing. “According to the information available, the new strain is contagious, and as seen in the UK, is spreading at a fast rate. Therefore, we are taking all decisions to prevent the new strain from affecting Delhi,” said Jain. He reiterated that the main reason for the quick spread of Covid in Delhi in March-April was the infection carried by people coming to Delhi from abroad and added that in the present case, people travelling via the UK are being tested at the airport, and those travelling on international flights are required to carry a test report with them. “I request everyone to wear a mask because that is the only way to stay safe, no matter the strain,” Jain added. Covid tests would continue to be carried out in large numbers because the state government did not want to hamper the success made so far in containing the coronavirus in the capital. Jain stressed that the number of daily fresh cases and the positivity rate had both declined significantly. Monday recorded 803 cases and a positivity rate of 1.29%. “After August 15, we have seen less than 900 positive cases for the first time. Positivity rate is the lowest in eight months, and 1.29% is almost negligible,” he said. “For 4-5 days, the rate has remained under 1.5%. I want to congratulate Delhiites for this amazing feat, and also thank them for properly complying with all precautions. The best way to fight this virus is by wearing a mask whenever you step out in public.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/came-back-from-uk-in-last-1-month-expect-govts-knock-on-your-door/articleshow/79884856.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 23, 2020||Bareilly||Covid restrictions no bar, Asaram followers organise blanket & book distribution in jail||Bareilly: Despite strict restrictions on visitors’ entry to jails amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the followers of self-styled godman and rape convict Asaram organised a blanket and book distribution in Shahjahanpur jail on Monday. The jail authorities, meanwhile, claimed that a group of people were allowed inside only for blanket distribution based on the request of another convict and strict social distancing was followed during the event. The development came to light on Monday evening when an official from the Shahjahanpur district jail released a press note and a few photographs stating that a set of six books (published by Asaram’s ashram) along with a blanket each were distributed to the 75 jail inmates. The press note and photographs were retracted soon after. When questioned about the event, jail superintendent Rakesh Kumar said, “The blanket distribution was organised based on the request of a murder convict Narayan Pandey, 27. While he was lodged in the jail, he had GB syndrome, a rare nerve disorder, and was completely paralysed. Jail authorities gave him proper treatment due to which he was able to recover from the disease. After securing bail 8 months ago, he said that he wanted to do something for the poor people in the jail and requested us to allow him to distribute blankets. Our jailor was monitoring the event. The inmates were given a blanket and a set of Asaram’s books.” Commenting that such an event should not have been given permission on jail premises, a senior official said, “As per the guidelines, such activities should not have been allowed, that too at the behest of a convict. Even the family members of inmates are being allowed only virtual meetings due to the virus threat. Such welfare activities on the behalf of convicts spoil the jail administration’s image.” Reacting to the development, the father of the woman who was raped by Asaram said, “We are shocked and the incident should be probed by the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-restrictions-no-bar-asaram-followers-organise-blanket-book-distribution-in-jail/articleshow/79879753.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 23, 2020||Jaipur||Border districts becoming transit routes for narcotics smuggling||JAIPUR: Border districts including Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh are gradually becoming a transit route for cross-border smuggling of narcotics, especially heroin. Police said that on demand of Punjab-based smugglers, heroin consignments are smuggled through border villages of Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh from Pakistan. Looking to this, Bikaner range of Rajasthan police has initiated 'Operation Prahar' in all its districts to crackdown on narcotics smuggling. TOI on Tuesday spoke to the authorities, NGOs, doctors and some reformed addicts. "Many-a-times, in joint operation with Border Security Force (BSF), we have arrested smugglers who were involved in cross-border smuggling. It is seen that whenever there is a tight vigil at Punjab’s Abhohar and Phazilka areas where cross-border smuggling is rampant, the smugglers from India and Pakistan try to send the consignments via Sriganganagar. But, we have been successful in unearthing these rackets. Sometimes we had specific inputs from BSF while sometimes we gave them inputs," said Rajan Dushant, SP, Sriganganagar while talking to TOI. He added that in Sriganganagar narcotics like doda post is rampantly used by aged persons and youngsters. "They also use some banned medicines," he added. To ensure crackdown on narcotics smuggling and prevent the young generation from falling prey, Bikaner range has been organizing camps in its police station areas for the past one month under 'Operation Prahar'. "It is a three-tier process. Firstly, we are making seizures of narcotics and banned drugs including doda post, opium and some medicines which are actually sedatives and banned but used by addicts. Secondly, we are not only arresting and making cases against those who are caught with narcotics but also against the smugglers involved. And thirdly, we are organizing de-addiction camps in all our police station areas to educate the addicts about the ill-effects of drugs," said Prafful Kumar, inspector general of police, Bikaner range. In the past one month, at least 133 smugglers were arrested while more than 3 lakh banned tablets were seized in Bikaner range which includes Hanumangarh, Sriganganagar and Bikaner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/border-districts-becoming-transit-routes-for-narcotics-smuggling/articleshow/79888843.cms||Ashish Mehta
December 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Maoist leader who held ‘people’s court’ nabbed in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam rural police on Tuesday arrested CPI Maoist militia commander Vantala Kameswara Rao alias Kamesh of Rasarai village of Killamkota panchayat in G Madugula mandal of Visakhapatnam Agency area. He has been sent to judicial remand. Kamesh was allegedly involved in 27 cases, including taking part in murders. He worked as a militia member and was later promoted as militia commander. He has been holding the post for almost six years at Killamkota pocket of Pedabayalu area committee of the banned CPI Maoist party. According to police, Kamesh was involved in four murder cases. He would forcibly gather people at what are known as ‘praja courts’ or people’s courts and charge his victims with informing police about the movement of naxals. He would also organize ‘famine attacks’ where naxals would storm grocers and forcibly distribute the food grain among the villagers. His victims included dual murder of Pangi Prasad and Pangi Srikanth at Kotagunnalu village in 2013 and the murder of Sindri Karla at Rallagadda village in Chintapalli mandal in 2014. He was involved in the murder of Bachali Balakrishna at Killamkota of G Madugula mandal in 2014 and also in the murder of Vantala Satya Rao at Madatakonda village in Chintapalli mandal in 2015. Kamesh was involved in three cases of burning or damaging the machinery placed for road laying works including at Lakshmipuram in Munchingput mandal, Kudumsari of Chintapalli mandal and Nurmathi of G Madugula mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/maoist-leader-who-held-peoples-court-nabbed/articleshow/79899972.cms||Siva G
December 23, 2020||Bareilly||WWF gears up for first official tiger census in Amaria cane fields||Pilibhit: Eight years after a tigress and three cubs strayed out of Mahof range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) to settle down near Deuni dam in Pilibhit, preparations are on to conduct the first-ever official big cat census in the cane belt of Amaria tehsil by the World Wide Fund for Nature-India (WWF) here. Today, an estimated 10-12 tigers, which is more than the striped cat population of many reserves in the country, are said to living in this agricultural belt, 18 km from PTR. Therefore the need has arisen to carry out a full-fledged official estimate of the total number of cane tigers, as they are called, and incorporate it in the forest department’s records. Earlier, the WWF had installed 100 camera traps in a 300-square km area and provided the related data collected over a 60-day period to its tiger experts.“In addition to the estimation of tigers, we will also project the number of leopards and the herbivores in the area. The estimation of the prey base will help the forest department to determine the reason for the survival of tigers in the agricultural region,” said Mudit Gupta, regional coordinator of WWF. The technical work related to comparing tigers’ stripes would be carried out by Ashish Vishta, a tiger biologist. The final results are expected to be announced soon, Gupta said. Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer of forest and wildlife division, said the results would be shared with the Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) for making it a part of national database of tigers. This would help the department reach a conclusion about the number of resident and transit tigers in Amaria, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/wwf-gears-up-for-first-official-tiger-census-in-amaria-cane-fields/articleshow/79879771.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 23, 2020||Goa||Goa: GMC starts plasma donation campaign after donor numbers dip||PANAJI: After picking up pace two months ago, Goa Medical College’s (GMC) drive to find plasma donors for Covid patients has slowed down. However, starting Tuesday, GMC has appointed a social worker to make phone calls to potential donors and convince them to donate plasma as the need for it hasn’t dried. The response from donors has slowed down owing to many factors, chiefly due to the wrong perception among the masses that plasma doesn’t help in the treatment of Covid infection. “That’s what I have been told by the blood bank. The programme was also affected because the State Organ Transplant Tissue Organisation (SOTTO) team that was initially assigned to the drive since last month has been busy with its main task. So, we have got a social worker on the job,” said dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar. He said they still receive requests for plasma with daily average requirements of 15 to 20 units, including requests from private hospitals. 517 donated plasma, 888 recipientsInitially, when the campaign started, GMC had faced problems getting donors, but after sustaining and announcing incentives to donors, people began coming forward to donate plasma. However, since last month, the numbers have dropped. The most damaging though, said Dr M V Mallya, associate professor and in-charge of blood bank, is people walk in here and ask them what’s the point of donating plasma when it is not going to help cure Covid patients. Mallya said though convalescent plasma hasn’t been effective in some states, it is a different story in Goa. “Probably, they read some media reports and convinced themselves that plasma was ineffective. In Goa at least, it is not true,” he said. As many as 517 people donated plasma, while 888 patients received convalescent plasma. Mallya said they need to document and publish a paper that would tell the world how many lives in Goa were saved after receiving convalescent plasma. Bandekar said they have started documenting details of patients whose lives have been saved after they were administered plasma and the paper will be published in a research journal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-starts-plasma-donation-campaign-after-donor-nos-dip/articleshow/79888862.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 23, 2020||Delhi||NDMC to train its safai staff in critical aid||NEW DELHI: To provide immediate help to morning walkers in case of cardiac arrest or chest pain and road accident victims during early hours, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has started a training programme for its sanitation staff with the help of NGOs. Officials said that sanitation workers usually do the sweeping work early in the morning when a large number of people go for morning walk. “Since these workers can be the first point of contact for people if they faint, feel breathlessness or have cardiac-related issues, which are more observed in the morning or any other road accident, we have trained them to provide basic life support in emergency situations,” said a NDMC official. Times ViewIt is true many accidents happen late at night or early in the morning. Injured victims lie on the road unattended. Engaging and training sanitation workers, who are on duty at this time, is a smart idea. They can help victims get critical medical care as early as possible and save lives.The workers are being trained to provide first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). They can even dial ambulance numbers, depending on the requirement. “If ground level workers are skilled in basic life support training, then they can provide instant support till medical aid arrives during the wee hours when doctor, ambulance or hospital are far away from the incident point,” said NDMC chairman Dharmendra. The training programme started on Tuesday in batches and in the first phase it will be provided to 50 safai karamcharis and 10 assistant sanitary inspectors of the 14 health circles of NDMC. Training is being imparted at NDMC Convention Centre. “It becomes even more important at this point of time when many people face issues of breathlessness post recovery from Covid-19. The small assistance may help in saving the lives of citizens,” said the NDMC official. Besides sanitation workers, the training would be imparted to other ground level field staff as well such as beldars and malis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-to-train-its-safai-staff-in-critical-aid/articleshow/79884877.cms||Vibha Sharma
December 23, 2020||Bareilly||Search on for tiger with wire entangled around neck in Dudhwa||Bareilly: A high alert was sounded in all the forest ranges around Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve in Lakhimpur Kheri district after the images of a tiger with a hunting nylon wire tangled around its neck were captured in the camera traps. The forest department is now trying to locate the big cat and tranquilize it to ensure the wire trap is removed and its wounds are treated. A forest patrol team had also spotted the tiger in Kataiya beat of Kishanpur range. According to forest department sources, the camera traps were installed in Kataiya after a poacher, Khushiram, was arrested and three snares were seized from him on December 17. One of the snares was broken and when questioned, he said he was trying to trap a wild boar but some other animal that got trapped managed to break free.To their surprise, the foresters found a tiger with a nylon wire entangled around its neck. The matter is worrying as a tigress had starved to death in August in Mailani range after it was unable to shake off a plastic wire of a snare that got entangled around its neck, preventing it from eating. In March, a tiger caught in a snare had died in Shivpuri village in the social forestry Maheshpur range. Deputy director, Dudhwa, Anil Patel told TOI, “A rescue operation is on and our experts are camping in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/search-on-for-tiger-with-wire-entangled-around-neck-in-dudhwa/articleshow/79879767.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid strikes weak harder, recovery time’s longer too||NEW DELHI: A healthy adult infected with Covid-19 tests negative in about 10 days. However, in case of an immune-compromised patient — for example, a person suffering from cancer or end-stage kidney disease — it can take a month or more for the infection to go away completely. This trend has been observed among patients in India as well as abroad. New evidence suggests these patients could be a target for novel coronavirus to replicate and mutate. Covid-19 Genomics Consortium in the UK, which identified the new variant of the virus, has published the details of one such individual who remained positive for 101 days. His swab samples were tested 23 times and every time the result came positive. He died later. According to the case report, yet to be peer-reviewed, the virus population identified from this patient did not mutate detectably over the first 65 days, possibly due to two courses of antiviral drug remdesevir. But the patient did not improve and was given three treatments with convalescent plasma, two on day 65 and one on day 95, which failed to clear the infection. Following each treatment, important changes in the virus genome were observed, with the emergence of a viral variant bearing two mutations in the Spike protein — a two amino acid deletion (at positions 69-70) and one amino acid replacement in position 796 (D796H), said professor Ravi Gupta and his colleagues in the report. “This study of a chronic SARS-CoV-2 infection represents a rare insight into virus evolution likely driven under the pressure of convalescent plasma. Given that therapeutics (vaccines and antibody-based) mainly target the SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein, this provides evidence for an increased chance of escape mutants being generated in persistent infections, and the need for careful monitoring of their transmission and potential to evade vaccine-mediated immunity,” they add. Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of AIIMS, told TOI they had also come across many immune-compromised patients who remained positive for four to six weeks. “Such patients need to be monitored carefully,” he said. SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, has undergone multiple mutations. However, a recent mutation in the UK, which has also spread to a few other countries, has become a subject of serious investigation because it has a high transmission rate. Dr N K Mehra, honorary emeritus scientist at Indian Council of Medical Research and former AIIMS dean, said viruses were known to mutate. “The virus that causes common cold changes every year. SARS-CoV2 is also a mutated version of coronaviruses reported before.” Dr Mehra said the changes observed in the SARS-CoV2 were probably caused by its attempt to escape the immune system and its exact impact was yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-strikes-weak-harder-recovery-times-longer-too/articleshow/79884867.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 23, 2020||Rajkot||Miscreant torches five vehicles||Rajkot: A miscreant torched five vehicles at slum quarters near Jilla garden in the wee hours of Tuesday.One of the owners of the vehicle, Imtiaz Dhanani, was woken up around 3.30 am when he heard a loud sound outside his house. When he went out, he saw his scooter and bike on fire. His neighbours Rafique Ali Malek and Naushad Hussain Qureshi’s vehicles were also on fire. Dhanani told police that he woke up the two neighbours and also tried to douse the fire by sprinkling water. However, the vehicles were completely gutted. Malek, too, lost his scooter and bike while Qureshi’s auto rickshaw’s seats and roof were damaged.Dhanani called up the police control room to inform about the incident and later lodged an FIR against an unidentified person at Bhaktinagar police station. Cops said that they checked the footage of CCTV camera installed towards the main road and found one man who could be involved in the mischief. “The man’s face is visible in the footage using which we are trying to find him,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/miscreant-torches-five-vehicles/articleshow/79879887.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doc accused of DV||Ahmedabad: A 26-year-old woman from the Ellisbridge area on Tuesday filed a complaint with police alleging that her husband, an orthopaedic surgeon and a resident of Satellite, assaulted her over petty issues. The woman had married the doctor one year ago and alleged that he demanded a dowry of Rs 50 lakh to set up a new hospital. In her FIR, the woman states that she married the doctor last December, after which her husband went to Udaipur where he was pursuing orthopaedics, while she stayed with her in-laws. She alleged that her in-laws often demanded money from her parents and when refused, they thrashed her. She further alleged that when her parents did not give them Rs 50 lakh for a hospital, they dropped her off at her parents’ house in Ellisbridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doc-accused-of-dv/articleshow/79884873.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Delhi||All flyers, crew returning from UK to be tested at Delhi's IGI airport||NEW DELHI: Five passengers and crew members from London who landed in Delhi on Monday night tested positive for Covid-19 at Indira Gandhi International Airport. Their Air India flight was one of the four flights scheduled to land in Delhi before the restrictions on flights from the UK are put in place from Tuesday midnight. The passengers who came on the second of the two scheduled flights, a British Airways service, were also tested but none proved positive. There were 470 passengers in the two flights, an official confirmed. “All those who tested positive have been shifted to Vallabhbhai Patel Quarantine Facility and will be kept there till they test negative,” disclosed an airport official. Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder director, Genestrings Lab, which is carrying out the tests at IGIA, said the five positive samples were sent to National Centre for Disease Control for research on the new strain. In light of the new coronavirus strain in the UK that is said to be 70% more easily spread, the Indian government has temporarily suspended all passenger flights from that country. The last two flights scheduled to arrive in Delhi before the deadline of 23:59 hrs on December 22 have been ordered to undergo mandatory RT-PCR tests to be conducted at the airport by Genestrings Lab. Around 500 passengers are expected to alight from the flights landing after 11pm on December 22. GMR DIAL, the airport operators, arranged a separate waiting lounge for the 470 passengers travelling in the two earlier flights so that there was no scope for viral transmission or testing lapse. “Genestrings Lab was the first to set up a lab at any international airport and has been mandated by Delhi government’s state surveillance unit to test passengers arriving from the UK day,” said Chetan Kohli, COO, Genestrings Labs. An airport official said that given the uncertainty around the new virus strain, both DIAL and Genestrings were fully equipped to make sure the country did not face another wave of pandemic. Testing costs a standard Rs 800. If one wants to avail the comfort of the lounge, the total cost is Rs 3,400. The airport authorities created separate waiting arrangements for passengers arriving from the UK that they did not have to share the lounge with passengers from other countries. There were extra staff put on duty to ease the process and to have the RT-PCR results in less than four hours, an airport official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-flyers-crew-returning-from-uk-to-be-tested-at-igi/articleshow/79884876.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 23, 2020||Surat||Surat cops file chargesheet in ‘record’ 15 days of crime||SURAT: The Pandesara police on Tuesday filed a chargesheet in the case of 10-year-old girl’s rape and murder case within 15 days of the crime. Officials said this is probably the least time taken to file a chargesheet in such heinous offences in the state. The 232-page chargesheet filed in the local court has testimonies of 69 witnesses and clinching evidence of the crime that was allegedly perpetrated by 27-year-old Dinesh Baisane, a native of Maharashtra. Baisane had kidnapped the minor from her house on December 9 by offering to buy her a vada-pav. He, however, took her to an isolated location and tried to rape her. The girl, who had learnt about good touch and bad touch in her school, fought back bravely by biting and scratching his hand. When she screamed for help, Baisane hit her with a brick on the head out of fear of getting caught. The girl died on the spot due to heavy blood loss. Police also submitted CCTV camera footage certified by the forensic science laboratory (FSL). Investigators have recovered footage of four different locations to prove the charges in which the accused is seen taking the minor along. Scientific evidence includes blood stains of the clothes of the girl, bite injury and scratch marks on the accused’s body. Among the key witnesses are a rickshaw driver and an employee of the vada-pav shop who identified Baisane. “This is probably the shortest period in the state where a chargesheet has been filed in rape and murder case of a minor girl. Police have also requested the law department to appoint a special public prosecutor and a retired police officer as legal assistant,” said Vidhi Chaudhary, deputy commissioner of police, zone III. “We completed the investigation quickly and submitted all the crucial evidence to prove the charges. Our aim is to get the accused punished as fast as possible to give out a message to the society and prevent such heinous crimes against minor girls,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. Earlier, the city police had filed a chargesheet in 23 days against Anil Yadav who was later sentenced to death for rape and murder of a three-year-old in Godadara on October 14 last year. He was convicted on July 31, 2019. The Supreme Court has stayed the capital punishment on his appeal. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/chargesheet-filed-in-record-15-days/articleshow/79879480.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
December 23, 2020||Vadodara||New Covid-19 cases dip below 99||Vadodara: After over a month, the number of new Covid-19 cases reported in a day in the city and district fell below 100 to reach in double digits again. During the 24 hours ending on Tuesday evening, 99 persons tested positive in the city and district. According to the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), 3,798 tests were conducted in the city and district during the period out of which the new cases were detected. With the new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 20,396 in the city and district. The new cases included 33 from outside VMC limits and 66 in city. The east zone reported 15 new cases while the west, north and south zones reported 17 cases each. The VMC did not confirm any more deaths on Tuesday and the total deaths due to Covid-19 in the city and district remained at 233.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-covid-19-cases-dip-below-99/articleshow/79878374.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||Invest in desi talent, PM Modi tells the world||NEW DELHI: PM Modi on Tuesday urged the global community to “invest in Indian talent and innovate in India”, saying the country has the brightest minds and the government stands ready to address any challenge besides improving the environment for research. “The biggest long-term challenge science faces is to attract high quality youngsters and retain them. Often, the domain of technology and engineering seem more attractive to the youth than pure science. However, for any country to develop, it needs science to power it. Because, as they say: what is called science today, becomes technology of tomorrow and an engineering solution later,” said the PM while inaugurating the 6th India International Science Festival (IISF), the festival will be held till December 25. He said, “All our efforts are aimed at making India the most trustworthy centre for scientific learning. At the same time, we want our scientific community to share and grow with the best of global talent. No wonder India has become very active in hosting and participating in hackathons. They are held in India and abroad. It gives both exposure and opportunity to our scientists.” RSS-linked science body, Vigyan Bharati, is the knowledge partner of the department of science & technology on the IISF. The theme for this year’s festival is ‘Science for Self-Reliant India and Global Welfare’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/invest-in-desi-talent-pm-modi-tells-the-world/articleshow/79900005.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||Pilibhit farmers with ration for protesters clash with police||PILIBHIT: After the Uttar Pradesh-Delhi border, Pilibhit has now emerged as another flashpoint in the ongoing farmers’ protest. After UP Police stopped movement of around 200 farmers from Pilibhit, who were headed to the Delhi border with tractors full of essential supplies for the protesters, there were skirmishes leading to Moradabad SSP receiving injuries. Farmers, however, have claimed that the local police “acted like rioters” to stop their movement and lathi-charged them twice between Monday and Tuesday. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who rushed to the spot on getting the information, termed the action of the local police a “reminder of British Raj”. With over 100 women and children, a group of 200 farmers from different villages of Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur and Kheri, who had assembled outside Kajri Gurdwara on Monday morning and started their journey for the UP-Delhi border along with 22 tractor-trolleys full of grain, pulses, wheat flour, rice, quilts and blankets, were stopped by police on Pilibhit-Basti NH 730 near Bhopatpur village on Monday. But foiling all attempts of police to stop them, they crossed the border of Pilibhit district at Bareilly-Haridwar NH-74 to continue their journey with the support of local agriculturists. On Tuesday, the farmers, who parked their tractor-trolleys on the spot, were joined by other local agriculturists and activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pilibhit-farmers-with-ration-for-protesters-clash-with-police/articleshow/79900172.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 23, 2020||India||Physical hearing still in doubt, SC makes website disabled friendly||NEW DELHI: With physical hearing in courts remaining a distant dream, the Supreme Court has stepped up efforts to make the virtual court system, including arguing cases through video-conferencing, friendly to physically challenged lawyers and litigants and issued advisory to High Courts to follow suit. SC's eCommittee chairperson Justice D Y Chandrachud in a letter to all High Court chief justices said, "The eCommittee of the Supreme Court has been working towards creating a digital ecosystem which enables lawyers and litigants with disabilities to participate in the legal profession on an equal footing with their able-bodied counterparts." "The creation of accessible infrastructure, including digital infrastructure, and an appropriate support system in the judiciary for lawyers and litigants with disabilities is imperative in order to create a level playing field. This obligation is a natural corollary of the right to equality guaranteed to lawyers and litigants with disabilities under Article 14 of the Constitution of India and the right to practice a profession of one’s choice under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India," he said. "I am happy to note that the Supreme Court website now has a fully functional audio captcha. Until recently, it was not possible for the blind to independently access the website due to the visual captcha. This is a Significant step which has been taken by the Supreme Court," Justice Chandrachud said. This was necessitated since the attempts to start physical hearing in the SC, after repeated demands from SC Bar Association and SC Advocates on Record Association, fizzled out in August last year with a measly 0.87% of advocates agreeing to appear in person to argue the cases. The court registry had displayed a list of 517 regular cases and 170 miscellaneous petitions and sought consent from counsel engaged by litigants for physical hearing. "Only in six of the total 687 cases, lawyers from both sides have consented for physical hearing," the registry sources said. Justice Chandrachud felt that the HCs need to take some urgent steps to make filings and their websites’ more accessible to lawyers and litigants, especially those with physical disabilities. "The onus to make filings accessible cannot be placed on disabled lawyers. This would be much like serving a file to an able-bodied lawyer in a foreign language and placing the onus on them to translate it into English. Instead, we must ensure that we institutionalize systems that embed accessibility for all times to come," he said. "Second, instead of requiring a disabled lawyer to seek case-by-case intervention, or having a separate system just for them, we have to ensure that existing filing practices are reconfigured to take account of their needs," he said. "Wherever entering visual captchas is a requirement to access any information, audio captchas must also be provided. Such audio must be clear — the audio captcha deployed on the Supreme Court website is a good example of a functional audio captcha," the eCommittee chairman said. "Judgements in the PDF format should be auto-tagged in order to be accessible to visually challenged persons. PDFs are, overall, not user friendly for visually challenged users. Therefore, The High Courts should consider releasing judgements in HTML format on their websites, along with their PDF equivalent," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/physical-hearing-still-in-doubt-sc-makes-website-disabled-friendly/articleshow/79900174.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 23, 2020||India||Most of 19 lakh NRC-rejects to vote in Assam polls||About 19 lakh NRC rejects, whose cases were not sub judice in the foreigners tribunals (FTs) prior to publication of the final citizenship register on August 31, 2019 and who are free from the ‘D’ (doubtful) voter tag, will be able to vote in the 2021 Assam polls, election authorities said on Tuesday, reports Kangkan Kalita. “The EC is clear that unless they (those excluded from NRC) are declared as ‘foreigners’ by the FT and accordingly, the electoral registration officer deletes such names from the voter list, they will have the right to vote,” joint chief electoral officer, Assam, Lakhinandan Saharia told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/most-of-19-lakh-nrc-rejects-to-vote-in-assam-polls/articleshow/79900331.cms||Kangkan Kalita
December 23, 2020||India||As Goa stares at beef shortage, CM asks agents to source live animals to state||PANAJI: Goa CM Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday that the state government has permitted registered agents to source live animals from other states if beef isn’t available. Sawant, who heads the BJP government in the state, said Goa Meat Complex has has communicated to agents to get live animals for slaughter in a hygienic manner. On Monday, Sawant had said he directed the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services to source live animals and beef from other states to ensure that there’s no shortage of it in the state. Since very little beef is coming from Karnataka, some dealers have reached out to Delhi for supplies, while others are contemplating sourcing it from Kerala. “I worship the cow, but as CM, it is my duty to take care of the minority population... There is a 30% minority population in Goa that eats beef,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-goa-stares-at-beef-shortage-cm-asks-agents-to-source-live-animals-to-state/articleshow/79900373.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Noida||Class VI boy sexually assaulted by senior for 3 years in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: A Class VI student at a leading Greater Noida school was allegedly sodomised by a senior in Class XII for about three years. The boy, now 12, called up the Childline 1098 helpline last week to report his plight, following which the 17-year-old senior school student was apprehended and sent to a juvenile observation home. According to Childline officials, the boy was in an agitated state because of the repeated sexual assault. The officials said the boy also told them he had informed his parents two years ago, after which the senior student's family had changed homes. But no legal course was pursued. Mala Bhandari, president of Noida-based NGO Sadrag, which handles Greater Noida Childline, told TOI the boys were neighbours, living in the same society in Greater Noida and travelling in the same bus to school. “He (the 12-year-old) discussed the issue with his sisters. When he told them that he wanted to call up Childline, they encouraged him,” Bhandari said. After listening to his account, Childline informed the child welfare committee, which took cognisance and directed officials to counsel the boy. “He was counselled twice and officials spoke to his parents too. They said the boy had been upset and wasn’t behaving normally,” added Bhandari. After Childline intervened and the parents were taken on board, police were informed. An FIR was lodged under IPC section 377 and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, said additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey. According to the FIR, when they were living in the same society, the senior student would call the younger boy repeatedly to his house, where he stripped him and assaulted him sexually. The FIR also mentions that the boy was in depression ever since because of the trauma he went through. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/class-6-boy-calls-ngo-says-sexually-assaulted-by-senior/articleshow/79889527.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 23, 2020||Business||Google pulls down another ‘rogue’ app||NEW DELHI: A “rogue” lending app, Udhaar Loan, which thrived using a name resembling another app, was taken down from Google PlayStore on Tuesday for violating the technology giant's “trademark” policies. Udhaar Loan used to offer credits at extremely high interest rates and resembled the name of a genuine Indian startup, Udhaar, to build its credibility, a phenomenon that researchers say is quite common. Udhaar provides alternate credit scoring mechanisms for “underserved individuals”. Udhaar’s co-founder Ravi Sethia had filed a complaint with Google nearly a month ago about the “rogue” lending app, stating it copied the name of his organisation, which the firm’s founders had trademarked in 2016. A Google spokesperson confirmed to TOI that the app was taken down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/google-pulls-down-another-rogue-app/articleshow/79900458.cms||Anam Ajmal
December 23, 2020||India||Poll cash: EC to summon officials as MP drags feet||NEW DELHI: With Madhya Pradesh government yet to act on the Election Commission’s December 16 direction for lodging criminal action against three IPS officers and a state police officer based on a CBDT report indicating their alleged role in unauthorised cash transactions during 2019 Lok Sabha poll, the EC has decided to call top officials of the state in January for a status update. “EC shall be calling MP chief secretary and addl chief secretary (home) for a meeting sometime before January 10, 2021 to know what has been done, is being done or shall be done to implement its direction regarding the officers,” Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora told TOI on Tuesday. EC had last week, acting on a report from the Central Board of Direct Taxes pointing to prima facie role of public/government servants in unauthorised cash transactions in MP during general elections, directed the state chief electoral officer to lodge a criminal case against Sushovan Banerjee (IPS: 1989 batch), Sanjay Mane (IPS: 1989 batch); V Madhu Kumar (IPS: 1991 batch); and Arun Mishra (MP police) “for violations of extant electoral and other laws”. EC had shared the report with the state chief electoral officer with direction to lodge criminal action before the economic offences wing against the four officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/poll-cash-ec-to-summon-officials-as-mp-drags-feet/articleshow/79900505.cms||Bharti Jain
December 23, 2020||Delhi||939 Covid cases in a day, positivity rate 1.14% in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 939 fresh Covid-19 cases and 25 new fatalities on Tuesday, even as the positivity rate slipped to 1.14 per cent. The infection tally mounted to over 6.1 lakh and the death toll rose to 10,329, officials said. This was the second consecutive day when the daily case count remained below the 1,000-mark. On Monday, 803 cases were reported, the lowest since August 17. Tuesday's 939 cases were reported following 82,386 tests carried out in the preceding 24 hours, including 39,843 RT-PCR tests and 42,543 rapid antigen tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The active case tally on Tuesday stood at 8,735 and the total number of cases climbed to 6,18,747. Of the total active cases, 4,790 are recuperating in home isolation and 2,884 admitted in hospitals, apart from 100 in Covid care centres and 22 in Covid health centres. Total 15,902 Covid beds are vacant in hospitals, 7,409 in Covid care centres and 540 in health centres. According to the Delhi Corona application, 872 out of total 1,523 Covid ICU beds with ventilators are vacant while 2,914 ICU beds without ventilators out of total 3,577 are vacant. Doctors say the third wave of Covid-19 is over. However, preventive measures still need to be implemented, they add.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/939-covid-cases-in-a-day-positivity-rate-1-14-in-delhi/articleshow/79900665.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||ASI who prepared FIR killed self after CBI took his statement||KOTTAYAM: V V Augustine, the fourth accused in the case, was found dead near his house under mysterious circumstances on November 28, 2008. He was one of the members of the police team which had conducted the inquiry into Sister Abhaya’s death in the initial stages. Police suspected that the 62-year-old retired assistant sub-inspector had committed suicide. He was found dead with his veins cut in the compound of his house at Ithithanam, near here. CBI had found that he had destroyed crucial evidence in the case. Augustine, who was subjected to interrogation several times by CBI, was said to be under mental trauma. His death came a day after CBI recorded his statement regarding the case. He was found dead barely a week after the arrest of the first three accused. His relatives had alleged that the retired officer took his own life because of the torture by CBI. The relatives had approached the high court in this regard. Augustine, who was the ASI of Kottayam West police station at the time of Abhaya’s death, was the first policeman to reach the spot after the nun’s body was found in the well. He had conducted the inquest and prepared the FIR in the case and was involved in the initial phase of investigation before the case was handed over to the crime branch, and later to the CBI. He was subjected to brain mapping by the CBI team and his statement was taken by the investigating team amid allegations that certain vital information were suppressed in the FIR. Augustine’s relatives had alleged that the retired officer took his own life because of the torture by CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/asi-who-prepared-fir-killed-self-after-cbi-took-his-statement/articleshow/79900758.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Noida||Cop’s son among 2 held for fatal attack on Noida teenager||NOIDA: The family of the 15-year-old boy who died of fatal injuries sustained during an attack by two customers who had come to buy vegetables from him last Saturday has accused the police of going easy on the suspects, questioning why the charges were filed for culpable homicide (Section 304, IPC) and not murder (Section 302). The boy, they alleged, was attacked when his two brothers had gone to the police to file a complaint. Yet, the two suspects were arrested on Monday, two days after the assault on Rohit. One of them, Ashish Singh, is the son of a head constable posted in Gautam Budh Nagar. Rohit studied in the eighth standard of Shri Mishrilal Adarsh Inter College and had been helping his family run their vegetable cart in the city’s Phase II area since physical classes were suspended during the lockdown. His two elder brothers Ajay and Akash were also beaten up by Ashish and Likhit Raghav, the family alleged. A collision between Ashish and Likhit’s bike and Rohit’s cart triggered a heated argument, which escalated. “My son apologised and even touched their feet, but was still attacked. When Ajay and Akash went to file a complaint against them with the police, they caught hold of Rohit and assaulted him. We don’t know if it was a stick or a rod. There was a gash on the left side of his skull. They left him and fled the spot,” Rohit’s father Maan Singh told TOI. Rohit’s cousin Ashok alleged when the argument started, Ashish and Likhit used helmets to beat up the three brothers. “They later returned and targeted Rohit. Someone informed Ajay and Akash when they were at Phase II police station to report the matter,” Ashok said. “No policeman arrived even as they claimed they were calling an ambulance. Later, they took Rohit to the Bhangel community health centre (CHC) in a police vehicle. There was no electricity at the CHC at that time. We took him to Yatharth hospital, from where he was referred to Safdarjung hospital. We did not have enough money for treatment at the private hospital,” Ashok added. Pointing out that Ashish and Likhit returned with the specific intention of attacking Rohit, Maan Singh asked why Section 302 had not been applied in the case.  DCP (central Noida) Harish Chander said, “The FIR is being converted to relevant sections and suitable action is being taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/among-2-held-for-fatal-attack-on-class-8-boy-a-cops-son/articleshow/79890077.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 23, 2020||India||Finally, truth won, says CBI ex-DSP||Speaking to reporters at his residence in Pathanamthitta, former CBI DSP, Varghese P Thomas, couldn’t hide his tears. “Tears of joy,” he told journalists gathered there following the court’s verdict in the Sister Abhaya murder case. Thomas was an investigating officer in the first team of the CBI which took up the case in 1993. On January 1, the next year, Thomas quit as CBI DSP alleging harassment from the then SP, V Thyagarajan. Thomas, who convened a news conference in Kochi then, alleged that there was pressure on him to conclude the case as a suicide, but he stood by his finding that the case was one of homicide. The events that followed led to Thomas applying for VRS. He alleged that Thyagarajan demanded he conclude the case as one of suicide, in line with the findings of the crime branch which had probed the case earlier. The version of the crime branch was that Abhaya committed suicide, as she had scored only seven marks out of 100 in a first year pre-degree examination. “I had 10 years of service remaining and would have retired as DIG,” he said adding that he has no regret in quitting. “I can’t do anything against my conscience,” he said. “I have stood for truth and had to pay a heavy price for that. Finally, truth triumphed,” Thomas said. During the trial, he deposed as a prosecution witness and detailed his findings and the pressure he had to face from within the investigating agency before the CBI court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/finally-truth-won-says-cbi-ex-dsp/articleshow/79900835.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Over 2,000 landed in Karnataka in December; B S Yediyurappa rules out night curfew for now||BENGALURU: A total of 2,127 passengers arrived in Karnataka from the UK between December 1 and 21, and the state government has launched an intensive process of tracing them in the light of concerns over a new variant of coronavirus surfacing in parts of Europe, according to a Covid bulletin issued late Tuesday night by the health and family welfare department. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa ruled out imposing night curfew for now and reiterated curbs on New Year celebrations. “We will screen passengers at the airport before letting them in,” the CM said, adding all precautions are being taken to prevent spread of virus. On Tuesday, the state reported 1,141 new Covid-positive cases, of which 585 were from Bengaluru. A total of 95,708 tests were conducted in the state in the past 24 hours. The daily positivity rate stood at 1.1% and the case fatality rate (CFR) was 1.2%. The day saw 14 Covid deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/over-2000-landed-in-karnataka-in-december-bs-yediyurappa-rules-out-night-curfew-for-now/articleshow/79900859.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 600 flyers from London land in Mumbai, over 300 quarantined||MUMBAI: About six hundred passengers landed in Mumbai from London on three flights in the early hours of Tuesday, but only about two hundred and thirty out of these were allowed to go home from the airport. Those allowed to go home were residents of other states. Those staying in Maharashtra – over 300 passengers -- were sent to a hotel for a week-long quarantine as mandated by the state government late on Monday. This is not the first time this year that international passengers have been caught unawares by the sudden decisions taken by governments to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. But it’s perhaps the first time that a plane load of passengers were divided based on their residential addresses. Kapil Patil, a London resident, was one of the people whose family was hit by the sudden imposition of institutional quarantine for UK passengers. His wife was travelling with their four-monthold child. The duo was stuck at the airport for over eight hours after the flight landed. Since she stayed in Kalyan and not out of Maharashtra, she was sent to seven-day hotel quarantine. In desperation, Patil tweeted for help, seeking a relaxation of norms by allowing her home quarantine. “My child is crying too much,” he tweeted. An airport source said that the sudden requirement to segregate passengers based on their home addresses led to long queues of passengers from London. On Tuesday, the BMC issued fresh guidelines under which passengers arriving from Europe and the Middle East will have to undergo seven days of compulsory institutional quarantine at designated hotels. “They will be tested between the 5th and 7th day, and if their RT-PCR test report is negative, they will be allowed to go home. They will however be advised to undergo seven days of home quarantine,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health). Deputy municipal commissioner Anil Wankhede said that passengers who land in Mumbai but are residents of states other than Maharashtra, who have onward flights, will be allowed to take their connecting flights provided they are carrying a recent negative RT-PCR test report with them. “The hotel rates range from Rs 1,000 to Rs 4,500 per night per room, and this price includes three meals and one evening tea. People can choose the hotels based on their affordability. We have earmarked enough rooms. We have arrivals of 2,000 passengers from Europe and the Middle East every day,” Wankhede said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-600-flyers-from-london-land-in-mumbai-over-300-quarantined/articleshow/79901136.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||NIA searches 7 Kerala sites in Syria terror trail||NEW DELHI: The National Investigation Agency on Tuesday searched seven locations in Thrissur and Kozhikode districts of Kerala in connection with a case relating to a fugitive who is said to have joined proscribed terrorist organisation Jund Al Aqsa and is believed to be in Syria. The houses searched belong to seven Keralites who, while being in Qatar till early-2019, were in contact with accused fugitive Sidhikul Akbar and had provided him funds. The seven Keralites are Mohammed Faaz, Mohammed Ihthisham, Abdul Sameeh, Rayees Rehiman, Nabeel Mohammed, Mohamed Shaheen and Mohammed Ameer. During searches, nine mobile phones, 15 SIM cards, one iPad, six laptops, three memory cards and various documents were seized from their homes. The relevant case was originally registered suo-motu by NIA on January 9, 2019 against six accused persons namely Hashir Mohammed, native of Ernakulam district, Kerala; Sidhikul Akbar, native of Malappuram district, Kerala; Muhammed Irfan, native of Kannur district, Kerala; Thaha Mohammed, native of Shimoga district, Karnataka; Sultan Abdulla native of Kozhikode district, Kerala and Fayez Farooq, native of Thrissur district, Kerala, who all, while being in Qatar had conspired from 2013 onwards, conducted preparations or travelled to Syria and joined the proscribed terrorist outfits Jund Al Aqsa or Jabhat AL Nusrah. NIA said that investigation had revealed that Mohammed Faaz, Mohammed Ihthisham, Abdul Sameeh, Rayees Rehiman, Nabeel Mohammed, Mohammed Shaheen and Mohammed Ameer, while being in Qatar till early-2019, were in contact with the accused Sidhikul Akbar and had provided funds to the fugitive based in Syria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nia-searches-7-kerala-sites-in-syria-terror-trail/articleshow/79900792.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Delhi||Busted again: Call centre that duped job seekers in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In the fifth such case in the past two weeks, Delhi Police's Cyber Cell busted another call centre functioning from a building in Laxmi Nagar and arrested three people, including two women. The staffers of this BPO impersonated a placement agency and various reputed job portals to dupe job seekers. "Over 250 persons were duped in the last one and a half years of more than Rs 75 lakh, analysis of their accounts suggests," said Anyesh Roy, DCP Cyber Cell. The cops started tracking this gang after receiving a complaint from a woman who had registered herself on various portals for a job in banking sector. She was contacted from a person claiming to be from a recruitment agency who informed her that her profile had been shortlisted for a job with a reputed multinational bank. "She was later contacted by multiple people who claimed to be from the bank and various rounds of 'interviews' were conducted, after which she was told that she had been selected for the job," DCP Roy said. The victim was induced to deposit money at every step on various pretexts, such as security deposit, physical verification of documents, interview scheduling, etc. She was duped of Rs 1.3 lakh in total. When the accused people stopped taking her calls, she contacted the bank. It was then that she got to know of the scam and reported the matter to Delhi Police. An FIR was registered and a team formed to nab the accused. A raid was conducted and the mastermind Amit Kumar (33) was arrested along with his other associates, Bhawna (32) and Megha (22). During interrogation, the accused said they contacted job seekers after obtaining their data from some job portals in lieu of money. The main accused Amit is an engineer and has worked with a few big companies. He came in contact with some persons in 2018 who were already running this scam. Last year, he started his own call centre and formed a separate team with Bhawna and Megha, both of whom are graduates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/busted-again-call-centre-that-duped-job-seekers-in-delhi/articleshow/79901211.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Surat||Surat: Photographer rapes, forces girl to steal from home||SURAT: A 21-year-old photographer from Katargam was detained for allegedly raping a minor girl several times, blackmailing her with lewd videos and forcing her to steal money from her house. The accused Kush Patel shot the video of his crime and used to threaten the 16-year-old girl to force him into a physical relationship as well as stealing from her house. The girl has stolen nearly Rs 2.8 lakh from her house after being pressurized by him, said police. Patel had raped the girl several times since September after getting to know her through social media, Katargam police said. He has been booked under sections of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (Pocso) and Information Technology Act. He will be arrested after Covid-19 test, said police Investigation so far revealed that Patel’s friend lives in the residential locality of the survivor. They initially met through a common friend and developed a close friendship through social media. “The girl was caught a couple of times leaving home with money after which the family members realised that she was stealing money. When questioned, she broke down and revealed that she was being blackmailed by Patel,” said police. Patel spent the money for personal pleasures. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/photographer-rapes-forces-girl-to-steal-from-home/articleshow/79879503.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Vadodara||After molesting four girls, six boys thrash their kin in Vadodara||VADODARA: Six persons including four minor boys aged 16-17 years and two youths were detained on Tuesday for allegedly molesting four teenage girls and beating up their family members when confronted in Padra on Monday. According to police, the four minor boys had been allegedly harassing the girls aged between 15 and 17 years, for the last couple of days. But on Monday their behaviour worsened as they followed the girls, whistled at them and passed lewd comments. The teenage girls, who live in the same neighbourhood, were walking back to their homes after giving vegetables to a family friend living nearby when the four minor boys along with their friend Satish Parmar (29) followed them in Parmar’s van. Parmar drives the van for a private company on Padra road. While, following the girls, the five accused played sleazy songs at high volume in the van. When the girls stopped at a provision store, one of the boys whistled at them and again started following them as the girls walked towards their houses. On reaching the gate of their society, another boy made lewd comments at the girls. All five of them fled when they saw one of the girls’ brothers coming out of the society. As he noticed that something was amiss, he shouted at the five accused to stop and challenged them. The girls told him and their mothers and one more neighbour, who had come out of his house hearing the commotion about the harassment. One of the girls and their family members went to confront the five accused at their residence. When confronted, five accused hurled abuses at the girls’ family members and allegedly beat them up. The sixth accused, who is also one of the minor boys’ elder brother, came out of his house with an iron pipe and attacked the girls’ mothers. He also kicked one teenage girl in her abdomen. They were somehow rescued by some locals. The teenage girl had to be taken to the health centre in Padra for treatment. Based on her complaint an offence of sexual harassment, assault, rioting and violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was registered. On Tuesday, all six were detained and Covid-19 tests of two adult accused were also conducted. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-molesting-four-girls-six-boys-thrash-their-kin/articleshow/79878399.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||Abhaya case: Habitual offender turned out to be crucial witness||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It was on August 29, 2019, the third day of trial, that Adakka Raju was examined as a witness in the case by the CBI. On the first day, Sister Abhaya’s hostel mate Sister Anupama and on the second day neighbour Sanju P Mathew had turned hostile, forcing the CBI counsel to allege that all witnesses were influenced. Then, Raju walked into the dock and resolutely said that he had seen two men, including Fr Thomas Kottoor, the first accused in the case, in the St Pius X convent compound in the wee hours of March 27, 1992, the day Abhaya was found dead in the convent well. “I was on the terrace stealing copper components of a lightning conductor installed atop the convent building. It was my third visit as I had come there twice before for stealing the components. I saw two men walking up the stairs with a torch and they were surveying the surroundings. One of them was a tall man and the other one is Fr Kottoor who is in this court. As they were there, I abandoned my plan and left the place,” Raju alias Adakka Raju told the CBI special court. The statement of Raju was in line with the sworn statement to the judicial first-class magistrate in Ernakulam. He also identified Fr Kottoor who was also present in the court. During the hearing, Raju also levelled serious allegations against the crime branch team which had initially probed the case. He said he was picked up by the crime branch sleuths and kept in custody for 57 or 58 days. The defence counsel had tried to defame Raju by listing out around 10 criminal cases in which Raju was an accused. Raju didn’t deny charge regarding his criminal past. However, as it turned out, the effort of the defence lawyer to prove that the witness had a blemished character turned counterproductive. With Raju admitting to the truth even in incidents that cast poor light on his person, the court may have been prompted to take his witness statement in the current case at its face value.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/abhaya-case-habitual-offender-turned-out-to-be-crucial-witness/articleshow/79901325.cms||B Sreejan
December 23, 2020||Nagpur||New farm laws: Farmers protest in Mumbai; minister detained in Nagpur||MUMBAI: The protest against the new farm laws reached Mumbai on Tuesday with agriculturists from Nandurbar, Western Maharashtra, Aurangabad and Amravati assembling near the Collector’s office. Led by Swabhimaani Shetkari Sanghatna leader Raju Shetti, Peasants and Workers’ Party leader Jayant Patil and Pratibha Shinde from Lok Sangharsh Morcha, the protesters tried to march toward the Reliance office in BKC, but were barricaded by the police. However, minister of state for water resources and education Bachchu Kadu, who was one of the organisers of the rally, could not attend because he was detained by the Nagpur police just before his flight to Mumbai. He was released only after home minister Anil Deshmukh intervened. “The home minister has called for a report from the Nagpur police. They ensured I missed my flight,” he said. Nagpur police chief Amitesh Kumar said they had followed instructions from the state police chief that Kadu should not leave for Mumbai. “We detained him as per orders,” said Kumar. Protesters alleged the biggest beneficiaries of the new farm laws would be corporates. “We want the farm laws to be repealed and are against the corporatization of agriculture,” said Shinde. “Farmers all over the country have been awakened and are supporting their brothers in Delhi,” said PWP leader Jayant Patil. While this group had planned a vehicle march from different parts of the state to Mumbai’s BKC, hundreds of farmers affiliated to Kisan Sabha union have embarked on a vehicle march from Nashik to Delhi in support of the farmers protesting there. “We are struggling to get fair prices for our crops. With these farm laws, we may not even get the minimum support price. This is the main reason I have come to the protest,” said Ramesh Naik, a farmer from Nandurbar who grows jowar, toor and cotton and has a debt of Rs 50,000. Kamalabai from Aurangabad said she had left her home at 4 am to come to the protest. “Finally, if we do not get good prices for our crops, it will be difficult for us to survive on farming. The new farms laws do not guarantee us even the minimum support price and are weakening APMCs. In fact, we get better prices at APMCs,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-farm-laws-farmers-protest-in-mumbai-minister-detained-in-nagpur/articleshow/79901437.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
December 23, 2020||Mumbai||New farm laws: Farmers protest in Mumbai; minister detained in Nagpur||MUMBAI: The protest against the new farm laws reached Mumbai on Tuesday with agriculturists from Nandurbar, Western Maharashtra, Aurangabad and Amravati assembling near the Collector’s office. Led by Swabhimaani Shetkari Sanghatna leader Raju Shetti, Peasants and Workers’ Party leader Jayant Patil and Pratibha Shinde from Lok Sangharsh Morcha, the protesters tried to march toward the Reliance office in BKC, but were barricaded by the police. However, minister of state for water resources and education Bachchu Kadu, who was one of the organisers of the rally, could not attend because he was detained by the Nagpur police just before his flight to Mumbai. He was released only after home minister Anil Deshmukh intervened. “The home minister has called for a report from the Nagpur police. They ensured I missed my flight,” he said. Nagpur police chief Amitesh Kumar said they had followed instructions from the state police chief that Kadu should not leave for Mumbai. “We detained him as per orders,” said Kumar. Protesters alleged the biggest beneficiaries of the new farm laws would be corporates. “We want the farm laws to be repealed and are against the corporatization of agriculture,” said Shinde. “Farmers all over the country have been awakened and are supporting their brothers in Delhi,” said PWP leader Jayant Patil. While this group had planned a vehicle march from different parts of the state to Mumbai’s BKC, hundreds of farmers affiliated to Kisan Sabha union have embarked on a vehicle march from Nashik to Delhi in support of the farmers protesting there. “We are struggling to get fair prices for our crops. With these farm laws, we may not even get the minimum support price. This is the main reason I have come to the protest,” said Ramesh Naik, a farmer from Nandurbar who grows jowar, toor and cotton and has a debt of Rs 50,000. Kamalabai from Aurangabad said she had left her home at 4 am to come to the protest. “Finally, if we do not get good prices for our crops, it will be difficult for us to survive on farming. The new farms laws do not guarantee us even the minimum support price and are weakening APMCs. In fact, we get better prices at APMCs,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-farm-laws-farmers-protest-in-mumbai-minister-detained-in-nagpur/articleshow/79901435.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
December 23, 2020||World||Israel heads to new elections as government collapses||JERUSALEM: Israel's divided government collapsed early Wednesday, triggering the country's fourth election in under two years and bringing an unprecedented threat to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's lengthy grip on power. Netanyahu, who is used to labeling his opponents as weak leftists, finds himself confronted by a trio of disgruntled former aides who share his hard-line ideology, led by a popular lawmaker who recently broke away from the prime minister's Likud party. Whether Netanyahu can fend off these challengers or not, the country is almost certain to be led by a right-wing politician opposed to concessions to the Palestinians, complicating hopes of the incoming Biden administration to restart peace talks. The prospects of Israel's center-left bloc appear worse than in previous contests because its leader, Defense Minister Benny Gantz, entered into the ill-fated alliance with Netanyahu. Gantz has lost the support of much of his disappointed base, and the bloc has been left leaderless. Netanyahu and Gantz formed their coalition last May after battling to a stalemate in three consecutive elections. They said they were putting aside their personal rivalry to form an "emergency" government focused on guiding the country through the health and economic crises caused by the pandemic. Under the deal, Gantz assumed the new role of "alternate prime minister" and was assured he would trade places with Netanyahu next November in a rotation agreement halfway through their term. The immediate cause of the collapse was their failure to pass a budget by the midnight Tuesday deadline. That caused the parliament to automatically dissolve and set new elections for late March. But the deeper cause was their troubled partnership, which was plagued by mutual hostility and mistrust from the outset. For seven months, Gantz has suffered a number of humiliations and been kept out of the loop on key decisions, such as a series of US-brokered diplomatic agreements with Arab countries. Netanyahu accuses Gantz's Blue and White party of acting as an "opposition within the government." At the heart of this dysfunctional relationship is Netanyahu's corruption trial. Gantz has accused Netanyahu of undermining their power-sharing deal in hopes of remaining in office throughout his trial, which is to kick into high gear in February when witnesses begin to take the stand. He and other critics believe Netanyahu ultimately hopes to form a new government capable of appointing loyalists to sensitive positions who could grant him immunity or dismiss the charges against him. "A criminal defendant with three indictments is dragging the country to a fourth round of elections," Blue and White said Tuesday night. "If there wasn't a trial, there would be a budget and there wouldn't be elections." Netanyahu is charged with fraud, breach of trust and accepting bribes in a series of scandals in which he is accused of offering favors to powerful media figures in exchange for positive news coverage about him and his family. His legal troubles, and questions about his suitability to govern, have been the central issue in the string of recent elections. "The ongoing political crisis will continue as long as Mr Netanyahu remains prime minister and no government can be formed without him," said Yohanan Plesner, a former lawmaker who is president of the Israel Democracy Institute. "I think it is quite safe to assume that this won't end until either Mr Netanyahu is replaced or if he finds a way, through legislation or political maneuvering, to either put his trial on hold or suspend it altogether," he said. In the previous three elections, Netanyahu was unable to put together a majority coalition with his traditional religious and nationalist allies. Yet he controlled enough seats to prevent his opponents from cobbling together an alternate coalition. According to recent opinion polls, that equation may be changing, with a number of rivals poised to control a parliamentary majority without him. Those rivals are led by Gideon Saar, a stalwart in Netanyahu's Likud who announced this month that he was breaking away and forming a new party. Saar, who once served as Netanyahu's Cabinet secretary, has accused the prime minister of turning the Likud into a "personality cult" focused on ensuring its leader's political survival. If elections were held today, Saar's party would finish second behind the Likud, appearing to give him a veto over a Netanyahu-led government, according to polls. Saar has vowed he will not serve under Netanyahu. Naftali Bennett, another former aide who had a falling out with Netanyahu, leads a religious right-wing party that also has surged in the polls. And Avigdor Lieberman, Netanyahu's former chief of staff and a longtime Cabinet minister who now leads his own party, also says the prime minister is unfit to lead. All of these rivalries are more personal than ideological, meaning that Israel's next government — led by Netanyahu or not — almost certainly will have a right-wing ideology that opposes Palestinian independence and supports continued Israeli settlement construction in the occupied West Bank. The recent polls indicate that Gantz, who appealed to left-wing voters in previous elections, may not receive enough votes to even enter the next Knesset.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/israel-heads-to-new-elections-as-government-collapses/articleshow/79901845.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Mumbai||At 1.4 lakh in 2019, Maharashtra No. 2 in toxic air deaths||MUMBAI: Maharashtra, which has safer air parameters than many north Indian states, is second in the statewise list of premature deaths due to air pollution in 2019. The state recorded 1.4 lakh air pollution-linked deaths while UP recorded the highest with 3.5 lakh deaths. The all-India figure is 17 lakh deaths — 18% of all the fatalities — in 2019; corresponding percentage for state is 16.7. Air pollution robs state’s GDP of nearly Rs 7,200crMaharashtra is second in the country after Uttar Pradesh on premature deaths caused by air pollution in 2019. The finding is part of a scientific paper published by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in The Lancet Planetary Health. The study was conducted for ICMR’s State-Level Disease Burden Initiative along with Public Health Foundation of India and the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation. TimesViewAir pollution is a slow killer that has been ignored for long. While air pollution levels in Maharashtra aren’t as high as in other parts of the country, they are enough to adversely affect the state’s economic indices and increase the death rate. It is time to introduce more environment-friendly technologies and measures across industry and in homes as well.Senior author of the study, Dr Lalit Dandona, said, “The economic impact of this health loss due to lost productivity is huge, at 1.4% of the country’s GDP in 2019, besides a roughlyestimated expenditure of 0.4% of the GDP on treatment of air pollution-related diseases.” The paper put Maharashtra’s economic loss at $972 million (over Rs 7,182 crore) which was above Uttar Pradesh’s $876 million. The nationwide amount was calculated at $8 billion. Public health risk will worsen if other states compare pollution levels with Delhi or the Gangetic states and become complacent, warned Anumita Roy Choudhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment, Delhi. She said new data on Maharashtra has reconfirmed what we know from science that most of the deaths occur at a level of pollution that is much lower than what we experience in Delhi. There is more bad news for Maharashtra. “In terms of economic loss due to lost output due to illnesses attributable to air pollution, Maharashtra suffered the most,” said Dr P C Gupta from Healis Health Foundation and a collaborator for the Lancet study. ICMR director general Prof Balram Bhargava said, “While 40% of the disease burden due to air pollution is from lung diseases, the remaining 60% is from ischemic heart disease, stroke, diabetes, and neonatal deaths related to preterm birth, highlighting the broadranging impact of air pollution on human health.” Roy Choudhury further said that the findings should serve as a warning for the Maharashtra government to cut emissions from vehicles, industries, power plants and waste. “In addition to particulate pollution, pay attention to growing ozone levels that is worsening the health risk,” said Choudhury. Maharashtra has 18 non-attainment cities out of 122 cities identified under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) that aims to reduce the PM2.5 (respirable, pollution particles) concentrations by 20-30% by 2024 from the 2017 levels. “It is also important to take steps at a regional scale and not be limited to cities because pollution blows across administrative boundaries," she said. A recent study by CSE found that even though the overall average level of PM2.5 for the 11 months in 2020 is considerably lower than the previous year due to the lockdown, PM2.5 levels in winter rose beyond the standard in the Greater Mumbai Region and the rest of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-1-4-lakh-in-2019-maharashtra-no-2-in-toxic-air-deaths/articleshow/79901649.cms||Malathy Iyer
December 23, 2020||Goa||Rao talks of restructuring party, infusing young blood||Panaji: All India Congress Committee (AICC) interim president Sonia Gandhi will take a call on the leadership crisis within the Congress party in Goa after taking into account feedback and opinions of party workers, said Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao. State Congress president Girish Chodankar stepped down in view of the party’s disastrous outing in the zilla panchayat elections. Rao, who is on a two-day visit to the state, is meeting with party workers, office bearers, MLAs, ZP candidates and frontal organisations to review the party’s performance in the ZP elections and to also address calls for urgent restructuring within the party. “Girish has sent his resignation, but the party high command will see what to do. I will also finish my two-day program here and discuss with the party high command what needs to be done,” Rao said. Commenting on the party’s debacle at the ZP polls, he said, “We also have to introspect, definitely. Somewhere I think we should worked in a better fashion and our leaders should have got involved more in the campaign and elections. We will take suitable measures in the future. In victory it has to be collective and in defeat also there has to be collective responsibility. All of us have to collectively take responsibility for the ZP elections.” Party MLAs Digambar Kamat, Luizinho Faleiro and Alexio Reginaldo Lourenco met Rao along with the two district presidents Vijay Bhike and Joe Dias. “We want to bring in new leadership, fresh faces, new ideas, new thoughts. Congress wants younger faces. Next two to three months we want to strengthen Congress,” he said. When asked about an alliance for the 2022 assembly elections, Rao said that the party has lot of time to decide. “We need to reorganise ourselves first. Sonia Gandhi will take the decision,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rao-talks-of-restructuring-party-infusing-young-blood/articleshow/79887847.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Goa||BJP hypocrite when it comes to beef: Rao||Panaji: The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, is draconian and will affect not just beef eaters, but farmers too, said Congress party’s Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao. Pointing out that Uttar Pradesh is among the top five exporters of beef, Rao, the former Karnataka Congress president, accused BJP of double standards regarding beef consumption. “The cattle slaughter law is so draconian that nobody wants to keep any cows and buffaloes today,” said Rao. “What will the farmers do with them? If you keep it, you have to take care of them. The government should have at least given some money to farmers.” Rao also challenged chief minister Pramod Sawant to pass a similar law in Goa to ban beef consumption. “Why can’t they pass the same law in Goa? This is hypocrisy. BJP should ban exports of beef if they want to ban beef,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-hypocrite-when-it-comes-to-beef-rao/articleshow/79887954.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Goa||District-level officers to keep tabs on UK arrivals||PANAJI: The public health department on Tuesday issued a directive to all departments concerned to comply with the standard operating procedure (SOPs) issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare for epidemiological surveillance and response in the context of the new variant of Covid-19 detected in the UK. At international airports, travellers will need to declare travel history of the past 14 days. While flights from UK have been suspended with effect from December 23 till December 31, passengers travelling to India during the intervening period of December 21 to 23 will be subjected to RT-PCR test on arrival. All travellers who arrived from the UK between November 25 and December 8, will be contacted by the district surveillance officers and advised to self-monitor their health. If a traveller tests positive, it is recommended that spike gene-based RT-PCR test should be performed at an appropriate laboratory. Passengers testing positive will be isolated in an institutional facility but in a separate isolation unit. All contacts of travellers who tested positive will be subjected to institutional quarantine in separate quarantine centres. Authorities would be required to send the samples to the national institute of virology or any other appropriate laboratory for genomic sequencing. If the genomic sequencing is consistent with the current Covid-19 genome circulating in the country, the ongoing treatment protocol, as per the severity of the case to be followed.  If the genomic sequencing indicates the presence of a new variant, a patient will require to remain in a separate isolation unit. He will be required to undergo a fresh test on the 14th day, and if positive, further samples may be taken until his two consecutive samples taken 24 hours apart test negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/district-level-officers-to-keep-tabs-on-uk-arrivals/articleshow/79888160.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Goa||Goa: Social distancing goes for a toss at GMC as patients crowd outside OPD||PANAJI: Prior to Covid-19, those visiting Goa Medical College’s (GMC) out-patient department (OPD) would not mind standing in serpentine queues for hours together awaiting their turn. At least, at the time they were not required to stand in the scorching sun. However, ever since GMC restarted its regular OPD service more than a month ago, it has been a battle of a different level altogether for patients. Their entry into OPD block has been regulated to reduce congestion inside, but outside it is a mad rush. The pandals that were erected in April have been removed by the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC), which handles the hospital’s maintenance. At the time they were erected, Goa was caught in the grip of Covid-19 and the pandals were meant to allow patients to follow social distancing. “We had asked GSIDC to retain the pandals, which served as waiting areas. However, they told us to erect pandals at our cost,” GMC dean, Dr S M Bandekar said. Currently, patients are forced to line up outside in the crowded space with total disregard for social distancing until the security at the entrance allows them in. “Though people do wear masks there is no space to maintain distance from the patient in front of you. If you want to take precautions and are worried that you may get Covid-19 from a potential carrier, you will have to come another time to see the doctor,” said Prema Naik, 54, who left her town Bicholim early in the morning to be at the GMC. An infection has been detected in her kidneys and doctors in Bicholim referred her to GMC for further investigation. “I would rather stand here till the OPD closes rather than make another visit,” she said. An elderly man in his seventies said that he was tired as he had been in the queue for an hour. If patients want to rest for a few minutes, they have no choice but to sit on the stairs, which are mostly already occupied. Further, one can take that liberty only if there is an accompanying companion or relative who can stand in for you in the queue while you rest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-gmc-as-patients-crowd-outside-opd/articleshow/79888341.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 23, 2020||Goa||Parents condemn arrest of students on Liberation Day||Panaji: Parents of the students detained by police on Liberation Day for gathering near the Panaji church and other areas condemned the “high handed action of the police”. Calling the detention illegal and “a murder of democracy”, they have demanded an independent inquiry at the judicial level into the matter. They are also contemplating approaching the human rights commission on this. “Our children were detained in an inhumane manner and taken from Panaji to Ponda for over five hours, which calls for serious investigation into this illegal action of the police,” one parent Simon Afonso said. There were 19 girls and a few minors on the three buses in which the 50-odd youth picked up by police were put. Parents said that the students had assembled to observe Liberation Day by singing songs and putting up a skit. “They even obtained a permit from the church. They neither had any weapons on them nor any placards demonstrating against the government. On what grounds then were the children taken?” the parents said. “Police has caused mental and emotional duress to the students. They must apologise to our children,” parent Ana Gracia said. Among those detained was a teacher who come his students. After the police forced him to their vehicle, his students were stranded at the church premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parents-condemn-arrest-of-students-on-liberation-day/articleshow/79888466.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 75-year-old gets 3 years for sexual abuse of girl his grandkid’s age||MUMBAI: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court recently convicted and sentenced a 75-year-old aquarium owner to three years' imprisonment for sexually abusing an 11-year-old girl standing outside his shop, fascinated by the fish in various tanks on display in 2016. Finding the accused, Najeer Maqbul Khan, guilty, the court said, “...He being above 70 years old has done an act that can’t be taken lightly... Conviction of accused, a senior citizen, is sufficient to send a message to society at large for deterrent effect on people who would try to take advantage of innocent kids.” The court said the child is to be awarded compensation by District Legal Services Authority under appropriate Victim Compensation Scheme. “She has withstood the cross-examination and suffered at the hands of accused and undergone mental agony, hence she needs to be compensated,” the court said. The incident took place on the evening of August 7, 2016. The prosecution submitted that the child, her mother and sister had snacks at an eatery and were on their way home. The aquarium was close to the restaurant. The child stopped there while her mother and sister walked ahead. The accused lured the child in by making polite conversation and promising to show her his pet cat. The child went into the shop but fled after the accused touched her inappropriately. It happened within five minutes. Humiliated and terrified, she confided in her mother after they got home. The family went to the cops next day. The accused, in his defence, claimed he was falsely implicated for scolding the girl for banging on the fish tank. The court refuted the defence. “I do not find any reason to discard the evidence of the victim and her mother as it inspires confidence. There is no necessity for the victim to depose false against the accused,” the court said.The court also rejected the defence that since there was a delay of a day in lodging the complaint, it meant that the child was tutored. The court said, “Admittedly, the accused is of her grandfather’s age. The child will never imagine that she is unsafe with such elderly man, with whom she is talking. Thus, she will be shocked. She kept quiet till she found her mother free at night, when it is silence, she disclosed. I do not find her conduct unnatural and it is befitting to the nature of girl child.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-75-year-old-gets-3-years-for-sexual-abuse-of-girl-his-grandkids-age/articleshow/79902291.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 23, 2020||Goa||Active tally at 947 with 88 recoveries||Panaji: On Tuesday, Goa reported 96 new cases of Covid-19, 88 recoveries and two deaths, taking its tally of active cases to 947. Two men, a 67-year-old from Pernem and a 60-year-old from Sakhali, having comorbid conditions succumbed to the virus at Goa Medical College (GMC). With two deaths the Covid-19 mortality count rose to 726. With 1,888 samples tested the case positivity rate was pegged at 5% and recovery rate was 97%. As many as 91 patients chose home isolation whereas 42 patients were hospitalised. Patients are either transferred to the South Goa district hospital or sent to GMC, depending on the severity of the patient. Patients whose condition is serious are admitted in GMC. Margao urban health centre witnessed a drop and its caseload reduced to 146. The tally of Vasco urban health centre rose to 56 and Ponda to 58. Quepem health center also witnessed a slight drop in cases while none of centres in North Goa registered a growth in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-tally-at-947-with-88-recoveries/articleshow/79888501.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Goa||Railway police book cases against Arossim protesters||VASCO: The Vasco Railway Protection Force and Vasco railway police have booked cases against those who were protesting against the coal-related projects by blocking the railway tracks of South Western Railway at Arossim. On the night of December 18, protesters from across the state had gathered at the railway tracks at Arossim, beside the St Lawrence Chapel. The protest, which began at 10.30pm, carried on till 3.25am of December 19. The police had to get the tracks vacated. On Tuesday, Vasco RPF booked cases against 200-odd protesters under various sections of the railways act. Vasco railway police too have booked cases against 11 individuals and 200 others like activists Cecile Rodrigues, Gina Fernandes and others under the leadership of Abhijeet Prabhudesai. The cases have been booked under Sections 186, 143, 147, r/w 149 of ILC and other railways act. Hundreds of protesters had gathered, peacefully sitting on the tracks, shouting slogans, singing songs related to Goa. The protesters had said that the movement would intensify and not stop till the government doesn’t take back the coal-related projects from Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/railway-police-book-cases-against-arossim-protesters/articleshow/79888561.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra signs MoUs worth over Rs 61,000 crore with 25 companies||MUMBAI: State industry department on Tuesday signed Memoranda of Understanding with 25 Indian companies from various sectors, including textiles, steel, renewable energy, chemicals etc, for investments totalling over Rs 61,000 crore and promising over 2.5 lakh jobs. With an investment of Rs 3,500 crore, Kirtikumar Steel Industry has promised to create 60,000 jobs in the state. It is the highest number of jobs that will be created if the investment comes through. Three IT industries with a cumulative investment of Rs 10,000 crore will create around 39,000 jobs. Since June, under the aegis of Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0, the state industry department has signed MoUs that will bring in over Rs1.13 lakh crore. In June, the state signed MoUs worth Rs 16,000 crore. In November, the government signed MoUs worth Rs 30,000 crore. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was happy to note the department had crossed the Rs 1lakh crore investment target, and set a fresh target of Rs 2 lakh crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-signs-mous-worth-over-rs-61000-crore-with-25-companies/articleshow/79902492.cms||Clara Lewis
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Saumitra sends legal notice to estranged wife seeking divorce||Kolkata: A day after he held a press conference to speak about his disagreement with his wife over her joining Trinamool Congress, BJP MP Saumitra Khan on Tuesday sent a legal notice to Sujata Mandal Khan and sought mutual divorce (13B of Hindu Marriage Act, 1955). Terming Sujata “hypertensive” and “quarrelsome”, Saumitra alleged she tried to distance him from his family. Sujata, who had held a press conference on Monday, said Saumitra was under some kind of pressure to level such allegations against her. In the notice, served by advocate Sameer Kumar on Saumitra’s behalf, Sujata was charged primarily with forcing him to help her get a key position in BJP. “Since you were not being involved in the integral matters of BJP, you started pressurizing, threatening and abusing my client (Saumitra) for not getting you the key position in the BJP,” the notice read. On Tuesday, the legal notice was couriered and also emailed to Sujata. Saumitra also alleged that Sujata wanted him to leave BJP and join Trinamool with a “plum party post”. Sujata said: “He was quoting from poetry a day back and calling me a Lakshmi. How can someone change overnight? Either he was acting in front of television or his notice is influenced by his party. BJP is trying to take advantage of the situation and break a family.” Sujata, meanwhile, was provided two armed security personnel along with four guards at her Barjora home by the Bengal government after she apprehended threats to herself. In the legal notice, Saumitra charged his estranged wife with instigating him to stay separate from his family. She allegedly “quarrelled with and abused” his parents and other relatives. Saumitra said she had threatened to drive him out of the house. They have been staying separately for the past six months. “The court gives the couple six months for any possible resolution. If both parties feel it cannot be possible to continue, they file the second motion. We are yet to get any response from her side,” advocate Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/saumitra-sends-legal-notice-to-estranged-wife-seeking-divorce/articleshow/79889537.cms||Falguni Banerjee
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool denies rumours over Cab meet absentees||Kolkata: State forest minister Rajib Banerjee’s unexplained absence from the state cabinet meeting on Tuesday, a day after his rapprochement talks with party secretary general and senior minister Partha Chatterjee, left indications that the wedge between Banerjee and the Trinamool Congress is growing. Three other ministers — Gautam Deb, Rabindranath Ghosh and Chandranath Sinha — were also absent at the meeting but had day-long party work. Banerjee — as the forest minister — has been invited to the state Assembly on Wednesday along with Chatterjee, who is also the parliamentary minister, and other ministers for the inauguration of the annual winter flower show. It is not clear whether he will attend it, sources indicated. Banerjee has been skipping state cabinet meetings for nearly three months now. Chatterjee has already spoken to him twice, first on December 13 and again on Monday, and sources indicated the party will again speak to him. Deb, sources said, had informed the chief minister about his inability to attend the cabinet meeting due to the on-going “Bangodhoni” outreach programme in Dabgram-Fulbari, where he is the MLA. Ghosh had also informed the chief minister that he had to attend the ‘Duare Sarkar’ programme in four panchayats in his Natabari constituency. Sinha told reporters he was busy with the CM’s programme on December 28-29 in Bolpur and hence could not reach Kolkata. The on-going poster war in Banerjee’s Domjur assembly has also generated considerable interest. Days after posters of Banerjee along with Suvendu Adhikari surfaced in the locality, fresh posters started appearing on Monday saying “enough of suit-boot migrants, we need son-of-soils”. These fresh posters have a large image of the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-denies-rumours-over-cab-meet-absentees/articleshow/79889139.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu did a U-turn: Saugata||Trinamool MP Saugata Roy questioned Suvendu Adhikari’s views expressed at a BJP gathering on Tuesday. “He took all the advantages and is now saying all these,” Roy said in Kolkata. The TMC senior hit out at Suvendu for launching personal attacks. “He took a U-turn after joining BJP,” Roy said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-did-a-u-turn-saugata/articleshow/79889850.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 23, 2020||Vadodara||Rogue leopard caged in Panchmahal||VADODARA: The leopard that had caused panic amongst villagers in Ghoghamba taluka of Panchmahal district for weeks now was nabbed on Tuesday night. The big cat that had attacked six including two children who had died, had even preyed on goats kept as bait in cages to trap it. A team of officials of the Vadodara circle of the forest department rushed to the Ghoghamba on Tuesday.  Chief conservator of forests of Vadodara circle, Aradhana Sahu, on Tuesday visited the area where the incidents had taken place and met the staff posted by the department there. Sahu said that nine cages as well as CCTV and trap cameras had been kept to photograph the leopard. She said that there was a malfunction in the cage that led to the leopard not getting trapped. Later, on Tuesday night, the leopard was trapped in one of the cages. The series of attacks by the leopard on humans or domesticated animals began on December 5||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rogue-leopard-caged-in-panchmahal/articleshow/79879220.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Surat||4 booked for ‘stealing’ lab-grown diamond processing technology||Surat: Four persons were booked recently for ‘stealing’ lab-grown diamond processing technology from their previous employer’s firm and starting their own unit using the same technology.Lab-grown diamond firm owner Mahesh Sonani lodged a complaint against his former employees Harshad Navadiya, Paresh Kakadiya, Sanjay Patel and Kartik Kakadiya accusing them of using the technology the he had developed indigenously over the years without his consent.Sonani owner M/s Tenth Diamond Planet Pvt Ltd in Bhatpor GIDC. He claimed that he had developed the technology using high pressure high temperature process in collaboration with research institutes of Russia, Ukraine and China. He also entered into a technology-sharing contract with a Ukraine-based research institute for technology. The accused were booked under various sections of Indian Penal code including 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by agent), 420 (cheating) and 120(b) (criminal conspiracy). The accused were also booked under Information Technology Act and Copyright Act. Sonani claimed in his complaint that he began developing the technology for lab-grown diamond in 1998 and took along his cousins Harshad and Paresh, who were were then paid commission as per work done. Harshad and Paresh used to manage the company since it was set up in 2006 and later hired Sanjay and Kartik along with others as workload increased.“In 2017, the accused separated from Sonani and started their own diamond processing company and began selling their product in 2019. Later Sonani suffered losses and alleged that his technology was being copied by the accused and lodged the complaint,” said a crime branch official. During preliminary investigation, the accused denied copying Sonani’s technology. They are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/4-booked-for-stealing-lab-grown-diamond-processing-technology/articleshow/79879748.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal govt will give Rs 10k to all HS examinees to buy tabs||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday announced a direct bank transfer of Rs 10,000 within three weeks to all 9.5 lakh higher secondary examinees of 2021, including those from madarsas, to enable them to buy tablets. Banerjee had earlier planned to gift tabs to examinees so that they could prepare amid the pandemic through online tutorials. “But after the tendering process was started, it was found that vendors could hardly supply around 1.5 lakh tabs. The requirement is 9.5 lakh tabs, so we decided to provide Rs 10,000 directly to their bank accounts as there is a shortage of tabs in the market. We have formed a committee headed by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay for this,” the CM said. Referring to the embargo on purchase of Chinese goods, she added: “For this reason, we are not buying any Chinese tabs. Students will get Rs 10,000 so that they can buy a tab or a smartphone that will serve their purpose.” An official pointed out that a tab costs between Rs 10,000 and Rs 13,000 while a smartphone can easily be bought at a lesser price. The CM left the option to students and thus the hassles of buying and handing over the tabs had been skipped through the DBT mode, the official added. Banerjee said as a policy, it has been decided to post police personnel who have completed 15 years of service in home districts so they can give more time to their family. This decision was taken six months ago and around 50,000 policemen have applied for it. Among them, 35,000 personnel have been posted in their home districts. The CM said that the education department was also trying to follow the same norm of posting teachers close to their homes and around 64% of primary teachers who applied for it have been posted. “There is a trend among teachers to apply for postings in Kolkata and adjoining areas. But if a teacher of the same subject is not available in a rural area, then it becomes difficult,” she said. Banerjee added that 10,163 primary teachers applied for home district postings and 6,466 were posted. At the secondary level, out of 5,502 applicants 3,852 were transferred. For mutual transfers, 4,594 teachers applied and 4,490 were transferred. The CM said the interview of empanelled TET teachers will be held from January 10 to 17 and the third phase of TET exam will be held offline on January 31, in which 2.5 lakh examinees will appear. Banerjee said as a humanitarian approach, the state government has decided to employ family members of 345 civic volunteers and rural volunteers who died in the same post, so that the family does not suffer financially. She added that the families of 17 policemen who died in Covid-19 were offered jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-govt-will-give-rs-10k-to-all-hs-examinees-to-buy-tabs/articleshow/79888901.cms||Saibal Gupta
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||In first BJP rally, Suvendu returns TMC’s traitor fire||Purbasthali (Burdwan): At the opening show of his new innings in BJP on Tuesday, Suvendu Adhikari tore into Trinamool Congress’ “traitor” narrative against him, saying TMC wouldn’t have survived without BJP’s support soon after its birth. The former Trinamool rebel switched gears and gave the call for “poribartaner poribartan” in the coming Bengal assembly polls. “Trinamool would have had to wind up before 2001 had it not got shelter from former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and BJP leader L K Advani. The party went into an alliance with BJP at all levels — panchayat, assembly and Lok Sabha polls — soon after it was born in 1998,” Suvendu said at a packed BJP gathering at Purbasthali. Mamata Banerjee’s lieutenant in Nandigram in 2007, Suvendu reminded the crowd that BJP was the only party that took the Nandigram violence issue to Parliament. “Who did offer a glass of juice to Mamata Banerjee when she broke the 26-day fast against land acquisition in Singur? It was BJP leader Rajnath Singh,” he said, picking on Trinamool’s change of stance on BJP. Suvendu reminded that TMC did the same thing to Congress. “Mamata Banerjee launched Trinamool by breaking Congress. She held hands with Congress later,” he said. Three days into his BJP stint since joining on December 19, Suvendu told the gathering that he left TMC because it had turned into a “company run by two persons”. “Some people in Trinamool are calling me traitor, Mirjafar. I am neither. I didn’t give up political ethics. I joined BJP after resigning from all posts. Those with self-esteem can’t stay in Trinamool,” he said. The former Bengal minister, with state BJP president Dilip Ghosh by his side, told party supporters he hadn’t placed any conditions before the BJP leadership before joining the party. “The Union home minister has stopped cattle and coal smuggling. But if they (Trinamool) come to power this time, they will run kidney rackets in the state,” Suvendu further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-first-bjp-rally-suvendu-returns-tmcs-traitor-fire/articleshow/79889711.cms||Mohammad Asif
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||TMC holds meet to keep flock together in districts||Malda/Behrampore: The Trinamool Congress leadership in Malda and Murshidabad have gone into an overdrive to protect its core organizers, particularly zilla parishad members, from going with ‘Dada’ (Suvendu Adhikari), who had been the TMC observer in these two districts. TMC Malda president Mousam Noor called an urgent district committee meeting on Tuesday after getting feelers that some zilla parishad members had taken off Trinamool flags from their offices and houses. Murshidabad Trinamool also held a meeting of the zilla Parishad to rally the organizers behind Didi. Even as Noor described the meeting as a “routine organization meet”, insiders conceded to chances of defection at Malda Zilla Parishad when sabhadhipati Gour Mandal was one among Adhikari loyalists. Mandal, however, told party leaders he was with TMC. A section does not rule out the possibility of further defections after Trinamool MLA from Gazole Dipali Biswas joined BJP last week. The Murshidabad Trinamool also held a meeting with two party MPs, all MLAs, 64 zilla parishad members and 26 panchayat samiti sabhapatis to swear by Didi. Three zilla parishad members, Samapti Poddar, Jharna Das and zilla karmadhakshya Anarul Haque, were absent on health and personal grounds. Suvendu loyalists Mosharof Hossein, zilla sabhadhipati, and Baidyanath Das sahakari sabhadhipati were also present. (With inputs from Md Asif and Sujoy Khanra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-holds-meet-to-keep-flock-together-in-districts/articleshow/79889203.cms||Subhro Maitra
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Bloc invites TMC to Netaji anniv panel||Kolkata: Left Front partner Forward Bloc has invited all parties, barring BJP, to send their representatives to the committee being set up for Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations. Trinamool Congress secretary-general Partha Chatterjee will join the committee. Forward Bloc state secretary Naren Chatterjee spoke about the party’s plans at a Left Front meeting on Tuesday. “I told Left leaders that Trinamool state president Subrata Bakshi’s relative Satya Bakshi was Bloc general secretary for quite some time. I, therefore, wanted Subrata Bakshi from Satya Bakshi’s family to participate in the committee. But, Subrata told me that education minister Partha Chatterjee will be there,” he said. The Bloc secretary said he was closing the doors on BJP for its “communal” outlook.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bloc-invites-tmc-to-netaji-anniv-panel/articleshow/79890332.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Year-end hope? Covid positivity rate drops below 8% in Bengal||KOLKATA: Bengal on Tuesday reported a positivity rate of 7.9%, the first time in more than two months that the figure has dropped below the 8% mark. Experts see it as a sliver of year-end hope in the battle against the virus, but have cautioned against letting down the guard. The last time the positivity rate was 7.9% on September 26. It kept rising but stayed below the 8% mark till October 12. Barring this 16-day phase, a below-8%-positivity rate was last reported on August 1. “There is a declining trend in the number of Covid-19 positive cases,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, assistant professor of community medicine, who is also the secretary of the Indian Public Health Association’s Bengal chapter. “But, with a new strain being found in the UK, there should be no room for complacency. People should still stay away from mass gatherings and should stick to protective measures.” Hospitals, too, have been reporting a dip in the number of patients seeking treatment for Covid. But experts fear there could be a large number of missing cases because of an over-use of RAT (rapid antigen tests) and a reluctance to get tested, among other factors, for a drop in positivity. “While the natural process of waxing and waning could be a reason, we need to rule out under-testing and under-reporting. And, because it’s winter, and with a new strain of the virus in the UK, we could also get into another wave if we do not up the ante right now,” said Sumon Poddar associate professor, in charge of the microbiology lab at the Institute of Child Health. About nine months into the pandemic in Bengal, many people are reluctant to get tested even if they have had close contact with a positive person, unless they are symptomatic. “If there is a reduction in the number of positive cases despite the unlock, starting of public transport including local trains and mass gatherings, we must also look into the logical explanation,” said microbiologist Pratip Kumar Kundu, former director at School of Tropical Medicine, Kolkata. “Has the virus lost its virulence to some extent? Has it mutated? Have we developed herd immunity of the current strain?... If the virus has mutated, can the same kits — rapid antigen or RT-PCR — detect the new strain?” According to state health department data from August 1 to December 22, 58.6 lakh Covid tests were conducted in Bengal, of which 30.6 lakh were RAT. In this four-and-a-half-month phase, 52.2% of all Covid tests conducted in Bengal were RAT tests. TOI has reported that following ICMR’s revised guidelines on Covid testing, the health department asked all district magistrates and chief medical officers of health to intensify the search for missed positive cases through follow-up RT-PCR tests for all rapid antigen test negatives. The test should be done on those who had taken the rapid antigen test five to 10 days ago and those people who were symptomatic, but whose rapid antigen test reports came out negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/year-end-hope-cov-positivity-rate-drops-below-8-in-bengal/articleshow/79892696.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||None can interfere if an adult weds on own, converts: Calcutta HC||KOLKATA: There can be “no interference if an adult marries as per her choice, converts and refuses to return to her parents”, the Calcutta High Court said on Monday while hearing the plea of a Hindu father whose 19-year-old daughter had converted to marry a Muslim man. The father, a 44-year-old farmer from Nadia’s Durgapur village, said his daughter had left home on September 15 and the next day he learnt that she had converted, taken a Muslim name, and married. He alleged that his daughter was either coerced into doing so or lured. “After his daughter left home saying she was going to the bank and did not return, he lodged an FIR in Murutia police station alleging she had been kidnapped,” said lawyer Susmita Saha Dutta. In his petition, the father claimed he wouldn’t have doubted her intention had the marriage been formalised under the Special Marriage Act, 1954 that provides for inter-religious marriages. But she changed her religion and got married within 24 hours. After police traced the woman, she stated before a judicial magistrate that she had converted on her own will and married. The father, however, moved the HC insisting that the statement under 164 CrPC, “may not have been recorded in an atmosphere where she felt comfortable”. To allay his apprehensions, the HC had directed the girl, now 19, to meet the senior-most additional district judge in Tehatta. The court had also instructed that “sufficient care be taken so that she was not under any coercion or undue influence”. The district judge furnished a “clear and clean report” to the HC, but the father was still not satisfied. A division bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee in their Monday order observed: “If an adult marries as per her choice and decides to convert and not return to her paternal house, there can be no interference in the matter.” But to allay the father’s apprehensions, the bench asked the girl to meet the HC’s additional public prosecutor in his chamber on Wednesday at 10:30 am without anyone – including her husband – and directed the APP to submit a report to it on Thursday, when it will again take up the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/none-can-interfere-if-an-adult-weds-on-own-converts-hc/articleshow/79892725.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||Youth Congress elects Scindia aide now with BJP||Bhopal: Congress in MP has been left red-faced after a Jyotiraditya Scindia aide, Harshit Singhai, who says he joined BJP eight months ago, was elected general secretary of Youth Congress last week. The Youth Congress on Tuesday alleged Singhai’s election was a deliberate ploy by Scindia group to embarrass Congress. Singhai tweeted he has been working as a BJP cadre for past eight months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/youth-congress-elects-scindia-aide-now-with-bjp/articleshow/79901830.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Chill in air as night temperature dips to 16° C, may rise a little by Christmas||MUMBAI: Winter may be here finally as minimum temperature in the city dipped to 16 degree Celsius on Tuesday morningthe lowest this year. The India Meteorological Department has forecast a minimum temperature ranging from 16 to 18 degrees on Wednesday. While the minimum temperature in Santacruz was two degrees below normal, Colaba’s was just 0.4 degrees under at 20 degrees. Before Tuesday, the lowest minimum temperature this season was 17.4 degree Celsius on December 7. The lowest minimum temperature last December was 16.4 degrees and the year before 14.4 degrees. K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD, said, “It’s a freefall for mercury in Mumbai, as expected. Though sunny, there is a cool breeze with chill in the air. We can enjoy the long-awaited short winter spell in the city. Winter is showing in several other parts of the state as well, with minimum temperatures dipping to single digits there.” Mahesh Palawat, vice-president of meteorology and climate change at private weather forecasting agency Skymet, said, “Temperatures in the city are expected to rise marginally by December 25.” Maximum temperature on Tuesday dipped to 32.3 degrees and 30.2 degrees at Santacruz and Colaba, respectively, from 32.9 degrees and 31.6 degrees on Monday. Meanwhile, as temperature dipped in the city, air pollution rose. Mumbai recorded an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 183 on Tuesday, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), as opposed to 156 on Monday. An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered moderate and does not pose a health risk to the general public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-chill-in-air-as-night-temperature-dips-to-16-c-may-rise-a-little-by-christmas/articleshow/79902721.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
December 23, 2020||India||Total number of active Covid cases below 3 lakh after over five-and-a-half months: Govt||NEW DELHI: Led by declining average daily new cases of Covid-19 and rising recoveries, the total number of active cases in the country has slumped to less than 3 lakh after over five-and-a-half months, the government said on Tuesday underlining the progress in combating the pandemic. Average daily deaths due to Covid-19 have declined week-on-week since Nov 18-24 from 528 deaths to 343 in the December 16-22 week. Average daily new cases have also declined significantly week on week during last seven weeks from over 46,301 cases in the Nov 4-10 week to 24,135 durng Dec 16-22 “It is a big achievement and credit goes to every frontline worker, administration and officials who are engaged in coronavirus containment related work. Currently, the active cases are less than 3% of overall cases. The daily new cases are less than 20,000 after 173 days. More than 16.3 crore tests have been conducted so far,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. The declining trend in fresh cases as well as deaths in India is encouraging as various countries are still witnessing a significantly high burden of the infection and fatality. Large number of new Covid-19 cases are being reported daily from countries like the US, Brazil, UK, Russia and Germany. “From mid-September, India is witnessing a sustained and continuous decline in new cases. The cases per million population for the world is 9,697, India's cases per million population stand at 7,300. Russia's is at 19,719, UK's 30,052 and cases per million population in US stand at 52,915,” Bhushan said. Bhushan said that the deaths per million population in India is 106 while the world's stand at 216. Health ministry data show 57% of the new cases in the last 24 hours were reported from six states including Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh,Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh, whereas 61% of deaths in the last 24 hours were in Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Delhi, Chhattisgarh and UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/total-number-of-active-covid-cases-below-3-lakh-after-over-five-and-a-half-months-govt/articleshow/79902723.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||2 workers of private oil drilling co abducted in Arunachal||DIBRUGARH: Two employees of a private oil drilling company were abducted by a group of armed criminals in Arunachal Pradesh’s Changlang district on Monday, reports Rajib Dutta. The employees, identified as Pranab Kumar Gogoi and Ram Kumar, work with Quippo Oil & Gas Infrastructure Limited. Gogoi, a resident of Sivasagar, is the drilling superintendent of rig number 3 of the company. Kumar, a native of Bihar, works as the radio operator at the drilling site in the Diyun area of Changlang. Changlang deputy commissioner Devansh Yadav said, “The abduction took place around 6.30pm on Monday. Efforts are on to trace the duo.” A source said, “The abductors came looking for one Keshab Gogoi. When they didn’t find him, they abducted the two employees.” No militant outfit had taken responsibility for the crime till the time of going to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-workers-of-private-oil-drilling-co-abducted-in-arunachal/articleshow/79902663.cms||Rajib Dutta
December 23, 2020||World||Drugmakers rush to test whether vaccines stop coronavirus variant||ZURICH/FRANKFURT: Drug makers including BioNTech and Moderna are scrambling to test their COVID-19 vaccines against the new fast-spreading variant of the virus that is raging in Britain, the latest challenge in the breakneck race to curb the pandemic. Ugur Sahin, chief executive of Germany's BioNTech , which with partner Pfizer took less than a year to get a vaccine approved, said on Tuesday he needs another two weeks to know if his shot can stop the mutant variant of the virus. Moderna expects immunity from its vaccine to protect against the variant and is performing more tests in coming weeks to confirm, the company said in a statement to CNN. Moderna did not immediately respond to Reuters' requests for comment. The mutation known as the B.1.1.7 lineage may be up to 70% more infectious and more of a concern for children. It has sown chaos in Britain, prompting a wave of travel bans that are disrupting trade with Europe and threatening to further isolate the island country. Sahin said there are nine mutations on the virus. While he does not believe any are significant enough to skirt the protection afforded by BioNTech's mRNA vaccine, which was approved by the European Union on Monday, he said another 14 days or so of study and data collection are needed before offering a definitive answer. "Scientifically it is highly likely that the immune response by this vaccine can also deal with this virus variant," he said on a call with reporters. "The vaccine contains more than 1,270 amino acids, and only 9 of them are changed (in the mutant virus). That means that 99% of the protein is still the same." Germany's CureVac said it does not expect the variant to affect the efficacy of its experimental shot, which is based on the same messenger RNA (mRNA) technology used by Pfizer-BioNTech. It started late stage clinical trials on its vaccine candidate last week and is constantly reviewing variants, which the company said are common as viruses spread. Even though there are multiple mutations, BioNTech's Sahin said, most of the sites on the virus that are recognised by the body's T-cell response are unchanged, and multiple antibody binding sites are also conserved. MRNA ADVANTAGE In the event that the variant presents vaccine developers with an unexpected challenge, an advantage of mRNA is that scientists can quickly re-engineer genetic material in the shot to match that of the mutated protein, whereas modifying traditional vaccines would require extra steps. "In principle, the beauty of the mRNA technology is we can directly start to engineer a vaccine which completely mimics this new mutation," Sahin said. "We could be able to provide a new vaccine technically within six weeks. Of course, this is not only a technical question. We have to deal with how regulators... would see that." Britain's chief scientific adviser Patrick Vallance said on Saturday vaccines appeared to be adequate in generating an immune response to the variant of the coronavirus. The World Health Organization (WHO) said on Tuesday it will convene a meeting of members to discuss strategies to counter the mutation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/drugmakers-rush-to-test-whether-vaccines-stop-coronavirus-variant/articleshow/79902936.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Matka king kin held for plot to kill matka queen, sister||MUMBAI: Running a matka (gambling) business, orchestrating murders to look like accidents, conspiring with criminals and giving contracts to kill rivals to take revenge, and a battle for control of the matka business... what the Bhagat family is allegedly all about. City crime branch on Monday arrested a gang of five, including the 69-year-old brother of matka king, the late Suresh Bhagat, for planning to kill matka queen Jaya Chedda and her sister Asha Bhatt, to avenge his brother’s killing. Unit IX, led by senior inspector Nandkumar Gopale, arrested Vinod, the elder brother of Suresh, Mohammed Javed Ansari (41), Ramvir Sharma (39), Mohammed Shabbir Darji (31) and Maqsood Qureshi (35). The conspiracy was allegedly hatched by Ahmedabad businessman Bashir Suleman Baigani, who is settled in Manchester, UK. Baigaini has been shown as wanted accused. Police alerted Jaya and Asha and advised them to be extra cautious. Jaya, prime accused in seven murders, including her husband Suresh in 2008, in an “orchestrated” accident in Alibaug, is out on bail on medical grounds. She was convicted to life imprisonment. Vinod, who stays at Malabar Hill, has business interests in Mumbai and Gujarat, and was arrested in 2008 for allegedly orchestrating an attack on himself for police protection. “We recently received a tipoff that shooters have come from UP and were planning to kill a woman. We worked on the information and arrested a person from Khar Danda, and recovered two country-made weapons, six live cartridges and a photo of Jaya. During interrogation he admitted that they were given a contract to kill Jaya and her sister for Rs 60 lakh,” said Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police (crime). Police are verifying if the conspiracy was to take revenge or to take over the business. Inspector Asha Kore, Ambande and Ramdas Kadam arrested the three other accused. “We are probing if the murder was a fallout of the matka business,” said Akbar Pathan, deputy commissioner of police (crime).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-matka-king-kin-held-for-plot-to-kill-matka-queen-sister/articleshow/79902935.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 23, 2020||World||Donald Trump threatens to not sign Covid-19 bill, wants bigger stimulus checks||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump threatened on Tuesday not to sign a $892-billion coronavirus relief bill that includes desperately needed money for individual Americans, saying it should be amended to increase the amount in the stimulus checks. US government operations are being funded on a temporary basis through December 28 waiting for the $1.4 trillion in federal spending for fiscal 2021 that is also part of the bill. Failure to either pass another stopgap bill or override a possible Trump veto of the legislation could result in a partial government shutdown. The outgoing Republican President's threat, with less than a month left in office, throws into turmoil a bipartisan effort in Congress to provide help for people whose lives have been upended by the pandemic. "The bill they are now planning to send back to my desk is much different than anticipated," Trump said in a video posted on Twitter. "It really is a disgrace." Both the US House of Representatives and the Senate passed the legislation overwhelmingly on Monday night. Trump said he wants Congress to increase the amount in the stimulus checks to $2,000 for individuals or $4,000 for couples, instead of the "ridiculously low" $600 for individuals currently in the bill. Trump also complained about money in the legislation for foreign countries, the Smithsonian Institution and fish breeding, among other spending that is in the part of the legislation to fund the government. "I'm also asking Congress to immediately get rid of the wasteful and unnecessary items from this legislation, and to send me a suitable bill, or else the next administration will have to deliver a Covid relief package. And maybe that administration will be me," he said. Trump also said a two-year tax break for corporate meal expenses was "not enough" to help struggling restaurants. The White House did not signal any objections to the legislation before it passed, and gave every expectation that Trump would sign it. Treasury secretary Steven Mnuchin was involved in the negotiations over the bill. White House officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Trump's intentions. US house speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a tweet that Republicans would not say during negotiations what amount Trump wanted the stimulus checks to be. She said Democrats are ready to bring his proposal for $2,000 checks to the House floor for a vote this week. She did not address Trump's other concerns. Trump's complaints came just as the 5,500-page bill was being processed for sending to the White House for signing by the President, who is scheduled to leave on Wednesday afternoon to spend the rest of the year at his Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach, Florida. Trump's video was taped in private at the White House, without reporters present, continuing a recent boycott of appearing at public events where he might be exposed to questions about his failed attempt to challenge the results of the November 3 election, which was won by Democrat Joe Biden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/donald-trump-threatens-to-not-sign-covid-19-bill-wants-bigger-stimulus-checks/articleshow/79903143.cms||---
December 23, 2020||World||World’s longest virus-free streak ends with new Taiwan case||The first locally transmitted case of Covid-19 in more than eight months was reported in Taiwan, ending what was the world’s longest stretch without a domestic infection and providing a reminder of the virus’s ability to outfox even the most successful efforts to contain it. A 30-year-old woman was confirmed to have caught Covid-19 in Taiwan, Health Minister Chen Shih-chung said at a briefing in Taipei Tuesday. While it has seen cases in travelers arriving from outside, Taiwan’s last infection within the community was April 12. The woman came into repeated contact between Dec. 7 and Dec. 12 with a pilot from New Zealand who had caught Covid-19 in the U.S. before traveling to Taiwan, according to Chen. The government will fine the Eva Airways Corp. pilot up to NT$300,000 ($10,000) for failure to report details of his close contacts and steps. Health officials have identified 167 other people the newest case came into contact with before she was isolated, the Centers for Disease Control said in a statement. The patient is an employee of an affiliate of Quanta Computer Inc., which said it has tightened virus-control measures and asked close contacts of the employee to quarantine at home. Police tracked down the latest case after investigating all people the pilot came into contact with before testing positive. Two other confirmed cases contracted the virus from the pilot while working with him on a flight from the U.S. to Taiwan on Dec. 15. Eva Airways shares dropped 6.7%, the most since March, while the Taiwan’s benchmark stock index lost 1.4% Tuesday. Success Story The re-emergence of a local outbreak threatens to derail one of the standout success stories in the global fight against the pandemic. Taiwan currently holds the No. 2 spot in Bloomberg’s Covid Resilience Ranking, a measure of the best places to be in the Covid-19 era. Taiwan has managed to keep its total number of cases to 770, with just seven deaths, through a combination of restricting travel into the island early in the outbreak and implementing a strict quarantine and contact tracing strategy. Yet many regions that showed initial success in fighting off the virus, from Thailand to South Korea, are now facing their worst outbreaks as cases are spiking around the globe with the onset of winter. “The pandemic today outside the borders of Taiwan is worse than ever,” said Raina MacIntyre, professor of global biosecurity at the University of New South Wales. For places like Taiwan that have prevented transmission, “the international border is the weak link which may let infection in.” The continued spread of the coronavirus worldwide has meant Taiwan’s authorities have had to remain on their guard. Since the last case of domestic transmission in April, more than 300 cases have been brought in by people returning from overseas. Read more about Taiwan’s approach to mitigating the virus here The absence of the virus has allowed for life to continue pretty much as usual in Taiwan, an island about 80 miles off the southeastern coast of China. Offices, schools and businesses have largely remained open as the government avoided implementing a lockdown, though mask-wearing is still encouraged. Taiwan’s successful handling of the outbreak meant it dodged the economic damage seen elsewhere, putting it among the few places to still be predicting growth this year. The domestic travel industry has seen something of a boom, with Taiwan’s 24 million people unable to travel overseas for vacations due to the restrictions. Meanwhile, external demand for Taiwan’s technology -- it is home to Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., a key iPhone manufacturer, and a swathe of chipmakers -- remains strong as people purchase laptops and tablet computers to work and study from home. The economy will likely expand around 2.3% this year, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg, in stark contrast to most other developed economies around the world which are expected to fall into recession. New Waves Highly contagious and manifesting in some with little or no symptoms, the virus has re-emerged in a number of places where it was thought to have been largely eliminated. Thailand, the first country to record a Covid-19 case outside of China, hadn’t reported more than 100 infections in any day since early April, until a new outbreak was found on Dec. 17. The Southeast Asian nation reported 427 new cases on Tuesday, as a cluster in a province outside of Bangkok expanded around workers at seafood processing plants. Covid Is Spreading in Unexplained Ways, Dimming Containment Hope South Korea has repeatedly prevented the coronavirus from spreading uncontrollably, applying its elite testing-and-tracing practices that have become a global model for managing the pandemic. Now that country is being tested as infections topped 1,000 for five consecutive days through Sunday. “The key lesson is that unless this problem is dealt with on a global level, then human-to-human transmission is always going to be probable,” said Nicholas Thomas, associate professor in health security at the City University of Hong Kong. “The danger is that as cases drop and countries seek to open their borders - either widely or in the form of travel bubbles - places that were previously disease free are going to be re-exposed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/worlds-longest-virus-free-streak-ends-with-new-taiwan-case/articleshow/79903347.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: DMK levels corruption charges against Edappadi K Palaniswami, O Panneerselvam, six ministers||CHENNAI: A DMK delegation led by party president M K Stalin on Tuesday submitted a 97-page complaint to Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit, listing detailed corruption charges against the AIADMK government. The party has charged chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, ministers S P Velumani, P Thangamani, R Kamaraj, C Vijayabaskar, R B Udhayakumar and D Jayakumar with committing irregularities and amassing wealth disproportionate to their known sources of income. “We had earlier submitted a series of detailed charges against these eight people with the DVAC, seeking action. But the DVAC failed to initiate any action based on our complaints. Hence, we met the governor and submitted the detailed complaint with proof of irregularities committed and requested him to initiate action under the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018. The governor, who has powers to take action, has promised to look into it and do the needful,” Stalin told reporters outside Raj Bhavan. “Corruption has been deep-rooted in the AIADMK regime in the last four years after the demise of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. This is only part one. We are in the process of collecting more proof. There will be part two soon,” Stalin said. “Even as we await governor to direct DVAC to undertake a probe based on the charges levelled by us, our legal team will also undertake efforts to vacate the stay given by the Supreme Court against an earlier Madras high court order directing a CBI investigation into corruption charges against the chief minister,” Stalin said. In a statement, DMK listed the charges against the eight named in its complaint to the governor. It includes charges against chief minister Palaniswami for allegedly awarding six highway contracts worth Rs 6,133 crore to his close relatives and also allegedly selling rice, supplied free by the Centre during Covid, in open market, causing loss of ?450 crore to the state exchequer. In the case of Panneerselvam, DMK has principally cited corruption in according approval for an IT company’s facility and amassing wealth disproportionate to his known source of income. The DMK levelled ?875 crore corruption charge against municipal administration and rural development minister Velumani in the procurement of LED bulbs meant for village panchayats. It was allegedly procured at a higher cost through nine benami companies, the petition said. The DMK has levelled ?1,950 crore corruption charge against revenue minister R B Udhayakumar in the BharatNet project. It may be noted that the project itself has not taken off and hence no money has been spent because the Centre put brakes on the tender following allegations. The DMK delegation included party general secretary S Durai Murugan, treasurer T R Baalu, deputy general secretary A Raja and Rajya Sabha MPs R S Bharathi and T K S Elangovan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-levels-corruption-charges-against-edappadi-k-palaniswami-o-panneerselvam-six-ministers/articleshow/79903755.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Surat||GMRC approves tender for 11.6 km stretch of Surat metro line||SURAT: The Gujarat Metro Rail Corporation (GMRC) has approved the tender of the lowest bidder among the six to construct the first 11.6 km Kadarsha Ni Nal to Dream City at Khajod section of Surat metro’s line-1 on Tuesday. Official sources said that the joint venture of Sadbhav Engineering Ltd and SP Singla Constructions Private limited emerged as the lowest bidder among six to construct the first 11.6 km section of Surat Metro’s 21.61 km Line-1. This first section of the total 40.35 km Surat Metro Phase 1 project will consist of 10 elevated stations in South-West Surat and connect Dream City with Kadarsha Ni Nal in the city’s core. East of that, the line will head underground towards Surat Railway Station for 3.46 km and onward to Chowk Bazar at 3.56 km. GMRC invited tenders for this section’s construction on June 1, 2020 with an estimated cost of Rs. 805.356 crore and expects the assigned contractor to complete work in 30 months. Technical bids were opened on September 28 to reveal six bidders. A senior officer of GMRC said, “The lowest bidder in the tender has quoted Rs 779.73 crore for the first phase of 11.6 kilometre Kadarsha Ni Nal to Dream City at Khajod section of Surat metro’s line-1. In the coming week, GMRC will award the project’s first major civil contract with an aim to complete all civil work in 30 months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gmrc-approves-tender-for-11-6-km-stretch-of-surat-metro-line/articleshow/79879769.cms||---
December 23, 2020||World||Nepal Communist Party expels Oli as chairman, disciplinary action to follow||NEW DELHI: Political crisis in Nepal deepened on Tuesday after Prime Minister KP Oli was “expelled” from his post as party chairman by the Central Committee of the Nepal Communist Party, virtually splitting the party with two rival factions setting up their own outfits. The Central Committee unanimously nominated senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal as the party's second chairman in place of Oli. Pushpa Kamal Dahal 'Prachanda' is the executive chairman of the party. Oli submitted a new list of members to the Election Commission to declare his faction the legitimate party. Oli had earlier rejected the censure and disciplinary motion of the party meted out after he unilaterally dissolved Parliament and called for elections. The meeting of the rival faction held at Babar Mahal in Kathmandu on Tuesday decided to remove Oli from the post of party chairman as part of disciplinary action, according to the party spokesperson, Narayan Kaji Shrestha. Of the 446 Central Working Committee members of the party, 310 were present at the meeting. Earlier in the day, Oli’s own faction named foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali as spokesperson in a separate meeting at the PM’s official residence at Baluwatar. Oli expanded the committee of the party from 446 to 1199 members, in a bid to hold his own party convention that would grant him legitimacy. At present, NCP has 435 members in the 446-member strong central committee. Oli announced addition of 556 members in the existing Central Committee with the provision of adding 197 more members later so as to form a 1,199-member General Convention Organising Committee, which will also help him declare majority. The officially recognised committee is headed by the Prachanda faction. Prachanda-led faction, having majority in all the party committees, has decided to take disciplinary action against Oli on Sunday, the Kathmandu Post said. The next meeting of the Central Committee has been scheduled for Thursday, said Shrestha. The Prachanda-led faction has also decided to file a separate petition in the Supreme Court seeking reinstatement of the dissolved House of Representatives. Eleven writ petitions have already been filed in the apex court on Sunday and Monday demanding reinstatement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/nepal-communist-party-expels-oli-as-chairman-disciplinary-action-to-follow/articleshow/79903766.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||Knanaya Catholic Church refuses to comment on ruling||The Knanaya Catholic Church chose to keep mum on the court verdict which found two of their members guilty. The official spokesperson of the church said they will not be reacting to the developments. Father Thomas Kottoor was a vicar and taught Sister Abhaya psychology at the BCM College in Kottayam. He was also secretary to the then bishop of the archeparchy. He later rose to be chancellor of the Catholic diocese in Kottayam. He was also the member of the vigilance commission of the archeparchy of Kottayam. He was removed from the post of chancellor of Kottayam archdiocese last year when the trial was set to begin. The move came after the Supreme Court dismissed his petition to get charges against him dropped. Sources within the church said its leadership was forced to remove him from the post.However, the church’s official version was that Fr Kottoor had requested that he be relieved from duty, and added that he had health issues. Another accused Sister Sephy stayed in the same ladies hostel as Sister Abhaya and was de facto in-charge of the hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/knanaya-catholic-church-refuses-to-comment-on-ruling/articleshow/79903976.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chennai||DMK charges are fabricated, says Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||TUTICORIN: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday lambasted DMK leader M K Stalin for submitting a 97-page petition to governor Banwarilal Purohit, levelling corruption charged against Palaniswami and 7 of his cabinet colleagues. He told mediapersons at Tuticorin airport that the charges in the petition were fabricated and were aimed at tarnishing the image of the AIADMK government. It was an act of cheap publicity, done with the ulterior motive of diverting attention from the long list of corruption and wealth amassing cases pending against former DMK ministers and MLAs, said the CM. He said 24 DMK functionaries including former ministers, present MLAs and former mayors were facing serious corruption charges. The cases are pending in courts and they would soon get busy, running to special courts set up to try former and present law makers involved in corruption cases, he said. Palaniswami said former ministers I Periyasamy, Suba Thangavelan, KN Nehru, K Ponmudi, Anbarasan, KS Rajan, KKSSR Ramachandran, NKP Raja, Tamilarasai, KR Periyakaruppan, Anitha Radhakrishnan, Kannappan, Duraimurugan, M R K Panneerselvam and L Ragupathi were facing corruption cases. “We don’t know if they will be able to contest the next elections,” he said, hinting that they could soon be behind bars. “Having all these people on their side he (Stalin) is calling AIADMK corrupt,” he said and asked to name one AIADMK minister with corruption cases pending against him or her. He added the Supreme Court had turned down the corruption cases against AIADMK ministers, saying they have political motivated. He said Stalin was levelling corruption charges against the AIADMK leaders, as he was unable to digest the appreciation the state government was getting for announcing ?2,500 cash dole and gift hamper to all rice ration card holders as Pongal gift.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-charges-are-fabricated-says-tamil-nadu-cm-edappadi-k-palaniswami/articleshow/79903981.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Harassed by online money lender, 27-year-old kills self||CHENNAI: A 27-year-old man of Chengalpet district killed himself on Monday night due to harassment by employees of a money lending mobile application, police said. The deceased, Vivek Ranganathan of Pazhayannur village in Madurantakam, worked in a private company in Mamandur. A few months back, Ranganathan took a loan of ?4,000 from an app to meet medical expenses of his aged father, an officer said. When it turned out that Ranganathan was unable to pay the online lender back, he began receiving calls from different people claiming to be employees of the app. Quoting the family, police said the young man was unable to bear the harassment and switched off his phone. “Since he failed to attend some of their calls, they began sending messages to his friends, calling him a fraud. This led to frustration,” said an investigating officer. Ranganathan grew more upset on hearing that employees had begun calling up his family members and harassing them. Police believe it was then he took the extreme step. Villagers protested in front of the Madurantakam police station demanding immediate arrest of the accused. Police have registered a case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-harassed-by-online-money-lender-27-year-old-kills-self/articleshow/79904403.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Now, red eyes new sign to nab drunks||AHMEDABAD: The risk of Covid-19 had made the city police scrap their sniffing operating procedure to nab drunks: inhale a nose-full of breath from suspects. Now, ‘red eyes’ will be the blackand-white sign for cops that a person is drunk. Ahead of anticipated New Year revelry, Ahmedabad Police are having to develop these methods because they don’t have enough breath analyzers. Sources in the police department said that the latest drunk-detecting criterion may cause the number of prohibition cases to plunge because red eyes are not reliable indicators of being high. Anger, lack of sleep, and medical conditions too can yield false positives. Nevertheless, a senior officer of Ahmedabad Police said the FIR template for prohibition cases will now contain the line: “Manas ni aankho laal ane nasha ma gherayeli hati”. Roughly translated, it means “the eyes of the person were red and indicated signs of being drunk”. It is paradoxical that in this era of smart devices, police are resorting to an almost poetic observational tool. The 2020 drunk-eyes diagnosis recalls a line from a 1966 Bollywood song — “madira me doobi akhiyaan” from “Nainon mein badra chhaye” of the film “Mera Saaya”. “Earlier, cops noted in the FIRs that an accused person’s mouth had been sniffed by police personnel as well as by panch witnesses,” the officer said. “But in the time of Covid-19 pandemic, it is ill-advised to get up close with the suspect.” In the new testing regime, people with red eyes will also be made to walk a few steps. If they totter, a complaint under the Prohibition Act will be registered. Later, a medical test will be conducted. Cops will start scanning people across the city from this week; an eagle eye will be kept on potential red eyes in the period between Christmas and New Year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-now-red-eyes-new-sign-to-nab-drunks/articleshow/79904405.cms||Ashish Chauhan
December 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Mom puts Covid +ve son’s love child in orphanage||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court ordered an orphanage to return to a man his love child, after he temporarily lost custody of her because his mother surreptitiously left the baby at an orphanage when he was hospitalized with Covid-19. Upon discharge, the mother had told the child had died. The case involves a 35-year old from Kheda, who had an extramarital affair with a woman in Ahmedabad. They had a daughter in July. His girlfriend agreed to hand over custody of the child to him. He and his wife brought the child to Kheda. His mother, however, was not comfortable with the love child. Five days after the child came home, the man tested Covid-19 positive and was hospitalized, on August 1. When he returned after two weeks, his mother told him the child died because of ill health. He did not believ her and launched a search. He found his mother had placed the child with the Mahipatram Rupram Ashram at Raipur in Ahmedabad. To return to him custody of his daughter, ashram authorities asked him to get a written order from police. When cops did not come to his aid, he moved the high court through advocate A S Timbalia, who produced details including laboratory results showing a DNA match establishing the five-month-old baby was his daughter. The biological mother had no issue if the child was handed over to the father. After due verification, the HC ordered the ashram to hand over the child to the father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-mom-puts-covid-ve-sons-love-child-in-orphanage/articleshow/79904191.cms||Saeed Khan
December 23, 2020||Bhopal||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan dials Manohar Lal Khattar over Madhya Pradesh child rape-murder||BHOPAL/CHANDIGARH: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has condemned the rape and murder of the five-year-old daughter of migrant workers from MP’s Damoh in Jhajjar city of Haryana, and is sending a police team over to meet the family. Chouhan spoke with Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar over telephone on Tuesday and urged him to help the affected family and ensure stringent punishment. Khattar assured swift justice .Haryana Police suspended head constable Anil Kumar on Tuesday and recommended dismissal of home guard volunteer Mohit for negligence. On Sunday evening, Anil and Mohit had allegedly ignored desperate calls for help by the girl’s family after she was found raped and murdered. Police took action only after the family contacted Jhajjar SSP Rajesh Duggal, who rushed an SHO to the crime spot and arrested a history-sheeter in the case. Haryana horror: Govt gives Rs 4 lakh to child’s familyQuestions are also being raised on Jhajjar police’ ignorance of the accused’s criminal record. Preliminary investigation has revealed that he has eight criminal cases registered against him, including a double murder of policemen in Rajasthan and molestation. “The cases against him are mostly in Rajasthan and he is not on the ‘wanted’ list. Barring this case, he is not involved in any other heinous crime here,’’ said Duggal. A Madhya Pradesh police team, led by ADG Anant Kumar Singh, is on its way to Haryana. The child had turned five the day she was raped and murdered. Calling the crime “heartbreaking”, Chouhan spoke with the family and sanctioned Rs4 lakh as immediate assistance. He informed MP ministers about the incident at Tuesday’s cabinet meeting and said the MP government stands with the family. Her father has told police that the accused, who was once their landlord, kidnapped, raped and murdered the child. The autopsy report suggests she was smothered. SSP Duggal said the investigating officers have been told to expedite the case proceedings and file a chargesheet at the earliest. “This case calls for capital punishment,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-dials-manohar-lal-khattar-over-madhya-pradesh-child-rape-murder/articleshow/79904624.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Chandigarh||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan dials Manohar Lal Khattar over Madhya Pradesh child rape-murder||BHOPAL/CHANDIGARH: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has condemned the rape and murder of the five-year-old daughter of migrant workers from MP’s Damoh in Jhajjar city of Haryana, and is sending a police team over to meet the family. Chouhan spoke with Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar over telephone on Tuesday and urged him to help the affected family and ensure stringent punishment. Khattar assured swift justice .Haryana Police suspended head constable Anil Kumar on Tuesday and recommended dismissal of home guard volunteer Mohit for negligence. On Sunday evening, Anil and Mohit had allegedly ignored desperate calls for help by the girl’s family after she was found raped and murdered. Police took action only after the family contacted Jhajjar SSP Rajesh Duggal, who rushed an SHO to the crime spot and arrested a history-sheeter in the case. Haryana horror: Govt gives Rs 4 lakh to child’s familyQuestions are also being raised on Jhajjar police’ ignorance of the accused’s criminal record. Preliminary investigation has revealed that he has eight criminal cases registered against him, including a double murder of policemen in Rajasthan and molestation. “The cases against him are mostly in Rajasthan and he is not on the ‘wanted’ list. Barring this case, he is not involved in any other heinous crime here,’’ said Duggal. A Madhya Pradesh police team, led by ADG Anant Kumar Singh, is on its way to Haryana. The child had turned five the day she was raped and murdered. Calling the crime “heartbreaking”, Chouhan spoke with the family and sanctioned Rs4 lakh as immediate assistance. He informed MP ministers about the incident at Tuesday’s cabinet meeting and said the MP government stands with the family. Her father has told police that the accused, who was once their landlord, kidnapped, raped and murdered the child. The autopsy report suggests she was smothered. SSP Duggal said the investigating officers have been told to expedite the case proceedings and file a chargesheet at the earliest. “This case calls for capital punishment,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-dials-manohar-lal-khattar-over-madhya-pradesh-child-rape-murder/articleshow/79907079.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||Arnab Goswami programme leads to £20,000 fine for UK licensee||NEW DELHI: Worldview Media Network Ltd, the UK licensee for Republic Bharat, the Hindi arm of Arnab Goswami’s Republic TV, has been fined £20,000 (almost Rs 20 lakh) by the UK communications regulator for a Republic Bharat programme, “Poochta Hai Bharat”, that contained “uncontextualised hate speech” seen as “potentially highly offensive”. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeBesides the financial penalty, the Office of Communications (Ofcom) has directed the licensee to broadcast a statement of the findings on a date and in a form to be decided by Ofcom because, it said, though it had noted that an apology had been broadcast “279 times”, it found the wording of the apology “would not convey the nature of Ofcom’s concerns”. A detailed Ofcom statement said it had also directed that the programme not be repeated. The programme in violation of the Ofcom Broadcasting Code, aired on September 6, 2019, was about India’s Chandrayaan-2 moon mission. The debate led to exchanges in context of comparisons between India and Pakistan’s technological advances, the dispute over Kashmir, and Pakistan’s “alleged involvement in terrorist activities against Indian targets”. Ofcom found that the host, Goswami, and other guests made remarks that “amounted to hate speech against Pakistani people, and derogatory and abusive treatment of Pakistani people”. Among the comments during the debate, Ofcom found that the presenter, “addressing Pakistan and/or Pakistani people, said: ‘We make scientists, you make terrorists’.” One guest, a retired major general named Sinha, remarked: “Oh you useless people. Beggars. Oh beggars, oh beggars”, and went on to threaten that the Indian military would “barge inside your home in Baluchistan, in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, in Karachi … and kill you”. Ofcom also took exception to the usage of “Paki”, calling it a “racist term” and “highly offensive and unacceptable” to audiences in the UK. The regulator said it saw these comments as “ hatred based on intolerance of Pakistani people based on their nationality alone” and that they “spread, incited, promoted and justified such intolerance towards Pakistani people among viewers”. Republic Bharat said it was “deeply concerned” that the programme may have been viewed as containing expressions of hatred based on intolerance of Pakistani people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arnab-goswamis-channel-fined-rs-20-lakh-by-uk-regulator-for-promoting-hatred-towards-pakistanis/articleshow/79904365.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 23, 2020||World||Arnab Goswami programme leads to £20,000 fine for UK licensee||NEW DELHI: Worldview Media Network Ltd, the UK licensee for Republic Bharat, the Hindi arm of Arnab Goswami’s Republic TV, has been fined £20,000 (almost Rs 20 lakh) by the UK communications regulator for a Republic Bharat programme, “Poochta Hai Bharat”, that contained “uncontextualised hate speech” seen as “potentially highly offensive”. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeBesides the financial penalty, the Office of Communications (Ofcom) has directed the licensee to broadcast a statement of the findings on a date and in a form to be decided by Ofcom because, it said, though it had noted that an apology had been broadcast “279 times”, it found the wording of the apology “would not convey the nature of Ofcom’s concerns”. A detailed Ofcom statement said it had also directed that the programme not be repeated. The programme in violation of the Ofcom Broadcasting Code, aired on September 6, 2019, was about India’s Chandrayaan-2 moon mission. The debate led to exchanges in context of comparisons between India and Pakistan’s technological advances, the dispute over Kashmir, and Pakistan’s “alleged involvement in terrorist activities against Indian targets”. Ofcom found that the host, Goswami, and other guests made remarks that “amounted to hate speech against Pakistani people, and derogatory and abusive treatment of Pakistani people”. Among the comments during the debate, Ofcom found that the presenter, “addressing Pakistan and/or Pakistani people, said: ‘We make scientists, you make terrorists’.” One guest, a retired major general named Sinha, remarked: “Oh you useless people. Beggars. Oh beggars, oh beggars”, and went on to threaten that the Indian military would “barge inside your home in Baluchistan, in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, in Karachi … and kill you”. Ofcom also took exception to the usage of “Paki”, calling it a “racist term” and “highly offensive and unacceptable” to audiences in the UK. The regulator said it saw these comments as “ hatred based on intolerance of Pakistani people based on their nationality alone” and that they “spread, incited, promoted and justified such intolerance towards Pakistani people among viewers”. Republic Bharat said it was “deeply concerned” that the programme may have been viewed as containing expressions of hatred based on intolerance of Pakistani people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/arnab-goswamis-channel-fined-rs-20-lakh-by-uk-regulator-for-promoting-hatred-towards-pakistanis/articleshow/79904852.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 23, 2020||Bhopal||Special cabinet meet for Madhya Pradesh love-jihad law||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government has called a special cabinet meeting on Saturday to approve the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill 2020 — touted as an anti-love-jihad law. Briefing reporters after the cabinet meeting on Tuesday, home minister Narottam Mishra said, “The bill was discussed today and various suggestions have been made. A special meeting has been called on December 26 for cabinet approval of the bill before it is tabled in the assembly.” The three-day winter session of assembly begins on December 28. Earlier, Mishra had said that the MP anti-love jihad law will be stricter than those of other states — a prison term of two to 10 years if the victim happens to be a minor, or from an SC/ST community, plus a fine of Rs 50,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/special-cabinet-meet-for-madhya-pradesh-love-jihad-law/articleshow/79904622.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-like symptoms in Bhopal’s first vaccine volunteer||BHOPAL: A schoolteacher, who was the first to get a Covid vaccine shot during human trials in Bhopal, has been reporting symptoms akin to Coronavirus infection for the past two weeks. Health officials say there is no reason for alarm as it’s likely a seasonal infection. He has been told to report for the second dose of the vaccine on December 26. “This is the only way I can serve my country,” the 40-year-old had said on November 27 after getting the first Covaxin injection at People’s Medical College. On December 8, he reported to the hospital with dry cough, and again more recently with cold and cough. He has been prescribed medication. He has not undergone a Covid test, he told TOI. “There is no cause for alarm. Seasonal cold and related ailments are common,” said an official of the medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-like-symptoms-in-bhopals-first-vaccine-volunteer/articleshow/79905031.cms||---
December 23, 2020||India||China-Australia trade row leaves Indian seafarers stranded||NEW DELHI: Ritesh Kumar is second engineer on MV Skopelos I (a vessel registered to Valletta, Malta and owned and operated by Seascout, Greece). His vessel has been in anchorage at Bayuquan, China, since September loaded with Australian coal. Since Beijing has banned Australian coal imports, his ship, along with many others are stranded off various Chinese ports. “Our vessel has nine Indian crew members (among other nationalities) including the master. Some of us have served on the ship for 10-14 months, well beyond our contractual periods. Alongside our vessel, there are over 70 vessels at various Chinese ports, serving as a floating prison to multiple other Indian seafarers.” Read the full story on TOI+ How a China-Oz trade row left Indian seafarers stranded||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-oz-trade-row-leaves-indian-seafarers-stranded/articleshow/79905076.cms||Indrani Bagchi
December 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Three suspects confess to murder, priest’s body will be exhumed||BENGALURU: Two constables attached to Kadugodi police station are guarding a spot where the men in their custody have allegedly buried a priest and financier, Neelakanta Dixit, who was first reported missing more than three months ago. Police are awaiting orders to exhume the body. “Since the tahsildar is busy with gram panchayat elections, we’ve not been able to obtain an order,” an officer said. Kadugodi police, who first received a missing-person complaint on September 6, a day after Dixit couldn’t be traced, had been searching for him. Dixit, 57, was working at Kashi Vishwanatha temple in the area. They got leads after changing the course of the probe on December 20, based on Dixit’s brother Narasimha’s suspicion that it may be a case of abduction. Police detained three persons, including paint shop owner Manjunath . Manjunath confessed to have killed Dixit over a financial row, with the help of his friends. Fight over moneyThe case still hangs on a technicality which has prevented police from slapping murder charges. “We can’t technically call it a murder as we have not found the body yet,” the officer said. Narasimha told police they had got some money after selling their property and invested a part of it to purchase land. Dixit had also started a finance business. “Two years ago, he had loaned Rs 10 lakh to Manjunath, who had become irregular in paying interest since May 2020. This led to differences between the two,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-suspects-confess-to-murder-priests-body-will-be-exhumed/articleshow/79884092.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Mercury may drop to 10 degrees Celsius by mid-January, fog cover to thicken||BENGALURU: The mercury dipped to 14 degrees Celsius in the wee hours of Tuesday, the lowest recorded so far this year in the city. Temperature has started dropping across the state and the dip is likely to continue till mid-January. Winter is likely to peak at that time, with temperatures slipping to as low as 10 degrees Celsius. However, days will be warmer, ranging between 25 and 27 degrees, with clear sky. CS Patil, director of IMD, said: “The state will witness dry and chilly weather. There will be no more rain for the next few weeks as winter is setting in across Karnataka.” North Karnataka has recorded some of the lowest temperatures this year, with mercury dropping by about five units. Bidar, Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Chitradurga, Davanagere and other districts in the interior parts of the state have recorded low temperatures in the past one week. On Tuesday morning, Bidar recorded the lowest temperature in the state at 6 degrees Celsius. The cold wave in north Karnataka is likely to prevail for the next four days at least. The temperature drop is due to the combined effect of north-easterly winds and radiational cooling. The north-easterly winds, as the name suggests, is cold and dry air coming from northern parts of India. While radiational cooling is long-wave radiation escaping the earth’s atmosphere when the sky is clear, aiding in temperature drop. The intensity of fog will increase across the state in the coming weeks and it will be thick enough to affect visibility. Patil said, “Vehicles moving on highways and hilly terrains should be very careful and have their parking lights on in the wee hours of the day. They should maintain distance from other vehicles and drive slow when there is fog.” Fog is likely to be there till February. Rahul Bedi, an air-quality enthusiast, said: “Air quality in Bengaluru tends to worsen during winter due to multiple reasons. Key drivers are reduced wind, which limits the dissipation of suspended particles, and low temperature causing moisture to condense along with the polluting particles. This is especially apparent during early mornings and evenings, which are also the times when people usually step out. Hence, citizens need to be cautious.” On Tuesday morning, visibility near KIA was merely 100 metres. Duty officer from IMD station at KIA said, “Considering there is a lot of vegetation around the airpot, there is a lot of moisture in the air even close to the surface. The fog is so thick that sometimes on the runway, the visibility is merely 50 metres.” Over 80 flights were delayed and diverte in the past two weeks due to poor visibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mercury-may-drop-to-10-degrees-c-by-mid-january-fog-cover-to-thicken/articleshow/79884814.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
December 23, 2020||Kochi||Chinmaya College launches a campaign to ‘Unlock Hope’||The year 2020 is almost over, but the ill effects it inflicted on us have no borders. However, to spread some positivity, the students of the Department of Communicative English from Chinmaya College of Arts, Commerce and Science, Kochi, recently launched a new online campaign. Titled ‘Unlock Hope,’ it has the students creating social media content that instils hope in cyberspace. The initiative is also getting umpteen backing from celebs from the filed of films and arts. The coordinators of the campaign, Athmaja and Sreelakshmi, say, "This year hit everyone in the worst way. We witnessed an entire pandemic together with the global balance being disturbed. At this time holding on to hope is the only way to keep ourselves normal and happy. This was the primary reason behind the initiation of the campaign.” According to their faculty Sreeja S, the students are trying to instil hope in the cyberspace, which is otherwise dominated by fears, anxieties and apprehensions, through this campaign. She says, “We trust that the philosophy of hope and the positivity associated with it alone can power the survival of humans at these difficult times.” The campaign involves the participation of youngsters of different age groups from different walks of life. Celebrities like Gopi Sundar, Renji Panicker, Vijay Babu, Balu Varghese and Neeta Pillai, among many others, have already shared video messages to lend their support to the campaign. Actor, Mathew Thomas, who is also a student of the Department of Communicative English, Chinmaya College says, "2020 has been hard for all of us with all of the panic and uncertainty that it caused. 2021 is fast approaching so let's set aside all kinds of negativity and try to do more positive things. Let's start our new year with fresh hopes, ideas, and dreams." The campaign is also conducting a photography competition based on the theme ‘Hope,’ and it is also a platform to showcase artworks of people of all age groups. " Amaana and Lakshmi, two of the other coordinators, add, “We want to let people know that there are a lot of things in life to be hopeful for. All we have to do to find hope is look for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chinmaya-college-launches-a-campaign-to-unlock-hope/articleshow/79873194.cms||Deepa Soman
December 23, 2020||Business||Chinese media cites Wistron fiasco, warns manufacturers||NEW DELHI: The violence at Foxconn’s Wistron plant in Kolar, Karnataka, gave China’s media something to crow about. The nationalist English-language tabloid daily Global Times said, “This is a potential risk when manufacturers consider moving their production lines out of #China where they have most stable labour market supporting the nation to become the largest manufacturing hub,” said one reporter on Twitter. “At a time when India’s economic and social stability is besieged, the idea of absorbing China’s industrial transfer seems like nothing but a fantasy,” one reporter posted on Twitter tweeted. Global Times quoted Chinese netizens who asked Foxconn to return to China. “Factories in China are the safest to invest in. The probability of smashing and burning in China is low,” one user commented on Sina-Weibo. However, China has had its own problems at Foxconn factories, including the ‘Foxconn suicides’. These were a spate of deaths of Foxconn staffers who threw themselves from buildings to their deaths died by suicides over low pay and working conditions at the “Foxconn City” industrial park in Shenzhen. The incidents drew media attention leading to investigations by Foxconn clients, Apple and HP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/chinese-media-cites-wistron-fiasco-warns-manufacturers/articleshow/79905195.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sr Abhaya's death case: Justice delayed is justice Nuntheless||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CBI special court here on Tuesday held that the mysterious death of Sr Abhaya at St Pius convent in Kottayam in 1992 was a murder and found priest Fr Thomas Kottoor and nun Sr Sephy guilty of murder and destruction of evidence. Special CBI judge K Sanil Kumar gave the verdict in the 28-year-old case while the sentence will be pronounced on Wednesday. Fr Thomas Kottoor was found guilty of house trespass also. Sr Abhaya (21) was found dead in the well at St Pius X convent on March 27, 1992. The crime branch and initital CBI teams that probed the case had concluded it as either suicide or murder with culprits who couldn’t be traced. However, the courts refused to close the case and ordered further inquiry. In 2008, CBI DSP Nandakumaran Nair arrested Fr Thomas Kottoor, Sr Sephy and Fr Jose Puthrukayil in the case. Fr Poothrikkayil was later discharged by the high court for lack of evidence. According to the CBI chargesheet, Sr Abhaya woke up around 4am on the fateful day and came down the stairs of the hostel and proceeded to the kitchen area to fetch water from the refrigerator, when she saw the two accused in a compromising position. She was subsequently attacked and murdered by the accused. ‘God’s hands were visible during trial’The accused were booked under sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 449 (house trespass) of the IPC besides section 34 of IPC pertaining to an act committed by several persons with common intention. The trial in the case, which started in the CBI special court in the last week of August 2019, concluded on December 10. Human rights activist Jomon Puthenpurackal, who has been fighting for justice in the case, said the hand of God was visible in all stages of the case when there were attempts to bury justice. “I am happy that our judicial system is powerful enough to deliver justice against all odds,” he said. Abhaya's brother Biju Thomas also said there was God's intervention in the case. “All thanks to God... When I received the copy of the post-mortem report, it said there was only 375ml water in her stomach. From that day, we had suspicions. I also thank Jomon Puthenpurackal for the relentless fight," he told news channels from Dubai. Abhaya's father Aikkarakunnel Thomas and mother Leelamma had died before the trial began. Former CBI DSP Varghese P Thomas, who first found that the case is a murder, said the verdict once again proved that justice would be delivered. Breaking into tears as he heard the verdict, Thomas said his stand had been vindicated after all these years. He had quit the CBI when he had 10 more years of service after his higher-ups insisted on a closure report saying it was a case of suicide. Shortly after the verdict was pronounced, the bail of the two accused was cancelled and police took them into custody. They were taken to the hospital for medical examination as well as the mandatory Covid-19 screening test. Fr Kottoor was later taken to the Poojappura Central Jail and Sr Sephy to the Women’s Prison and Correctional Home at Attakulangara. They will be produced before the court on Wednesday for pronouncement of sentence. After the verdict, Sr Sephy refused to talk to the media while Fr Kottoor claimed he was innocent. "I am innocent. I have done no wrong. God is with me. I will proceed as per God's plans," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sr-abhayas-death-case-justice-delayed-is-justice-nuntheless/articleshow/79904932.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bhopal||1,005 new cases take Madhya Pradesh Covid count to 2,33,324||BHOPAL: With 1,005 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the tally of positive patients in the state reached 2,33,324. Also, more people recovered from Covid-19 in a single day than those testing positive. Against 1,005 new people testing positive, 1,053 patients recovered from Covid-19 in the state. With these new patients recovering, the count of total recoveries in the state reached 2,18,828. As on December 22, the overall recovery rate for Covid-19 in the state was 93.78%. Apart from the fresh cases, 12 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services, increasing the death toll to 3,502. Districts where these casualties were reported include Indore where 4 deaths were reported, Bhopal where 2 deaths were reported and one death each was reported from Khargone, Hoshangabad, Morena, Harda, Sidhi and Guna districts. Districts where no new cases were reported include Chhindwara and Dindori. Of the 50 districts, new cases were reported in double figures from 22. Maximum cases were reported from Indore where 347 new patients were found on Tuesday, followed by Bhopal where 121new patients were found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1005-new-cases-take-madhya-pradesh-covid-count-to-233324/articleshow/79905293.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh cabinet wants life term for adulteration||BHOPAL: The Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet on Tuesday approved a proposal for lifetime imprisonment for adulteration of food and medicines. This was done after at least one plasma-related death in Gwalior and apprehension that racketeers may go after the Covid vaccine as well. “The Covid-19 vaccine is also under threat of adulteration. In Gwalior, there have been two to three such cases related to plasma. We won’t let people’s health be affected by spurious food and drugs,” said home minister Narottam Mishra. ‘Govt firm on stopping food adulteration’The cabinet today decided to increase jail term for adulteration from three years to life,” home minister Narottam Mishra said, adding: “The government is firm on stopping adulteration.” If anyone is found guilty of selling expired medicines and food items, they will be jailed for five years. The proposals for tougher punishment had come from the law department, Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-wants-life-term-for-adulteration/articleshow/79905241.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Noida||Noida: With quilts & sanitisers, 3 more night shelters set up||NOIDA/GREATER NOIDA: The Noida and Greater Noida authorities have set up over 150-bed night shelters at community centres across different sectors. Each shelter is equipped with mattresses, clean sheets, quilts/blankets, drinking water, clean toilets and hand sanitisers. A guard is also deployed for security at each shelter. “We have set up three night shelters, including sectors 71, 135 and Noida Stadium in Sector 21A. We have ensured social distancing and limited the number of beds to 70 at Noida Stadium, which has a capacity of 150 beds. Similar shelters have been set up for 40 people at the community centre of Sector 135 and 36 people at Sector 71,” said Rajeev Tyagi, the general manager, Noida Authority. Given CEO Ritu Maheshwari’s special emphasis for a separate area for destitute women, a 12-bed night shelter was set up in a separate room in Sector 71 community centre while a separate 24-bed hall has been made ready for men in the same community centre. “Also, firewood was provided at the community centre for people to keep them warm at night,” Tyagi said. In Greater Noida, the Authority set up a 20-bed night shelter at the community centre of Sector Delta 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/with-quilts-sanitisers-3-more-night-shelters-set-up/articleshow/79893046.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
December 23, 2020||Ghaziabad||Antigen kits short, Ghaziabad manages just 250 tests a day||GHAZIABAD: The district is once again staring at a shortage of antigen kits and against the target of 2,500 antigen tests daily, about 250 tests are being conducted for the past five days. Between December 1 and 20, on an average, 1,910 tests were conducted daily in the first 10 days. From December 11, the figure has shown a dip and since December 18, and an average of 250 antigen tests has been recorded in the district. On December 18, only 250 tests were conducted, while the number stood at 610 on December 19 and 238 the next day. According to official data, a total of 35,905 antigen tests have been conducted so far this month, recording an average of 1,632 per day. Likewise, 33,323 RT-PCR tests, with an average of 1,514 tests daily have been conducted this month. Sources said that despite repeated requests for more antigen kits, nothing much has been done. The health department is frequently sending vehicles to Lucknow to get antigen kits, but hardly 1,000 kits are being provided at a time. Currently, around 500 kits are available with the health department, and they are being kept aside for emergencies or special drives. Like on Monday, all districts were asked to conduct a testing drive in all night shelters using antigen kits. In Ghaziabad, 13 such shelters were covered and 144 people tested. Health officials said that they are now focusing on RT-PCR tests and 1,500-2,000 tests are being done per day against the daily target of 1,700 tests. Sources said viral transport medium (VTM) vials needed for RT-PCR tests are also being provided gradually. Last month, a similar shortage of antigen kits was seen in the district and there had been several instances in the past two months when hardly any antigen kits were available for testing on the next day. A senior official said that they are in touch with the state officials and were trying to get more kits for the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/antigen-kits-short-gzb-manages-just-250-tests-a-day/articleshow/79893235.cms||Aditya Dev
December 23, 2020||Ghaziabad||Firm says it can’t handle HSRP rush, UP lifts order||GURUGRAM/GHAZIABAD: Delhi Police’s decision to impose a Rs 5,000 fine on vehicles without high security registration plates (HSRP) has triggered a rush of vehicle owners to apply for the tamper-proof plates. But while the Haryana government has made the entire application process online, UP has had to withdraw its order on HSRP and colour-coded stickers after the private company entrusted with the job said it would not be able to handle the load of fresh applications. Until now, vehicle owners in Haryana would have to go to the RTO of the district where his vehicle was registered to apply for an HSRP. Since the process has been made online, he or she can apply for the new number plate from anyway and even get it delivered to the nearest HSRP centre. “Applications for HSRPs and colour-coded stickers can be made through www.hsrphr.com. Even the payment can be made online. The progress of their application can be tracked too along with the possible date of delivery,” said Ravi Bharadwaj, the state head of Utsav, the company that is supposed to install HSRP in Haryana. He said the applications can also be made through another website — www.bookmyhsrp.com. “At present, in Gurugram, people can get HSRPs for vehicles registered in Delhi, UP and Himachal Pradesh,” Bharadwaj added. Dharna Yadav, secretary of the Gurugram RTA, said adequate arrangements had been made to deal with the fresh applications. “Now that the entire process has been made online, you can make the application from anywhere you want,” he added. While issuing the order on HSRP, the government in neighbouring UP had allowed the traffic police to impose fines on vehicles that did not have the new number plates. But it had to withdraw its order after Rosmerta Safety Systems, the company assigned the task of issuing HSRPs, pleaded inability to handle the rush of applications. It is indeed a tough job for Rosmerta because the NCR cities of Ghaziabad and Noida alone have more than eight lakh and six lakh vehicles, respectively, whose number plates have to be updated. “There was already a government order here to upgrade all number plates to HSRP. After Delhi launched the crackdown, there was an unprecedented rush of vehicle owners to the RTOs. It was not possible for the private company to handle the sudden surge in applications,” said Vishwajeet Singh, additional regional transport officer of Ghaziabad. “It was because of this that the government removed the ‘compulsory’ clause from its order,” he added. Mahesh Mehrotra of Rosmerta said the average time required for dispatching the HSRPs was 10-12 days from the date of application. He said the company had been making 75,000 HSRPs every day. HSRPs became mandatory in October 2018 following a Supreme Court order to this effect. Earlier this month, Delhi Police had started imposing fines on vehicles without HSRPs. For vehicles in Gurugram, Noida and Ghaziabad, it is all the more important to upgrade to the new number plates since they need to travel to Delhi on a regular basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/firm-says-it-cant-handle-hsrp-rush-up-lifts-order/articleshow/79892976.cms||Bagish Jha
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Tabs on transit flyers to keep new strain at bay||KOLKATA: Five British citizens of Indian origin who flew into Kolkata in the early hours of Tuesday from Doha were segregated and taken to CNCI Hospital in Rajarhat for RT-PCR tests. Though they had undergone Covid tests prior to boarding the flight, they were taken for another round of tests to be certain that none of them is infected with coronavirus. After all flights from the UK were banned by India on Monday evening, a notification has been issued making RT-PCR mandatory for passengers from the UK arriving in India either directly or after transiting another country to ensure that the more virulent virus strain from the UK does not infect the masses here. “Five British passport holders, including four of a family, reached Kolkata around 2.05am on Qatar Airways flight QR540. Though they had Covid-negative reports and did not display any Covid symptoms, they were transported to Covid facility at Rajarhat for RT-PCR test to be absolutely sure that they aren’t carrying the infection,” an airport official said. Sources said the five persons, along with the two passengers who had come by the Air India flight from London on Sunday and tested positive on arrival, would be kept in institutional quarantine for six days, the time required for the virus to manifest itself in the body. While blood samples from the two Air India passengers have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, to check if the virus strain is the virulent one from the UK that triggered fresh concerns across the world, samples from the five Qatar Airways passengers will also be sent to Pune for analysis. Immigration officers have been asked to scrutinize passports of all incoming passengers to check if anyone has been to the UK in the past week. Though no flights are scheduled to arrive in Kolkata from the UK or any other European city, the heightened vigilance is to check entry of passengers who might be coming from the UK via another country. At present, Kolkata has flights connecting Dubai, Sharjah, Abu Dhabi, Kuwait City, Doha and Dhaka. Though all the Gulf countries have banned flights from the UK, there is a possibility of a traveller from the UK having flown into a country prior to the ban and then transiting to fly into Kolkata now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengal-tabs-on-transit-flyers-to-keep-new-strain-at-bay/articleshow/79905338.cms||Subhro Niyogi
December 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Condition of Sugathakumari very critical, say doctors||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The health condition of poet and activist Sugathakumari has worsened. She is undergoing treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, after she tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Sugathakumari has been put on ventilator and she suffered a heart attack on Tuesday, hospital authorities said. The doctors said she was already having cardiac problems and hence, the heart attack has caused serious damage to the functioning of the heart. The functioning of the kidney has been affected and since she is having bronchopneumonia, the respiratory tract has also been affected. She is totally breathing with the support of oxygen cylinder. The doctors said she is not responding to the medicines also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/thiruvananthapuram-condition-of-sugathakumari-very-critical-say-doctors/articleshow/79905489.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Bhopal||62% districts in Madhya Pradesh have less than 100 active Covid cases||BHOPAL: On November 30, there were less than 100 active Covid-19 cases in only 50% districts of the state. Twenty-two days down the line, there are less than 100 active patients in more than 62% of the districts, as on December 22. Overall, there were a total 26 districts which had more than 100 active patients on November 30. With decline in the number of active patients, there has been an increase in the number of such districts and now in 33 districts, there are less than 100 active patients. Overall, there were 14,771 active patients in the state on November 30, and in 22 days of December, it has reduced to 10,994. The situation could be well understood by the fact that there were only two districts in the state which had less than 30 patients as on November 30, now this number has increased to 8. From 26 districts, which had more than 100 active cases, it is now 18 districts which have more than 100 cases. And of these total active cases, more than 60% or 6,198 out of the 10,994 active cases are from only two districts — Indore and Bhopal. These two districts respectively have 4,093 and 2,105 active cases. And as on December 22, there are the only two districts in the state which have more than 500 active cases. This means that nearly all the other disticts of the state have less than 500 active cases. Overall, it is only six disticts of the state which have the maximum concentration of active Covid-19 cases so far. Of these six, it is Indore and Bhopal alone have a majority of the cases. Sources said that the implication of these trends could be both ways. On the brighter side, it could be the fact that Indore and Bhopal being the biggest cities, which have more commercial activity, have more chances of people getting infected and in the remaining districts, the situation is slowly improving. On the flip side, it could also be that a majority of the Covid-19 tests are being done in these two cities, leading to the increase in number of active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/62-districts-in-madhya-pradesh-have-less-than-100-active-covid-cases/articleshow/79905523.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 23, 2020||Noida||Piyush Goyal asks Yogi Adityanath to fast-track freight corridor project in UP||GREATER NOIDA: Unable to cut ice with the local administration, railway minister Piyush Goyal has been forced to approach UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to fast-track the dedicated freight corridor (DFC) project of the central government. In his letter to the CM, the minister has raised eight major issues that have stalled the progress of the project, with a 1,000km span in the state. Four of those pertain to hindrances in getting physical possession of land in Gautam Budh Nagar. Being executed by the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited, the special purpose vehicle established at the behest of the Union railways ministry, the inauguration of the corridor is getting delayed owing to the pending issues. Sources said that PM Narendra Modi will preside over the inauguration ceremony. General manager of operations and safety at the corporation, Ved Prakash said that coordination is on with the senior officials of the state government to expedite the pending issues. “The project is getting commissioned in phases in UP. Dadri–Khurja–Bhaupur is one crucial section of the eastern dedicated freight corridor, while Bhaupur to Mughalsarai is the second one. Rail overbridges have to be constructed across the level crossings but the land required for constructing approaches has not been acquired yet in half-a-dozen districts,” said Prakash. A total of 54 overbridges have to be constructed, of which work on 19 bridges is underway. Work on commencing construction on 11 bridges is yet to start. Among them, seven are situated in Gautam Budh Nagar. The deadline to start work on the 19 bridges would end in January next year and a new timeline will have to be framed to achieve the milestones, officials from the corporation revealed. The Union railways ministry had sent a reminder to the state government on November 3 to expedite work on the bridges. The minister has also pointed out in his letter that physical possession of even government land (0.299 hectare) in Bodaki could not be taken since the district administration has not been able to remove the structures from the land parcel. When contacted, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that transfer and handover of some land chunks is pending in the four villages since the affected families and farmers have moved court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/piyush-goyal-asks-yogi-adityanath-to-fast-track-freight-corridor-project-in-up/articleshow/79889706.cms||Shalabh
December 23, 2020||Business||Daimler drives in Infy’s biggest deal worth $3.2bn||BENGALURU: Infosys has won the largest deal ever in its history from German automotive major Daimler that sources said is estimated at $3.2 billion, spread over eight years. The deal involves a massive infrastructure overhaul and migration to a hybrid cloud environment. It will bolster Infosys’s presence in the automotive space and will allow Daimler to focus on its core engineering and digital capabilities. The latest win is bigger than the $1.5-billion Vanguard deal that Infosys bagged in August. The Daimler-Infosys deal is so significant that Infosys chairman Nandan Nilekani took to Twitter to call it an industry defining partnership. Infosys and Daimler declined to comment on the deal size and the timeline. TOI was the first to report the deal last month and had said that it involves 600 people transferring to Infosys from Daimler. Though mega deals have returned to deal street, the margins are leaner with commoditised services making up for a large part of the business. Daimler will transform its IT operating model and infrastructure landscape across workplace services, service desk, data centre, networks and SAP Basis together with Infosys. As a part of this partnership, automotive IT infrastructure experts based out of Germany, wider Europe, the US and the APAC region will transition from Daimler to Infosys. Infosys has seen many people takeover deals in the recent past and has integrated more than 16,000 employees through other partnerships in recent years. Jan Brecht, chief information officer in Daimler and Mercedes-Benz, said, “Software becomes modular and IT infrastructure becomes big. Daimler will take three steps at once to transform its IT infrastructure: consolidation, scaling and modernisation. We need to think infrastructure beyond the size of our company. Moreover, this is a strategic partnership for Daimler’s IT capabilities and Infosys’ automotive expertise.” The deal involves stitching a robust IT infrastructure across Daimler’s plants and regions, consolidating data centres and scaling IT operations. The deal contours highlight a smart hybrid cloud, leveraging Infosys Cobalt and other cloud providers, accelerating the multi-cloud journey with a focus on open source adoption and AI-powered anytime-anywhere workplace solution that empowers the end-users. Sources told TOI that Shishank Gupta, SVP and service offering head in Infosys Validation Solutions, has been identified to oversee the Daimler account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/daimler-drives-in-infys-biggest-deal-worth-3-2bn/articleshow/79905612.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Farm laws: Kerala governor Arif Mohammed Khan denies nod for special assembly session||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has refused permission to the government to convene a special assembly session on Wednesday to pass a resolution against the farm laws passed by the Centre. It is reliably learnt that the governor denied permission for the session citing that he was not convinced about the urgent nature of convening a session for one hour when clearance has already been given for an assembly session from January 8 next year, for which only 15 more days are left. The governor had given clearance for the session from January 8 prior to the latest recommendation from the cabinet. It is learnt that the government could not provide a convincing reason for its change of mind. The governor is empowered to summon the House at time and place he thinks fit, according to Article 174 of the Constitution. No special one-day assembly session todayThe governor's decision will mean that the one-day assembly session planned by the government cannot be held on Wednesday. It is not clear if the government will push for a session on another day, which according to assembly sources, is unlikely to happen. “If at all a one-day special session has to be convened, it will have to be done before December 31, as the session can be held only with a governor’s address once the date shifts to a new year. The budget session, which begins with the governor’s address, has already been fixed for January 8,” an official in the legislative secretariat said. The state cabinet had on Monday decided to recommend to the governor to convene a session of the assembly on Wednesday to discuss the farm laws and pass a resolution against them. The assembly was expected to pass a near-unanimous resolution with both the LDF and the UDF opposed to the farm laws. It had passed a resolution against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 earlier by convening a special one-day session, thereby becoming the first state to do so. Lone BJP member O Rajagopal had then asked the speaker not to take up the resolution against a law passed by Parliament. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, meanwhile, termed the governor’s decision unfortunate and anti-democratic. He urged law and parliamentary affairs minister A K Balan to convene a meeting of MLAs in the assembly lounge and pass a resolution against the farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/farm-laws-kerala-governor-arif-mohammed-khan-denies-nod-for-special-assembly-session/articleshow/79905690.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Genome sequencing planned for RNA of 2 UK flyers’ swab samples||KOLKATA: RNA extracted from the swab samples of the two flyers from the UK, who had tested positive on arrival in Kolkata on Sunday, will be sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani, for genome sequencing to find out if they have been infected with the new mutation. The samples have been sent to the School of Tropical Medicine, Kolkata, for the RNA extraction. “The RNA extract from the swab samples will go to the Kalyani institute for genome sequencing. Meanwhile, five other flyers who arrived in Kolkata from the UK on Monday are in institutional quarantine. Their samples, too, have been sent for confirmatory tests,” said director (health services) Ajay Chakraborty. TimesViewIt is good that the healthcare system is tracking global developments on a real-time basis. That gives planners some time to formulate adequate responses and helps in the long run.Sources in the state health department said that genome sequencing could take a few days and the report is likely next week. “Genome sequencing is required to detect the mutant. RT-PCR test detects if a sample is positive for the target genes but it can't decipher the entire genome. Therefore, we need to perform sequencing of the entire viral genome by Sanger's sequencing or NGS (New Generation Sequencing),” said microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhuri of Peerless Hospital. “We have preserved all RNA from swab samples that came to our lab. If the government requires them for random sequencing, we can provide the RNA data,” added Chaudhuri. One of the flyers who had tested positive on arrival is currently admitted at Medical College Hospital, Kolkata, as he developed mild symptoms. The other one is in home quarantine. Both are students who had returned home on vacation. The condition of the flyer who has been admitted to the hospital is stable, sources in the health department said. State health department has started working on its strategies in the wake of the new strain. On Tuesday, the health department roped in experts, including virologists, microbiologists and infectious diseases specialists, to take their suggestions on how to tackle the situation if the new variant of novel coronavirus is found in the state. “As a part of our preparation, we sought suggestions and opinions from various experts from government and private sectors during a discussion on Tuesday. We will be utilising some of the resourceful input provided by them while framing our strategy,” said the health services director. According to sources, some of the experts have suggested random genome sequencing of swab samples to see if the new strain has already seeped into the population. The new mutant in the UK was first reported in September. But it came into limelight only a few days ago with the officials announcing that it has gone out of control. But the health department will wait for the genome sequencing report of the two samples before it decides to go for randomly sending samples for genetic sequencing. On Tuesday, experts also suggested advanced testing by using RTPCR kits that have confirmatory genes to minimize chances of false negative reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-genome-sequencing-planned-for-rna-of-2-uk-flyers-swab-samples/articleshow/79905752.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 23, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Two arrested for forging Aadhaar and voter cards||GHAZIABAD: The cyber police on Tuesday claimed that it has busted a gang involved in forging Aadhaar and voter ID cards and arrested two people. Several computers, forged Aadhaar cards and some cash have been recovered from the duo, police said. Five days ago, nine people had been arrested for allegedly running a call centre through which several people had been duped on the pretext of renewing insurance policies. The arrested gang members had told the police that they used two Aadhaar cards for opening bank accounts after changing the address on the cards. The two people who were arrested on Tuesday used to work for those running the call centre racket. “Issuing Aadhaar and voter cards without having a proper licence is a serious offence,” said a police officer. The police said the duo would take Rs 1,500 to make an Aadhaar card and Rs 800 for making changes in it. After getting a tip-off, a constable posed as a client, went to the duo’s shop in Sahibabad and asked them to change the address in his Aadhaar card. “When the duo asked for money, the constable told them that he will fetch the cash from home. He left the shop and gave all details to the police. Soon, the cyber cell, along with team from Kotwali police, raided the place and caught the duo,” Abhay Kumar Mishra, the circle officer and the in-charge of the cyber cell, said. “The accused have been operating like this for the past one year. Police have recovered equipment used for making the ID cards,” he added. Sandeep Singh, SHO, Kotwali, said the accused used thumb impressions using an adhesive on stamps. “We’ve recovered one such stamp and an iris scanner,” he said. The seized items include two laptops, a fingerprint and eye scanner and a GPS device that used to be replaced frequently. The laptops had Aadhaar Card application installed in them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/two-arrested-for-forging-aadhaar-and-voter-cards/articleshow/79889857.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 23, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Breather from chill for a day or two, brace for cold wave around Christmas||BHOPAL: There was marginal respite from the cold in Bhopal and other places of the state on Tuesday as the day temperature rose above the normal mark. Night temperature continues to remain less than normal, but came up a few notches from what it was during last week. The respite from cold is expected to continue for at least two more days. Mercury is set to dip again around Christmas. Officials of the meteorological department, Bhopal circle, said the marginal respite from cold in the state was due to clear sunlight that led to heating in the day. Similar weather would prevail in the state till December 24 while temperature would fall again by one to three degrees after that due to fresh formations in the western Himalayas, officials added. Day temperature in Bhopal on Tuesday was recorded at 27.1 degrees Celsius, a degree more than normal, while night temperature in the city was recorded at 8.4 degrees Celsius, two degrees less than normal mark. Wind direction in the city was north-easterly while the average wind speed was 12 km per hour. Lowest temperature in the plains of the state was recorded at 4 degrees Celsius in Umaria. The night temperature in hill station, Pachmarhi, was 3 degrees Celsius. Four places in the state recorded minimum temperature between three degrees and five degrees Celsius. In the forecast for Bhopal on Wednesday, Met officials said there would be clear sky and dry weather will prevail in the city. Day and night temperature would be respectively at 27 degrees Celsius and 10 degrees Celsius while the average wind speed will be 10 kmph. In the forecast for the state, the officials said there would be clear sky and dry weather will prevail in the state. There was no warning of fog, cold day or cold wave for any places in the state, the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-breather-from-chill-for-a-day-or-two-brace-for-cold-wave-around-christmas/articleshow/79905763.cms||---
December 23, 2020||Business||Pandemic pushes sales of 1 crore health covers||BENGALURU: Insurers are upselling health insurance to customers by skewing their pricing in favour of high-value policies. A Rs 1 crore health insurance cover is available for as low as Rs 18,000 for a 30-year-old. As a result, a third of all health insurance premiums is now coming from the sale of high-value policies. “There has been high claims experience from the Rs 1-25 lakh segment. So premium rates shot up 50-100% there. And since the Rs 25 lakh -1 crore segment is fairly new, premium rates are low — an indirect benefit of cross-subsidy,” said Biresh Giri, appointed actuary and CRO, Acko Insurance. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pandemic-pushes-sales-of-1cr-health-covers/articleshow/79905754.cms||Rachel Chitra
December 23, 2020||Bhopal||DIY cribs, baking spread cheer ahead of Christmas||BHOPAL: Sounds of jingle bells are already echoing in the ears, with such few days left for Christmas. Pandemic woes notwithstanding, people are busy creating merriment around their homes, which are their ‘go to’ places during Covid-19. Family recipe books are being drudged out to create some baked wonders and housing societies’ craft experts are busy helping the excited youngsters with some special Christmas props. Since festivities without food remain lackadaisical events, gourmet recipes are the first focus of the revellers. Interestingly, caste, creed, religion is no bar when it comes to dishing out delicacies. Nidhi Singh, a collegian who stays in a housing society near JK Hospital in Kolar, shared, “Since Christmas eve lunches and dinners with gang of friends and extended family members are out of question for now due to pandemic, we decided to organise a mini baking contest in our locality. Only youngsters will bake their favourite sweets and savories and three moms will judge them on the basis of presentation, taste and uniqueness on Christmas eve, following social distancing norms. There are some colourful prizes for winners too. So, right now we are busy trying our dishes and guarding the recipes because lockdown has turned us all into amateur chefs.” City markets are flooded with Christmas props, but there are many out there, who are crafting them on their own this time, with little help from seniors, of course. Adrian Rao, a resident of Bawadia Kalan said, in place of glass and fibre props brought from market, he is making his own ‘designer ones’ at home. “We have a craft teacher in our society - Nalini Jain aunty - who has taught us to make woollen props for Christmas tree and Christ’s crib with ice-cream sticks,” said Adrian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/diy-cribs-baking-spread-cheer-ahead-of-christmas/articleshow/79905995.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
