December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||A cultural treat for Bengaluru’s dance and music lovers||Bengaluru is all set for its date with music and dance performances this month as part of Art Mantram Trust’s music and dance festival, Kalotsava. The festival will see a blend of online and offline performances and activities. Talking about the festival, Raji Narayan, president of the Trust, says, "Many performances will be held online and people can watch from their homes. Apart from that, there will be live performances till December 25 which will be held at the Bangalore International Centre, where we have artistes like Padmini Ravi and her troupe, Tara Kini, Aneesh Vidyashankar and Diya Naidu, among others, performing. We also have young artistes, like, for instance, a 15-year-old who will be performing multiple percussion instruments and a young Sufi performer as well. This will be the first live on-stage set of performances that we are conducting since the pandemic brought everything to a standstill over 8 months ago. We are looking forward to this, especially many of the artistes who haven't performed in these months,” says Raji. The cultural festival will conclude with a fundraiser - an online auction of artworks by Anjolie Ela Menon, Sudip Roy, Thota Vaikuntam and many other artists. "The festival will be a treat for audience members. We have popular musicians and dancers performing and this is something that audience members and artistes need at a time like this," says Raji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/a-cultural-treat-for-bengalurus-dance-and-music-lovers/articleshow/79928910.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
December 24, 2020||Goa||Lucky FC Goa edge past Jamshedpur as Igor strikes late winner||Igor Angulo scored a stoppage-time winner to help FC Goa get back to winning ways with a 2-1 win over Jamshedpur FC at Tilak Maidan, Vasco, on Tuesday. Nigerian centre-back Stephen Eze broke the deadlock for Jamshedpur in the 33rd minute as Goa were staring at their third straight defeat until Angulo’s brace. The Spaniard converted a 63rd minute penalty and then won all points with a dramatic late winner. Jamshedpur, however, were denied a clear goal in the dying minutes when Alex Lima’s shot had crossed the goalline – clear from television replays – which the referee did not spot. Goa moved to the fifth place with 11 points from eight games while Jamshedpur are sixth on 10 points. FC Goa head coach Juan Ferrando made two changes to the starting 11 after losing 1-2 to Chennaiyin FC. Centre-back Ivan Gonzalez and midfielder Princeton Rebello replaced Aibanbha Dohling and Alberto Noguera, while Lenny Rodrigues was not available. Brazilian midfielder Alex Lima returned to Owen Coyle’s side after a one-match suspension and replaced Mobashir Rahman. True to their style, Goa started moves from the back and had more of the ball. But captain Edu Bedia dropped too deep in defence and there were hardly any promising moves in attack. Brandon Fernandes’ inclusion was a major boost for as he was first deployed on the left-wing and then moved to the centre. After long spells, Goa created something promising when Alexander Romario sent in a perfect through ball for Angulo just after the half an hour mark but Eze came up with a crucial tackle. Minutes after the cooling break, Eze was involved again as Goa conceded their seventh goal from a set piece. Aitor Monroy’s free-kick sailed over the Goa defence and even beat James Donachie as Eze stretched his right leg acrobatically to shoot past keeper Mohammad Nawaz for the opening goal. After the restart, Jamshedpur striker Nerijus Valskis moved dangerously towards goal but Gonzalez fouled him for a booking. Aniket Jadhav then put Nawaz to the test with a fine attempt but the keeper measured up to the challenge with a fine save. Goa pressed forward and Donachie earned a penalty after going down to a challenge from Lima. Angulo stepped up for the spot kick and calmly slotted past TP Rehenesh in the 63rd minute for his seventh goal of the season. Valskis, on six goals, was not far behind in catching up Angulo’s tally only for his free-kick to hit the crossbar. With four minutes left, Jamshedpur were unlucky again. Valskis set up Lima and his fierce effort hit the horizontal, bounced on the goal-line and came back into play. Television replays later showed that the ball had crossed the goal-line. Goa, though, were not done yet and Angulo used his back to guide Bedia’s corner in the fourth minute of stoppage time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lucky-goa-edge-past-jfc-as-igor-strikes-late-winner/articleshow/79929289.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
December 24, 2020||Goa||Churchill Brothers continue quest for third I-League title||Panaji: The I-League is yet to kick-off, yet so many favourites have been talked about. You can hear talk that Punjab FC have a really strong side. Then there are Mohammedan Sporting, who qualified from the second division and look good on paper, particularly when playing at home. Real Kashmir FC won the Durand Cup, while Gokulam Kerala look as good as anyone else with an impressive contingent of foreign players. Yet, has anyone bothered to check on Churchill Brothers? “Winning the title is always an uphill task and nobody knows better than Churchill Brothers because we have been part of the entire activity right since the days of NFL in 1996. But we trust our boys, and they have put in a lot of hard work. They will prove that the team is capable of emerging as the champions,” said Churchill Bros CEO Valanka Alemao. Churchill will kickstart their campaign on January 10 against Indian Arrows at the Kishore Bharati Krirangan, Jadavpur. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, all matches will be held in West Bengal with players inside a bio-bubble. Churchill have prepared well with the right signings. At the top, coach Fernando Varela has enough experience to steer the ship after a stint at Gokulam Kerala. "His expertise will surely help us despite the tough conditions due to Covid-19,” said club owner Churchill Alemao. Most title campaigns are boosted by the presence of enigmatic foreign players and Churchill have done well on that front. There are four of them – three plus one, according to the rules. Midfielder Armand Bazie (Ivory Coast) is a known figure after spell at Real Kashmir, Lebanon defender Hamza Kheir will lend solidity at the back. The attack, on the other hand, has been bolstered with the capture of Clayvin J Z Bernandez of Honduras and Luca Majcen of Slovenia. “Knowing fully well that no matter how well one plays, it is goals that count ultimately, we have paid a lot of attention to our strike force. I am sure Bernandez and Majcen will deliver,” said Churchill. From among the domestic players, particularly Goans, most have been retained. There is Jovel Martins, Fredsan Marshal, Quan Gomes, Richard Costa, Shubert Pereira, Wendell Coelho and Clencio Pinto. They will be joined by Kingslee Fernandes (FC Goa), Keenan Almeida (Hyderabad FC) and Joseph Clemente (Sporting Clube de Goa). “We have a very promising team this year. I have full faith and confidence in the boys that they will give their best, make Churchill champions again and bring the title to Goa,” said Churchill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churchill-brothers-continue-quest-for-third-i-league-title/articleshow/79929411.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||Gupkar alliance set to form 9 out of 10 Kashmir councils||SRINAGAR: The seven-party People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) looks set to lead development councils in nine out of 10 districts in Kashmir division, but BJP's overall dominance of the DDC polls in Jammu might still leave it short of the numbers required to run at least four of the 10 councils there. For the Gupkar alliance, six districts of the Valley — Anantnag, Budgam, Ganderbal, Kupwara, Pulwama and Kulgam — gave a clear majority of nine to 12 seats each out of the 14 in every council. In the rest, barring Srinagar, the alliance has seven seats each in the kitty and the edge in terms of potential supporters, led by Congress. In Srinagar, both PAGD and BJP are not even in the picture. The Altaf Bukhari-led fledgling Apni Party, with three seats and seven possible allies in victorious independents, appears most likely to form the first district development council. Read AlsoHow ‘outsider’ Altaf Bukhari turned the tables on Gupkar alliance in SrinagarIn an election billed as a straight contest between the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration and BJP, an estranged Mehbooba Mufti acolyte with a nine-month-old party has emerged as the unlikely kingmaker shepherding a clutch of independents to form semi-rural Srinagar's first DistrictJammu division presents a picture that doesn't quite pave the way for BJP to take control across the board. While the saffron party is guaranteed to lead the councils in Kathua (13 out of 14), Samba (13), Jammu (11), Udhampur (11) and Doda (8), Poonch and Rajouri are out of reach. In Poonch, BJP drew a blank, while in Rajouri, NC's 5, PDP's 1 and Congress's 3 have left no scope for any backroom arithmetic. Ramban, where BJP won three seats, is also rival territory with NC getting 6 seats and Congress 2. There are three independents in the mix. Kishtwar, where BJP again got 3 seats, provides no elbow room either since NC won 6 seats there and Congress 3. In Reasi, on the other hand, BJP's 7 seats and Apni Party's 2 mean the Gupkar alliance has little chance of skewing the equation. J&K election commissioner KK Sharma said in the evening that results had been declared for 278 seats out of the 280 that went to polls over eight phases. Drugmulla in Kupwara and Hajin-A in Bandipora district are the two constituencies from which results are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gupkar-alliance-set-to-form-9-out-of-10-kashmir-councils/articleshow/79929094.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 24, 2020||Business||Google told its scientists to 'strike a positive tone' in AI research: Report||OAKLAND: Alphabet Inc’s Google this year moved to tighten control over its scientists’ papers by launching a “sensitive topics” review, and in at least three cases requested authors refrain from casting its technology in a negative light, according to internal communications and interviews with researchers involved in the work. Google’s new review procedure asks that researchers consult with legal, policy and public relations teams before pursuing topics such as face and sentiment analysis and categorizations of race, gender or political affiliation, according to internal webpages explaining the policy. “Advances in technology and the growing complexity of our external environment are increasingly leading to situations where seemingly inoffensive projects raise ethical, reputational, regulatory or legal issues,” one of the pages for research staff stated. Reuters could not determine the date of the post, though three current employees said the policy began in June. Google declined to comment for this story. The “sensitive topics” process adds a round of scrutiny to Google’s standard review of papers for pitfalls such as disclosing of trade secrets, eight current and former employees said. For some projects, Google officials have intervened in later stages. A senior Google manager reviewing a study on content recommendation technology shortly before publication this summer told authors to “take great care to strike a positive tone,” according to internal correspondence read to Reuters. The manager added, “This doesn’t mean we should hide from the real challenges” posed by the software. Subsequent correspondence from a researcher to reviewers shows authors “updated to remove all references to Google products.” A draft seen by Reuters had mentioned Google-owned YouTube. Four staff researchers, including senior scientist Margaret Mitchell, said they believe Google is starting to interfere with crucial studies of potential technology harms. “If we are researching the appropriate thing given our expertise, and we are not permitted to publish that on grounds that are not in line with high-quality peer review, then we’re getting into a serious problem of censorship,” Mitchell said. Google states on its public-facing website that its scientists have “substantial” freedom. Tensions between Google and some of its staff broke into view this month after the abrupt exit of scientist Timnit Gebru, who led a 12-person team with Mitchell focused on ethics in artificial intelligence software (AI). Gebru says Google fired her after she questioned an order not to publish research claiming AI that mimics speech could disadvantage marginalized populations. Google said it accepted and expedited her resignation. It could not be determined whether Gebru’s paper underwent a “sensitive topics” review. Google senior vice president Jeff Dean said in a statement this month that Gebru’s paper dwelled on potential harms without discussing efforts underway to address them. Dean added that Google supports AI ethics scholarship and is “actively working on improving our paper review processes, because we know that too many checks and balances can become cumbersome.” ‘Sensitive topics’ The explosion in research and development of AI across the tech industry has prompted authorities in the United States and elsewhere to propose rules for its use. Some have cited scientific studies showing that facial analysis software and other AI can perpetuate biases or erode privacy. Google in recent years incorporated AI throughout its services, using the technology to interpret complex search queries, decide recommendations on YouTube and autocomplete sentences in Gmail. Its researchers published more than 200 papers in the last year about developing AI responsibly, among more than 1,000 projects in total, Dean said. Studying Google services for biases is among the “sensitive topics” under the company’s new policy, according to an internal webpage. Among dozens of other “sensitive topics” listed were the oil industry, China, Iran, Israel, COVID-19, home security, insurance, location data, religion, self-driving vehicles, telecoms and systems that recommend or personalize web content. The Google paper for which authors were told to strike a positive tone discusses recommendation AI, which services like YouTube employ to personalize users’ content feeds. A draft reviewed by Reuters included “concerns” that this technology can promote “disinformation, discriminatory or otherwise unfair results” and “insufficient diversity of content,” as well as lead to “political polarization.” The final publication instead says the systems can promote “accurate information, fairness, and diversity of content.” The published version, entitled “What are you optimizing for? Aligning Recommender Systems with Human Values,” omitted credit to Google researchers. Reuters could not determine why. A paper this month on AI for understanding a foreign language softened a reference to how the Google Translate product was making mistakes following a request from company reviewers, a source said. The published version says the authors used Google Translate, and a separate sentence says part of the research method was to “review and fix inaccurate translations.” For a paper published last week, a Google employee described the process as a “long-haul,” involving more than 100 email exchanges between researchers and reviewers, according to the internal correspondence. The researchers found that AI can cough up personal data and copyrighted material - including a page from a “Harry Potter” novel - that had been pulled from the internet to develop the system. A draft described how such disclosures could infringe copyrights or violate European privacy law, a person familiar with the matter said. Following company reviews, authors removed the legal risks, and Google published the paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/google-told-its-scientists-to-strike-a-positive-tone-in-ai-research-report/articleshow/79929428.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir DDC election results: Burden of past weighs on PDP’s poll show||SRINAGAR: The most voluble votary of the campaign for restoration of J&K's special status has, ironically, ended up with the least to brag about in terms of seats won by the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration that had fought the DDC polls on this very plank. Although former CM Mehbooba Mufti's PDP's tally of 27 out of 68 seats is the second best after National Conference's 67 among the Gupkar alliance constituents, it pales in comparison to what Sajad Lone’s People's Conference achieved. The latter contested just 11 seats and won eight of them. The skewed seat-sharing, with NC hogging the lion's share of 169 seats, may have hurt PDP's performance as much as the burden of the past. "Mehbooba spending 14 months in detention didn't seem to count for much in erasing the lingering anti-incumbency effect," a PAGD functionary said. "Whether the ex-CM's controversial statements since her release on October 13, too, had any bearing on PDP's poll performance is up for scrutiny." According to official data, PDP secured 55,789 votes overall, as against NC's 28 lakh-odd. Even Congress, a signatory to the 2019 Gupkar Declaration but not part of the alliance, bagged 13 lakh-plus votes. The electoral dumbing-down of Mehbooba's party apparently has as much to do with the departure of old hands as with its disgruntled vote bank. Several of the ex-CM's senior colleagues quit PDP soon after BJP withdrew support to her erstwhile government in 2018. Her detention for more than a year dealt a further blow to the party organisation. "In Srinagar, where PDP won just one seat, voters were possibly put off by PDP promoting the rural-urban divide when it was in government. The erstwhile Mehbooba government preferred to accommodate youth from south and north of kashmir rather than an unemployed youth from Srinagar city," said Mohammad Ikram of Srinagar's Rainawari locality. At the grass roots, the lack of a strong leadership told on PDP's poll performance. Besides anti-incumbency, Mehbooba's alliance with BJP in 2015 still seems to keep a section of voters away, never mind her now-ceaseless denouncement of NDA and its policies on Kashmir. As a rural-centric party, PDP's stronghold remains troubled south Kashmir, where Mehbooba's statements like refusing to raise the tricolour till J&K's is restored still has a willing audience. Sources said the most surprising element of PDP tying up with former rival NC was Mehbooba remaining tight-lipped on the seat-sharing inequity. Ghulam Nabi Hanjura of Charar-e-Sharief was the only senior PDP functionary to raise his voice till the last moment about the party getting far fewer seats to contest than NC. On Wednesday, Mehbooba was her usual defiant self, calling the Gupkar alliance's performance as a whole – 110 seats out of 280 that went to polls – "the people’s verdict against nullification of Article 370". Refusing to acknowledge PDP's relative underperformance, she said: "PDP alone has bagged almost 30 seats. BJP used to say that PDP doesn’t exist anymore. But today’s verdict is an eye-opener for BJP."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jammu-and-kashmir-ddc-election-results-burden-of-past-weighs-on-pdps-poll-show/articleshow/79929433.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 24, 2020||India||How ‘outsider’ Altaf Bukhari turned the tables on Gupkar alliance in Srinagar||SRINAGAR: In an election billed as a straight contest between the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration and BJP, an estranged Mehbooba Mufti acolyte with a nine-month-old party has emerged as the unlikely kingmaker shepherding a clutch of independents to form semi-rural Srinagar's first District Development Council (DDC). While Srinagar MP Farooq Abdullah's National Conference and the rest of the Gupkar alliance had built their DDC poll campaign around the fight for restoration of J&K's special status, Apni Party's Altaf Bukhari spoke about development as his choice of balm to heal the "wounded pride, self-esteem and confidence" of Kashmiris. The pieces all fell into place for Bukhari, who was finance minister in the erstwhile Mehbooba cabinet. Farooq's pocket borough elected three Apni Party candidates and seven independents in the race for 14 seats, leaving the seven-party Gupkar alliance a surprising third with three wins. BJP got the remaining seat. Read AlsoJ&amp;K DDC polls: Listen to voice of people, says Omar; Gupkar alliance rejected, counters BJPThe J&amp;K District Development Council (DDC) election result was a mixed bag for both the BJP and the Gupkar Alliance, the two key players in the local body polls. With the people of the state giving a divided verdict, both of them claimed victories on Wednesday.Although Apni Party or candidates backed by it didn't fare nearly as well anywhere else except north Kashmir's Baramulla and Jammu, where it won two seats each, the strategy that turned the tables on the Gupkar alliance in Srinagar could become the template for future polls. Overall, Apni Party finished with a tally of 12 seats. Read AlsoGupkar alliance set to form 9 out of 10 Kashmir councilsThe seven-party People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) looks set to lead development councils in nine out of 10 districts in Kashmir division, but BJP's overall dominance of the DDC polls in Jammu might still leave it short of the numbers required to run at least four of the 10 councils"He may have been seen as a small player in the poll battle, but Bukhari was always known for his political management. His fledgling party has a bunch of hand-picked veterans, including former PDP MLAs and MLCs. There are some ex-Congress functionaries, too. Apni Party's Junaid Mattu is already the mayor of the Srinagar Municipal Corporation," an aide said. Read AlsoJammu and Kashmir DDC election results: Burden of past weighs on PDP’s poll showSRINAGAR: The most voluble votary of the campaign for restoration of J&amp;K's special status has, ironically, ended up with the least to brag about in terms of seats won by the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration that had fought the DDC polls on this very plank. Although former CM Mehbooba Mufti'sAmid the high-voltage, and sometimes controversial, speeches and statements of the Gupkar alliance think tank, Bukhari all along maintained that harping on the nullification of Article 370 was like flogging a dead horse. "Though deprivation of statehood has been unpleasant and bitter for J&K and its people, Apni Party would like to focus on development. The misery of the people, particularly the youth, can end only through J&K's development," he had said at the launch of his party in March. Srinagar mayor Mattu let fly a barb at the Gupkar alliance on Wednesday, saying all candidates who won on the back of the promise to restore J&K's special status should now go about fulfilling it "within one month". He said at a presser in Srinagar that the DDC elections were meant to create an administration for development, but several parties and candidates flagged "issues that would add to the hurt".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-outsider-altaf-bukhari-turned-the-tables-on-gupkar-alliance-in-srinagar/articleshow/79929461.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 24, 2020||India||Pakistan military claims Indian shelling kills 50-year-old woman at LoC||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s military claimed on Wednesday that a 50-year-old woman had been killed and three other civilians wounded by Indian shelling in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir on Tuesday. Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), the army’s media arm, alleged that Indian troops resorted to unprovoked shelling and targeted the civilian population with mortars and heavy weapons in Tatta Pani and Jandrot sectors along the Line of Control. The injured included a four-year-old child, the ISPR said. The shelling incidents were reported by ISPR hours before Pakistan’s Army Chief, General Qamar Javed Bajwa, visited Pakistani troops stationed at the LoC. Tension at the LoC has been high for the last two years and both countries routinely blame each other for ceasefire violations. “These egregious violations of international law reflect consistent Indian attempts to escalate the situation along the LoC and are a threat to regional peace and security,” read a statement issued by Pakistan’s foreign office on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-military-claims-indian-shelling-kills-50-year-old-woman-at-loc/articleshow/79929493.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Man sues retailer for forcing him to buy bag in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A Bengalurean took a cellphone retail firm to the consumer court, claiming that it sought to use him as a live advertisement by forcing him to buy a carry bag prominently displaying the firm’s ad. Stating that forcing the company’s carry bag on the customer was unfair trade practice, the court recently ruled that the company refund the man Rs 17.8 he had paid for the bag and Rs 1,500 as compensation. The proceedings in the case unfolded at Bangalore Urban 2nd Additional District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in Shantinagar after Srinivasa GV of Ramanagara district lodged a complaint against Sangeetha Mobiles Private Limited and its Rajajinagar branch in Bengaluru on June 11, 2019. The 39-year-old had purchased a cellphone from the outlet on May 6, 2019 after paying Rs 13,220. But a detailed invoice later revealed that the retailer had charged him Rs 17.8 for a canvas bag, which prominently carried their company logo. An infuriated Srinivasa approached the manager of the outlet and demanded that he be refunded the bag cost as he did not want to be a live advertisement for the cellphone retailer and the bag had been forced on him. But the seller refused to oblige. Srinivasa took the managing director of Sangeetha Mobiles Private Limited and the Rajajingar branch manager to consumer court. In the litigation, Srinivasa’s attorney presented his version, while the firm’s managing director Hari appeared on behalf of the opposite parties. While the firm argued that it is indeed a legal practice to sell non-plastic carry bags to customers, Srinivasa’s lawyer countered it stating that he was sold the bag showing a big ad of the retailer, despite his refusal to purchase it. After over 17 months of litigation, the judges in their verdict pronounced on November 25, 2020 slammed the cellphone retailer for its action towards the customer, citing similar cases heard by various courts in the country in the past. The judges came to the conclusion that Srinivasa was used as an advertising medium as the firm sold him the bag with their logo and it was indeed unfair trade practice. There is nothing wrong in selling a bag to the customer, but forcing him to buy a bag with the firm’s branding is illegal, they observed. The court ruled that the managing director and the manager of the cellphone retailer must repay Rs 17.8 to Srinivasa towards the canvas bag, apart from Rs 1,000 for causing him mental agony due to the episode and Rs 500 towards his court expenses, all within 30 days of the verdict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-sues-retailer-for-forcing-him-to-buy-bag/articleshow/79929588.cms||Petlee Peter
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC quashes FIR against HD Kumaraswamy, DK Shivakumar & G Parameshwara||BENGALURU: In a minor relief to former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, former deputy CM G Parameshwara and state Congress chief DK Shivakumar, the high court on Friday quashed on technical grounds the FIR registered against the three in connection with the protest held by them outside the income tax office on March 28, 2019. Justice John Michael Cunha quashed the special court’s order directing police to investigate and the FIR registered thereafter, holding that a second FIR on the same incident is not maintainable. The judge, however, added that complainant A Mallikarjun, a social activist from Gubbi in Tumakuru district, is at liberty to approach the investigating officer (IO) of Commercial Street police station in this regard and the private complaint filed by him before the special court can be treated as a statement under section 161 of CrPC. The FIR under challenge came to be registered on November 27, 2019. This was in pursuance to May 2, 2019 order passed by the special court for elected representatives, Bengaluru. The petitioners contended that they had peacefully assembled to protest against the illegal and unauthorised raids conducted by the IT department as it (the department) targeted JD(S) and Congress leaders at the instigation of the central government. They added that the IT department did not file any complaint against them and the initiation of criminal proceedings seriously affected their fundamental right to hold protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-quashes-fir-against-hdk-dks-parameshwara/articleshow/79929599.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Congress MLA acquitted in case on using kids for canvassing||BENGALURU: A special court for elected representatives has acquitted Congress MLA of Lingasugur assembly constituency, DS Hulageri, in a case of alleged use of children during electioneering, citing lack of independent witnesses. On December 16, special court for elected representatives judge TN Inavally acquitted the MLA citing lack of evidence. Lingasugur police had during the 2018 assembly elections filed a case against sitting MLA Hulageri under sections of Indian Penal Code and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, alleging that he used children for campaigning. Hulageri was seeking re-election. The flying squad officer had registered a case against Hulageri for conducting a public meeting on behalf of Congress for the purpose of procuring votes without special authority and using children for canvassing, thereby subjecting them to cruelty in contravention of the model code of conduct. While the prosecution failed to produce independent witness, the judge pointed out that cruelty against a child arises only if any person having actual charge of, or control over a child, assaults, abandons, abuses, exposes or wilfully neglects the child or causes or procures him/her to be assaulted, abandoned, abused, exposed or neglected in a manner likely to cause such a child unnecessary mental/physical suffering. While the SI of Lingasugur police station Mohinuddin claimed to be on duty on the specific day, Hulageri’s lawyer told the court he wasn’t present. Hulageri told TOI the complaint was the handiwork of his rivals and made to malign his image. “However, it did not help them as justice prevailed,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cong-mla-acquitted-in-case-on-using-kids-for-canvassing/articleshow/79929601.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Detention centre gets 3 Bangladeshi immigrants||BENGALURU: The detention centre for overstaying foreigners and illegal immigrants on the outskirts of Bengaluru, which had been lying vacant for almost a year, has four inmates now. The centre, 37km from the city, recently received three illegal Bangladeshi immigrants. Two of them are labourers. A Sudanese is keeping them company. The centre at Sondekoppa, Nelamangala taluk, Bengaluru Rural district, got its first inmate in October this year when a Sudanese was shifted to the facility. He was later deported. The centre later housed another Sudanese national and two Tanzanians, who have since been deported. Sources said one of the Bengladeshis was caught stealing from an ATM kiosk in Electronics City while two others had entered India illegally and were living in Bengaluru after obtaining fake identity documents. They are awaiting deportation to their homeland.  “There is no TV. They are allowed to use their mobile phones. So they keep to themselves,” sources said. T Subbaraaya, junior warden at the centre, said the detainees relish chitranna (lemon rice). “We also give them eggs and chicken once a week,” he said. The Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) is contacting Bangladesh and Congo authorities to facilitate their deportation. As per the high court directions, over-staying foreigners will have to be sent to a detention centre if they are granted bail or acquitted. “If there are no criminal cases, their travel documents and expenditure will be arranged. If the person has a passport, then his/her family or friends will have to pay for the travel. Else, FRRO will contact respective countries to get the papers readied. Police will accompany them to the flight to ensure they return to their place,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/detention-centre-gets-3-bangladeshi-immigrants/articleshow/79929607.cms||Kiran Parashar
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Site allotments: BDA’s SIT probe plan raises questions||BENGALURU: The Bangalore Development Authority’s decision to set up a special investigation team (SIT) to probe alleged irregularities in allocation of sites may be a welcome move. But its plan to probe irregularities since 1985 has raised questions, with many suspecting the very intention behind the move. BDA chairman SR Vishwanath on Tuesday announced that the agency will order an SIT probe into irregularities in site allocations since 1985. “We want to clean the rot in the BDA once and for all,” he claimed. Those familiar with the BDA and its functioning are calling the probe an eyewash to delay and protect corrupt officials and middlemen, who have been thriving for years. “Ordering investigation into irregularities, something that should have happened 35 years ago, means delaying all ongoing probes as the SIT investigation itself will take years to complete. Even if they find irregularities, the sites in question would have changed hands many times. Such being the case, whom will the BDA hold accountable and how will it recover such sites,” asked BM Shivakumar, an RTI activist and president of Jayaprakash Narayana Vichar Vedike, who had unearthed the alternative sites scam in BDA in 2008. No officer punished till dateIn 2008, the BDA ordered an SIT probe into the irregularities, running into hundreds of crores, in allotment of alternative sites. The SIT had given a report in 2010, holding many officials, middlemen and site allottees accountable. “But the high court, where the report was questioned, had stayed any action stating that the allottees cannot be held responsible for illegalities committed by officials and middlemen,” Shivakumar said. Till now, neither a single officer has been punished, nor a rupee recovered based on the report. “This proposed probe will also meet the same fate. Instead, the government should focus on bringing in transparency and efficiency in BDA functioning, with zero tolerance for corruption,” he added. A BDA official, on condition of anonymity, said the fresh SIT probe might be a way to shift focus from the ongoing investigation into the recent raid by the agency’s vigilance wing, which unearthed a fake site-allotment racket. During the raid on a flat at a reputed apartment in the city, the officials found documents of the agency’s 60 sites worth Rs 250 crore and also a letterhead of BDA commissioner HR Mahadev. “Investigation into the recent raid is going on well and this will not be handed over to the SIT,” Mahadev pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/site-allotments-bdas-sit-probe-plan-raises-questions/articleshow/79929614.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Churches laud Covid warriors in Xmas messages||BENGALURU: With the state government announcing night curfew from Thursday, Christmas celebrations will mostly be confined to the homes of people even though permission has been granted for midnight mass on December 24. But hardly anyone is complaining and church priests have called for a quiet and safe Christmas with some dedicating this year’s celebrations to Covid-19 warriors who have been fighting the pandemic since March. Leading the way is The Mar Thoma Syrian Church on Primrose Road where a large Christmas tree has been erected in dedication to those fighting Covid-19, including medical professionals, pourakarmikas, enforcement personnel and essential services staff. “The tree assembled out of discarded edge banding tape used by carpenters is a dedication from our church members to those fighting the pandemic,” said Rev. Charley Jones, head of the church. Rev. Peter Machado, Archbishop of Bangalore Archdiocese, said Christmas brings the message of hope mainly during these testing times. “Jesus Christ is present in our sadness and will bring us out of this misery that we are facing due to the pandemic. Even the first Christmas in this world came amidst a crisis and people had risen to the occasion, like how people from all over the city came forward to help the needy at the time of the lockdown,” said the Archbishop, expressing hope of a new beginning. The Catholic church has advanced its midnight mass timing on Christmas-eve to 7pm with a restricted number of people, as per Covid protocols. The archbishop has advised worshippers to return home before the curfew comes into effect and urged police personnel to go easy on those returning home after the service. Rev. Mathews Mar Makarios Episcopa, Diocesan Bishop of Bangalore and Chennai Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church diocese of Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, said Christmas is the time of joy, fellowship and sharing, and this year’s festival is being celebrated in the midst of a pandemic — “it reminds us about human limitations in confronting different life situations”. Rev. Prasanna Kumar Samuel, Bishop, Karnataka Central Diocese, Church of South India, in his message said this Christmas, our attitude towards religion must change. “The true message of Jesus is to reach out to the poor, needy and the elderly beyond the walls of religion and accepting all faiths. In this situation of uncertainty, everyone must go that extra mile to serve the community, to rise from failures and disappointments...,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/churches-laud-covid-warriors-in-xmas-messages/articleshow/79929633.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Six injured in BJP-cop clash in Khardah||KOLKATA: The Khardah police station area adjacent to BT Road on the northern fringes of the city turned into a battlefield following a clash between the BJP supporters and cops on Wednesday evening. While six BJP supporters were injured, two of them are in a critical condition. To control the situation, cops resorted to lathi-charge. The BJP men started an agitation after the BJP Youth Mondal president, Bullet Roy, was arrested from a BJP rally at Khardah for allegedly carrying a firearm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/six-injured-in-bjp-cop-clash-in-khardah/articleshow/79929657.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
December 24, 2020||India||Arnab Goswami programme leads to £20,000 fine for UK licensee||LONDON: Worldview Media Network Ltd, the UK licensee for Republic Bharat, the Hindi arm of Arnab Goswami’s Republic TV, has been fined £20,000 (almost Rs 20 lakh) by the UK communications regulator for a Republic Bharat programme, “Poochta Hai Bharat”, that contained “uncontextualised hate speech” seen as “potentially highly offensive”. Besides the financial penalty, the Office of Communications (Ofcom) has directed the licensee to broadcast a statement of the findings on a date and in a form to be decided by Ofcom because, it said, though it had noted that an apology had been broadcast “279 times”, it found the wording of the apology “would not convey the nature of Ofcom’s concerns”. A detailed Ofcom statement said it had also directed that the programme not be repeated. Ofcom said it had identified the programme during “routine monitoring” and commissioned a translation. The programme in violation of the Ofcom Broadcasting Code, aired on September 6, 2019, was about India’s Chandrayaan-2 moon mission. The debate led to exchanges in context of comparisons between India and Pakistan’s technological advances, the dispute over Kashmir, and Pakistan’s “alleged involvement in terrorist activities against Indian targets”, Ofcom said. In the programme, Goswami and some of the guests conveyed the view that all Pakistani people are terrorists, the report said. Gaurav Arya, the channel’s consulting editor, said: “their scientists, doctors, their leaders, politicians all are terrorists. Even their sports people. This whole nation is terrorist. I do not think anyone has been saved. Every child is a terrorist over there. Every child is a terrorist. You are dealing with a terrorist entity.” One guest, Prem Shukla, described Pakistani scientists as “thieves”, and Goswami, addressing Pakistani people, said: “We make scientists, you make terrorists”. A third guest, Maj Gen KK Sinha (Retd), said, “Oh you useless people. Beggars. Oh beggars, oh beggars”, and went on to threaten that the Indian military would “barge inside your home in Baluchistan, in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, in Karachi … and kill you”. Ofcom also took exception to the usage of “Paki”, calling it a “racist term” and “highly offensive and unacceptable” to audiences in the UK. The licensee, in its written submissions, said these statements were “figures of speech not intended to be taken literally, which Asian viewers would have understood clearly”. But Ofcom said the statements, which “clearly threatened that the Indian military would attack Pakistani civilians in their homes”, were “an expression of hatred and desire to kill by a figure of authority”. Worldview denied promoting or justifying hatred and argued the programme was based on “a legitimate story covering Pakistan’s involvement in terror activities backed by recent events and statements from leading Pakistani public figures at a time when India was working to become a space power”. The programme also likened Pakistanis to “donkeys and monkeys”. The licensee argued that the use of the term “Paki” was not intended to be offensive, nor would be interpreted as such, “particularly when used in the subcontinent”, and that it had already broadcast an apology 280 times “to redress the breaches”. The regulator said it saw these comments as “ hatred based on intolerance of Pakistani people based on their nationality alone” and that they “spread, incited, promoted and justified such intolerance towards Pakistani people among viewers”. Republic Bharat, according to the Ofcom statement, said it was “deeply concerned” that the programme may have been viewed as containing expressions of hatred based on intolerance of Pakistani people. The regulator said in the light of increased tensions between the two nations at the time, they “considered that the hate speech against the Pakistani people broadcast in this programme… had the potential to cause further damage to the already strained relationship between people of Indian and Pakistani origin… and posed a risk of harm to the Pakistani community in the UK”. Ofcom said it had put the licensee on notice just over two weeks prior to the broadcast that it had been receiving complaints about pejorative references to Pakistani people on the service and had since recorded three further breaches of the code against the licensee for programmes on the channel — one relating to broadcasting violence, one relating to derogatory criticisms of the Pakistani community, and one relating to giving undue prominence to a commercial brand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arnab-goswami-programme-leads-to-20000-fine-for-uk-licensee/articleshow/79929993.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 24, 2020||India||Covid-19 in India: Fear of new strain leads to Karnataka imposing night curfew||BENGALURU: After Maharashtra, Karnataka announced on Wednesday night curfew between 11pm and 5am from December 24 to January 1 (extending to January 2 morning) across the state as a precautionary measure amid concerns over a new Covid-19 variant spreading in the UK. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa had initially announced night restrictions from Wednesday night to January 2 between 10 pm and 6 am, with stringent restrictions. He modified the starting date and timings in a later tweet. “Midnight Mass on December 24 on account of Christmas can be held without any obstruction as per norms issued earlier,” he clarified in another tweet. In guidelines issued on December 17, the government had said organisers and supervisors at churches must ensure that a large number of people do not gather at a time and social distancing is maintained. Parties, special DJ dance programmes and special events at clubs, pubs, restaurants and other places that attract people in large numbers without social distancing have been prohibited from December 30 to January 2. “All this will be applicable for the entire state. I request all public to cooperate in view of the new Covid-19 strain that has emerged,” Yediyurappa said. The CM said all those travelling to the state and arriving at Bengaluru or Mangaluru airports from foreign countries must have a Covid-negative certificate through an RT-PCR test. The certificate must be obtained 72 hours before their departure time. All arrangements have been made at airport to conduct tests. Health staff have been deployed there to ensure no one enters the city without getting tested, he said. Industries and factories that require 24 x 7 operations will be allowed to operate without any restrictions, but with 50% staff. An order issued by chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said movement of long-distance night buses, trains and flights will be permitted. To and fro movement of taxis and autos are permitted for dropping or picking up people to or from bus stops, railway stations and airports. It will be allowed on displaying valid tickets. There shall be no restriction on the movement of all types of goods by truck, goods vehicle or any goods carrier, including empty vehicles. Earlier in the day, health minister Sudhakar said all those who had arrived in the state from the UK since November 25 will be mandatorily monitored for 28 days and will be asked to quarantine themselves. “Those who have completed 14 days have to self-monitor till the 28th day. Those who have come in the past 14 days will be monitored by our government, department staff using technology. Those with symptoms will be made to undergo RT-PCR test,” he said. If they test positive, samples will be sent for genetic sequencing at Nimhans to identify the strain, he said. A total of 2,500 people have come to the state since November 25 to December 22 on two flights — Air India and British Airways — Sudhakar said, rubbishing senior Congress leader HK Patil’s claim that 14,000 people had arrived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-in-india-fear-of-new-strain-leads-to-karnataka-imposing-night-curfew/articleshow/79930028.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Delhi||No annual Christmas bash for the Cherians this year||Dilip and Devi Cherian’s annual Christmas brunch has been one of the most-awaited December celebrations in Delhi, but this year the party will be missed as the couple has decided not to host it amid the pandemic. The power-packed parties were attended by over a hundred guests including politicians, businessmen, fashion designers and known names from the city’s social circle. Some guests would fly down to Delhi, just for a day to attend the annual Christmas bash. “Even this year we have been getting so many calls from friends asking us about the party and if they should come down. We feel sad to inform them that we are not hosting the party this year since it is not an appropriate time for any gathering. People have been suggesting that we do the party with just 50 people at home or host two parties, but we don’t want to do that. It is important for all of us to stay at homes, celebrate with families and stay safe this festive season. There are so many people posting pictures from last years’ Christmas parties on social media. and I have been telling them that it is very sad for us to not host the party this year, but I promise that next year it will be the biggest party that we ever had,” says Devi. This year, the couple plans to spend Christmas with their family at home. “We are going to have a Christmas lunch with our kids and grandchildren. It will be a family celebration. All of us should keep in mind that this Christmas and New Year, we should celebrate at home with our families and be patient till the time we have the vaccine,” says Devi, adding, “This is also not the time to spend big money on parties, we would rather donate it for some charity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-annual-christmas-bash-for-the-cherians-this-year/articleshow/79927271.cms||Divya Kaushik
December 24, 2020||World||Gunmen kill more than 100 in attack in Ethiopia's Benishangul-Gumuz region||ADDIS ABABA: Gunmen killed more than 100 people in a dawn attack in the western Benishangul-Gumuz region of Ethiopia on Wednesday, the human rights commission said, as residents described fleeing the latest deadly assault in an area bedevilled by ethnic violence. The attack occurred in the village of Bekoji in Bulen county in the Metekel zone, the state-run Ethiopian Human Rights Commission said in a statement, an area where multiple ethnic groups are living. Africa's second-most populous nation has been grappling with regular outbreaks of deadly violence since Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed was appointed in 2018 and accelerated democratic reforms that loosened the state's iron grip on regional rivalries. Elections due next year have further inflamed simmering tensions over land, power and resources. In a separate part of the country, Ethiopia's military has been fighting rebels in the northern Tigray region for over six weeks in a conflict that has displaced close to 950,000 people. The deployment of federal troops there has raised fears of a security vacuum in other restive regions. Ethiopia is also fighting an insurgency in the Oromiya region and faces long-running security threats from Somali Islamist militants along its porous eastern border. Gashu Dugaz, a senior regional security official, said authorities were aware of the Benishangul-Gumuz attack and were verifying the identities of the attackers and the victims, but did not give further information. The region is home to several ethnic groups including the Gumuz people. But in recent years farmers and businessmen from the neighbouring Amhara region have begun moving into the area, prompting some Gumuz to complain that fertile land has been taken. Some Amhara leaders are now saying that some of the land in the region - especially in the Metekel zone - rightfully belongs to them, claims that have angered Gumuz people. "In previous attacks it was people who came from 'the forest' who were involved but, in this case, victims said they knew the people involved in the attack," the rights commission said in its statement. 82 Bodies counted in fieldBelay Wajera, a farmer in the western town of Bulen, told Reuters he counted 82 dead bodies in a field near his home after Wednesday's raid. He and his family awoke to the sound of gunshots and ran out of their home as men shouted "catch them", he said. His wife and five of his children were shot dead, he was shot in the buttocks while four other children escaped and are now missing, Wajera told Reuters by phone late on Wednesday. Another resident of the town, Hassen Yimama, said armed men stormed the area around 6 a.m. (0300 GMT). He told Reuters that he counted 20 bodies in a different location. He grabbed his own weapon but assailants shot him in the stomach. A local medic said he and colleagues treated 38 injured people, most suffering from gunshot wounds. Patients told him of relatives who were killed with knives and told him that gunmen set houses on fire and shot at people trying to escape, he said. "We weren’t prepared for this and we are out of medicine," a nurse at the same facility told Reuters, adding that a five-year-old child died while being transferred to the clinic. The attack came a day after Abiy, the military chief of staff and other senior federal officials visited the region to urge calm after several deadly incidents in recent months, such as a Nov. 14 assault in which gunmen targeted a bus and killed 34 people. "The desire by enemies to divide Ethiopia along ethnic and religious lines still exists. This desire will remain unfulfilled," Abiy tweeted on Tuesday along with photos of his meetings that day in the town of Metekel, near where the Nov. 14 attack occurred. He said residents' wish for peace "outweighs any divisive agenda".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/gunmen-kill-more-than-100-in-attack-in-ethiopias-benishangul-gumuz-region/articleshow/79930637.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||Farmers up ante, nix govt offer, demand higher MSP||NEW DELHI/BATHINDA: Dramatically upping the ante while rejecting the Centre’s proposals as “meaningless amendments”, agitating farm unions on Wednesday said talks could restart only if repeal of the three new agri laws was on the agenda and added a demand for revised cost of production that will increase support price. The unions wrote to the agriculture ministry saying they were ready for talks only if the Centre came out with a “concrete proposal” without repeating proposed changes to the farm laws offered earlier. The unions iterated the demand for legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP), saying this should be on the agenda and drew attention to the National Commission on Farmers’ recommendation on support price on a higher slab of cost of production. The demand for a revised procurement price is significant as this entails the C2 plus 50% formula which includes imputed rent and interest on owned land and capital. As per the current formula, actual paid cost of inputs and imputed value of family labour are taken into consideration for arriving at a “costs plus 50%” calculation. While a legal guarantee for MSP has been part of the demand, the unions want this on the agenda along with repeal of laws for talks to resume. They also said the Essential Commodities Act was not mentioned by the Centre nor was there any clarity on the Electricity Bill, 2020. “Farmers want repeal of the laws. Half-hearted amendments are not acceptable,” said Yogendra Yadav, leader of Swaraj India. This, the group of farm leaders said, was made clear during the meeting with Union ministers on December 5, and then again when the Centre sent draft proposals on December 9. The farmers said it was up to the Union government to make up its mind and come up with a "concrete proposal". Read AlsoFarmers demand concrete proposals for talks, not ‘love letters’: Top developmentsNEW DELHI: The protesting farmers on Wednesday said they were ready for talks with the government but demanded concrete proposals instead of “love letters”. Meanwhile, the Narendra Modi government said there were more agricultural reforms on the anvil and hoped that the farmers would agree toThough the unions, opposed to the farm laws, have been demanding a legal guarantee for MSP for a long time, their six-point letter made it more pointed with the farm leaders emphasising, “Hame daan nahin, daam chahiye (we don’t want charity, we want remunerative price of produce).” “We want to assure you that protesting farmers and unions are ready for talks with the government and we are waiting for the government to take the discussion forward with an open mind and clear intention,” farmer leader Darshan Pal said in the letter on behalf of the group of 40 unions. Responding to the ministry’s December 9 proposals and its follow-up letter of December 20, Pal said, “We urge you to send us concrete proposals, without repeating the already rejected amendments, so that it can be made an agenda to resume discussion as early as possible.” The letter is an indication that the unions are not keen to renew negotiations unless it is on their demand for repeal of farm laws even as the Centre has made it plain that the Acts are part of larger reforms to provide farmers choice of market, access to technology and to encourage entrepreneurship. Read AlsoGovt ready to make changes to proposal; farmers demand concrete solutionNEW DELHI: Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said that the government is ready to make any necessary changes to the draft proposal on the new farm laws and hoped to resume dialogue with the farmers. Meanwhile, the farmer unions also expressed their willingness to resumeThe unions objected to remarks of certain ministers about separatists and Maoist elements infiltrating the protests with their own design. The letter said, “You are dealing with protesting farmers in a manner as if they are not aggrieved citizens but political rivals. Farmers would be compelled to intensify their agitation further for their survival if the government continues to treat them in that manner.” Instead of repeal, the ministry had on December 9 proposed amendments to further strengthen the farm laws. The amendments included provisions of registration of private traders and private market areas outside regulated 'mandis', equal taxes/fees for APMC mandis and private markets to maintain parity with the government-controlled ‘mandis’, providing an alternative of civil courts for dispute resolution and registration of contracts by states. Besides, the government agreed to give “written assurance” on continuing with the existing MSP procurement regime. On the issue of penalty to farmers for stubble burning under the new ordinance on air quality management in Delhi-NCR, the ministry assured the farmers’ unions that the Centre would resolve the concerns adequately. Read Also‘Centre doesn’t seem serious, trying to suppress farmers’BBKU (Ekta Sidhupur) president Jagjit Singh Dallewal, one of the senior-most leaders of the ongoing protest against Centre’s new agriculture laws, said the central government did not appear to be serious on farmers’ demand and was adopting all means and methods to suppress the movement, either byFarmers’ unions had, however, rejected all these amendments and assurances on December 9, leading to breakdown of the discussion which had been going on since October 13. The unions’ letter on Wednesday put their rejection to those amendments in a written form while seeking a “concrete proposal” to resume talks if the government accepted their core demand. Asked to elaborate on the “concrete proposal”, Yogendra Yadav said, “Farmers want repeal of the laws and they also want legal guarantee to MSP as per the recommendation of the National Commission on Farmers. We don’t want a gift of new farm laws from the government. We want remunerative price for our produce.” Flagging the MSP issue as another key demand, farmer leader from Madhya Pradesh Shiv Kumar Sharma Kakkaji said, “The issue could not be discussed in the last 5-6 rounds of talks. This is an important issue and a discussion should also be held on this."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-up-ante-nix-govt-offer-demand-higher-msp/articleshow/79931234.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 24, 2020||India||NIA arrests absconding Khalistani terrorist Nijjar from IGI airport||NEW DELHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday arrested an alleged pro-Khalistan terror accused Gurjeet Singh Nijjar, who had been hiding in Cyprus, at the Indira Gandhi International airport here. Nijjar was an absconding accused in the Pune Khalistan case, which has its origins in the arrest of an accused Harpal Singh in Pune by Maharashtra ATS on December 2, 2018, with an illegal firearm and some live rounds. Harpal has links with proscribed terrorist outfit Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), said a source. Subsequently, another accused – Moin Khan – was arrested by Punjab police from Sirhind and his custody taken by Mumbai police on December 24, 2018. Investigation revealed that Nijjar was the main conspirator in the case. Accused Gurjeet Singh Nijjar, Harpal and Moin Khan were active on social media platforms and hatched a criminal conspiracy to revive Sikh militancy with the ultimate aim of formation of a separate state of Khalistan. They would post videos and images in praise of Khalistani terrorist Jagtar Singh Hawara who has been convicted for assassination of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh, images of Operation Blue Star and pro-Khalistan posts related to Babbar Khalsa International with the sole intention of motivating like-minded Sikh youths and others to join the Khalistan “movement”, NIA said on Wednesday. Nijjar, who hails from Pandori Sukha Sigh village in Ajnala, Amritsar, had left India for Cyprus on October 19, 2017. Sources said his economic background was not sound as he did not have enough land to make sufficient earnings. He was working as a labourer here when he took a loan and went abroad on a study visa but ended up doing menial labour work in Cyprus to make ends meet. An officer said Nijjar’s whereabouts were tracked persistently by the law enforcement agencies. A look-out circular was opened against him and he was ultimately detained at New Delhi airport on Tuesday and arrested by NIA. NIA said Moin Khan was in Tihar Jail from 2013 to 2016, during which he developed contact with Jagtar Singh Hawara and showed his willingness to work for him and shared his contact number with him. Subsequently, as planned, accused Moin Khan sent friend request to Facebook ID “Khalistani Jindabad Khalistan”. By joining this Facebook group, Moin Khan came in contact with Harpal and Nijjar. Nijjar motivated Moin by discussing “atrocities” committed against Muslims and Sikhs in India and convinced him to work for a separate ‘Khalistan state’. He also directed Moin to purchase a pistol and ammunition in 2018 to carry out their nefarious designs. NIA had on May 23, 2019, filed a chargesheet against Nijjar, accused Harpal Singh, Moin Khan and one Sundar Lal Parashar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nia-arrests-absconding-khalistani-terrorist-nijjar-from-igi-airport/articleshow/79931552.cms||Bharti Jain
December 24, 2020||World||Trump vetoes defense bill, setting up possible override vote||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump on Wednesday vetoed the annual defense policy bill, following through on threats to veto a measure that has broad bipartisan support in Congress and potentially setting up the first override vote of his presidency. The bill affirms 3% pay raises for U.S. troops and authorizes more than $740 billion in military programs and construction. The action came while Trump was holed up at the White House, stewing about his election loss and escalating his standoff with Republicans as he pushed fraudulent conspiracy theories and tried to pressure them to back his efforts to overturn the results. The House was poised to return Monday, and the Senate on Tuesday, to consider votes to override the president's veto. Long before issuing the veto, Trump offered a series of rationales for rejecting it. He has called for lawmakers to include limits on social media companies he claimed are biased against him _ and to strip out language that allows for the renaming of military bases such as Fort Benning and Fort Hood that honor Confederate leaders. Without going into detail, he has claimed the biggest winner from the defense bill would be China. In his veto message to the House, Trump cited those objections and stated that the measure ``fails to include critical national security measures, includes provisions that fail to respect our veterans and our military's history, and contradicts efforts by my Administration to put America first in our national security and foreign policy actions. It is a `gift' to China and Russia.'' He also wrote: ``Numerous provisions of the Act directly contradict my Administration's foreign policy, particularly my efforts to bring our troops home. Both the House and Senate passed the measure by margins large enough to override a veto from the president. Trump had vetoed eight bills previously, but those vetoes were sustained because supporters did not gain the two-thirds vote needed in each chamber for the bill to become law without Trump's signature. In advance of the veto, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has said the bill would help deter Chinese aggression. Other GOP backers of the measure, including Sen. John Thune of South Dakota, the second-ranking Senate leader, and Rep. Mike Gallagher of Wisconsin, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, have tweeted that the bill would counter threats from countries such as China. Sen. Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said Trump's declaration that China was the biggest winner in the defense bill was false. Reed also noted the shifting explanations Trump had given for the veto. ``President Trump clearly hasn't read the bill, nor does he understand what's in it,'' Reed said. ``There are several bipartisan provisions in here that get tougher on China than the Trump Administration has ever been.'' The measure guides Pentagon policy and cements decisions about troop levels, new weapons systems and military readiness, military personnel policy and other military goals. Many programs can only go into effect if the bill is approved, including military construction. McConnell, in a rare break with Trump, had urged passage despite Trump's threat to veto it. McConnell said it was important for Congress to continue its nearly six-decade-long streak of passing the defense policy bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-vetoes-defense-bill-setting-up-possible-override-vote/articleshow/79931565.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government lists steps to shed graft ranking||BENGALURU: More than a year after anti-corruption NGO Transparency International India declared Karnataka the fourth most corrupt state in the country, the BJP government on Wednesday launched measures to strengthen its justice delivery system. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa released sustainable development goals (SDG) 2030 vision document and said his government was committed to implementing it in its bid to remove the negative impression about the state. Transparency International India (TII), in its ranking for the year 2019, had called Rajasthan the most corrupt, followed by Bihar. The third slot was shared by Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Telangana. The ranking is based on people’s experience in paying bribes for public services. 40% of people paid bribe to solve land Issues: ReportAs per the TII report, 40% of people paid bribe during property registration or to solve land Issues, 21% in works related to municipal corporation and 23% in police department. Quoting a report by Local Circles, a TII online-community platform, the Karnataka state planning department, in the SDG 2030 document, has given suggestion on improving the state’s justice system under the ‘peace, justice and strong institutions’ goal. It also suggested measures to improve the ranking of the state as per the United Nations’ standards of SDG goals adopted by Niti Aayog. The report said the biggest concern for Karnataka is its poor score in judges per million population. A report of the National Law School of India University said nearly 2.6 crore criminal, civil and other cases are pending in Karnataka’s1,137 courtrooms. The state has a shortage of 209 judges. The government has felt the need to reduce the rate of dropouts from secondary schools for ensuring quality education is provided to society. “The only indicator that is a cause of concern is the average annual dropout rate at secondary level is 26% which is way higher than India’s score of 17%,” said the vision report. “ I’ll ensure there is additional allocation for every department to meet the SDG vision document targets set by Niti Aayog in the next financial year,” said chief minister BS Yediyurappa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-govt-lists-steps-to-shed-graft-ranking/articleshow/79931724.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka school reopening to be reviewed on December 28-29||BENGALURU: The decision to reopen schools for Classes 10 and 12 and Vidyagama programme for Grades 6-9 will be reviewed on December 28-29 based on developments over the new strain of Covid-19 virus, health, and medical education minister K Sudhakar said here on Wednesday. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said the education department will follow the directions of the Technical Advisory Committee and health department. Earlier in the day, chief minister BS Yediyurappa said schools will reopen on January 1 and any change would be updated by the government. Amid this uncertainty, the education department is gearing up to welcome students on campus from January 1. Teachers have been advised to bring an RT-PCR Covid-19 negative certificate of a test done 72 hours before reopening. Sending kids to schools, not a must, parents can take a call’While children have to mandatorily use a mask, teachers above 55 years are advised to wear face shields as well. Measures will be taken to exempt teachers from Covid duty. Schools can get more teachers if there’s a faculty shortage but they would have to give a Covid negative certificate. In a meeting with district chief executive officers, deputy director of public instruction, and Block Education Officers on Wednesday, Suresh Kumar asked officials to be ready for reopening, just as they successfully conducted SSLC exams in July. “Attending school is not mandatory. It’s up to parents to decide,” he said. The money from school funds not utilised so far has to be used to purchase essential items like soaps, thermal scanners, and sanitisers. Schools can accept them from donors. Local bodies are responsible for sanitisation and cleanliness of campuses. “Last time, when the department said colleges can reopen, managements started preparations, spending thousands of rupees. But it was changed. If there are changes, the government must inform us in advance,” said Sashi Kumar D, secretary, Karnataka Association of Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/school-reopening-to-be-reviewed-on-dec-28-29/articleshow/79939990.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||Covid positive flyer from UK flees IGI, sets off alarm||VISAKHAPATNAM: A woman from Andhra Pradesh, who landed in Delhi from the UK, set alarm bells ringing after she tested positive for Covid-19 and disappeared from the airport without informing anyone.  It is not clear if the woman has tested positive for the old strain or its new variant, but officials say they can’t afford to take chances. A native of Rajahmundry, the woman returned to India on December 21 and soon after gave her swab samples for tests. Before her result could come in, she left the airport and boarded the New Delhi-Visakhapatnam special train. She then switched off her mobile, apparently after she learnt that police had contacted her family members. Read AlsoUK finds ‘more transmissible’ virus variant linked to South AfricaTwo cases of another new strain of Covid-19 linked to South Africa have been identified in the UK, health secretary Matt Hancock revealed here on Wednesday. Like the UK variant identified earlier, the new variant of the novel coronavirus is also driving a massive resurgence of the disease in SouthAP health officials, who could not contact the woman on her mobile, lodged a complaint with Rajahmundry police on Wednesday after her family told them that she had boarded a train.  Officials told TOI that the woman’s behavior was dangerous as she could come in contact with numerous people in the nearly 1,800-km journey, many of whom will be difficult to trace. The police and revenue officials swung into action and contacted the family of the woman passenger. The family said the woman would reach Rajahmundry by early hours of Thursday. Railway officials too have been informed. The train has stoppages in Telangana and in Vijayawada. Officials told TOI that the passengers in the compartment the woman is travelling will be subjected to Covid-19 tests. They are likely to be deboarded at Rajahmundry. However, they are tight-lipped about passengers who would get down at Vijayawada and places in Telangana. East Godavari district coordinator for health services Dr T Ramesh Kishore told TOI that her son went to Delhi to bring the woman to Rajahmundry. “We would ask the passengers in the compartment to get down at Rajahmundry for Covid tests. However, if some of them want to disembark in Visakhapatnam, we would ask officials there to make arrangements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-positive-flyer-from-uk-flees-igi-sets-off-alarm/articleshow/79931787.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||Congress eyes nationalism in bid to hit refresh button||NEW DELHI: Amid outcry over its leadership crisis and political demoralisation since the advent of Narendra Modi-led BJP, Congress plans to push the restart button of sorts with a mega programme to celebrate the “foundation day” around the idea of nationalism this year. For its 136th foundation year, the AICC has asked its state and district units to hold “innovative campaigns” to celebrate December 28. One of the campaign suggested is to hold “Tiranga Yatras” — which appears to be inspired by similar campaigns run by BJP on different occasions. Also, the party will hold an online campaign — “selfie with tiranga”. It has asked elected leaders and office-bearers to post pictures and videos with the tricolour on social media platforms. Clubbed with the “foundation day” celebrations is the plan to share the focus with “farmers protest”. The idea is to convey to the common man that the party has the authorship of the ongoing protest against the three controversial central farm laws. This, Congress strategists, believe will provide a perspective that Congress is at the heart of pro-people struggle and forms the bulwark of the fight against BJP. The other programme that Congress has conceived to underline its leadership role is the liberation of Bangladesh and victory over Pakistan in 1971 — of which the anniversary fell on December 16. As the 1971 victory completes its 50 years in 2021, Congress plans to hold year-long golden jubilee celebrations. It is likely to announce a committee to draft the programmes. The panel may be headed by former Speaker Meira Kumar, daughter of Jagjivan Ram, defence minister during the 1971 war, or former defence minister A K Antony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-eyes-nationalism-in-bid-to-hit-refresh-button/articleshow/79931940.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
December 24, 2020||India||Interrogation by cops can’t be substituted by video conference: HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled that interrogation of an accused is a statutory right of police and cannot be substituted by video conference. The HC issued the order on two petitions filed by gangster Lawrence Bishnoi who sought directions for the police, including one that said that his life be secured, in the backdrop of the death of criminal Vikas Dubey in an encounter with Uttar Pradesh police. Bishnoi had moved the HC as he was wanted by Chandigarh and Haryana police for interrogation in a number of cases. Chandigarh Police want to question him in connection with two incidents of shooting in Sectors 9 and 33. The cops also suspect his role in other firing incidents and crimes in the Union Territory. In Haryana, the police registered a murder case against him at Dabwali in Sirsa district on July 21. Bishnoi, who is lodged in Central Jail, Jodhpur, had urged that his physical presence for investigation of the FIRs be dispensed with, or he be interrogated through video conferencing or handcuffed if he was required to be taken out of the jail. Dismissing the two petitions, Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill of the Punjab and Haryana high court — in his 11-page judgment made available on Tuesday — said interrogation over video conferencing was not possible as the investigator/interrogator would be unable to record the accused’s demeanour and read his psyche as it would be impossible to assess veracity of answers by the way an “accused blinks his eyes or sighs or moves his feet.” “Interrogation of an accused, though possible through video conference, will lose much of its effectiveness when the accused is sitting far away from the investigator/interrogator,” Justice Gill observed. “Police cannot be deprived of its right to interrogate an accused and that video conferencing may not be as effective as physical interrogation,” the HC said. To ensure Bishnoi does not encounter any harm, the HC ruled that he should be brought from the Jodhpur jail to Chandigarh in a bulletproof or armoured vehicle that is escorted by armed and trained commandos and the transit exercise should be videographed. “It is directed that the petitioner shall be duly handcuffed and shackled during transit which would be helpful for the police as well as for the accused as the apprehension of the police that he may escape would be minimised and so also the apprehension of the petitioner as regards any false encounter,” the HC said. In case of any default, the officials concerned shall be held personally liable and responsible, it added. A native of Dutaria village of Fazilka district in Punjab, Bishnoi in January 2018 had allegedly issued a death threat to actor Salman Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/interrogation-by-cops-cant-be-substituted-by-video-conference-hc/articleshow/79931933.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||Gupkar alliance due to adversity; we didn’t want sympathy votes: Omar Abdullah||Former Jammu and Kashmir CM Omar Abdullah, whose party National Conference fought along with PDP under People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, spoke to TOI's Rohan Dua on their recent performance in the DDC polls. Excerpts.Elections to Districts Development Councils (DDCs) in J&K were already announced when PAGD, or Gupkar Alliance, was formed. How do you look at the results now?It was an uphill battle, for many reasons. All of us on this side of the aisle, in the PAGD alliance, were all emerging out of various lengths of detention, and political activity had been non-existent for us. None of us had fought polls together. We were traditional rivals as recently as the 2019 Lok Saba where we fought hammer and tong. It wasn’t even like the assembly polls where 87 seats were to be decided; here, we had 280 seats. There were varying degrees of acceptance in what realistic ground situation for each party was. We had hurdles too, such as our candidates being taken away citing security threats. Mehbooba, I and others took a conscious decision to not campaign as we didn’t want sympathy votes around us. We decided that we would not make this election about us and that we will leave it purely to the cadre and the wisdom of the voters to decide whether we are on the right track or not. That this election would be about issues that alliance stands for and that would be communicated by the cadre. We left it to the cadre so that we would not be accused of trying to sort of emotionally blackmail or hoodwink the voters. Read AlsoGupkar alliance set to form 9 out of 10 Kashmir councilsThe seven-party People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) looks set to lead development councils in nine out of 10 districts in Kashmir division, but BJP's overall dominance of the DDC polls in Jammu might still leave it short of the numbers required to run at least four of the 10 councilsYour party has done better than PDP (27) and PAGD allies like Sajjad Lone’s JKPC (8). PDP and Congress (26) are behind the tally of Independents (49).There are lessons to be learned for each political party. It's not for me to tell the PDP and Congress how they should interpret these results. I know how I would look at these results — that is areas where NC has done well and areas where we were expected to do better. I would hope there are lessons that the PDP and Congress would take well. One of the problems we faced in seat-sharing discussions was that parties may have [more] ambitious assessments of public support than the ground realities actually conveyed. But then, such problems can happen. Read AlsoHow ‘outsider’ Altaf Bukhari turned the tables on Gupkar alliance in SrinagarIn an election billed as a straight contest between the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration and BJP, an estranged Mehbooba Mufti acolyte with a nine-month-old party has emerged as the unlikely kingmaker shepherding a clutch of independents to form semi-rural Srinagar's first DistrictHow do you look back at your own detention and that of other leaders after August 5, 2019?There was no justification. Specially the grounds. I was detained because of perception over a boycott call and mobilization. The moment we went to challenge our detention in a court, the government withdrew our detentions and set us free. It leaves us with a bitter taste. I would say I was still better off even in isolation. Others went to Agra and other parts of UP. Much water has flowed under the bridge now since then. I am not the sort of person to live in the past. We move on. But we would hope the voice of the people of J&K would be heard. We will look for solutions within the four walls of the Constitution and for solutions that involve violence. Some wanted us to boycott the polls and they can have the propaganda tool to beat us with; we didn’t. How do you look at the BJP’s three wins in the Valley, which they say would initiate inroads in Kashmir?If their three seats is important, then our 35 seats in Jammu is equally important. People say we are the only party of Kashmiri Muslims, but we did well in Jammu too. With the success of the DDC polls, would you press for assembly polls in J&K ever, with UT status?I don’t speculate on any such move in near future. I would only focus on building our alliance. I don’t think assumptions do anybody any favour. DDC polls have pushed assembly polls much away and we are in the middle of the delimitation commission. Its implementation would take time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gupkar-alliance-due-to-adversity-we-didnt-want-sympathy-votes-omar-abdullah/articleshow/79932007.cms||Rohan Dua
December 24, 2020||World||In US, Indian doctors become face of pro-vaccine, social media push||NEW DELHI: Even as concerns about the effectiveness and complications resulting from the Covid-19 vaccine makes a section of Indians skeptical about taking the vaccine, a few Indian-origin nurses and doctors have become the face of the Covid-19 vaccine rollout in the US. These frontline health workers are among the first to receive the Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE vaccine after it was authorized for emergency use by the authorities. With a fervency reminiscent of voters showing off the indelible ink on their finger, these doctors have been sharing pictures and videos of their jabs on social media, suffixed with hashtags such as #IGotTheShot. Among health-care professionals trying to combat anti-vax theories claiming that the shots will alter DNA or come embedded with microchips on social media is Dr Minal Ahson, who has treated both adults and children infected with the virus at Tampa General Hospital since March. From dislike of injecting “chemicals,” to disagreement on vaccination schedules for children, to “it makes me get the flu,” the pediatrician has heard a fair share of anti-vaccine rationale from patients so far. If someone knows “I’ve gotten it and I’m doing okay, maybe one more person will be more likely to get vaccinated or share my story with a family member who’s hesitant,” she said in an interview after getting the shot on December 15. When she got the vaccine, Ahson — who also works an assistant professor at the University of South Florida Morsani College of Medicine — said it “felt historic”. She shared her experience on social media and an op-ed piece in which she confessed: “Initially, I was a bit apprehensive about both the speed of vaccine development and new use of mRNA technology, but after research, discussion with respected colleagues and weighing the risks (that I have witnessed firsthand), the decision became obvious.” Krutika Kuppalli, an infectious disease doctor at the Medical University of South Carolina, posted updates on Twitter about how she was feeling after she got her shot. On day one, she said her arm felt sore, which “meant the vaccine is working”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/in-us-indian-doctors-become-face-of-pro-vaccine-social-media-push/articleshow/79932039.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
December 24, 2020||India||Amartya Sen on Vishva-Bharati list of ‘illegal plot holders’||NEW DELHI: Visva-Bharati has written to the West Bengal government alleging that dozens of its plots have been recorded wrongly in favour of private parties with the list of unauthorised occupants prepared by the varsity including Nobel laureate and eminent economist Prof Amartya Sen. The girls’ hostel, academic department, office, even the VC’s official bungalow find mention in the list of plots recorded incorrectly. The university alleges that due to wrong recording of ownership in the government’s record-of-right (RoR), the university’s land has been illegally transferred and private parties have set up restaurants, schools and other businesses on land procured by Rabindranath Tagore himself. In Prof Sen’s case, the varsity has said there is an unauthorised occupation of 13 decimals of land, in addition to 125 decimals legally leased to his late father by Visva-Bharati. In an email reply to TOI, Sen said: “I see from your report that Vice Chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty of Visva-Bharati is busy arranging the ‘eviction of unauthorised occupation of leased land in the campus’ and that I have also been named in the list of occupants. The Visva-Bharati land on which our house is situated is on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near its expiry, but the vice-chancellor can always dream about evicting anyone he wants.” According to Visva-Bharati’s estate office such erroneous records were prepared in the 1980s and 1990s. Most of these plots are located in Purvapalli area of Santiniketan, known to be the residential hub of asramites (families associated with the asrama school and Visva-Bharati during their inception) and eminent persons. Documents with Visva-Bharati’s offices and also sent to the ministry of education (MoE) and the CAG revealed the proportions to which the encroachment of the university land reached in the late 1990s. Prof Sen in 2006 wrote to the then vice chancellor for transfer of the 99-year-old lease-hold land to his name and this was done after a decision was taken by the Executive Council but the excess land was not returned to the university. TOI has both documents. A confidential internal report, issued to various offices by the estate office of Visva-Bharati in July 2020, states that the university has taken up the matter of correction of ownership record of 77 plots of land. “Unauthorised occupants from leased plots of Purvapalli/ Dakshinpalli/ Sripalli areas to be evicted. These are very high profile people,” the reports states. VC Bidyut Chakrabarty refused to comment on the matter saying, “I will not like to talk to the media on matters related to Visva-Bharati administration.” However, a senior official at the estate office said : “Rabindranath Tagore and later his son Rathindranath got eminent people like ICS officers, educationists and royal family members to reside in Santiniketan with the assurance they would be given land to build houses on the basis of 99 years’ lease. In return, some of them contributed money to Visva-Bharati’s development funds. However, many of the original lessees transferred their plots illegally after the passing away of Tagore and his son. Most of the present day heirs are non-resident Santiniketanis, occupying huge tracts of prime land on the campus and often indulging in businesses. They don’t treat the land as part of university campus.” Prof Sen said in his email: “Having been born and brought up in Santiniketan, I could comment on the big gap between Santiniketan culture and that of the VC, empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi, with its growing control over Bengal. I would prefer to use Indian laws as they exist. For mental strength, I may clutch the beautiful old picture of our home by Abanindranath Tagore, among others. The vice-chancellor would be spared the necessity of inventing completely imagined conversations with me, beginning impossibly with my introducing myself as Bharat-Ratna – something that no one has ever heard me do. The VC, of course, is an inventive artist as well.” An estate official, however, said that “Sen is well aware that he is occupying a good quantum of university’s land unauthorisedly” and added that the family benefited by selling plots in the vicinity of the campus (in Deer Park and Sripalli areas) that had no access except through the campus”. A “tentative list of unauthorised occupants,” issued on December 16 alleges that many leaseholders or their families have sold their leasehold lands to outsiders. This could open a can of worms as there are names of industrialists, asramites, educationists, NRIs, intellectuals and local politicians. The university is built over 1,132 acres of land of which 77 acres are under encroachment and through legal battles and eviction drives the university has managed to free 22 acres in recent times. According to estate office records, in the last decade it has removed unauthorised occupation by an eminent singer and Padmasri awardee; an internationally reputed artist who had been an EC member of Visva-Bharati; a former principal and executive council member of VB; an eminent Bengali industrialist; members of the famous Sen family of Santiniketan and many others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amartya-sen-on-vishva-bharati-list-of-illegal-plot-holders/articleshow/79932083.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata churches stay away from decoration in pandemic year||KOLKATA: Several city churches have decided not to put up lights this Christmas as a step towards toning the celebrations down this year. Most churches have decided to cancel all public celebrations barring the main Christmas prayers in the morning. Seating arrangements will be made to ensure social distancing norms can be followed. Old Mission Church on R N Mukherjee Road that has survived two world wars and withstood the Great Cyclone and Assam earthquake, and ushered in its 250th anniversary last year, will not be decorated with lights and other Christmas finery this time. “We have decided to forgo celebrations since the pandemic has adversely affected everyone, but there will be prayer service on Christmas. Several members, however, will organize online programmes,” said an official of the church, which has a Grade 1 heritage status and where poet Michael Madhusudan Dutt was baptized on October 8, 1843. Christmas celebrations have also been cancelled at St Andrew’s Church on Brabourne Road, said Father Swarup Bar. The traditional Christmas lights have been put up only in some pockets. “There will just be an hour-long service on December 25,” he added. Several churches have also decided to arrange for outdoor seating. At Duff Church in north Kolkata, where all celebrations have been cancelled, several devotees will have to sit outside the chapel so that proper social distancing is ensured. “The church will be decorated, but we won’t allow people to come in after the prayers are over,” said Reverend Biswajit Biswas. At St John’s Church, which is more than 220 years old, only the chapel will be lit up. Barring the main service, all functions have been cancelled. “We have decided to cancel all celebrations this year keeping in mind the safety of the people,” said Rangan Dutta, the church officer. Only members will be allowed in for the midnight mass at St Paul’s Cathedral on Christmas Eve. Every year, thousands from various parts of the state come to see the Christmas decorations at the church. But this year nobody will be allowed inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-churches-stay-away-from-decoration-in-pandemic-year/articleshow/79929282.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cinema owners jittery as low year-end release count, alternate seating take toll on footfall||KOLKATA: Christmas has traditionally been big for cinemas in Bengal with multiple big-ticket Hindi, English and Bengali releases. This year, it is going to be a litmus test for Bengal’s exhibitors December 24 onwards. With a major Bengali Christmas release pushed back and a Feluda release on OTT, theatre owners are jittery. Most feel the SOP that doesn’t allow viewers even from the same family to sit together at cinemas is a major stumbling block. Every year, Priya had nothing less than five to six shows on the Christmas weekend. This year, the number has dropped to two. “I just have two shows of ‘Wonder Woman 1984’. Earlier on, we had much-awaited movies releasing during Christmas. This year, it will be very difficult to sustain ourselves if we don’t get at least 25% occupancy for each show,” said owner Arijit Dutta. Sujit Kumar Bhukta, general manager (east) of Carnival Cinemas, said, “While Hollywood has taken the risk to release on Christmas, Bollywood and Tollywood have pushed back. The projected sales figure at our cinemas for this Christmas is 25% of what it was last year.” Navina’s owner is equally rattled. Throughout the year, the best box-office figures at his theatre have been generated during Christmas and New Year’s week. Now it will screen two new releases, with three shows of ‘Wonder Woman 1984’ and one show of ‘Chini’. Last year, Navina had six shows and had screened four movies, including two in Bengali — ‘Professor Shanku O El Dorado’ and ‘Saanjhbati’. “Besides, we also ran ‘Mardaani 2’. The Christmas week was followed by ‘Good Newwz’, which also did fantastic business,” said owner Navin Choukhani. However, the advance bookings of this year’s releases are “so negligible” that he “can’t even compare them with any year’s figures”. According to him, one of the main reasons for this low footfall is the SOP preventing family viewing. “That is the main takeaway for cinema-going viewers. Now, when people can watch films in theatres, they are being asked to sit separately. If the alternate seating arrangement was not in place, we would have had more viewers. That would have encouraged producers to release their movies,” Choukhani added.  Burnt Garlic, the restaurant at the same address as Priya, is doing decent business while the cinema is struggling to get footfall. “Restaurants are allowing people to not wear masks and sit together. But the rules are different for cinemas. The film industry is being victimized. How long can we pay electricity bills when there are so few viewers? If the footfall is this bad during Christmas, Bengal might see mass closure of cinemas,” Dutta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cinema-owners-jittery-as-low-yr-end-release-count-alternate-seating-take-toll-on-footfall/articleshow/79929211.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
December 24, 2020||Patna||Transport min opens automated driving test track in Aurangabad||PATNA: State transport minister Sheela Kumari on Wednesday said that advanced training methods for efficient and transparent testing of candidates aspiring for a driving licence would help to reduce road accidents in the state. Inaugurating the automated driving test track at Aurangabad’s Institute of Driving Training and Traffic Research (IDTR) on Wednesday, the minister lauded the efforts of the officials and said the state government has been taking all measures to reduce road accidents. The minister was accompanied by state transport commissioner Seema Tripathi and IDTR’s head Amit Gupta along with district transport officer, Aurangabad. The driving track is equipped with sensors and cameras, connected to the computer system inside the monitoring room at IDTR. When the driving aspirant crosses or touches the marked line on tracks, sensors and cameras will dispatch signals to computers. It provides video footage of driving tests. Based on the footage, the aspirants will get their driving licenses. “With the launch of automated testing track, the process of issuing driving licenses will assume both quality and accuracy,” transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Aggarwal said and added that after Aurangabad, the automated driving testing track will be launched soon on the premises of the proposed Transport Complex in Phulwarisharif, Patna. Along with this, there are plans to construct automated driving testing tracks in Muzaffarpur also. Agarwal said the automatic driving track is being developed over 302 sq metre area at Phulwarisharif. “The driving skills of applicants, who want to obtain a driving license will be checked. Since no tampering is possible in this hi-tech track, only deserving candidates will pass the driving test. The officers will check the driving efficiency before issuing license,” he said. “At present, prior to issuing a license, the process of driving test is manual. After passing the automated driving test, there will be less scope for fault among the drivers and road accidents will also be reduced. It has been observed that in the absence of driving skills, chances of road accidents have increased,” the transport secretary said here on Wednesday. On the driving testing track, aspirants will have to follow traffic rules like seat belt, path change, lane driving, stop line, S-formation, parallel parking, permanent parking, reverse, path change, traffic light junction, while driving. Different times and digits will be set up for each step. “Driving according to the prescribed standard will earn you marks and help to pass the test,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/transport-min-opens-automated-driving-test-track-in-aurangabad/articleshow/79928634.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||As Terai farmers announce protest march to Delhi on Dec 25, security beefed up at borders||Rudrapur: The security along all borders with Uttar Pradesh was beefed up by the district police after Terai farmers announced that they will undertake a protest march to Delhi on December 25 to oppose the new farm laws. Udham Singh Nagar’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Daleep Singh Kunwar said that the farmers will not be allowed to cross the state borders at any cost. He added that videography will be done at all borders adjacent to Uttar Pradesh and stern actions will be taken against those violating the orders. Incidentally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address some farmers virtually on December 25. Earlier, the farmers unions of Terai region had announced that they would intensify their agitation by marching towards Gazipur border near Delhi on December 25. Meetings were going on in Bazpur, Rudrapur, Jaspur and Kashipur towns of the district to gather as many farmers as possible for the protest march. Vikramjit Singh, a farmer from Bazpur, said, “Hundreds of farmers and farm labourers are all set to march to Delhi from the district to ensure that the ongoing agitation does not lose its steam.” Meanwhile, senior police officials — including ASP Kashipur Rajesh Bhatt and SDM Bajpur AP Vajpayee — met the “Kar Sewa” chief of Nawabganj Gurdwara, Baba Anoop Singh, and requested him to cancel the protest march call and help the police maintain the law and order situation. Baba Anoop Singh said, “Farmers are conducting peaceful protests and I have assured the police that no farmer will resist the police in any situation. I will talk to the farmer organisations over the protest march to ensure that the law and order situation is not disrupted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-terai-farmers-announce-protest-march-to-delhi-on-dec-25-security-beefed-up-at-borders/articleshow/79928438.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 24, 2020||Patna||HC irked at keeping minor girl at police station for 3 days||PATNA: The Patna high court on Wednesday expressed displeasure over Patna police keeping a minor girl in a police station for three days instead of sending her to any short stay home or handing over to her parents after recovery from Darbhanga on Sunday. The high court on December 18 had ordered Patna SSP to appear before it in the matter as the victim was not traced despite an FIR lodged by her father with Patliputra police station on August 1. However, soon after the court order, police recovered the missing girl from Darbhanga and arrested accused Sinku Yadav (35) for allegedly taking away the minor girl. The victim, aged around 16 years, went missing from her residence under Patliputra police station area on June 22 this year. Her father registered the FIR against Yadav under Section 366A (procuration of minor girl) of IPC. After the police failed to recover the girl, her father moved the high court on December 5 urging it for the girl’s recovery and plea to ensure his family’s safety as he had been continuously receiving threats from the accused, who used to work as the driver of a retired IAS officer near their residence. When the division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar orally asked Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma where the girl had been kept, he replied that she was at the police station. Sharma appeared before the court virtually. Petitioner counsel Vikash Kumar Pankaj said the court was dissatisfied with SSP’s oral submission that there was a residential accommodation for women police personnel on the police station premises where she had been kept as she apprehended threat from her parents. “The court also expressed its displeasure with the female judicial magistrate for not showing enough sensitivity in the matter. The magistrate recorded the victim’s statement in which the girl said she got married with the accused at a temple in Darbhanga, but wanted to stay with her parents now,” he said. The counsel said the high court would take up the matter again in the first week of January and has directed the SSP to file a reply giving the account of timeline of actions taken by the police in the case so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-irked-at-keeping-minor-girl-at-police-station-for-3-days/articleshow/79929023.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 24, 2020||Patna||Ganga Path to be completed by December, 2022: Minister||PATNA: State road construction minister Mangal Pandey on Wednesday said the Ganga Path being constructed along the river from Digha to Nasriganj will be completed by December, 2022 and a portion of it from Digha to AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies will be made functional in the next eight months. Pandey inspected the ongoing work along with MLAs Sanjeev Chaurasia and Nitin Nabin and senior officials of the department. “Once completed, connectivity between the western and eastern Patna will become smoother. This will also reduce the vehicular pressure on Ashok Rajpath,” said Pandey. Pandey said the entire project is 20.50-km-long, out of which 11.70km is elevated road. The estimated cost of the project is Rs3,390 crore. “Ganga Path will be connected to Ashok Rajpath at eight places, including at LCT Ghat, AN Sinha Institute, PMCH, Krishna Ghat, Gai Ghat, Kangan Ghat, Patna Ghat and Deedarganj,” he said.The minister said both ends of this road will have green belts and a 5-metre broad walking track on the bank of the Ganga. “Four-lane connectivity is being provided to PMCH to facilitate movement of patients. A world-class rotary is also being constructed on Digha side. It will be connected to Ganga Path, AIIMS-Digha elevated highway and R Block-Digha road. As a result, vehicles coming from any of the other two key roads will easily reach Ganga Path. This project will also facilitate movement between north and south Bihar, apart from easing the vehicular movement in the state capital,” Pandey said. The project also includes construction of 13 underpasses so that people could reach the river bank and perform religious and social rituals with ease. The project is being executed by Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited, an executing agency of state road construction department. “Ganga Path project is being constructed like Marine Drive in Mumbai and its foundation was laid by chief minister Nitish Kumar in 2013,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ganga-path-to-be-completed-by-december-2022-minister/articleshow/79928715.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 24, 2020||Patna||ECR launches e-calendar to promote paperless work||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has launched e-calendar dedicated to six mega rail bridges built in Bihar for the year 2021. It is likely to save money which was spent on printing railway calendars in bulk each year to meet the requirements of its each office and department. According to ECR GM L C Trivedi, the new e-calendar will help promote environment protection drive already launched at its headquarters in Hajipur and five divisional offices. “It is more handy and can be retained on cellphones and computers of railway officials and staff of the ECR to work out a strategic plan to give an impetus to ongoing railway projects in the state,” he said. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the e-calendar, which is the part of ECR paperless work culture drive, aims at maintaining social distancing norms also amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Though ECR has taken this initiative to minimize physical movement of files in the zonal and divisional offices, e-calendar will help each department to work out its plan for rail development network in the state,” he said. According to the CPRO, railways initiated paperless work culture first in 2019 in collaboration with the RailTel Corporation. “Though railways has digitalized more than 50,000 official files of the ECR alone, e-calendar will further improve paperless work culture procedure in railways,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-launches-e-calendar-to-promote-paperless-work/articleshow/79928683.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Patna||257 fresh Covid cases in Patna, six deaths in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 640 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,48,668 so far in state. Officially, five deaths were reported, which took the toll to 1,367. However, with 2,42,244 recoveries, there were only 5,055 active cases in the state. Of the 640 new cases, 257 were from Patna, taking its tally to 47,158. However, with 44,845 recoveries and 367 deaths, there were 1946 active cases in Patna. The other districts with substantial number of fresh cases included Aurangabad (73), Muzaffarpur (30), Nawada (22), Saran (18), Begusarai (17), Sitamarhi (15) Nalanda (15) and Siwan (15). As per the state health department information, four deaths were reported from Patna, taking its toll to 367, followed by one from Siwan, which has recorded 30 deaths so far. AIIMS-Patna reported two deaths, including that of a 75-year-old male of Kankarbagh. Its nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said 15 patients were admitted and the same number were discharged on Wednesday. Those admitted were from different localities of Patna like CR Colony in Ashiana Nagar, Bhattacharya Road, Khajpura, Purnendu Nagar and Nasriganj. He said 422 people have so far volunteered in the third phase of Covaxin trial. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital did not report any death. While one person was admitted, two were discharged on Wednesday. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 309 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and the state’s recovery rate was 97.41%. In the same time period, 1,16,883 samples were tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/257-fresh-covid-cases-in-patna-six-deaths-in-bihar/articleshow/79928960.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Business||RBI cautions against loans given on apps||MUMBAI: Following cases of suicide over alleged harassment by recovery agents of entities that provided loan over mobile apps, the RBI has cautioned against such loans and has asked aggrieved NBFC borrowers to file complaints on its portal. “There have been reports about individuals/small businesses falling prey to growing number of unauthorised digital lending platforms/mobile apps on promises of getting loans in quick and hassle-free manner. These reports also refer to excessive rates of interest and additional hidden charges being demanded from borrowers, adoption of unacceptable and high-handed recovery methods, and misuse of agreements to access data on the mobile phones of the borrowers,” the RBI said in a statement. Read AlsoLoan apps pushing people into debt traps, suicidesThe lockdown had left P Sunil devastated. The 28-year-old in Telangana lost his job, took a loan and fell into a debt trap. To repay this, he took loans from different apps offering quick loans. Soon, recovery agents were after him, sending messages and calling everyone on his call list. Humiliated,The regulator is also understood to have called for information from registered NBFCs that either partner fintechs or lend via apps. Meanwhile, the Digital Lenders Association of India, or DLAI — with members like Capital Float, IndiaLends and ZestMoney — has shared a checklist of telltale signs that a lending app is not RBI-regulated. A key giveaway is that the party asking for the loan agreement is not an RBI-regulated entity. “The RBI has norms for data privacy, data localisation and recovery of bad loans. Apps that are registered as NBFCs come under these guidelines. Currently, fintechs that partner with banks and finance companies for lending are regulated only from the point that they plug into the lender’s network and those who are not registered and do not partner lenders are not regulated at all,” said Sandeep Srinivasa, founder of micro-lending startup RedCarpet. The dodgy recovery practices may be new to India, but it started in China several years ago. “The practice of online blackmail was common in China a few years ago with lenders asking people who have fallen back on payments for their nude photographs as security. I have read reports of recovery agents doing the same in some cases here,” said Srinivasa. The RBI went on to say that banks, finance companies and entities regulated by state governments are allowed to lend and the general public should not share KYC documents with any other lender. It reiterated its directive earlier requiring digital platforms to disclose the names of the banks or finance companies on behalf of which they operate. Technology is also creating grey areas in lending. Fintechs are providing buyers with a ‘buy-now, pay-later’ option — a feature that is halfway between a payment facility and a short-term loan. The U K Sinha committee on lending to small businesses had recommended creating a new regulated entity — loan service provider — who would represent the borrower and help them get loans. According to Srinivasa, the proposal to regulate platforms as loan service providers would have enabled the regulator to keep tabs on fintechs that collect data to enable financing. These fintechs distribute and do collections without reporting to the RBI or credit bureaus. “DLAI has been working with its members and the regulatory bodies to control practices that are illegal or in any way harmful to the customer. However, we have noticed many such apps have found loopholes in the systems and reach vulnerable customers, often in urgent need of money,” said a DLAI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-cautions-against-loans-given-on-apps/articleshow/79931430.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 24, 2020||Patna||‘Orange alert for cold day over next 2 days in Patna’||PATNA: The Patna Meteorological Centre on Wednesday issued fresh orange alert for cold day along with dense fog expected on Thursday and Friday as mercury continued to be in the range of 7-10 degrees C at most places in the state. Though bright sunny skies provided slight respite from the biting cold conditions to the residents on Wednesday, weathermen are of the view that day temperature may plummet, paving way for cold day conditions. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD) norms, cold day condition is declared at a place when minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or low and there is a departure of 4.5-6.4 degrees C in maximum temperature on two consecutive days. “Minimum temperature is being recorded lower owing to cold westerly winds along with fog in the morning. Cold day conditions were also observed at Darbhanga, Chhapra and Muzaffarpur. Minimum temperature is unlikely to change much in the next 24 hours,” said Ravindra Kumar, an officer at Patna weather office. Gaya remained the coldest place in the state with minimum temperature recorded at 5.3 degrees C. It was four notches lower than the corresponding normal for the day. The minimum temperature at Patna was recorded at 8.4 degrees C, which was two notches lower than the corresponding normal. Patna weather office has predicted minimum temperature in the range of 7-10 degrees C at most places in north Bihar, while the maximum is likely to hover around 16-20 degrees C on Thursday and Friday. Districts in south-west Bihar are likely to be the coldest in the morning over the next two days as the Met office has predicted minimum temperature in Buxar, Bhojpur, Rohtas, Jehanabad, Aurangabad, Arwal and other districts in the range of 5-7 degrees C. Day temperature, on the other hand, is likely to be in the range of 19-22 degrees C at most places in south Bihar. Temperature apart, the Met office has predicted light to moderate fog at most places in the state over the next two days. “Cold day conditions are likely to be witnessed at a few places in north-western and north-central parts of the state over the next 48 hours,” Ravindra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/orange-alert-for-cold-day-over-next-2-days/articleshow/79928924.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 24, 2020||Business||Trade bodies to meet government over new labour wage code today||Chennai: Industry bodies including the CII and Ficci are meeting labour department officials on Thursday to seek clarity over the new labour code which becomes effective from April. The resultant impact could be reduced by take home pay due to increased social security contributions including PF and gratuity. Payroll experts said the interpretation of the term ‘wages’ under the new rules will require companies to restructure employee salaries allocating 50% of gross pay to the basic component, thereby leading to a rise in PF, gratuity and other retirement benefits components, and thus reducing take-home pay. This is a change from current practice where most companies allocate a lesser proportion of total pay to basic and more to allowances. “A single all-encompassing definition of wages has been proposed across all labour codes on the basis of which employee retirals are to be calculated. The employee retirals such as PF, gratuity etc. may be expected to go up, leading to a potential reduction in the net take home pay,” Parizad Sirwalla, KPMG, said.Prashant Singh, VP at staffing firm Teamlease Services, said that there could be a dip in take-home pay for those people who don’t have a basic salary equivalent to 50% of gross pay. “With PF contribution going up for both employee and employer, we can see between 5% to 10% reduction [in take home],” he said. The new labour wage code aims to increase the long-awaited individuals’ call and need for social security and the government's aim for building the retirement corpus, Siddhartha Gupta, CEO, Mercer Mettl, said. “While for employees, it’s about more salary contribution towards long-term tax-savings corpus and lesser take-home salary, for employers, it’s an increased cost.”While the intention to streamline and simplify tedious labour laws has been welcomed by the industry, the implementation timeline has raised concerns given the pandemic. “The industry is saying that the additional delta impact, which will happen on the bottomline of companies to match the PF component, is something that could have been delayed and some relief could be given to the industry,” Gupta said. “Extra financial burden and accounting and administration hassle is another point that is getting discussed though largely industries have been saying that it would reduce compliance burden and help in doing business easily,” Teamlease’s Singh said. An attempt is being made to recognise non-traditional labour arrangements and provide social security benefits to a wider base. This will have a far-reaching impact on how labour laws are complied and administered in India, Sirwalla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/trade-bodies-to-meet-government-over-new-labour-wage-code-today/articleshow/79929016.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 24, 2020||Business||HDFC in talks with IFC to refinance ‘green project’ loans||Mumbai: HDFC is in talks with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to get funds that are earmarked for financing green buildings, which consume far lesser resources in terms of electricity and water. The corporation is also incorporating a scoring system in its construction loan credit process, where points would be given for developers putting up ‘green’ projects. This was announced by HDFC MD Renu Sud Karnad, while signing a memorandum of understanding with the Indian Green Building Council to promote green buildings. According to Karnad, on the individual housing side, the corporation has a small green portfolio of around Rs 14,000 crore. “On the lease rent discounting portfolio that is close to $4.6 billion, about 75% of the funding is to projects that have a green aspect,” she said. At the same occasion, National Housing Bank (NHB) MD S K Hota said that there was a need to create an adequate stock of green label affordable housing. According to Karnad, green buildings can be promoted by providing cheaper fund and NHB should provide cheaper refinance for such projects. She added that according to IFC, around $1.25-trillion investments could be absorbed by green housing between 2018 and 2030. Karnad said that although the share of green housing projects was small it would be a matter of time before the regulator starts insisting on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-in-talks-with-ifc-to-refinance-green-project-loans/articleshow/79931509.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 24, 2020||Patna||Cakes & jingle bells herald Christmas Eve||PATNA: When the weather is chilly and the bells toll at some of the oldest churches in the city amid the fog, you know Christmas is around the corner. The aroma of freshly baked bread, cookies and cakes waft in the air, and hurried trips are made to the bakery shops. But for some, Christmas is never complete with baking delicious plum cakes at home. “I have decided to bake the cakes and cookies this year from scratch instead of buying it from a bakery as it is safer during this time,” said 46-year-old Archana Shand, a resident of Boring Road. Ashok Mankani of a popular bakery and confectionaries shop at Boring Road said like every year, the dry fruit plum cake is the best seller along with walnut butter cake, walnut coffee cake and chocolate banana cake. “A peculiar feature this time around is the increase in demand for sugar-free versions of cakes. This could be attributed to the increase in awareness and health consciousness that Covid-19 has brought about in people. Apart from the usual, Christmas hampers are a hit among citizens,” Mankani said. With the constant threat of coronavirus, the festive season this year is being celebrated with an air of caution. Compulsory use of masks, sanitisers and social distancing protocols are being observed both by the sellers and the buyers. While some are opting to stay indoors and celebrate the merry-time in the comfort of their homes, others are choosing to go out and experience the Christmas vibe and weather. “My entire family visited a mall at Pataliputra, where kids got to see larger than life Christmas tree and pretty X-mas decorations on display”, said Martin, resident of Kidwaipuri. Fifty-year-old Frank D’Souza, a resident of Kurji, said his family is staying indoors and celebrating all the Christmas special delights cooked by his wife. “Some of the delicacies cooked by my wife include the eggless plum cake, rum cake, coffee tiramisu cake and sticky chocolate pudding,” he said. With the business taking a hit due to the pandemic, bakery owners around the city are determined to make the most of the Christmas and New Year season. Naveen Kumar of another confectionary shop at Dak Bungalow said: “We have added an assortment of chocolates and sweets to our menu. People can choose from a selection of little homemade chocolate delights to flavoured lava cakes”. The shop owners are taking all necessary precautions for smooth and safe buying and selling experience during the festive season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cakes-jingle-bells-herald-christmas-eve/articleshow/79928945.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot Ring Road’s 4th phase to begin soon||Rajkot: Work on the fourth phase of the ring road in the city is expected to begin form January. Rajkot Urban Development authority (RUDA) has floated tenders for the fourth and last phase of the ring road and hopes to complete work by June 2022. RUDA’s recent board meeting approved the tenders. The authority is confident of issuing work orders for the project next month. The fourth phase Bhavnagar road (Kalipat road) to Ahmedabad road (Maliyasan village) will take 18 months to complete after work order is assigned. The road will ease the traffic problem of the city significantly as traffic coming from Shapar-Veraval industrial area will be diverted here, thus easing the load on 150feet Ring Road and Kalavad Road. The entire ring road with the completion of fourth phase is expected to be completed by June 2022. Chief executive officer of RUDA Chetan Ganatra said “We are planning that phase two will be operational for the traffic in February.’’ .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-ring-roads-4th-phase-to-begin-soon/articleshow/79928508.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Business||RBI unlikely to extend Dec 31 loan rejig deadline||Mumbai: The December 31 deadline for banks to accept restructuring requests from Covid-hit businesses is unlikely to be extended. This was indicated by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das in his meeting with bankers. The governor on Wednesday concluded a two-day meeting with public sector and private sector banks, held through video conference. Days before banks closed their books for the third quarter, Das asked them to make enough provisions should loans go bad. He also asked banks to raise more capital to grow loans. In his meeting, the governor asked bank chiefs to remain vigilant and to take proactive measures to strengthen their resilience and lending capacity. He also sought an update from banks on the progress in the implementation of a resolution framework for Covid-related stressed assets. According to banks, in addition to Future Group and Shapoorji Pallonji, a few power projects have also sought restructuring. They said the total number of requests for a recast of loans over Rs 1,500 crore, which needs to be vetted by the K V Kamath-led panel, could go up to 12. Total corporate slippages is expected to be Rs 2.5-3 lakh crore for the current fiscal. Some banks have made the case for extending the last date for submitting restructuring applications by individual borrowers to March 31. According to them, many individuals are not feeling the need to restructure their personal loans because there has been a moratorium, which was followed by a standstill against loans being classified as a non-performing asset (NPA) because of a Supreme Court order. The feeling is that they will realise their need for restructuring only once banks start initiating recovery proceedings. Because of the standstill on NPA classification following the Supreme Court order, the second half of FY21 saw banks report bad loans at a lower level than pre-Covid levels. Last quarter, the RBI had asked banks to still disclose the value of loans that would have been NPA but for the court order. It has now asked banks to make adequate provisions for all these loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-unlikely-to-extend-dec-31-loan-rejig-deadline/articleshow/79931394.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 24, 2020||Business||Vedanta promoters look to hike stake by 5% for Rs 3k cr||Mumbai: The promoters of mining major Vedanta have mandated US broking house JP Morgan to buy up to 18.5 crore shares, or almost 5% of the company, from the stock market at a price band of Rs 150-160, aggregating up to Rs 2,960 crore. The offer comes within three months of a failed attempt by its promoters, headed by billionaire Anil Agarwal, to take the company private by buying out all the public shareholders through a buyback offer. According to the term sheet of the deal, Vedanta Holdings Mauritius has mandated JP Morgan to buy up to 18.5 crore shares of Vedanta from the Indian market at a maximum per share price of Rs 160. The offer size is up to 4.98% of the company’s equity capital, while the price — at the higher end of the price band — is at a 6.3% premium to the stock’s Wednesday close on BSE. According to market players, after the failed attempt to take the company public, the promoters are now resorting to a creeping acquisition to hike their stake in the company. As of September end, the promoters had a 50.1% stake in the company, while the balance 49.5% was held by public shareholders and about 0.4% by others. In October this year, the promoters had tried to delist the company at a floor price of Rs 87.3 per share but failed. At that price, many analysts and institutional fund managers had said it was much below the book value of the company at that time. Finally, with LIC offering to sell its 6.1% stake at Rs 320-per-share, the offer failed as promoters were not willing to buy the shares at that price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vedanta-promoters-look-to-hike-stake-by-5-for-rs-3k-cr/articleshow/79931386.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Business||Garment exporters face yarn shortage, prices shoot up||Chennai: A combination of factors — US ban on Chinese cotton, a sudden surge in orders for garments, additional stocking up, increased exports to Tirupur’s competitors including Vietnam and Bangladesh — have resulted in yarn shortage for garments exporters.The situation is so grim for exporters that Tirupur Exporters Association (TEA) has pressed the SOS button alleging that mills were withholding yarn supplies impacting the export business. “The current decision of mills will certainly impact the garment units, exports will largely be affected and more number of workers will incur job losses,” TEA’s president Raja M Shanmugam wrote in the letter. “After the US imposed a ban on Chinese yarn, garment units from Vietnam and Bangladesh (competitors for Tirupur) have started sourcing from Indian mills. We do not mind a price increase, but non supply is creating a havoc,” he told TOI. The US administration has banned the usage of cotton from China’s Xinjiang region, saying the region uses the forced labour of detained Uighur Muslims. Mills have rejected that they were channelising yarn for exports. “Due to supply disruptions, companies across the value chain, both in exports and domestic markets in the textile sector, started building inventory of apparels, home textiles , yarn and fabrics to manage the business continuity. This sudden inventory build up is causing shortages,” said Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor, Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF). “This is only a temporary phase and no need to panic on the availability.”Yarn prices are rising. Over the past three months, a kilogram of cotton yarn has risen from Rs 205 to Rs 223. “Yarn price increase is not commensurate to cotton price rise. The price increase in cotton is steeper. Prices have risen to Rs 43,500 a candy (356 kg) from Rs 38,500,” Dhamodharan said. Exporters too debunked TEA’s charges. “There is no need to divert or hoard cotton yarn. There has been a sudden demand surge coupled with the fact that production has not reached pre-Covid levels. Many mills are operating at 80% to 85% capacity due to labour shortage. Demand is good, but prices haven’t run away,” said P Nataraj, MD of KPR Mills, one of the largest mills in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/garment-exporters-face-yarn-shortage-prices-shoot-up/articleshow/79929030.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
December 24, 2020||Patna||HC orders BRABU to conduct final exam of BEd course||PATNA: The Patna high court on Wednesday directed the Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University (BRABU) to conduct final examination of distant mode BEd course of 2015-2017 session. The examination was not conducted after chancellor cancelled the course’s affiliation over lapses on the part of BRABU. The court order would bring huge relief to more than 500 untrained schoolteachers, mostly working in government schools as they had taken admissions and were waiting for over three years for the final examination to be conducted so that they could be certified as trained teachers. A bench of Justice Mohit Kumar Shah on Wednesday allowed the writ petition of the candidates who had moved the high court in October 2018 urging it for directing the university to conduct the last semester examination of their course being carried out by open distance learning mode. The order in the case was reserved on March 28 last year after hearing arguments of all the parties. The petitioners in the case were represented by counsels Binod Kumar Singh and Vagisha Pragya while Nikhil Kumar Agrawal had appeared for the university. Those who had taken admission in the course were afraid of losing their jobs as Union HRD ministry had issued a letter on August 3, 2017 that untrained teachers in school were required to have minimum profession qualification mandated under Right to Education Act, 2009 and they would not be allowed to continue in the service beyond March 31, 2019 and dismissal procedure shall be initiated against such teachers. State education department had ordered removal of untrained teachers from schools aided or run by the government if they didn’t acquire BEd or DELED course certificate by March 31, 2019. A bench of Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay had passed an order on August 8 last year restraining authorities from terminating the petitioners observing that the court was prima facie of the view that they were innocent and could not be made to suffer for the lapses of the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-orders-brabu-to-conduct-final-exam-of-bed-course/articleshow/79929002.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 24, 2020||Business||Infosys rallies on $3 billion Daimler deal, mcap crosses $70 billion||BENGALURU/MUMBAI: Infosys crossed $70 billion in market capitalisation for the first-time in its 39-year history after its ADR ran up by 5% at Tuesday’s close on the NYSE. At close of trading on Wednesday, Infosys had a market capitalization of Rs 5.3 lakh crore, the fifth largest company by market value in India. On Wednesday, the Infosys ADR was up by 0.5% during the opening hours. The rally on Tuesday was fuelled by the landmark $3-billion deal with German automotive major Daimler for infrastructure overhaul and cloud migration services. India’s market cap league table is led by Reliance Industries at Rs 12.3 lakh crore, followed by TCS, HDFC Bank and HUL. Infosys is ahead of HDFC, Kotak Mahindra Bank and ICICI Bank. Since March, when its market cap was 2.7 lakh crore, Infosys’s market cap has almost doubled. Under CEO Salil Parekh, Infosys has got its mojo back, participating in large deal pursuits, making tuck-in acquisitions and putting a tight-knit cloud narrative in its go-to-market offerings. Infosys has bagged three deals over $1 billion dollars – Verizon, Vanguard and Daimler – in the last one year. The Daimler deal will bolster Infosys's presence in the automotive space. A $1-billion Pfizer contract, sources said, is being hotly-contested by Infosys, TCS, Cognizant, and other MNC peers. Jimit Arora, partner in US IT research advisory Everest Group, said he expects 2021 to be a potentially stellar growth year for three key reasons: mega deals, pent-up demand from 2020, overall modernisation, and digital transformation moves from pilot to programme. Mrinal Rai, principal analyst in IT advisory ISG, said he sees slight improvements or perhaps acceleration in annualised contract values (ACVs) for the March quarter globally if some of the larger transactions come to award. “The Infosys-Daimler contract is on similar lines of transferring and transitioning. ISG has explained in its quarterly index that many large enterprises would try to shed off their captive centres and most of these large deals would be examples of such initiatives. Also, deals of this size usually are signed for longer duration (more than five years on an average). However, with Covid-19 and resulting changes, clients are mostly looking for digital transformation initiatives that can be executed at a faster rate and in shorter duration,” he said. Sandip Agarwal of Edelweiss Securities said that with the US presidential election completed, news about more such deals is expected to be announced. “We believe the current technology wave is the biggest in history and that consensus and companies will keep upgrading numbers and guidance hereon. We maintain digitalisation is a more potent catalyst for Infosys than IMS (infrastructure management services), which lifted m-caps of competition by 9.8–14.5x over 2009–16,” a report by Edelweiss Securities noted. Edelweiss Securities has a price target of Rs 1,850 for Infosys. At this level, Infosys’s stock price will be more than three-and-half times its March low at Rs 511. A recent study by Motilal Oswal Financial Services showed that Infosys has been the fastest wealth creator in the last 25 years, with the stock multiplying a staggering 688 times, and the third biggest. The study uses data up to March 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/infy-rallies-on-3bn-daimler-deal-mcap-crosses-70bn/articleshow/79931403.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||In Christmas of cancelled events, Anglo-Indians embrace joy of giving||KOLKATA: The Anglo Indian community, which lets its hair down to celebrate this festive season every year, has cancelled most of the events this time. The two associations of the community have decided not to take any risk while the only Anglo Indian Club in the world, Rangers Club, which will turn 125 next year, has announced muted versions of its Christmas and year-end events. The associations have, instead, embraced a giving mode to help the elderly and the less fortunate members. Most community lunches, barbecue nights, gatherings around the bonfire, kids’ carnivals, sports, dinner and dancing have been cancelled by the Calcutta Anglo Indian Service Society (CAISS) and the Kolkata chapter of the Anglo Indian Association (AIA). Every year, CAISS invites families in the community to a lunch at Loreto Entally on the Sunday prior to Christmas. Again, on a day between December 26 and 28, an evening dance is organized at the Rangers Club Hall. “We have cancelled these, as well as the evening of carols and bonfire that happens in the second week of December. However, for the past week, we have been giving bags of ration and goodies to those who need them. This will continue till Thursday,” said Colin Fitzgerald, convenor of CAISS. The AIA has also cancelled its star events — football and basketball tournaments — that set the ball rolling for the festivities. “Earlier our events had strict Anglo-Indian participation. But we then started allowing kids of Anglo-Indian women who have married outside the community. Sadly, we couldn’t hold these this time,” said Denise O Brien, spokesperson. The Sunday food carnival, tea parties and a pageant for seniors have also been cancelled. “To keep the community united, however, we have gifted goody bags to seniors and the less fortunate,” O Brien added. Rangers Club cancelled its Bar B Q night, usually held on December 23, the senior citizens’ day out on December 27 and New Year’s Eve Ball on December 31. “This year we just have carols on December 23,” said club president and Anglo-Indian MLA Shane Calvert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-christmas-of-cancelled-events-anglo-indians-embrace-joy-of-giving/articleshow/79929321.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops fix plan for Park Street crowd flow||KOLKATA: The city cops have augmented road furniture on and around Park Street to support crowds without compromising on social distancing measures. The police will also turn Park Street into a pedestrian-only zone from 4pm on Friday, when people will be allowed to walk to Allen Park on pavements on both sides — Asiatic Society and Flurys. “We have an idea of the crowd allowed and will take steps based on ground conditions,” said an officer. Sources said pedestrians walking back to get a Metro or board a bus will be allowed to do so till the time the crowd is “manageable”. In the evening, 5,000 cops will be present across 50 churches and block raids will be conducted throughout the night. On Wednesday, the police deputed the Warriors — an all-women combat force — for quick reaction vehicle duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-fix-plan-for-park-street-crowd-flow/articleshow/79929268.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 24, 2020||Patna||Man shot at, valuables looted in Bihar's Nalanda district||BIHARSHARIF: Armed dacoits on Tuesday night looted cash and jewellery from a family in Nalanda district after taking them hostage at gunpoint. They also shot at and critically wounded the house owner, who resisted the dacoity. The injured man was admitted to Biharsharif Sadar hospital. According to police sources, four-five armed dacoits entered the house of one Narayan Pathak at Dekpura village under the Rahui police station area and held the family members hostage at gunpoint. They looted cash and jewellery worth over Rs4 lakh kept in the locker of an almirah. When Narayan resisted their attempt, one of them shot at and critically injured him. Narayan’s mother said the dacoits entered their house by scaling a wall with the help of a wooden ladder. The criminals brandishing firearms held them hostage and looted the valuables. She said when her son resisted their loot, one of them opened fire and injured him critically. DSP (law & order) Sanjay Kumar met Narayan at Biharsharif hospital and also visited his home at Dekpura. He said an FIR has been registered and raids were being conducted to arrest the criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-shot-at-valuables-looted-in-nalanda-dist/articleshow/79928755.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: SOP to tackle cases against loan apps||VIJAYAWADA: In view of the increasing cases of harassment against microfinance apps, the Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Friday formulated a standard operating procedure (SOP) for all police stations. The move comes after chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed police to take stringent action against microfinance mobile applications that have been resorting to harassment. Some of the guidelines in the SOP cover scenarios such as misbehaviour towards women, collecting money without using payment gateways, sending fake FIRs, collecting high rate of interest, acts that lead to suicide and a fake application portrayed as genuine apps. The SOP instructs police that sections under IPC and 2A(vi) of Master Circular- Fair Practices Code RBI/2015-16/16 can be invoked for action against harassment while other scenarios can utilise provisions under the Information Technology Act and complaints of high interest can be forwarded to the RBI ombudsman. The SOP also flagged around 30 instant loan applications as ‘problematic’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sop-to-tackle-cases-against-loan-apps/articleshow/79929286.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Goa||Goa identifies 900 UK arrivals, to send them for more tests||PANAJI: More than 900 travellers who landed in Goa from the UK between December 9 and 20 will be subjected to RT-PCR tests. Samples of persons testing positive will be sent for genome study at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, state epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar told TOI. The travellers will have to undergo a fresh test in view of new standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the government of India on Tuesday amid fears of a new strain of Covid-19 found in the UK. Betodkar said Goa did not receive any flight from the UK during the crucial period between December 21 and 23. As per the SOP, the authorities are required to check on three categories of travellers from the UK. With regards to travellers who arrived between November 25 to December 8, he said the task is rather easy as they only need to be monitored. They have completed their 14 days of quarantine,” he said. But, all visitors who came to Goa between December 9 and 20 will have to undergo RT-PCR tests irrespective of whether they came with a Covid negative certificate or had opted to test on arrival at the airport, Betodkar said. “All of them will be tested afresh. About 600 have been identified and names have been shared with the respective health centres. Their testing will start from Thursday morning,” he said. The list containing names of passengers have also been given to district collectors. The testing is a joint venture by the health services and district collectors, Betodkar said. Majority of the travellers who came to Goa during this period are in South Goa. The testing process will entail a lot of work as health officers will have to contact the people in their respective areas and get them to the centre. “The bigger problem is that it is Christmas eve and people are busy. The next day is a holiday. So tomorrow, we will try to see that maximum people are brought to the centre for taking samples,” Betodkar said. While health centres will remain closed on Friday for Christmas, testing counters at hospitals will remain open. “Whoever visits a hospital will be able to get a test done even on Christmas day,” he said. The district collectors are required to have separate isolation facilities for UK travellers and their contacts who test positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-identifies-900-uk-arrivals-to-send-them-for-more-tests/articleshow/79931854.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Polluted air cost Gujarat Rs 3,050 per head||AHMEDABAD: What is the cost of air pollution? No, we are not just talking about damaged lungs or respiratory issues from vehicle emissions or dust from construction sites. Particulate matter (PM) in the air can actually cost society a lot, says a study by experts from across the country helmed by the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) which was published in the Lancet: Planetary Health journal on December 21. The study, ‘Health and Economic impact of air pollution in the states of India: The Global Burden of Disease Study 2019’ found that some 87,811 deaths — or 10 deaths every hour — in 2019 in Gujarat were directly or indirectly attributable to air pollution. The cumulative burden of deaths and health issues in the working population cost the state 1.33% of the GSDP. The researchers calculated it to be $2,860 million or $41.3 per capita, about Rs 3,050 per head. Prof Lalit Dandona, distinguished research professor at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) and one of the lead authors of the study, told TOI that they tried to assess the economic implications of air quality deterioration. “We took into consideration mortality, disability adjusted life years (DALYs) and years of life lost (YLLs) due to premature deaths based on models developed by our team. In terms of the per capita loss, Gujarat is among the top 10 states,” said Prof Dandona, who is also the national chair of population health at the India Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The study said the GSDP burden on Gujarat (1.33%) is close to the national average (1.36%), even as the state has a much higher per capita burden ($41.3) than the national average ($26.5). Prof Dileep Mavalankar, director of IIPH-G, said that while we are rattled by Covid-19 due to the high mortality, many more lives are lost every year due to air pollution. “Due to its very slow nature, we don’t realize the long-term implications of our exposure to toxic fumes, dust particles from construction sites, power plants, etc. Multiple studies have revealed that pollution can affect almost every system of our body,” he said. Do measures such as BS-VI standards, rules for power plants have any impact? Polash Mukerjee, air pollution expert from the Delhi-based Natural Resources Defence Council (NRDC), said that while emissions per vehicle have reduced, the number of vehicles have increased. “Proper measurement is a major issue. The need of the hour is more air quality monitoring stations in cities like Ahmedabad,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/polluted-air-cost-state-rs-3050-per-head/articleshow/79930588.cms||Parth Shastri
December 24, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Covid slows down pace of river cleaning programme||VIJAYAWADA: The Krishna district administration and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation’s (VMC) river cleaning drive, Nenu Saitham Krishnamma Sushi Sevalo, that commenced in May 2019 has failed to derive results as the dumping of debris and waste continues across riverbeds in the district. City youth and officials had participated in the programme, downstream of the Prakasam Barrage, and cleared tonnes of debris and garbage. Volunteers cleared pastic waste that had stagnated in the canals and proposed constructing barriers to prevent garbage from being dumped in the future. Officials focused on Yenamalakuduru, Pedapulipaka, Srikakulam and other village panchayats on the banks of the Krishna river where river bunds are used as dumpyards. The district administration also passed orders to shift dumpyards to other locations. But the programme lost its momentum with the Covid-19 outbreak .Dumping garbage on river bunds continues at Yenamalakuduru and other villages. “We are facing severe problems with garbage dumping in the river bund. Panchayat officials are burning garbage and they are simply dumping plastic wastes in river. This should be stopped. Earlier officials cleaned this area as a part of Krishnamma Siddhi Sevalo programme and we want the government to take up such programmes,” said M Aadibabu, a resident of Yenamalakuduru Karakatta. Three major irrigation canals are filled with plastic waste and garbage, posing a threat to residents of Eluru, Gudiwada, Kaikaluru and other towns that are dependent on these canals for drinking water. Residents have raised the demand that the civic body focus on river and canal cleaning. Following the outbreak of the mystery illness in Eluru, the district administration started cleaning canals and proposed constructing sewage treatment plants to prevent the dumping of waste directly into canals. District collector A Md Imtiaz and VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh directed officials to treat industrial effluents at Auto Nagar before releasing them into canals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-slows-down-pace-of-river-cleaning-prog/articleshow/79929311.cms||Venu Lanka
December 24, 2020||Kochi||Malayali diaspora: Breaking Bread||Dallas: When I got my hands on Ria Mary Mathew's recently released debut cookbook 'Five Ways', what stood out the most to me was how the author's food journey and love for cooking shines through 5 different techniques beautifully illustrated through 75 simple yet elegant recipes for everyday entertaining. The cookbook, like Ria's 12-year-old cooking blog, is an instant hit among the Indian diaspora in the US. Let's face it, we're all perennially looking for ways to add some excitement to the everyday humdrum of cooking, our first instinct is often to turn to other cuisines. Instead, Ria's book urges us to consider breaking that monotony by exploring five different techniques of cooking -- Baked, Fried, Steamed, Chilled and Stirred. Each technique is further divided into three subsections -- Small Bites, Bigger Bites and Sweet Bites. Her cookbook traverses multiple cuisines, difficulty levels and strikes a fine balance between the traditional and modern, with both vegetarian and non-vegetarian recipes. “Born into a close-knit family with rich food traditions, my love affair with food started as a 4-year-old when I would sit in the kitchen, rolling chappatis or scraping a coconut, while my amma (mother) and mamma (paternal grandmother) cooked," says Ria. Her amma was a caterer who ran a cooking school and was famous for her Vegetable Biryani, Lasagna and Sago Pineapple Payasam just to name a few. Her mamma enjoyed tinkering with traditional dishes by incorporating flavors from her time in Malaysia to arrive at dishes like Mamma’s Soy and Ginger baked chicken and Pazham Peechiyadu (Fried). At their knees, she learnt priceless heirloom recipes, cooking techniques, tips and tricks. All these and her cooking persona, which is a combination of her amma's expertise and her mamma's flamboyant and adventurous streak, shine through in this book. By the time she was 20, she had won several food competitions including the prestigious Vanitha Pachakarani, an annual contest held in Kottayam, where she made her famous Mocha Mascarpone Verrines (Chilled), a quick-fix dessert. Not surprisingly, her amma was the first runner-up in the same contest. Ria was raised in Kannur and at the very heart of this book lies the heart of the author herself -- a generous and delicious dose of Malabari cuisine. She has dedicated several pages to a wide assortment of Puttus (steamed rice breakfast dish) and Pathiris, to traditional fares such as Arikkadukkas and Kakka Rotis and there’s even a modern twist on the traditional idiyappam (Steamed). If this wasn’t enough, the book has recipes for steaming a cake, baking French Fries as well as stirring up a divine hands-free Pressure Cooker Pal Payasam (Rice Pudding). My minor gripe- a recipe for my favorite plum cake was missing! Growing up, Sundays were spent at her mamma's house, where the extended family would gather at the big 12-seater dining table with low hanging Chinese lamps to enjoy mamma's Steamed Rice and Chicken and Caramel Custard. She recollects that while she didn't enjoy the fare then, looking back, these two dishes probably best encapsulate her childhood. Her love for cooking took her to Le Cordon Bleu, one of the most famous culinary school chains, for training after she is settling in the US. These multiple influences and flavors are evident all over this book -- be it the Bournvita Biscuits and Serradurra (Chilled) from her visits to Goa where her paternal uncles reside. Valiammachi’s Tharavu Peralan (Stirred) and Kuttanadan Chemmeen Olathiyadu (Stirred) is a nod to her maternal grandmother’s legacy. The Crispy Spinach Chicken is a fitting tribute to her brother who is the inspiration behind her widely popular blog -- Ria’s Collection. It was he who suggested that she start a blog to keep a digital record of all her recipes. And with this simple intention her blog was born in 2008. Today, the blog boasts many thousand followers and is a name to reckon with on social media. Ria Mary Mathew now resides in Minneapolis with her husband and two children who are her biggest fans and critics. Needless to say, the book is dotted with kid-friendly recipes. In summary, Five Ways is a triumph all the way to the last recipe. High-Five to Ria for an extraordinary first book! Nithya Balasubramaniam lives in Dallas in the US and is the curator of The Plentiful Platter blog||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-diaspora-breaking-bread/articleshow/79930592.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||CS to probe allegations against IAS officer||Dehradun: In yet another instance of a BJP legislator being upset with the functioning of a bureaucrat in Uttarakhand, Raghunath Singh Chauhan, Almora MLA and deputy speaker of state assembly, has accused an IAS officer of not paying heed to the demands of the people of his district. The issue was also raised during the ongoing winter session state assembly on Tuesday. When Congress members asked the deputy speaker about his plans to move a privilege motion against the official, he replied saying that three people died of Covid-19 in an area and despite his repeated requests, the IAS officer did not send the chief medical officer to that locality. The Congress members slammed the BJP ministers over their 'tussle' with bureaucrats. Following which, parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik said that if the Speaker gave permission, he would direct chief secretary Om Prakash to probe the matter. After the nod from Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal, the CS was directed to look into the matter. It is worth mentioning that this is not the first time when a BJP lawmaker has raised such an issue. A few months ago, minister of state Rekha Arya had written a letter to DIG Dehradun mentioning that IAS officer V Shanmugam, who was in her department, had been missing and even mentioned the possibility of his “kidnapping”. Later, it was found that the IAS officer had taken leave and was under home isolation. Earlier, Kichha MLA Rajesh Shukla had brought a privilege motion against an IAS officer for using derogatory language against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cs-to-probe-allegations-against-ias-officer/articleshow/79928478.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Olive Ridley turtles keep annual date, lay first batch of 135 eggs at Galgibaga||POINGUINIM: Goa’s flippered friends have kept their annual date with South Goa’s Galgibaga beach, laying the first batch of 135 eggs at 4am on Wednesday. This is earlier than the first Olive Ridley turtle nest last season, which was laid between December 31, 2019 and January 1. The first turtle nest at the Galgibaga beach was immediately fenced off, range forest officer Vikramaditya Gaonkar said. The quiet beach stretch is one of only four turtle nesting sites in Goa, along with Agonda (also in Canacona) and Morjim and Mandrem in Pernem. Efforts to conserve the nesting grounds in Galgibaga for Olive Ridley turtles, a protected species, began in 1999 under the guidance of then parish priest Fr Mariano Goes e Proenca. Ever since, the northern portion of this beach has earned the nickname of Turtle beach. A stretch of Galgibaga was included among the four ‘silent zones’ beaches zones declared recently by the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) towards efforts to preserve turtle nesting grounds. The state receives these flippered visitors from around October to late March-early April each year. Among turtles, the Olive ridley sea turtle or Lepidochelys olivacea is the smallest in size and most abundant of the sea turtle in the world. This amphibious reptile shuttles between the sea and shoreline and instinctively chooses a supralittoral zone for egg-laying to avoid tidal flush. Though Goa doesn’t get large numbers like in Odisha, it is significant that these creatures with their round, heart-shaped carapace, have not missed a date with the state’s beaches for decades, even though tourism has increased human activity in Morjim and Galgibaga manifolds over the years. World over, the species have declined from historic levels and are considered endangered because of their few remaining nesting sites in the world. It is recognized as vulnerable by the IUCN Red list. Their behaviour of synchronised nesting in mass numbers is known as arribadas and females return to the same beach throughout their lifetime where they first hatched, to lay eggs. The Olive Ridley turtles are believed to have similarly discovered the Goa’s coastal stretches hundreds of years ago. One female lays 80 to 120 eggs, sometimes even twice in a season, to increase the hatchlings’ survival rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/olive-ridley-turtles-keep-annual-date-lay-first-batch-of-135-eggs-at-galgibaga/articleshow/79931789.cms||Albert Fernandes
December 24, 2020||Goa||From Benaulim to Arambol, private players seek nod for floating jetties||PANAJI: In recent months, if there is one request that has come up frequently before the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA), it is for permission to set up temporary or permanent jetties. The applicants are mostly seeking to use the jetties for private and commercial use. In November itself, the GCZMA dealt with 14 such requests, which came from every corner of Goa from Benaulim to Arambol. When a woman in Britona proposed to set up a floating pontoon jetty in a tributary of Mandovi, located some distance away from her house, two expert members of the GCZMA visited for a site inspection. But what they witnessed surprised them. They saw mangroves cut and land near the river filled, seemingly in a bid to make her case for a jetty easy. “When expert members gave a surprise visit to the site, they found that the red murrum dumped at the site has been cleared off by the applicant,” the GCZMA has noted in its meeting, ordering joint inspection of the site by the water resource department, captain of ports and GCZMA expert member. In Kerim in Pernem, the GCZMA has granted permission to a Panaji-resident to build a jetty in Tiracol. “The proponent has proposed the temporary wooden jetty for private purpose. Jetty is of steel/wood, without usage of any concrete. It has a span of six metres, which will enable for a small boat/canoe to be used for private fishing/ family recreation,” the GCZMA has noted, giving its go-ahead. Earlier this year, the setting up of a wooden jetty at a private estate in Madel, Chorao, had received approval, in close proximity to the Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary. A representative of the estate said that jetty will be used only for the purpose of anchoring boats and will not be used for conducting any commercial activities and that only wood will be used to make the structure. Even Parra sarpanch Delilah Lobo was granted permission a few months ago for construction of a wooden jetty on a water body in Nerul. The permission was granted after an expert member of the GCZMA said, ‘There is already human influence in the area and there are no mangroves in and around the site’. “The expert member, who had visited the site, informed that the wooden jetty is for private use and not for commercial gains.” In the permissions sought this year in November, Drishti Cruise and Ferries has requested the nod for jetties for commercial use in many locations including at Mobor, Palolem, Benaulim and Arossim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-benaulim-to-arambol-private-players-seek-nod-for-floating-jetties/articleshow/79931761.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||Bike-borne criminals rob Rs 5.35 lakh from company employee||RUDRAPUR: An employee of a cash management company, on Wednesday, claimed that three unidentified motorbike-borne criminals robbed Rs 5.35 lakh after holding him at gunpoint in a daylight loot near Rudrapur railway station. Sachin Sharma, a resident of Balwant colony in the city, said he works at Radiant Cash Management Company Pvt. Ltd. of Dehradun. He collects cash from the empanelled companies in Rudrapur and deposits it in the bank. On Wednesday noon, while he was going to deposit the cash at State Bank of India, Indira Chowk branch, he was allegedly attacked by armed criminals. Sharma was riding on a bike and had a bag full of cash when the crime took place. According to Sharma, the robbers were also on a motorcycle and were of medium stature. One of the criminals, riding pillion, took out a pistol from his pocket and pointed it at him. At the same time, another robber snatched the cash bag. Within seconds, the bikers zoomed away with the bag towards Kashipur Road. Later, Sharma informed the police about the crime. Subsequently, senior police officers of the district, including superintendent of police Devendra Peencha and deputy superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar, reached the spot. An alert was issued to all police stations of the district. The police have started a search operation for the criminals. “We are checking the available CCTV footage of the area. The criminals will soon be nabbed,” said SP Peencha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bike-borne-criminals-rob-rs-5-35-lakh-from-company-employee/articleshow/79928454.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||Doon court orders rape accused BJP MLA to give DNA sample, directs him to appear before court on December 24||Dehradun: The Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) court of Dehradun on Wednesday ordered BJP MLA Mahesh Negi, accused of sexual assault, to appear before the court on December 24 (Thursday) and give his DNA sample. The court also ordered the management of Doon Hospital to make arrangements for taking the DNA sample of Mahesh Negi, BJP MLA from Dwarahat constituency in Almora district. Earlier on August 16 this year, a woman had lodged a complaint accusing the MLA of raping her. She added that he is the biological father of her daughter. She demanded that a DNA test be conducted to verify her charges. An FIR was registered against Negi at the Nehru Colony police station in Dehradun on September 6 under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC in compliance with the orders of a local court, said a district police official, adding that MLA's wife Rita Negi was also booked for criminal intimidation. Last month, an FIR was lodged against the complainant woman on the basis of a complaint by the legislator's wife, Rita Negi, stating that his husband was being blackmailed by the woman as he had refused to pay her Rs 5 crore, the amount which she was trying to extort from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-court-orders-rape-accused-bjp-mla-to-give-dna-sample-directs-him-to-appear-before-court-on-december-24/articleshow/79928492.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||79 first-time corporators set to take oath, get civic lessons||Hyderabad: Out of the 150 corporators who will take oath after the existing council is dissolved, 79 of are first time corporators. BJP has the highest number of first-time corporators (44). Political party representatives said that GHMC corporators will be trained before the council is dissolved. TRS leaders said that party is organising a three-day orientation programme where MAUD minister KT Rama Rao, experts in civic issues, civil engineering experts and professors from Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) will participate. “A three-day orientation programme in a resort or a hotel is planned in January. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao might also participate along with MAUD minister KT Rama Rao,” said a TRS corporator. BJP corporators will also attend training with their senior party leaders and RSS members. “We were informed that a Central team will visit Hyderabad to brief us about best practices in other corporations in India. A separate briefing in RSS camp is also scheduled,” said a senior BJP leader. AIMIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi has already warned corporators that they will thrown out of the party if they resort to corrupt practices. “You (corporators) got a chance to serve people, very few people get a chance to serve. If corporators resort to corruption, I will throw them out,” said Akbaruddin Owaisi, addressing a meeting attended by corporators in Chandrayangutta. AIMIM has prepared a weekly roster for corporators where the elected members are supposed to meet. “Every Saturday and Sunday, all the 44 corporators should meet and discuss the week’s action plan,” said an AIMIM leader. All new members in GHMC election said their political higher-ups instructed them to brief themselves about grievance redressal in GHMC, appointment of ward committee members and sanctioning of funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/79-first-time-corporators-set-to-take-oath-get-civic-lessons/articleshow/79930594.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 24, 2020||Thane||Thane: Shiv Sena-led TMC blocks bullet train third time||THANE: The standoff between the Shiv Sena and the BJP at the state level over the Metro 3 yard has now spilled over to Thane with the municipal general body, dominated by the former, junking—for the third time—a crucial proposal for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project here without citing a reason, reports Manoj Badgeri. The Thane civic general body on Wednesday rejected and scrapped a crucial land acquisition proposal tabled by the National High Speed Rail Corporation Ltd. Over 3,800sqm land is required for the bullet train project which passes through Shil village in Diva administrative ward of the TMC. Incidentally, this is the third time the House has rejected the proposal, raising serious questions over its implementation as the land required is a crucial stretch for the high speed corridor. The NHSRCL had requested the Thane civic body to transfer the land title that is presently owned by the latter and also agreed to pay compensation of Rs 6.9 crore as per market value. Accordingly, a proposal was drafted early this year and presented before the general body, but it continued to face opposition. After the proposal came up for discussion on Wednesday, the house rejected it, following which mayor Naresh Mhaske announced it was scrapped even as BJP corporators were caught unawares. It is learned that before they could respond, the meeting was declared ended. The BJP later accused the Shiv Sena of politicising the issue. “There seems to be no valid reason to reject the proposal other than a political one. The Sena has no issues in seeking Central funds to add buses to its fleet, but it has decided not to support the bullet train project,” said corporator Sanjay Waghule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/sena-led-tmc-blocks-bullet-train-3rd-time/articleshow/79931559.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Another thief stripped, thrashed||AHMEDABAD: A man accused of stealing a basket of tomatoes from the Jamalpur APMC (Agriculture Produce Market Committee) market yard, was stripped and beaten badly late on Tuesday night. This is the second such incident in a fortnight in the area, in which people have vented their anger on suspected thieves. According to a complaint filed by Prakash Katara, 26, who lives on the pavement under Jamalpur bridge, the incident took place at around 8pm on Tuesday. Katara said he depends upon daily wages and as he did not get any labour work for three days, he went to a truck from which baskets of tomatoes were being unloaded. He picked up one basket and began running away. People started screaming, chased him and caught him with the basket of tomatoes. He said that a few men held him and stripped him. They then began beating him and chasing him. Katara managed to get away but someone had filmed the episode and the video was posted on social media. It then reached the cops of Gaekwad Haveli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-thief-stripped-thrashed/articleshow/79930593.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: In debt, entrepreneur kills self||AHMEDABAD: An entrepreneur from Udaipur who had shifted to Ahmedabad to set up his green energy business in Prahladnagar, on Wednesday morning committed suicide by jumping off the balcony of his sixth-floor apartment in Thaltej, where he was living alone. Ankit Tak, 35, a resident of Enigma Flats near Cambay Grand Hotel, had the office of his business, Green Gain Energy Solutions, at Shapath 4 near Crowne Plaza Hotel in Prahladnagar. Inspector J P Jadeja of Sola police said at around 5am on Wednesday a security guard heard noise from the parking area of the building. When he rushed there, he found Tak lying in a pool of blood. The guard called the police and an ambulance. Paramedics declared him dead and police then began an inquiry after sending his body for a postmortem. Jadeja said Tak’s relatives told police he was facing a financial crisis and was in debt due to losses in his business. The police officer said Tak had moved to Ahmedabad four years ago to set up his business, providing solar power systems, but it did not take off. Sources said that the lockdown badly hurt his business, after which he was in debt. Sources in the police said he was also suffering from health problems and depression could not be ruled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-debt-entrepreneur-kills-self/articleshow/79930596.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Goa||Goa Meat Complex to be functional till New Year||PANAJI: Beef will be available in the state at least for the upcoming festive season with the Goa Meat Complex likely to be functional till New Year’s eve. Karnataka has also permitted the release of both cattle and meat to Goa for the period. At a meeting held on Wednesday, it was decided to reopen the government abattoir at Usgao. The director of animal husbandry and veterinary services has given meat traders the option of receiving both, supply of live animals and beef. The director has spoken to his counterpart in Karnataka to ensure that there is no hindrance. “The Karnataka director of animal husbandry and veterinary services was requested to grant all permissions for the Christmas-New Year’s eve period. There will be no ban on the import of beef from Belagavi during this period. Two agencies have been appointed to supply both live animals as well as beef,” sources said. Both the agencies are from outside Goa. “The Karnataka director of animal husbandry and veterinary services will instruct their officers in Belagavi to release the beef to Goa for the festive season,” sources said. The meeting was also attended by the chairman and officers of the Goa Meat Complex and beef traders from across the state. Cold meat storage owners on the other hand have taken the initiative to source beef from Delhi and Karnataka. They are also contemplating approaching Kerala for the same, which TOI had reported earlier. “We don’t know when the Karnataka government will issue the notification for the cattle anti-slaughter bill so we are building alternative sources. So far, the quality of the beef procured from Delhi is superior,” president of the All Goa Cold Storage Owners’ Association, Vernon Lobo, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-meat-complex-to-be-functional-till-new-year/articleshow/79931707.cms||Nida Sayed
December 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||After testing positive for Covid, woman takes Delhi-Vizag train||VISAKHAPATNAM: A woman from Andhra Pradesh, who landed in Delhi from the UK, set alarm bells ringing after she tested positive for Covid-19 and disappeared from the airport without informing anyone. It is not clear if the woman has tested positive for the old strain or its new variant, but officials say they can’t afford to take chances. A native of Rajahmundry, the woman returned to India on December 21 and soon after gave her swab samples for tests. Before her result could come in, she left the airport and boarded the New Delhi-Visakhapatnam special train. She then switched off her mobile, apparently after she learnt that police had contacted her family members. AP health officials, who could not contact the woman on her mobile, lodged a complaint with Rajahmundry police on Wednesday after her family told them that she had boarded a train. Officials told TOI that the woman’s behavior was dangerous as she could come in contact with numerous people in the nearly 1,800 km journey, many of whom will be difficult to trace. With East Godavari district coordinator for health services Dr T Ramesh Kishore lodging a complaint with the urban district police in Rajahmundry, the police and revenue officials swung into action and contacted the family of the woman passenger. The family said the woman would reach Rajahmundry by early hours of Thursday. Railway officials too have been informed. The train has stoppages in Telangana and in Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh. Officials told TOI that the passengers in the compartment the woman is travelling will be subjected to Covid-19 tests. They are likely to be deboarded at Rajahmundry. However, they are tight-lipped about passengers, who would get down at Vijayawada and places in Telangana. Kishore told TOI that her son went to Delhi to bring the woman to Rajahmundry. “We would ask the passengers in the compartment to get down at Rajahmundry for Covid tests. However, if the passengers want to disembark in Visakhapatnam, we would inform officials there to make arrangements. We have readied the Government hospital in Rajahmundry for testing and quarantining these passengers,” said Dr Kishore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-woman-from-uk-tests-ve-exits-delhi-airport-to-board-train/articleshow/79932504.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Delhi||After testing positive for Covid, woman takes Delhi-Vizag train||VISAKHAPATNAM: A woman from Andhra Pradesh, who landed in Delhi from the UK, set alarm bells ringing after she tested positive for Covid-19 and disappeared from the airport without informing anyone. It is not clear if the woman has tested positive for the old strain or its new variant, but officials say they can’t afford to take chances. A native of Rajahmundry, the woman returned to India on December 21 and soon after gave her swab samples for tests. Before her result could come in, she left the airport and boarded the New Delhi-Visakhapatnam special train. She then switched off her mobile, apparently after she learnt that police had contacted her family members. AP health officials, who could not contact the woman on her mobile, lodged a complaint with Rajahmundry police on Wednesday after her family told them that she had boarded a train. Officials told TOI that the woman’s behavior was dangerous as she could come in contact with numerous people in the nearly 1,800 km journey, many of whom will be difficult to trace. With East Godavari district coordinator for health services Dr T Ramesh Kishore lodging a complaint with the urban district police in Rajahmundry, the police and revenue officials swung into action and contacted the family of the woman passenger. The family said the woman would reach Rajahmundry by early hours of Thursday. Railway officials too have been informed. The train has stoppages in Telangana and in Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh. Officials told TOI that the passengers in the compartment the woman is travelling will be subjected to Covid-19 tests. They are likely to be deboarded at Rajahmundry. However, they are tight-lipped about passengers, who would get down at Vijayawada and places in Telangana. Kishore told TOI that her son went to Delhi to bring the woman to Rajahmundry. “We would ask the passengers in the compartment to get down at Rajahmundry for Covid tests. However, if the passengers want to disembark in Visakhapatnam, we would inform officials there to make arrangements. We have readied the Government hospital in Rajahmundry for testing and quarantining these passengers,” said Dr Kishore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ap-woman-from-uk-tests-ve-exits-delhi-airport-to-board-train/articleshow/79931949.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||Will take decision on UK nationals soon: State govt assures HC||Nainital: The state government on Wednesday told the Uttarakhand high court that it will take a “very serious” decision shortly about allowing the citizens of the United Kingdom to enter into Uttarakhand. The government said it will also specify its strategy to deal with the tourists from the UK who already are in the hill state. The assurance from the chief standing counsel (CSC) CS Rawat came as the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Alok Kumar Verma expressed concerns about the new strain of Covid-19 being reported from Britain. “The government has told the court that it will very soon take a decision on the issue and inform the court about it as well,” said Shiv Bhatt, counsel appearing for one of the petitioners who have filed petitions on state’s handling of the Coronavirus pandemic. Meanwhile the district monitoring committees for Nainital and Dehradun suggested several ways to deal with the influx of tourists during Christmas and New Year. These suggestions range from restricting political activities to ensuring strict compliance of Covid-19 guidelines as well as night curfews in Nainital. The government said that it will consider all these suggestions and take a decision on them as well. The state government also informed the court that it is formulating new standard operating procedures (SOPs) for day-to-day functioning of the Kumbh Mela 2021 and the ways to control the crowd. “The court has now directed the government to place on record this new SOP and the guidelines that will be formulated for the Kumbh,” Bhatt said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-take-decision-on-uk-nationals-soon-state-govt-assures-hc/articleshow/79928515.cms||Prashant Jha
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Honour for West Bengal’s 24×7 integrated Covid helpline||KOLKATA: The integrated call centre for Covid-19 by the health and family welfare department of West Bengal on Wednesday bagged the prestigious Skoch Gold Award. Health officials said that the award is a recognition of the tireless efforts for grievance redressal by the department. “The 24×7 mechanism of the department headed by the chief minister has earned the honour,” said health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam. The integrated call centre, which includes telemedicine, telepsychological counselling, admission guidance, free ambulance service for Covid patients for both government and private hospitals, follow-up with Covid patients and regular briefing about the patient to his/her kin effectively allayed fear surrounding the new virus, which became the worst global pandemic in a century. The call centre addressed over 15 lakh querries till Monday. Among these, 5.4 lakh were on telemedicine and 2.3 lakh were telepsychological counselling. “Immediately after the outbreak of the pandemic, we had a major responsibility of allaying unnecessary fear which would only complicate the situation. Moreover, patients’ relatives were extremely worried about their health. The integrated call centre effectively communicated developments and calmed their nerves,” a senior officer said. SKOCH Group is India’s leading think tank that deals with socio-economic issues with a focus on inclusive growth. The award is considered as a recognition of efforts and success in different fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/honour-for-states-247-integrated-covid-helpline/articleshow/79929419.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Typhoid incidence correlated to El Nino phenomenon: Experts||Ahmedabad: Predicting how climate change affects incidence of infectious diseases is gaining more relevance in the context of public health. One such relationship was recently explored by health experts at Ahmedabad and Surat Municipal Corporations, the Indian Institute for Public Health (IIPH) and University of Maryland School of Public Health. It is between El Nino Southern Oscillations (ENSO) (associated with a warming phase of sea temperature) and incidence of enteric or typhoid fever, caused by Salmonella typhi or Salmonella paratyphi bacteria. The experts collated data spanning 23 years (1995 to 2017) and found that during the warmer El Nino months, the risk of enteric fevers increased by 64% in Ahmedabad but reduced by 25% in Surat. The experts were looking at large data sets of enteric fever (January 1995 to December 2017) totalling up to 20,544 cases in Ahmedabad and 8,692 cases from Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). But during the strong La Nina months — which is the cooling phase of the sea water temperatures — the risk of enteric fever decreased by 31% in Ahmedabad. Such a reduction in risk, almost by 21%, was also observed in Surat. The experts were surprised at how the more affluent Ahmedabad fared poorly to Surat in enteric fever cases.“The enteric fever cases for Ahmedabad ranged from 0.03 to 4.6 monthly cases per 1 lakh people and showed a decadal pattern. Between 1995 to 2005, cases reduced and maintained a steady seasonal pattern, while in the recent decade, which is 2005-17 typhoid fever cases increased,” claims the research paper titled, “Role of extreme weather events and El Nino Southern Oscillation on incidence of Enteric Fever in Ahmedabad and Surat,” authored by Veena Iyer, Ayushi Sharma, Divya Nair, AMC’s Bhavin Solanki, Pradeep Umrigar, Raghu Murtugudde, Chengsheng Jiang, Dileep Mavalankar, and Amir Sapkota.“Surat is a less affluent (GDP USD 60 billion) city than Ahmedabad (USD 68 billion) and has a considerably higher percentage of population living in slums (10.5%), compared to 4.5% who live in slums in Ahmedabad,” claims the research paper. Surat’s unique history of clean-up in 1994 which improved sewage management may explain the lower enteric fever case incidences . “In the last decade, Surat spent 65% of this allocation on water and sewerage while Ahmedabad spent only 32%,” claims the research paper. The public health experts were looking at three main episodes of strong El Nino months, largely before 2000 and after 2015, and four of strong La Nina months, largely within this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/typhoid-incidence-correlated-to-el-nino-phenomenon-experts/articleshow/79930601.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Deferred pre-boards to give CISCE students more time||KOLKATA: The pre-board examinations in all the CISCE-affiliated schools have been deferred for 2021 candidates. While several schools have decided to hold the ICSE and ISC pre-board (selection tests) examinations in February, some who will conduct them in January have put their practical tests on hold till the schools reopen for physical attendance. Others are waiting for the physical classes to resume, which will allow examinees a rehearsal to appear in the pen-and-paper tests. School heads said the pre-board examinations were postponed to allow students more time to study and revise the syllabus. “We know that both the Class-X and Class-XII examinations will be on pen and paper. Hence, we are waiting for a government directive to allow the schools to reopen their campuses so that we can hold the pre-board exams in the classrooms,” said a school principal. Another principal pointed out that they had to postpone the examinations by 30 to 45 days because the practical examinations can’t be held online for science and other subjects that have practical components. Bobby Baxter, principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar, has deferred the pre-board examinations by a month. “The tests have already been delayed. We are holding only the theory examinations from January 4. However, the practical examinations will be held in February or when the campuses reopen,” Baxter said. Despite secretary and chief executive of the Council Gerry Arathoon writing to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to allow school campuses to reopen on January 4 onwards for the board aspirant students, the government is yet to take a call. “We have deferred the selection tests to February. Virtual classes can’t replace the face-to-face interactions. We have decided to postpone the pre-board examinations, which will allow the students additional time to complete the syllabus and revise,” said the principal of The Heritage School Seema Sapru. Rammohan Mission School principal Sujoy Biswas said that the pre-board examination will be held in February. Both La Martiniere for Boys and St James’ School have put their pre-board examinations on hold. John Rafi principal of La Martiniere for Boys School said, “We shall take a call around the third week of January.” TH Ireland, principal of St James’ School added that he will not hold the pre-board examinations till the ICSE and ISC schedules are announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/deferred-pre-boards-to-give-cisce-students-more-time/articleshow/79929420.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Saptak stars ready for virtual takeover||Ahmedabad: The Saptak stage in Ahmedabad is usually decorated with only a few lines of delicate marigolds, yet every year it concentrates on itself the springtime vitality of India’s classical music. In 2021, Saptak — the country’s longest music conference — is going online because of Covid. The virus has not muffled music; in fact, it has created circumstances for the creation of scores of viral moments of cultural flair. The Saptak organizers on Wednesday released the artists’ list for the forthcoming edition. The festival’s first maestro will be Ustad Shujaat Khan (January 1), the sitarist of the Imdad Khan gharana. The finale of the festival (January 13) will be delivered by the kathak titan, Pandit Birju Maharaj. TOI spoke to Aneesh Pradhan, a grandee of the tabla world, to understand the complexities brought about by the online format. Pradhan and his long-term collaborator, Shubha Mudgal, will be featured on January 7. “The need of the hour is to adapt and innovate. This has its own set of challenges,” Pradhan said. “For instance, not all members in an ensemble may be in the same city. In our case, Shubha Mudgal and I recorded our presentation in Delhi, and our colleague Sudhir Nayak laid his harmonium track over our recording. Whether or not this has been a successful experiment is for the audience to decide.” In the new mode of staging, to be streamed on Shaale from 8.30pm on the festival days, rasikas can find reassurance in the genius of familiar stars. Vidhwan L Subramaniam performs on January 5; Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt on January 8; and Pandits Rajan and Sajan Mishra on January 11. The full list can be accessed at Saptak.org.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/saptak-stars-ready-for-virtual-takeover/articleshow/79930604.cms||Kannan Somasundaram
December 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘High-end tourists missing, focus on value not volume’||PANAJI: The recently published report by the tourism ministry has confirmed the fears of the state’s hospitality industry that high spending tourists and families are keeping away from Goa. This, the report states, has been owing to restricted tourism activity, lack of avenues for spending and thirdly due to systemic issues. The survey — Coping with Covid-19, survival and revival of Goa’s tourism industry — conducted by the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) was released last week. It delves into why the destination is losing its value and has suggested three actions to increase the value of tourism in Goa; shifting the focus on value rather than volume. Tourism volume has undeniably grown, but the state has benefited less and less from it, it states. Goa is known for its beaches and importantly, its carefree spirit marks it as a “unique destination” within India. This “narrow reputation” sometimes encourages inadequate behaviour among tourists — drinking in the open, eve-teasing, rowdy driving style and consumption of hard drugs, the report states. Clearly, some tourists in Goa take the liberty of behaving in a way they would not at home, precisely because from their view, “this is Goa”, states the report. It goes on to state that “Hindi, Kannada and Telugu movies” have contributed in building this image of Goa in contemporary Indian pop culture. Consequently, “irresponsible tourism” has deeply tarnished the reputation of Goa. Several tourists — foreign as well as Indian — told the GTDC research team that they have stopped going to beaches like Baga, Calangute, or even Anjuna and Vagator, because they feel uncomfortable with the aggressive behaviour of certain tourists. “The restricted identity of Goa as a tourism destination therefore has been responsible for keeping high value tourists and families at bay,” the report states. It states that Goa is not cheap. In terms of hospitality, Goa is, after Mumbai, the second most expensive place in India, far above other tourism hubs, like Jaipur or Agra. Yet, infrastructure and other services available do not match these high costs. The state often relies more on its reputation than on the excellence of its offering. “As a result, tourists who can afford to pay for expensive holidays prefer travelling to destinations offering higher value for money, such as Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, or even Sri Lanka,” it states. Travelling to Goa, the survey states, can come with several inconveniences such as taxis charging exorbitant prices, persistent touts, unhygienic open spaces and unsafe environment with unregistered water sports activities. These systemic issues, the report states, can be countered as “repulsive” by high-value tourists desiring to spend challenge-free holidays. This profile of tourists is likely to prefer other destinations in the region. Similarly, investors also have a hard time doing business in Goa, due to heavy bureaucratic processes and unexpected complications. “Overall, lack of standardisation of Goa’s tourism industry is heavily hampering high-value tourists footfalls and high-value investments,” the report states. The report suggests, changing the image of Goa to make it more attractive to high-value tourists and families, facilitating the development of high-value infrastructure and services and standardising the tourism industry by strictly enforcing the existing policies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/high-end-tourists-missing-focus-on-value-not-volume/articleshow/79931564.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Madhyamik, HS exams get govt nod for June schedule||KOLKATA: The state government has given its approval to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education to conduct the Madhyamik and HS examinations in June. The schedules for both will be announced later. Bengal is heading for the assembly elections in April-May. This has resulted in the postponing of the Board examinations even further. On Wednesday, education minister Partha Chatterjee said, “It was not possible to hold the exams on time since on-campus classes have remained suspended due to the pandemic. I have assured the officials that once the schedules are announced by the Board and the HS Council, they will be accepted by the state government.” Several teachers pointed out that the delay will affect the JEE as well. They said that the Class-XI academic year will have to be extended in 2021-2022. “There will be a ripple effect. The Class-XII candidates who appear in the national entrance examinations will remain under pressure because those preparations will have to be done simultaneously. Normally, board examinations are conducted within March, giving the examinees ample time to prepare for other tests,” said a government school headmaster. She pointed out that students will struggle to keep the focus on studies for such a long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/madhyamik-hs-exams-get-govt-nod-for-june-schedule/articleshow/79929424.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||State announces educational trust to give free coaching to IIT aspirants||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday announced the “Super-30 Himalayan Educational Trust", to help meritorious students of Uttarakhand crack entrance exams of higher education institutes. Officials present at the meeting said that aspirants from financially-weak backgrounds will be given free coaching to crack institutes like IIT. A memorandum in this regard was signed between Almora district magistrate Nitin Bhadoria and the senior officer of a private firm at Vikas Bhawan, Almora. In his audio message, the CM said that “the initiative will guide students in the right direction”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-announces-educational-trust-to-give-free-coaching-to-iit-aspirants/articleshow/79928526.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||Once a walkers’ paradise, now a tipplers’ den: Kashipur locals irked with unruly drunkards||RUDRAPUR: Until a few months back, 67-year-old Babu Ram, a resident of Bhura Rani village, would take his grandson to the Kashipur highway link road. His neighbour, Kishan Kumar, would join him for the evening walk during the lockdown period. The road, around one-kilometre-long, covered with a green canopy on either side would lure residents of more than five nearby colonies for daily exercise. However, all that has changed in the past four months with several hotels and restaurants, which sell liquor, mushrooming on the road. Locals say that the road, once a walker’s paradise, has now turned into a tipplers’ den. Area residents allege that drunkards and miscreants often create nuisance in the area. “Women and children can not pass through this road as tipplers park their cars disorderly and misbehave with people if asked to park their vehicles properly. Even the police is not taking any action despite complaints,” said Rahul Kumar, a resident of Malik colony. In a similar vein, another local Himanshu Arora said, “Tipplers play loud music and often indulge into skirmishes. Commuters are scared to take this stretch because of anti-social elements.” Councilor of this area, Sunita Munjal, said, “We have made several complaints to the police seeking action against these hotel owners who serve liquor illegally. We will be taking it to the roads and staging a protest with the women residing in nearby colonies if action is not taken against these establishments.” Meanwhile, Amit Kumar, circle officer (CO) of city police, said, “We will conduct raids on the hotels located on this road and stringent action will be taken against those flouting the law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/once-a-walkers-paradise-now-a-tipplers-den-kashipur-locals-irked-with-unruly-drunkards/articleshow/79928540.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||445 seats stay vacant in dental colleges||Ahmedabad: The admission committee conducted a mop-up round on Wednesday for vacant seats in undergraduate courses at dental colleges across the state. Candidates who had not confirmed their admissions were called and offered vacant seats in various colleges. Of 1,249 seats, only 804 seats could be filled. The admission committee declared that the remaining 445 seats would be allocated to the colleges, which could admit students to these on their own. The colleges will have to complete the admission process for these 445 seats by January 15, 2021. After the mop-up round, all vacant seats at colleges in Ahmedabad and Jamnagar were filled. There were many other colleges across the state left with vacant seats even as the admission committee declared that the admission process on its part was over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/445-seats-stay-vacant-in-dental-colleges/articleshow/79930614.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Merger to give leg up to realty growth in civilian pockets||Hyderabad: Haphazardly growing without a masterplan until now, a merger with the municipal corporation will significantly boost realty growth in the civilian pockets of the Cantonment, feel industry insiders. Also, replacement of archaic norms with new building rules, as is applicable to areas under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, will push more established builders – who've given this market a complete miss so far -- to look towards the region. “Currently, the area has several limitations. Buildings here cannot have more than three floors. Such rules keep standard developers away from the market that otherwise has great potential,” said Tapas Patel, CEO of Om Sree Builders and Developers, among the few big players in Secunderabad. He added, “A merger will open up options for new and re-development projects in areas such as Bowenpally, Alwal etc. It’ll be lapped by old-time residents, especially the business community, that wants to live in gated communities but have no such options right now.” Apart from residential, even the retail sector is likely to witness an upswing, says Veera Babu, managing director of Cushman & Wakefield (Hyderabad). “While offices spaces might not see much movement, retail and high street is sure to take off. These are high density areas with a lot of demand for retail,” he said. The growth, he added, will lead to an upward revision in prices in the region that’s been sluggish thus far. As per rough estimates Secunderabad’s grew by 5% to 6% per annum over the last five years while the western corridor saw a growth of 12% to 15% each year. “Secunderabad was the first to witness modern development decades ago but fell back in the race subsequently.,” said realtor Aju Thomas, president at Trinity Partners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/merger-to-give-leg-up-to-realty-growth-in-civilian-pockets/articleshow/79930630.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||ABVP’s national summit on Dec 25, 26||Nagpur: Union minister and city MP Nitin Gadkari would be the chief guest, while RSS general secretary Bhaiyaji Joshi would inaugurate the BJP youth wing Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad’s 66th national convention to be held on December 25 and 26 at Hedgewar Smruti Mandir at Reshimbagh. Joshi will inaugurate the conference on December 25, while Gadkari will grace the occasion on December 26. Over 15 lakh members are expected to attend the function online. As per the office-bearers, farmers’ issue, Atmanirbhar Bharat, Corona and Bharat, and National Education Policy would be the key topics discussed during the two-day convention. The youth wing would also hold deliberation on its internal affairs on Thursday, a day before the convention. ABVP national general secretary Nidhi Tripathi told reporters that four resolutions, to be sent to the central government, will be discussed and passed during the conference. “We shall request quick implementation of National Education Policy. The ongoing farmers’ issue will also come up for discussion. ABVP is with the farmers, but we are supporting the three farm bills. ABVP is against how this whole issue of farm bills has been turned political. We are standing with the farmers for better future and want their confusions to be addressed by the government,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/abvps-national-summit-on-dec-25-26/articleshow/79928549.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Bhandara overcomes delay in plasma supply by hosting state’s largest camp||Nagpur: Emergency use of plasma is permitted and it can be a lifesaver, but Bhandara district doesn’t have its own plasma extraction facility. Dependent on GMCH Nagpur, it was difficult for the administration to get plasma on time. In a most inspiring way to overcome the hurdle, the district recently organized a three-day mega camp with the help of Nagpur’s Lifeline RBD Plasma Bank and donated 100 bags of plasma, which will now be provided free of cost to needy patients admitted in Bhandara. “It was time-consuming process to get plasma approved from Nagpur despite sending replacement donor from here. To avoid the administrative delay, we decided to collaborate with a private plasma bank,” said Sandeep Kadam, district collector of Bhandara. Kadam called Dr Harish Warbhe, medical director of Lifeline RBD Plasma Bank. “The collector said he wants to harvest and provide about 100 units of Covid plasma urgently. I was impressed with the initiative. They had some practical difficulties in arranging approvals and funds from government channel. So, I offered entire services free of cost,” said Dr Warbhe. Initially, on December 15 and 16, 277 Covid-recovered persons were tested to find out eligible plasma donors, who have high RBD-antibody level in their plasma. The blood bank conducted various tests to verify RBD-antibody levels, blood grouping, antibody screening and also to rule out HIV-AIDS, hepatitis-B, hepatitis-C, malaria, syphilis. Finally, some 100-odd persons were shortlisted for plasma donation. Most of them were policemen. From December 17 to 20; total 96 persons, including 51 policemen, donated plasma. Also 62 persons did regular blood donation to address the shortage of regular blood components during this pandemic time. On December 21, Dr Warbhe provided 101 units of RBD-plasma to Bhandara district hospital. Now, there is no need for this hospital to send proposal and wait for approval of plasma from Nagpur. “We are happy that due to the contribution of policemen in Bhandara, we could host state’s largest plasma collection drive. This plasma will be provided to the needy free of cost. I hope, this will reduce the case fatality rate in the district now,” said Vasant Jadhav, superintendent of police. Dr Warbhe said the present model is unique public-private model of plasma collection and should be replicated in other parts of Vidarbha. “Lifeline Blood Bank is ready to offer similar support to any other district. As of today, out of about 2,500 of Covid plasma units have been issued in Nagpur division. Lifeline alone has issued more than 1,800 units. There is huge need of such RBD-plasma donation camps in near future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandara-overcomes-delay-in-plasma-supply-by-hosting-states-largest-camp/articleshow/79928589.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR: Nation continues to reap benefits of PV’s reforms||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday said the country continues to reap the benefits of economic reforms introduced by former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao. Remembering Rao on his 16th death anniversary, the CM said in a statement that the former PM was responsible for reforms in education sector, economy and land administration. He said Rao was firm in matters of internal security, external affairs and diplomacy. “This helped the country’s unity, integrity and sovereignty in so many ways,” he said He said the state government is conducting Rao’s year-long centenary celebrations as a great tribute to the former PM. Congress and BJP leaders also paid tributes to Rao at the PV ghat. TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said Congress is organising the centenary event with great respect. “The nation has to be thankful to him for the changes he brought into the administrative system and for the strides it made towards development,” he said. BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar and BJP MP Dharmapuri Arvind said the party would continue to demand Bharat Ratna for the former PM. TRS MLC K Kavitha and tourism minister V Srinivas Goud took part in a separate event at the PV ghat along with the family members of Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-nation-continues-to-reap-benefits-of-pvs-reforms/articleshow/79930658.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Stamp duty cut boosts sales of high-end flats||MUMBAI: The stamp duty reduction on apartment sales which came into force from September 1 seems to have given a gentle push to the stagnant luxury residential market in Mumbai. Between September 1 and December 17, 116 high-end apartments worth roughly Rs 2,200 crore were registered across the 25 stamp duty registration offices in Greater Mumbai, according to data collated by global property consultant Knight Frank India. A few of these transactions are second sales. Independently, TOI gathered data and found eight transactions in Worli’s under-construction Palais Royale tower on September 4, just three days after stamp duty was reduced to 2% from 5%. The seller, Indiabulls Housing Finance, sold eight apartments to Honest Shelters for Rs 231 crore. Last year, Honest Shelters bought the entire tower for Rs 705 crore in an auction from Indiabulls. On September 2, a day after the stamp duty cut came into force, a sale of a Rs 50.5 crore apartment on the 51st floor of Oberoi 360 West at Worli was registered. A month later, in October, actor Hrithik Roshan registered his new property on the 15th and 16th floors in a luxury building called Mannat on Andheri-Versova Road. He paid Rs 67.5 crore to builder Samir Bhojwani. On December 10, actor Janhvi Kapoor registered a Rs 39 crore property she bought in a second sale in Araya building in Juhu Vile Parle Scheme. The flats are on the 15 and 16 floors spread over 4,144 sq ft. In October, a flat on the 24th floor of Runwal Residences, Nepean Sea Road, was registered for Rs 59 crore. October 2020 also recorded the highest number sale of high-end residential units with 50 units being sold. The Knight Frank data also shows that a total of 240 luxury apartments collectively worth over Rs 4,700 crore were sold in the city from January 2020 till mid-December. The average price of each apartment is around Rs 20 crore, although several were sold for between Rs 50 crore and Rs 69 crore. Close to half the sales of such homes took place in the last four months of the year, indicating a positive impact of the stamp duty rebate on the city’s luxury property market. “Central Mumbai and western suburbs constituted most of the sales. Western suburbs led the table with 44 units of homes costing Rs 10 crore each and central suburbs contributed 43 units to the total tally of high-end home sales. Eighteen of the high-end homes were sold in south Mumbai,” it said. Shishir Baijal, chairman and MD, Knight Frank India, said, “Recent price correction, coupled with the reduction in stamp duty in Maharashtra, has made residential real estate in Mumbai attractive for buyers, stimulating demand across segments. The high-end residential market that had been subdued also saw significant traction as a result of these favourable factors, leading to an increase in sales of homes costing over Rs 10 crore.” Mumbai-based developer Ashok Mohanani said sales in his luxury projects picked up soon after the stamp duty cut. “We sold 19 high-end flats worth Rs 125 crore in the last three months in Bandra, Khar, Santacruz, Matunga and Chembur,” he said. Pankaj Kapoor, MD of real estate rating and research firm Liases Foras, said while sales have recovered, there are still 8,881 unsold apartments over Rs 5 crore in Greater Mumbai. “These are in 271 projects mainly across south, central and western suburbs of the city,” he said, adding it would take eight years to sell this stock. Kapoor said builders slashed their rates and offered heavy discounts to sell high-end apartments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/stamp-duty-cut-boosts-sales-of-high-end-flats/articleshow/79931608.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
December 24, 2020||Patna||Legalize MSP for farm products, demands Tejashwi Yadav||PATNA: Leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, on Wednesday asked chief minister Nitish Kumar why Bihar’s farmers have minimum family income across the country. Talking about the ongoing farmers’ protest near Delhi and the three new agriculture-related laws, Tejashwi demanded minimum support price (MSP) to be legalized. “These are the black laws and have been enacted to privatize the agriculture sector. Nowhere MSP has been mentioned in the new laws,” Tejashwi told reporters, saying they had no faith in the Centre’s assurance and wanted MSP to be legalized. “We have seen the results of GST and demonetisation. We want nothing less than legalization of MSP. We will continue our support to farmers until their demands are fulfilled,” he said. The RJD leader said farmers in Bihar had the lowest family income of nearly Rs3500 per month. “Farmers even in neighbouring Jharkhand earn more than in our state. By abolishing APMCs, Nitish has worsened the condition of farmers, who have been compelled to migrate and work as labourers. Now they (government) are planning to turn farmers into beggars,” he alleged. Tejashwi urged the farmers and their unions in Bihar to protest against the new laws. He hit out at PM Narendra Modi and CM Nitish for not speaking about those farmers who died during protest. “They have time to congratulate celebrities, but have not uttered a word over the death of at least 18 farmers. Several BJP leaders are also calling the agitating farmers as Khalistanis and what not just to impress their bosses,” he said. Tejashwi also alleged lacunae in agricultural produce procurement process in Bihar and said the government could not even achieve the target it had set and middlemen were harassing farmers. “This double-engine government is anti-farmers. In fact they are also anti-labourers, anti-youths and anti-teachers,” he said. The RJD leader said his party workers will distribute pamphlets across the villages mentioning the drawbacks in the new farm laws. RJD also organized a seminar at the district headquarters on Wednesday on the problems with the new laws as a tribute to former PM Chaudhary Charan Singh on his birth anniversary. Reacting to Tejashwi’s remarks, JD(U) state spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad called him a political tourist. Prasad said farmers in Bihar will not get influenced by Tejashwi’s baseless claims and a lot many developments have taken place on the agriculture front in the state in the past 15 years. “Three-phase agriculture road map, dedicated feeder for agriculture and irrigation water to each farmland will boost this sector in Bihar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/legalize-msp-for-farm-products-demands-tejashwi/articleshow/79928618.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||HC fines Doon-based medical college for giving illegal admission to students in nursing course||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh on Shri Guru Ram Rai Institute of Medical & Health Sciences, Dehradun, for giving illegal admissions to 30 students in nursing courses for the 2017-18 batch. The Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University (HNBGU) had approached the HC saying that the institute had no affiliation with these seats when the admissions were granted. According to Kartikey Hari Gupta, counsel appearing for the university, the bench of Justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari has directed the university to let these students complete their courses in their interest as “it wasn’t their fault”. He said, “The court has directed the university to let the students study as it wasn’t their fault that they were granted a university without affiliation. However, the bench upheld the university’s decision to not grant affiliation with retrospective effect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-fines-doon-based-medical-college-for-giving-illegal-admission-to-students-in-nursing-course/articleshow/79928620.cms||Prashant Jha
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two houses blow up in Gujarat's Kalol||AHMEDABAD: Two persons were killed and one was critically wounded after two houses were destroyed in a powerful explosion in a residential society in Kalol town of Gandhinagar district on Tuesday morning. The preliminary investigation suggests that cooking gas had leaked from a pipeline in Panchvati Society and accumulated in one of the houses, which had not been used since November last year, resulting in the explosion at around 7.30am. Gandhinagar collector Kuldeep Arya told reporters in Kalol that piped gas was being provided in the area by Sabarmati Gas Ltd, a joint venture of the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) and Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation (GSPC). However, late in the night, Sabarmati Gas Limited issued a statement which said the blast cannot be attributable to its PNG connection in the closed house in which the blast occurred.  The company furhter stated that the blast occurred in House No. 158, but the PNG connection to the said house had been disconnected by SGL more than a year ago and no gas was supplied to the house. The company further stated that the adjoining house, No. 159, never had SGL’s PNG connection. “Two persons have died while one has been injured in the explosion which destroyed two houses in Kalol in the morning,” inspector general of police, Gandhinagar range, Abhay Chudasama said. “Our primary investigation suggests that a leakage from a gas pipeline passing through the society caused the explosion,” he said. In the morning, Gandhinagar superintendent of police Mayur Chavda said pipelines of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and Gujarat Gas Ltd, a state government entity, pass through the area. A detailed probe by officials revealed that neither the ONGC nor the Gujarat Gas pipeline were involved in the incident. In a statement, ONGC said, “An unfortunate gas leakage took place today in a gas pipeline in a residential area near ONGC’s Kalol field. ONGC confirms that this pipeline, where the accident took place, does not belong to ONGC.” “Our fire tenders have rushed to the spot and ONGC crisis management teams have been instructed to be on standby for any exigency and support,” it added. Arya said, “Of the two houses which were completely destroyed in the blast, one was not in use since November 2019, while three persons were living in the other house as tenants.” “The primary investigation suggests the explosion was a result of leak in piped gas in the closed house,” he said. The collector said Union home minister Amit Shah, who represents Gandhinagar in the Lok Sabha, spoke to him about the incident over the phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-houses-blow-up-in-kalol/articleshow/79885843.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Rains, farmers’ strike squeeze all margins out of orange, kinnow farmers||NAGPUR: The farmers’ blockade at Delhi has hit orange growers of Vidarbha and kinnow farmers in the north alike. Both citrus fruits are alternatives to each other, and the strike has hampered movement of both fruits from production centres, leading to a glut in the respective states. The Nagpur orange has a major market in Delhi and neighbouring areas. kinnow on the other hand, which is grown in the bordering areas between Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, has market in western and eastern states. The oranges that were supposed to go up north are now landing up at the local markets, which has kept the rates low. The orange season itself began on a bearish note, as rains had affected the quality bringing down the price to Rs10 to 12 a kg, as against average Rs25 a kg last year. As the season ends, rates of better quality oranges have inched up to Rs14. Even kinnow has the same story of first rains hitting the quality and then the strike. At present kinnow is priced at Rs8 to 11 a kg. The Nagpur orange, which is slightly costlier, is at a disadvantage against the kinnow, said traders and cultivators. Manoj Jawanjal, a farmer from Katol and director of Mahaorange — a state government marketing agency, said Delhi and northern states have been a major market for oranges. Strike has hampered the movement. This has led to oversupply in local markets, and the rates have barely improved even as the season is ending. Animesh Jhakkar, a kinnow grower from Haryana, who also runs a waxing unit, said, “The strike has led to closure of the Azadpur mandi in Delhi. The contractors purchasing fruit are mainly funded by traders at Azadpur. As the market is closed, the contactors are short of money. This has affected buying, bringing down the rates. Even the quality has been affected due to unseasonal rains.” “It was expected that kinnow would get a rate of around Rs18 a kg for the better grade this year but it is in the range of Rs10 to 12. The plucking season has only begun from December and will continue till February,” said director horticulture in Punjab, Shailender Kaur. The officer agreed that bottlenecks in transport can be one of the reasons for low prices for kinnow. “However, there is no excessive production of the fruit. If the rates are down it would be mainly due to factors related to trade,” she said. Back at Nagpur, Rajesh Chabrani, a trader at Kalamna Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), said there are a number of other factors too. Even freight has gone up due to rising diesel rates, which has impacted orange transport apart from low rates of kinnow being a factor. Farmers differed on the degree of impact of the strike and kinnow rates, but agreed that the two were major factors. Suresh Tatode, also from Katol, said that even trade with Bangladesh is not so smooth. Easier exports would have helped in supporting the rates, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rains-farmers-strike-squeeze-all-margins-out-of-orange-kinnow-farmers/articleshow/79929495.cms||Shishir Arya
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Nirmal Ujwal socy appeal against Rs6cr fine rejected by tribunal||Nagpur: The Maharashtra Real Estate Appellate Tribunal (MREAT) on Tuesday rejected Nirmal Ujjwal Credit Co-Op Society Ltd’s appeal against a Rs6 crore fine. The fine had been imposed by Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Maha-RERA) for not registering their Nirmal Nagari project. The order issued by MREAT states that “appellant has not complied with the order for making compliance of proviso to section 43(5) even though sufficient opportunity has already granted in the interest of justice”. Hence, in view of the non-compliance of mandatory provisions of pre-deposit, the appeal was dismissed. Maha-Rera had earlier issued orders for attachment of unsold units of Nirmal Nagari Complex in view of the fine not being paid. Selling flats without registering the project is a violation of RERA rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nirmal-ujwal-socy-appeal-against-rs6cr-fine-rejected-by-tribunal/articleshow/79928632.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||State diktat on forest fire blower purchase to benefit only one firm||Nagpur: The forest department’s move to change technical specifications for purchase of forest fire blowers has raised eyebrows as it will eliminate competition and make only one company eligible for supplying the machines. On December 8, the state government approved technical specifications for forest fire blowers, based on which APCCF (protection) Sanjeev Gaur issued orders on December 18 to follow the same specifications while procuring the machines. Every year, forest department procures at least 1,500 to 2,000 blowers. Forest sources said, “This is for the first time, state has specified standards for fire blowers. However, the same yardstick is not applied while procuring vehicles, computers and peripherals, nursery equipment, etc.” After talking to several officials, TOI learnt that for the last 8-10 years, the department is using German four-stroke (four-mix) BR-600 model fire blowers supplied by Stihl company costing Rs49,000 a unit. There are no complaints as such with these blowers. Yet, new specifications have been issued by a committee of forest officials set up at the insistence of forest minister Sanjay Rathod, say sources. The new specifications are such that only one company — Husqvarna — will benefit and no other blowers by other manufacturers will fit into the criteria. In a complaint to Milind Mhaiskar, principal secretary (forest), on December 11, Stihl officials have pointed out that the circular on fire blower specification by the ministry is one-sided and will benefit only one company. The company has demanded fair competition. “One of the conditions that will apparently benefit Husqvarna is that the machine should have a blowing force of 38 newton and above. Only Husqvarna blowers, which use two-stroke engine, fit into this condition,” says the complaint. Forest officials admitted that the German-make machines though have a blowing force of 30 newton, its velocity is 116 metres per second, which is more than the Husqvarna units. While working in the field, velocity matters most than force, and hence four-stroke machines are better placed. The two-stroke fire blower would cost Rs65,000 as against the four-stroke one costing Rs49,000.” Stihl officials told TOI, “We have been supplying these machines having a flowing force of above 30 newtons and all these are working successfully. In trials too, it has been found that our machines save 25-30% fuel. When four-stroke machines are available, why two-stroke machines should be considered for a higher cost? Two-stroke blowers will cause more pollution and will also consume more fuel. Two-stroke technology has already become outdated.” On March 13, 2020, the minister had called a meeting at his residence to discuss the issue after which a 12-member committee, under head of forest force (HoFF), was set up. It comprised 3 APCCFs, 4 CCFs, and directors of National Fire College, Nagpur, & Maharashtra Fire Services. The panel was to study blowers available in the market to finalize specifications. The committee found that no other states like Goa, Telangana, Karnataka, MP and Chhattisgarh have fixed any specification on the use of fire blowers and DFOs procure these blowers at the local level. The committee submitted its report in June/July. State forest minister Rathod said, “Initially, only Stihl was supplying the blowers. There were complaints from rival foreign companies like Husqvarna and Makita. We found fire blowers were purchased as per the will of field officers without any specifications. Hence, we formed a panel to finalize specification and conditions, which we submitted to the government and got it approved. Now, we have included both two-stroke and four-stroke machines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-diktat-on-forest-fire-blower-purchase-to-benefit-only-one-firm/articleshow/79929496.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Meet security guidelines or face action: Aurangabad police to banks||AURANGABAD: City police, taking cognizance of the alleged security lapses found at different financial institutes, on Wednesday issued several notices, asking banks (private and cooperatives) to meet the security guidelines or face legal action. Police have expressed their concern over banks preferring to get their Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) insured, instead of deploying security guards. At several places, even the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras are found to be lying defunct. Police have also refused to solely rely on CCTV cameras, as on several occasions the suspects have either sprayed fog on these cameras or covered their own faces while targeting the machines. The decision to issue notices to the bank managers was taken by Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta, after he found that an unguarded ATM, containing Rs 25.4 lakh, was stolen from the Beed Bypass area and the case is yet to be detected. The alleged incident took place in July 2019. When contacted, assistant commissioner of police (Special Branch) Ashok Bankar confirmed of issuing notices under section 149 of the CrPC to banks in the city. “During our meeting, security managers of the banks have informed us that banks prefer to opt for insurance of the ATMs as deploying security guards cost around Rs 30,000 per month per ATM kiosk. We have asked the banks to meet all the security norms, or be ready to face action,” he said. During the meeting of the police officers and the bank officials held at city police commissionorate, one of the public sector bank’s manager claimed that as per bank’s policy, almost 80 per cent of their ATM machines do not have security guards and instead have been covered under insurance. In November, an ATM machine containing Rs 21 lakh was stolen from the limits of Aurangabad rural. Few days later, another ATM containing Rs 28 lakh was stolen from neighbouring Jalna district. These twp cases are also undetected. Along with the notice, police have also provided a specific format to each of the banks asking them to fill all the details of their bank employees, security guards, total number of ATMs, their locations, status of CCTV cameras, among other details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/meet-security-guidelines-or-face-action-police-to-banks/articleshow/79927846.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||Professors of government-aided colleges protest against Umbrella Act||DEHRADUN: Hundreds of professors and other staff members of government-aided colleges took out a rally in Dehradun on Wednesday against the recently-introduced ‘Umbrella Act’ for higher education institutes of the Uttarakhand. The protest led to a face-off between the agitators and the police force near the Secretariat on Wednesday. “The previous Act had a provision according to which, the government-aided colleges had the right to get a fixed amount of grant each year from the state government. However, the newly-introduced Umbrella Act will take away that provision and the government will only pay a supporting aid and that amount will also be decided only by those in office. This will definitely impact the finances of the colleges and impact the salaries of the staff members,” DK Tyagi, general secretary of Garhwal University Teachers Association (GRUTA). He added, “The clause 11 ‘a’ of the previous Act for state’s universities and colleges stated that the state government is liable to pay the salaries of the professors and other staff members of the 18 government-aided colleges across the state. Now, they won’t be liable to pay that sum and only pay a supporting fund to the management. The new Act was passed in the assembly without any discussion with the stakeholders. We want the government to include that particular clause or repeal this Act.” Notably, the state has 18 government-aided colleges and 17 among them are affiliated to the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University and the remaining college is affiliated to the Kumaon University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/professors-of-govt-aided-colleges-protest-against-umbrella-act/articleshow/79928655.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||2 years after paying Rs2.2cr, Ignou yet to get plot purchased from collector||Nagpur: Even after paying the full amount two years ago, Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou) is still waiting to get possession of a plot of land purchased from Nagpur district collector’s office. The only central open university in India shelled out just over Rs2.25 crore to the district authorities for the land parcel at Omkar Nagar in January 2019. The land was in the collector’s possession and had been acquired under the Urban Land Ceiling (ULC) Act. In January 2019, Ignou paid the full amount demanded and trouble started soon after. P Sivaswaroop, regional director of Ignou Nagpur, said, “When the site measurement of the land was taking place, some people landed there and created a ruckus. They claimed the property was already under dispute and no new claimant can step in.” Before this, the land deal had been completed following all bureaucratic procedures with final approvals coming from Mantralaya, as per protocol. The issue reached the collector’s office and Ignou was assured of an alternate plot. Paperwork started again for the same, and in between the central and state elections of 2019, the issue was put on the back burner. The political turmoil which followed the state elections didn’t help either, as decision making got hampered. Just as the political situation stabilized, and government functioning started with decision makers firmly in place, Covid-19 struck. Naturally, this issue was relegated to the non-priority list as district authorities focused on dealing with the pandemic. Meanwhile, the local Ignou centre continues to find itself in a tricky situation. Its headquarters is obviously fuming over the fiasco in which it doled out over Rs2 crore for a land it still has not got possession of. District collector Ravindra Thakare took charge almost a year after this controversy started. Speaking to TOI, he said that a solution will be found soon. “On Thursday, we have meeting regarding this with Union minister Nitin Gadkari and I am confident that things will be sorted out,” said Thakare, who sounded sympathetic to the Ignou cause. Ignou officials had written to Gadkari, in his capacity as the local MP, for help. With concerns of the new Covid-19 strain and pressure on authorities to be prepared increasing, Thakare’s office seems to have its hands full for the moment. For now, Ignou Nagpur regional centre will carry on its operations from its rented premises on Amravati Road where it shifted during the 2008-09 academic session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-years-after-paying-rs2-2cr-ignou-yet-to-get-plot-purchased-from-collector/articleshow/79928653.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 24, 2020||Goa||Seat quota 3 weeks before notice for civic elections: Goa govt to HC||PANAJI: The government on Wednesday informed the high court of Bombay at Goa that the notifications for delimitation and reservation of seats will be issued by the appropriate authorities, at least three weeks prior to the date of the notification of the schedule for municipal elections. Advocate general Devidas Pangam made the statement after two separate petitions were filed before the high court raising concerns over reservation. The petitions pointed out that adequate time is not maintained between notification for delimitation of constituencies and reservation of seats for municipal elections, and notification of elections. The petitioners — Sujay Lotlikar and Damodar Shirodkar — had sought that directions be issued to the state government to issue notifications for delimitation of constituencies and reservation of seats for municipal elections at least 30 days prior to the notifications of the schedule for such elections, as and when such elections are due. The court disposed of the two petitions accepting the statement by the advocate general and directed the authorities concerned to act accordingly. The court also said that it would be better if there is some statutory provision made in this regard so that candidates desirous of contesting the elections, as well as voters, are quite clear about the issue of delimitation and reservation before the actual announcement of the election schedule. Earlier this month, hearing a separate petition filed regarding the recently-concluded zilla panchayat elections, the court had come down heavily on the state government for their unreasonable delay in issuing the notification for reservation of seats or rotation of reserved seats, depriving citizens the opportunity of challenging the reservations in court. The court had also directed the state government to expeditiously and within three months formulate guidelines for a rotation policy envisaged in Article 243 D of the Constitution and Section 7 of the act. The order on the zilla elections was passed after citizens filed petitions stated that the government reserved wards arbitrarily, based on their whims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seat-quota-3-wks-before-notice-for-civic-elections-govt-to-hc/articleshow/79930713.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur’s 24 accident-prone spots claimed 27 lives this year||NAGPUR: As many as 15 stretches on two national highways — NH-53 and NH-44 — and five patches on one state highway — SH-255 — are among the 24 black spots, where fatal accidents occur repeatedly, reveals a study by the state home department. The home department analysed data of 11 months of road accidents reported in this calendar year. Of the 10 traffic zones, roads under Lakadganj, Cotton Market and Sadar zones are safe. There are no accident prone spots in these zones, the study reveals. The data obtained from DCP (traffic) in 2019 said the city had 43 accident prone spots. But this year, the number has come down by 19 spots due to corrective measures. There are many reasons for accidents, such as under-construction infraprojects, wide roads that allow vehicles to speed, dimly-lit stretches, drivers jumping signals, and poor roads, said a senior traffic cop. The official said the number of black spots especially on national and state highways is higher because vehicles of all sizes merge. However, total numbers of accidents are more in city compared to accidents at these black spots. The 24 accident prone spots witnessed 49 accidents, including 22 fatal and 29 serious accidents, whereas in the same period from January 1 to November 30, the city has witnessed 680 accidents and claimed 176 persons, including 156 males and 20 females. In 11 months, accident prone spots claimed lives of 24 males and three females and injured 45. Of the 24 accident prone spots, Kamptee zone has four spots on NH-53, which has road accidents happening quite often. The study further revealed that Old Pardi Naka Chowk (7 accidents) and Kapsi bridge (6 accidents) near Prakash High School (both under Kamptee zone of traffic police) reported highest number of road accidents. Accidents at Old Pardi Naka claimed the lives of 10 persons, including seven men, and seven other persons were grievously injured, while Kapsi bridge reported six fatal accidents claiming lives of six persons. Indora and Ajni zones too have four black spots each under their jurisdiction. The four accident prone spots under Indora zone are Maruti Show Room Chowk, Uppalwadi Puliya, Jaripatka Ring Road and Vitbhatti Chowk. The accident prone spots under MIDC zone include Athva Mile, Waddhamna and IC Chowk. Maharajbagh Chowk under Sitabuldi traffic zone is an accident prone spot. Mahesh Dhaba, Chinchbhavan Chowk, Manewada Chowk and Mhalgi Nagar chowk are accident prone spots under Ajni traffic zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-24-accident-prone-spots-claimed-27-lives-this-year/articleshow/79929508.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 24, 2020||Goa||‘May have norms for protests at Azad Maidan’||Panaji: Clarifying his stand on the proposal to prevent agitations and protest meetings at Azad Maidan, Corporation of the City of Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said that the historic site continues to be open for public meetings, rallies and protest meetings. Madkaikar said that the civic body may introduce guidelines or norms that have to be adhered by those who choose to sit on hunger strikes or chain protests at the site. “If tomorrow two or three groups decide to have some protest or meeting at Azad Maidan, there are no restrictions. But if someone wants to sit on a hunger strike, then there is a need for some SOPs, this is what we are thinking. We never said that we will stop everything,” said Madkaikar. A week earlier, Madkaikar kicked up a controversy when he suggested that Azad Maidan should not be allowed for protests and agitations as protestors tend to litter the place and damage the property. The issue began after former lifeguards began to camp at Azad Maidan as part of a protest ahead of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit. Madkaikar said that the idea to denotify Azad Maidan as a legitimate place to protest came from the chief minister. Interestingly, Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate had said that he supports the idea of agitations being held at Azad Maidan. “The name is Azad Maidan, which means that the people are free to express themselves there and if you do not allow agitations you are taking away the people’s freedom,” Monserrate had said a week earlier in response to suggestions that Azad Maidan would be denotified as a site for protests. Azad Maidan and Campal ground are the two places earmarked for public rallies, protest meetings and similar events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/may-have-norms-for-protests-at-azad-maidan/articleshow/79930742.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Bombay HC commutes death penalty of man to ‘rigorous jail for life’||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has commuted the death sentence of a 35-year-old man from Jalna to “rigorous imprisonment for life” for the murder of his mother-in-law and a nine-month-old foetus of a girl child his wife was carrying. The bench of justices Ravindra Ghuge and BU Debadwar held in a recent judgment said, “We cannot ignore that this brutal attack resulted in the death of a woman in her mid 40s and a child who was about to see her first day on earth. No doubt, the crime is heinous and condemnable. However, we do not find that the appellant Krishna has committed a barbaric and cold blooded act and has not attacked the ladies with such ferocity and brutality, that it would send shivers down the spine of a man, sufficient for demanding that such an appellant deserves to be deprived of his life, not only to punish him, but to deter such murders.” On June 18, a sessions court in Jalna had pronounced death sentence for Krishna Sitaram Pawar of Ghansavangi who was tried for stabbing his pregnant wife Lalita, mother-in-law Sumanbai and the latter’s sister Alkabai on October 24, 2015 at Ambedkar Chowk near Ambad tehsil office. Lalita and Alkabai survived the attack, but Sumanbai and the foetus died. The death sentence was since pending confirmation by the HC and Pawar too had filed a plea challenging his conviction. Lalita, who was expecting their second child, was six months into her pregnancy, when she returned to her mother’s home at Walkhed village in Ambad owing to Pawar’s constant physical harassment as he doubted her character. On the day of the incident, Pawar had gone to his in-law’s place to bring back his wife, but his in-laws asked him to come with his parents so that they can discuss and sort out the matter. The bench observed: “This seems to have hurt his ego. These thoughts may have been carried by him in his mind and as a consequence of which, he returned with a knife with the intention of teaching a lesson to his wife and his mother-in-law.” It added: “We are of the view that though the appellant had planned to attack his wife and mother-in-law, it appears to us that it was only a coincidence that Alkabai had also accompanied his wife Lalita and mother-in-law. On seeing all three together and owing to the anger that he carried in his head, he may have overcome his sense of reason which led to his stabbing the three ladies with a single weapon.” The HC also expressed its displeasure over the manner in which the investigation officer erred in not recording statements of some crucial witnesses, which would have further strengthened the case. It also directed the process for perjury against Alkabai and three other witnesses who turned hostile during trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-commutes-death-penalty-of-man-to-rigorous-jail-for-life/articleshow/79927850.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Futile to trace travellers over last month, focus on vax drive: Docs||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) move to trace citizens with travel history to the United Kingdom (UK), Middle East and South Africa may prove to be a futile exercise, just like in the case of domestic travellers, feel doctors.  NMC has appealed to citizens, foreign travel agents and foreign currency exchangers to disclose details of persons who have travelled to these countries in last one month. Doctors said one month is a very big span and many foreign returnees may have already recovered from the infection, if they had it. Instead, they said the staff-crunched civic body must focus on vaccination, which will ultimately help contain the infection and protect citizens. Seven Star Hospital Covid team incharge Dr Mohan Nerker said retrospective tracing will only tell that the mutant coronavirus has reached here but there is nothing more the government can do about it. “There is very less chance of the new strain causing any major problem for us. I don’t think it is practical, after so many days, to trace each and every person who has returned,” he said. Having treated over 1,000 mild, moderate and severe Covid patients, Dr Nerker said, “We haven’t noticed any change in type of patients coming in. We are still receiving moderate and severe cases but there is nothing unusual about them,” he said. Dr Nerker also said, “Unless the flyers are symptomatic, it can’t be said whether a foreign returned person spread the infection in city.” He suggested that vaccination should be streamlined, which will protect citizens. “Several vaccines have shown effective results and are likely to get emergency use authorization by next month. We must focus on how such large population shall be immunized against the virus,” he said. Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said there are two aspects to the issue. “Going back last one month can be right only if the civic body wants to send their samples for genomic sequencing. This is one scientific reason for epidemiological surveillance or research. In case they want to catch active infection, then it is of no use. Maximum incubation period is of 14 days,” he said. Dr Shinde added, “Many virologists across the world agree that it is not a significant concern. It is natural for a virus to mutate. Unless there is a significant mutation, which increases mortality, we need not worry.” Senior pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat asked what will NMC do by going after such a large number of travellers. “Many may have already tested positive and recovered. Will they be put in quarantine now?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/futile-to-trace-travellers-over-last-month-focus-on-vax-drive-docs/articleshow/79928660.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: MGP to hold party election on January 16||PONDA: Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) has finally resolved to hold party general election on January 16, next year. The meeting of the central committee of the party was attended by nine members. The meeting also dismissed allegations levelled by the 27 members of the party who had issued a notice of no-trust on December 11 against party president Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar for not holding party general election last year. The reasons for the delay in elections were also discussed. At the meeting, it was stated that the election was actually due in December last year, but the party had resolved to hold it in March this year after the zilla panchayat polls which was scheduled on March 22. However, since the lockdown was imposed from March 23, the election was delayed. The party’s core committee meeting also rejected allegations levelled by its expelled general secretary and MGP’s former Ponda MLA Lavoo Mamledar stating that Dhavalikar worked against party interests by campaigning openly for BJP during the Shiroda bypoll. The Election Commission of India instructed MGP to hold the election by February 19, but the party will hold it on January 16, Dhavalikar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mgp-to-hold-party-election-on-january-16/articleshow/79930753.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Patna||Patna HC seeks reply on vacant positions in religious trust||PATNA: The Patna high court on Wednesday sought state government’s response on filling up of posts in the Bihar Religious Trust Board lying vacant for the last several years. The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar was hearing a PIL filed by one of Gaurav Kumar Singh, who urged that the famous Vishnupad temple at Gaya be declared as public temple along with its properties and that government should take over its management and appoint a board to run it like Vaishno Devi Shrine and Tirupati Balaji Temple trusts. The Vishnupad temple is presently managed by a private trust of priests (pandas). The court was told that the state religious trust board comprises an 11-member committee but there was only the chairman as other positions were lying vacant for the last several years. It is the board which would take the required steps for the formation of a public management body for the Gaya temple. The court granted time to the state government to apprise it about steps it intends to take for formation of the committee for proper functioning of the trust. It orally observed that if government would take decisions only after court ordered. Recently, a subordinate court in Gaya had delivered judgement that the temple was a public property and could not be run by private trust of priests. The matter would be taken up for hearing again after the high court reopens on January 4 next year. Counsel Sumeet Kumar Singh appeared for the petitioner while advocate general Lalit Kishore and additional advocate general Anjani Kumar represented the state. Senior counsel Ganpati Trivedi appeared for the board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-seeks-reply-on-vacant-positions-in-religious-trust/articleshow/79928654.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Supplementary examinations: Aurangabad division tops||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad division of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) has registered the highest passing percentage among the nine divisions in SSC and HSC supplementary examinations, the results for which were declared online on Wednesday. As per official data, Aurangabad division — with jurisdiction over Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed, Parbhani and Hingoli districts — has registered a passing percentage 39.1% for SSC and 27.6% for HSC. Latur division, which has purview over Latur, Nanded and Osmanabad districts of Marathwada, has recorded a passing percentage of 33.6% in SSC examination which is more than the state-level success rate of 32.6%. For HSC, Latur division has recorded a passing percentage of 22.05% — better than the state average of 18.41%. Acting chairperson of Aurangabad division of MSBSHSE Sugata Punne said the performance registered by students from Aurangabad division was commendable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/supplementary-examinations-aurangabad-division-tops/articleshow/79927856.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Goa||‘Cong high command will take call’||Panaji: Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao met with Congress office bearers, department heads and other state party officials to take stock of the reasons behind the party’s decimation in the zilla elections. Party officials have urged Rao and the high command to overhaul the Goa unit if the party wants to remain a credible alternative for the 2022 assembly elections. Rao held a series of back to back meetings at the party headquarters, and later in the afternoon met with zilla panchayat candidates in Margao. According to sources, uncertainty about alliances and the return of MLAs who defected has left many voters and party workers wary. “The party workers have clearly said that they don’t want to work against an MLA or another party because in the future the Congress may take the MLAs back, or may work in alliance with other opposition parties,” said a party office bearer. The delay in deciding on Girish Chodankar’s resignation has also led to further uncertainty within the party. “Our MLAs and MP can express whatever opinion, but ultimately the high command will take a decision,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-high-command-will-take-call/articleshow/79930786.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Goa||CCP begins signing papers with market occupants||Panaji: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has begun signing lease licences with legal occupants of the Panaji municipal market, suggesting that the vexatious issue that has been pending for nearly a decade may come to an end. Interestingly, CCP mayor Uday Madkaikar gave a clean chit to all the market vendors and councillors associated with the market issue by stating that there was no scam in the allotment of stalls in the market complex. CCP has cleared the names of 150 vendors with whom agreements will be signed, while the remaining names, where there is a dispute, will be submitted to the state government for a decision. “We have started signing the lease agreements with the market tenants from Wednesday. At least 15 people have approached us showing willingness to sign the agreements and we are going ahead with them,” Madkaikar said. CCP has also waived off the interest on pending dues that the vendors have to pay in order to incentivize vendors to come forward and ink agreements. Vendors will be given 18 months to clear the long pending dues. “The council has decided that we will start with the names that are on the GSIDC list and the remaining names will be sent to the government for decision. Some have been transferred to blood relations and some have been sublet without permission. The government has the power to decide on this and we don’t have the power. Of the approximately 600 names on the GSIDC list, approximately 150 names are in the clear and we can go ahead and sign the lease agreements,” Madkaikar said. He said that the legal cell has scrutinised and completed the paper work in instances where the original occupant has passed away and the stall has been handed over to the spouse or children. CCP was able to commence the agreement signing process after the directorate of health handed over 5,178sqm of land on which the market complex is built. In December 2018, the state cabinet had cleared the transfer of land to CCP. Madkaikar said that in the absence of ownership rights, the corporation was unable to sign the leave and licence agreement with the legal occupants. The corporation has also got the electricity connection for the market on its name and has availed of the one-time settlement scheme offered by the department to clear the pending dues of Rs 8 crore. “The electricity bill for the market, which had reached Rs 8 crore, we are settling this under the one-time settlement by paying Rs 2.2 crore. The decision was taken on Monday. We will pay it in a few days as we have just seven days to pay the bill. This will clear the entire market issue and now from January, the electricity bill will come in our name,” Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-begins-signing-papers-with-market-occupants/articleshow/79930772.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Night curfew imposed to prevent New Year celebrations in towns||JAIPUR: Putting a blanket ban on New Year celebrations, the state home department on Wednesday issued an order imposing night curfew in all towns/cities with a population of over one lakh from 8pm on December 31 to 6am on January 1. The curfew is being imposed within urban limits of all municipal corporations and city council areas of such towns. Markets and shops in these areas will also shut down at 7pm, the order said. The order also stated that, as per Supreme Court directions, the state will follow Covid-19 guidelines, including wearing face masks, following social distancing measures and sanitisation. Earlier, on Monday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had called upon the people of the state to celebrate the New Year with their families inside their homes, just like during Diwali this year, to prevent the spread of the virus. The order issued by principal secretary (home) Abhay Kumar stated that there will be a complete ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers as per the earlier order on November 3 and according to the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. There also be a complete ban on organising functions, events and gatherings on the New Year’s Eve. Moreover, the order dated August 27 on reopening of religious places must be complied with, mainly with regard to social distancing, wearing face masks and sanitisation, it stated. The state government had earlier imposed night curfew from 8pm to 6am within urban limits of 13 district headquarters, namely Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar. Before Diwali, the state government had also banned firecrackers in view of its adverse impact on the Covid patients and those suffering from heart and respiratory diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/night-curfew-imposed-to-preventnew-year-celebrations-in-towns/articleshow/79933057.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati-Morshi road full of cracks, PWD repairing only a small patch||Nagpur: Taking cognisance of a TOI report on the sad state of Amravati-Morshi cement road, public works department (PWD) has started repairing it. However, the department is only repairing less than 10% of the bad road. The cement road from Amravati to Morshi has developed huge cracks soon after opening. It was built by national highway division of state public works department (PWD), Amravati. Some of the cracks are very long. A 25km stretch of the 50km road is full of cracks. It raises serious questions about the quality of work. About Rs200 crore was spent on this project. PWD superintending engineer Dattatraya Bhonde, however, denied that the road had too many cracks. “PWD inspected the road and found that about 100 panels had big cracks. A panel is 4.5 metre long. In addition, we are replacing 98 panels that had small cracks and had the possibility of widening further. Thus 198 panels are being replaced. The total length of stretch under repair is around 900 metre, which is less than 1% of the length of the road. This is well within the norms of Indian Roads Congress (IRC). The repair work will be over in coming eight to ten days,” he told TOI. Activist Anusuya Kale Chhabrani, however, said that the total length of patches with cracks was far higher than 900 metre. “The government should ask an independent agency to thoroughly inspect the road. The truth will come out,” she added. Chhabrani further said that it was a matter of concern that a road developed cracks soon after completion. “This means that the engineers on duty did not do their job properly. PWD should penalize the agency,” she added. Former Morshi MLA Dr Anil Bonde had also demanded an enquiry against officers whose slack supervision led to poor quality of work. “I travel on the road frequently. The quality of work is very poor and there are a large number of cracks. It is clear that PWD officers did not keep an eye on the work,” he had told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-morshi-road-full-of-cracks-pwd-repairing-only-a-small-patch/articleshow/79928704.cms||Ashish Roy
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Night curfew imposed to prevent New Year celebrations in towns||JAIPUR: Putting a blanket ban on New Year celebrations, the state home department on Wednesday issued an order imposing night curfew in all towns/cities with a population of over one lakh from 8pm on December 31 to 6am on January 1. The curfew is being imposed within urban limits of all municipal corporations and city council areas of such towns. Markets and shops in these areas will also shut down at 7pm, the order said. The order also stated that, as per Supreme Court directions, the state will follow Covid-19 guidelines, including wearing face masks, following social distancing measures and sanitisation. Earlier, on Monday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had called upon the people of the state to celebrate the New Year with their families inside their homes, just like during Diwali this year, to prevent the spread of the virus. The order issued by principal secretary (home) Abhay Kumar stated that there will be a complete ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers as per the earlier order on November 3 and according to the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. There also be a complete ban on organising functions, events and gatherings on the New Year’s Eve. Moreover, the order dated August 27 on reopening of religious places must be complied with, mainly with regard to social distancing, wearing face masks and sanitisation, it stated. The state government had earlier imposed night curfew from 8pm to 6am within urban limits of 13 district headquarters, namely Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar. Before Diwali, the state government had also banned firecrackers in view of its adverse impact on the Covid patients and those suffering from heart and respiratory diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/night-curfew-imposed-to-preventnew-year-celebrations-in-towns/articleshow/79930802.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra agriculture minister asked to help lift onion export ban||NASHIK: A delegation of the Maharashtra onion-growers’ association met state agriculture minister Dada Bhuse on Wednesday, seeking his intervention in the withdrawal of the export ban. According to the association, Bhuse said he would discuss the matter with Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal soon. Onion farmers are making losses due to a drop in the wholesale prices — because local supply currently exceeds the demand. They feel the wholesale onion prices may increase if the Centre withdraws the export ban. “The arrival of new kharif onions have started increasing and will continue to increase. The average wholesale prices will drop further,” said Bharat Dighole, Maharashtra onion-growers’ association president. “We had also approached the leader of opposition in state assembly Devendra Fadnavis and the Governor, but in vain,” he added. The average wholesale prices have dropped 53% over the past month, from Rs 4,400 per quintal on November 20 to Rs 2,050 now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhuse-asked-to-help-lift-onion-export-ban/articleshow/79927860.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 24, 2020||Meerut||Notorious criminal’s property attached in Meerut||MEERUT: The property of a notorious criminal in upscale Defence Colony of Meerut was on Wednesday attached by a police team from Muzaffarnagar, said Abhishek Yadav, the district’s senior superintendent of police. The market value of the house was pegged at 2.5crore. Bhupendra Baafar, currently lodged in Azamgarh jail, has several cases of murder and extortion against his name including the attack on a police team in Muzaffarnagar in 2019 where another criminal Rohit Sandu was freed from police custody. A sub-inspector posted in Mirzapur district was killed in the attack. Later Sandu was killed during a police encounter. Police had found that Bafar was masterminded of the attack. Bafar is facing at least 19 criminal cases at various police stations in Meerut, Muzaffarnagar and Baghpat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/notorious-criminals-property-attached-in-meerut/articleshow/79928673.cms||Piyush Rai
December 24, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Night curfew imposed to prevent New Year celebrations in towns||JAIPUR: Putting a blanket ban on New Year celebrations, the state home department on Wednesday issued an order imposing night curfew in all towns/cities with a population of over one lakh from 8pm on December 31 to 6am on January 1. The curfew is being imposed within urban limits of all municipal corporations and city council areas of such towns. Markets and shops in these areas will also shut down at 7pm, the order said. The order also stated that, as per Supreme Court directions, the state will follow Covid-19 guidelines, including wearing face masks, following social distancing measures and sanitisation. Earlier, on Monday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had called upon the people of the state to celebrate the New Year with their families inside their homes, just like during Diwali this year, to prevent the spread of the virus. The order issued by principal secretary (home) Abhay Kumar stated that there will be a complete ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers as per the earlier order on November 3 and according to the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. There also be a complete ban on organising functions, events and gatherings on the New Year’s Eve. Moreover, the order dated August 27 on reopening of religious places must be complied with, mainly with regard to social distancing, wearing face masks and sanitisation, it stated. The state government had earlier imposed night curfew from 8pm to 6am within urban limits of 13 district headquarters, namely Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar. Before Diwali, the state government had also banned firecrackers in view of its adverse impact on the Covid patients and those suffering from heart and respiratory diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/night-curfew-imposed-to-preventnew-year-celebrations-in-towns/articleshow/79933055.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Night curfew imposed to prevent New Year celebrations in towns||JAIPUR: Putting a blanket ban on New Year celebrations, the state home department on Wednesday issued an order imposing night curfew in all towns/cities with a population of over one lakh from 8pm on December 31 to 6am on January 1. The curfew is being imposed within urban limits of all municipal corporations and city council areas of such towns. Markets and shops in these areas will also shut down at 7pm, the order said. The order also stated that, as per Supreme Court directions, the state will follow Covid-19 guidelines, including wearing face masks, following social distancing measures and sanitisation. Earlier, on Monday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had called upon the people of the state to celebrate the New Year with their families inside their homes, just like during Diwali this year, to prevent the spread of the virus. The order issued by principal secretary (home) Abhay Kumar stated that there will be a complete ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers as per the earlier order on November 3 and according to the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. There also be a complete ban on organising functions, events and gatherings on the New Year’s Eve. Moreover, the order dated August 27 on reopening of religious places must be complied with, mainly with regard to social distancing, wearing face masks and sanitisation, it stated. The state government had earlier imposed night curfew from 8pm to 6am within urban limits of 13 district headquarters, namely Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar. Before Diwali, the state government had also banned firecrackers in view of its adverse impact on the Covid patients and those suffering from heart and respiratory diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/night-curfew-imposed-to-preventnew-year-celebrations-in-towns/articleshow/79933056.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||DMMC exec director suspended after HC remark against disaster management secretary||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government has suspended executive director of Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre (DMMC) Piyoosh Rautela over the High Court’s remark against disaster management secretary for delay in filing of regular submissions on a case relating to a report claiming that debris was threatening the snout of the Gangotri Glacier. While hearing a case relating to a 2017 report regarding alleged presence of debris near the Gangotri Glacier, the High Court on November 18, 2020, had made a remark on disaster management secretary that it is “prima facie of the view that the officer is unfit to be in government service” and that he “does not deserve to continue to be in the position he holds.” The High Court was miffed over non-submission of periodical reports regarding the situation near the Gangotri Glacier. The disaster management department was directed by the court to submit a report on the ground situation at the foot of the glacier every three months after August 31, 2018. Requesting anonymity, a senior disaster management official told TOI, “Being the executive director of DMMC, he has been held responsible for the fiasco that resulted in the High Court making scathing remarks against the secretary of the department. Rautela has been asked to submit his reply within 15 days.” The high court had sought periodic reports of the glacier at Gaumukh from DMMC after reports of an artificial lake forming near the snout of the glacier. While a multi-disciplinary team that recently visited the site said that the lake was no longer present, but debris had piled up, which, in the event of a cloudburst could endanger Uttarkashi town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmmc-exec-director-suspended-after-hc-remark-against-disaster-mgmt-secy/articleshow/79928668.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||NTCA seeks report on bus service through Corbett core area||DEHRADUN: Taking cognisance of a complaint against the Uttarakhand forest department's approval for plying buses through the core area of Corbett reserve, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) on Wednesday sought a ‘factual status report’ from chief wildlife warden JS Suhag on granting permission to Garhwal Motors Union Limited to operate bus service on the Pakhro-Morghatti-Kalagarh-Ramnagar (Kandi Road) stretch. The director of Corbett Tiger Reserve, Rahul, on Wednesday gave the permission for operating a bus service on the stretch following the orders of the chief wildlife warden. The communication, duly signed by NTCA deputy inspector general (Rajendra G Garawad, reads, “It is requested that a factual status report of the aforementioned subject -- violation of Section 38 (V) and Section 38 (O) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 -- may be provided to this authority at the earliest.” The complaint against this move of the forest department was brought before the NTCA by Bhanu Bansal, founder of Centre for Wildlife and Environmental Litigation Foundation, on December 21. The announcement of the bus service was made by forest minister Harak Singh Rawat on December 18 despite the past controversies that revolved around the construction of the Kandi Road. Another activist-cum-advocate, Gaurav Bansal, has sent a legal notice to the chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department JS Suhag on Wednesday, alleging that the move to ply buses is in violation of the Supreme Court orders -- that came on a writ petition (civil) No 47 of 1998 titled Navin M. Raheja Vs Union of India & Others. While deciding on the road connectivity from Ramnagar to Kotdwar, the apex court had observed that ‘it is the duty of the state to preserve and protect the Corbett National Park, which is a national asset’, and also act according to the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. According to Bansal, Section 38 (V) (4) (i) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act-1972 has also been violated as it mandates that core areas -- like the present one (Kandi Road) -- are required to be kept as inviolate for the purpose of tiger conservation. In the present case, it is interference with the ‘inviolate area’, he added. Under Section 38 (O) of WPA, NTCA has to ensure that a tiger reserve or an area linking one protected area or tiger reserve with another protected area or tiger reserve is ‘not diverted for ecologically unsustainable uses’. And, if it is being diverted for public interest, then it is mandatory to take the ‘approval’ from the National Board for Wildlife and act on the advice of the Tiger Conservation Authority. But in this case, approval has not been taken from anyone. The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) had surveyed the Kandi Road and found that the area not only has the world's highest tiger density -- at 19.7 animals per 100 sq km -- but also, as per their field data, there is a ‘high potential traffic collision with focal animals'. Speaking to TOI, Suhag said, “To NTCA, yes, we will say that we gave the permission (for bus service). There is no contempt because the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the high court that stopped the plying of private vehicles on the said stretch of road. We have restored the public bus service only after the Supreme Court allowed it. The day the SC tells us not to move anything through Corbett, we will comply.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ntca-seeks-report-on-bus-service-through-corbett-core-area/articleshow/79928682.cms||Shivani Azad
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||Tigress to be translocated from Corbett to Rajaji tranquilised||DEHRADUN: In a move aimed at flourishing the western Rajaji with a robust tiger population, the Wildlife Institute of Indian (WII) scientists and the Uttarakhand forest department officials from Corbett and Rajaji Tiger Reserves successfully managed to tranquilize a tigress, around 4-5-years old, on Wednesday. Confirming the move, chief wildlife warden, JS Suhag, said, “After a planned move and a lot of groundwork, the team successfully tranquilized a tigress in Corbett. During the process, all protocols being laid out by WII experts were adhered to. The tigress will probably be relocated to Rajaji Tiger Reserve by Thursday morning. All the scientific arrangements for adjustment to that new place have been done for her in the RTR.” Incidentally, the sprawling 177 sq km area of western Rajaji houses just two tigresses while its eastern part has 35 tigers. The forest officials had been working for the past several years to translocate the tigers from Corbett Tiger Reserve, which houses tigers beyond its capacity. The director of Corbett, Rahul, who was involved in the exercise said that a couple would be moved to Rajaji in a fortnight, not just lone tigress, “We are hopeful that by the next week, we will be able to translocate a male tiger to Rajaji as well. The male tiger has already been identified by the experts of WII.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tigress-to-be-translocated-from-corbett-to-rajaji-tranquilised/articleshow/79928691.cms||Shivani Azad
December 24, 2020||Udaipur||BTP officially withdraws support to Ashok Gehlot govt in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) officially withdrew support to Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state on Wednesday. The party had announced breaking ties with the Congress following the latter’s support to BJP to prevent BTP from forming the Dungarpur local body board. The party has two MLAs in the 200-member assembly. The party’s state president Vela Ram Ghogra shot a letter to governor Kalraj Mishra and assembly Speaker C P Joshi announcing the withdrawal of support. “The Congress has betrayed us since the beginning of partnership in December 2018. We are new to politics and stood with them in their times of crisis. We supported them in Rajya Sabha elections. During the recent political crisis, our support was crucial for the Gehlot faction. In turn, they neither fulfilled our demands nor supported us in forming a board in Dungarpur,” said Ghogra. In the Dungarpur municipal polls, BTP won 13, BJP 8 and Congress won 6 seats out of the 27. But Congress supported BJP candidate for the board. But he made it clear that BTP would oppose both the parties in all polls, including the two upcoming assembly bypolls out of three in Bhilwara's Sahara and Rajsamand. At present, Congress has 105 seats, BJP 71, RLP 3, BTP and CPM 2 seats each in the assembly. RLD which is in coalition with Congress has one seat and 13 independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/btp-officially-withdrawssupport-to-gehlot-govt/articleshow/79933321.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Trichy||14 child workers rescued from Trichy spinning mill||Trichy: A joint action by Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA), Child Labour Elimination and Effective Rehabilitation Society (Cheers) and a few other stakeholders rescued 14 girl child labourers from a private spinning mill in Thathaingarpettai in Trichy late on Tuesday. The children were produced before the child welfare committee (CWC) on Wednesday. As per a decision taken at district task force meeting chaired by Trichy collector S Sivarasu on November 10, a team led by BBA state coordinator H Natharsha Malim searched private spinning mills in Thathaingarpettai area following complaints that children are employed there.In his complaint to the Thathaingarpettai police, Malim said the team rescued 14 girl children below 18 years from a spinning mill. The children were from Villpuram, Perambalur, Thanjavur and the surrounding areas of Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/14-child-workers-rescued-from-trichy-spinning-mill/articleshow/79930831.cms||Gokul Rajendran
December 24, 2020||Goa||Ex-Ponda civic chief eyes 2022 polls||PONDA: Former Ponda Municipal Council (PMC) chairperson Venkatesh Naik alias Dada resigned from the BJP on Wednesday and said he will join the Goa Forward Party (GFP) on January 4. He made the announcement of his move to leave the BJP in the presence of GFP working president and former Tivim BJP MLA Kiran Kandolkar and GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat. Naik said he has worked for the BJP for the last 27 years, but every time he would only be promised a party ticket for the assembly elections and was never actually given the ticket from Ponda. “But, GFP has announced that I will be the party candidate for the next assembly election from Ponda,” Naik told TOI. Kandolkar has announced his candidature assuming that he would join the party. Incidentally, Naik ha announced his intention to join GFP within ten days of GFP disbanding its Ponda wing. The wing was dissolved on December 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-ponda-civic-chief-eyes-22-polls/articleshow/79930829.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Goa||Enforcing labour smart cards superfluous move: GCCI||PANAJI: While the Centre focuses on ease of doing business by doing away with numerous and redundant labour laws, the state government is bringing in additional and “superfluous” compliances, such as the move to make smart cards mandatory for all workers, said Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). In a letter to the labour commission, GCCI president Manoj Caculo said that the order making smart cards mandatory should be repealed as it would serve no purpose. GCCI has pointed out that the Centre has brought in new labour codes that will come into effect from April 1 and in turn render the Goa Employment (Conditions of Service) and Retirement Benefit Act, 2001 redundant and invalid. “GCCI strongly objects to the implementation of the 2001 Act as it would serve no purpose. We sincerely request therefore, that this should be repealed,” Caculo said. The economic slowdown induced by the Covid-19 pandemic has made the last nine months one of the worst period for the private sector and the state is only compounding the woes, Caculo said. He said that The Goa Factories (Fifteenth Amendment) Rules, 2020 and amended Industrial Disputes Act have added to the industry’s woes. “Unfortunately, our suggestions and objections have elicited no response so far from the government.” GCCI pointed out that existing norms already safeguard workers and provide pension benefits to workers through the Employee Provident Fund and thus, the need for an employment smart card is unnecessary. The private sector has also expressed concerns about submitting confidential data such as Aadhaar card details and salary details as it would compromise the employer and employee. Caculo said that under the Employment Exchange Act, employers are already filing quarterly returns with details of employment and category-wise vacancies, which address the department’s requirements. “Under the above circumstances, implementing the 2001 Act seems to be needlessly repetitive,” Caculo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/enforcing-labour-smart-cards-superfluous-move-gcci/articleshow/79930820.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jodhpur||BTP officially withdraws support to Ashok Gehlot govt in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) officially withdrew support to Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state on Wednesday. The party had announced breaking ties with the Congress following the latter’s support to BJP to prevent BTP from forming the Dungarpur local body board. The party has two MLAs in the 200-member assembly. The party’s state president Vela Ram Ghogra shot a letter to governor Kalraj Mishra and assembly Speaker C P Joshi announcing the withdrawal of support. “The Congress has betrayed us since the beginning of partnership in December 2018. We are new to politics and stood with them in their times of crisis. We supported them in Rajya Sabha elections. During the recent political crisis, our support was crucial for the Gehlot faction. In turn, they neither fulfilled our demands nor supported us in forming a board in Dungarpur,” said Ghogra. In the Dungarpur municipal polls, BTP won 13, BJP 8 and Congress won 6 seats out of the 27. But Congress supported BJP candidate for the board. But he made it clear that BTP would oppose both the parties in all polls, including the two upcoming assembly bypolls out of three in Bhilwara's Sahara and Rajsamand. At present, Congress has 105 seats, BJP 71, RLP 3, BTP and CPM 2 seats each in the assembly. RLD which is in coalition with Congress has one seat and 13 independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/btp-officially-withdrawssupport-to-gehlot-govt/articleshow/79933320.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||BTP officially withdraws support to Ashok Gehlot govt in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) officially withdrew support to Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state on Wednesday. The party had announced breaking ties with the Congress following the latter’s support to BJP to prevent BTP from forming the Dungarpur local body board. The party has two MLAs in the 200-member assembly. The party’s state president Vela Ram Ghogra shot a letter to governor Kalraj Mishra and assembly Speaker C P Joshi announcing the withdrawal of support. “The Congress has betrayed us since the beginning of partnership in December 2018. We are new to politics and stood with them in their times of crisis. We supported them in Rajya Sabha elections. During the recent political crisis, our support was crucial for the Gehlot faction. In turn, they neither fulfilled our demands nor supported us in forming a board in Dungarpur,” said Ghogra. In the Dungarpur municipal polls, BTP won 13, BJP 8 and Congress won 6 seats out of the 27. But Congress supported BJP candidate for the board. But he made it clear that BTP would oppose both the parties in all polls, including the two upcoming assembly bypolls out of three in Bhilwara's Sahara and Rajsamand. At present, Congress has 105 seats, BJP 71, RLP 3, BTP and CPM 2 seats each in the assembly. RLD which is in coalition with Congress has one seat and 13 independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/btp-officially-withdrawssupport-to-gehlot-govt/articleshow/79930838.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ajmer||BTP officially withdraws support to Ashok Gehlot govt in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) officially withdrew support to Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state on Wednesday. The party had announced breaking ties with the Congress following the latter’s support to BJP to prevent BTP from forming the Dungarpur local body board. The party has two MLAs in the 200-member assembly. The party’s state president Vela Ram Ghogra shot a letter to governor Kalraj Mishra and assembly Speaker C P Joshi announcing the withdrawal of support. “The Congress has betrayed us since the beginning of partnership in December 2018. We are new to politics and stood with them in their times of crisis. We supported them in Rajya Sabha elections. During the recent political crisis, our support was crucial for the Gehlot faction. In turn, they neither fulfilled our demands nor supported us in forming a board in Dungarpur,” said Ghogra. In the Dungarpur municipal polls, BTP won 13, BJP 8 and Congress won 6 seats out of the 27. But Congress supported BJP candidate for the board. But he made it clear that BTP would oppose both the parties in all polls, including the two upcoming assembly bypolls out of three in Bhilwara's Sahara and Rajsamand. At present, Congress has 105 seats, BJP 71, RLP 3, BTP and CPM 2 seats each in the assembly. RLD which is in coalition with Congress has one seat and 13 independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/btp-officially-withdrawssupport-to-gehlot-govt/articleshow/79933322.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur civic body withdraws tax collection diktat||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has withdrawn its controversial order making it mandatory for citizens to clear property tax dues for availing civic services. The controversial decision had not gone down well as the citizens could not get the birth and death certificates while the traders could not get their shop licenses renewed if their property tax dues were not cleared. The staff at the citizens facilitation centres too had to face the ire of the citizens. The order was issued to recover the dues as the KMC is going through financial crisis since the pandemic began. Now, as per the revised order, upon availing of the services, the citizens will get a notice to pay the dues, with a warning to seal and auction the property to recover dues immediately. Vinayak Aundhkar, assitant commissioner and acting head of the property tax department, said, “The property owners cannot run away by not paying the dues. Many have not cleared the dues for the last several years. Our aim is to recover the dues and make KMC financially sound.” However, confusion continues for the traders who are asked to the clear the property dues before getting the license renewed. The traders claimed that they are getting demands for no-objection certificate from the property tax department to get their license renewed. Recovery notices to government offices The KMC has issued notices to the office of district collector, zilla parishad, railways, water resources department, Shivaji University and many others to clear water tax dues amounting to over Rs 18 crore that has not been paid over last many years. The KMC has warned the offices to snap the water supply connections if dues are not paid within a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-withdraws-tax-collection-diktat/articleshow/79927871.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan HC notice to Union minister Shekhawat in Rs 900cr Sanjeevani scam||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan High Court has issued notices to Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, his wife and 15 others in a petition related to Sanjeevani Cooperative Credit Society scam in which investors allegedly lost about Rs 900 crore. The court has listed the matter for hearing on January 3. Justice Vijay Bishnoi issued these notices on a prayer by petitioners seeking appointment of a receiver or a forensic auditor on the properties of the society and demanding investigation into the matter by agencies like CBI, ED and Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO). The society, owned by one Vikram Singh and in which Shekhawat was allegedly a partner prior to being elected as Jodhpur MP, had allegedly amassed huge sums in the name of investment from a large number of persons who were not given the returns as promised. A court in Jaipur had ordered investigation into the role of Shekhawat in the matter after checking account transactions of the society, but the high court later stayed that investigation. Some of the victims, who had invested in the society, constituted the ‘Sanjeevani Victims Association’ and moved a petition in the high court at Jodhpur in November seeking appropriate directions for the recovery of investors' hard-earned money, allegedly amounting to Rs 900 crore. The petitioner’s counsel Madhusudan Purohit said managing director Vikram Singh and others, including Shekhawat, duped the investors and kept them in the dark by showing fake records. In another development, Justice Manoj Kumar Garg has called for a factual report of the police investigation in a petition against the society by victim Narendra Singh Rathore. In his complaint, Rathore said he had deposited Rs 1 lakh in January 2017 as a fixed deposit in the cooperative society but the money was not returned on maturity. Rathore had moved court after the police refused to file an FIR against the society. It was finally registered on the orders of the court. “Inspite of the court’s order, the FIR was registered 61 days after the order," he said, adding that nothing has happened in the matter since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/hc-notice-to-shekhawat-inrs-900cr-sanjeevani-scam/articleshow/79933242.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: 9 detained over brick kiln at govt land||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad city police on Wednesday detained nine people on the charges of illegally running a brick kiln on government land in the Waluj area. Inspector Sandeep Gurme of Waluj police station said deputy collector Rajan Khaparde of Nandur Madhmeshwar irrigation project lodged a complaint, following which the suspects were booked underIPC section 447 (committing fraud). The suspects allegedly trespassed state-acquired land for Tembhurni medium irrigation project under the limits of Gangapur revenue division and started a brick kiln. Police said that the authorities recently received a tip-off about about the same and complaint was lodged. A panchanama was carried out and an offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/9-detained-over-brick-kiln-at-govt-land/articleshow/79927910.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Goa||No road tax for lockdown period, ordinance notified||PANAJI: After a long fight put up by public transport operators in the state, passenger and transport vehicles have been exempted from paying road tax for the lockdown period. An ordinance to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1974, was notified on Wednesday, making it the Goa Motor Vehicles Tax (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. As a result, the state has exempted tax payable on goods and passenger vehicles by all kinds of commercial and transport vehicles registered in the state for a period of six months — from April 1 to September 30. With respect to fines, the ordinance says that there will be no penalty if the tax is paid on or before March 31, 2021. If the penalty has been paid for the current financial year, then it would be adjusted towards the tax payable in future Vehicles registered in the state, which includes stage carriages, contract carriages, maxi-cabs, taxi, autorickshaw, motorcycles, rent-a-bike and rent-a-cab are included in the exemption list. Demands made by some private bus owners to waive road and passenger taxes during the lockdown months were taken to court after several appeals made to the directorate of transport in this regard were not granted. Recently, the opposition had lambasted the government for not keeping its promise. Last month, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that most commercial vehicles did not ply from March 1 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent restrictions, and that their owners would not have to cough up a penalty or interest for not paying road tax. Owners who did not pay road tax during the specified period would have those amounts carried forward, he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-road-tax-for-lockdown-period-ordinance-notified/articleshow/79930850.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan HC notice to Union minister Shekhawat in Rs 900cr Sanjeevani scam||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan High Court has issued notices to Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, his wife and 15 others in a petition related to Sanjeevani Cooperative Credit Society scam in which investors allegedly lost about Rs 900 crore. The court has listed the matter for hearing on January 3. Justice Vijay Bishnoi issued these notices on a prayer by petitioners seeking appointment of a receiver or a forensic auditor on the properties of the society and demanding investigation into the matter by agencies like CBI, ED and Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO). The society, owned by one Vikram Singh and in which Shekhawat was allegedly a partner prior to being elected as Jodhpur MP, had allegedly amassed huge sums in the name of investment from a large number of persons who were not given the returns as promised. A court in Jaipur had ordered investigation into the role of Shekhawat in the matter after checking account transactions of the society, but the high court later stayed that investigation. Some of the victims, who had invested in the society, constituted the ‘Sanjeevani Victims Association’ and moved a petition in the high court at Jodhpur in November seeking appropriate directions for the recovery of investors' hard-earned money, allegedly amounting to Rs 900 crore. The petitioner’s counsel Madhusudan Purohit said managing director Vikram Singh and others, including Shekhawat, duped the investors and kept them in the dark by showing fake records. In another development, Justice Manoj Kumar Garg has called for a factual report of the police investigation in a petition against the society by victim Narendra Singh Rathore. In his complaint, Rathore said he had deposited Rs 1 lakh in January 2017 as a fixed deposit in the cooperative society but the money was not returned on maturity. Rathore had moved court after the police refused to file an FIR against the society. It was finally registered on the orders of the court. “Inspite of the court’s order, the FIR was registered 61 days after the order," he said, adding that nothing has happened in the matter since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/hc-notice-to-shekhawat-inrs-900cr-sanjeevani-scam/articleshow/79933240.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC notice to Union minister Shekhawat in Rs 900cr Sanjeevani scam||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan High Court has issued notices to Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, his wife and 15 others in a petition related to Sanjeevani Cooperative Credit Society scam in which investors allegedly lost about Rs 900 crore. The court has listed the matter for hearing on January 3. Justice Vijay Bishnoi issued these notices on a prayer by petitioners seeking appointment of a receiver or a forensic auditor on the properties of the society and demanding investigation into the matter by agencies like CBI, ED and Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO). The society, owned by one Vikram Singh and in which Shekhawat was allegedly a partner prior to being elected as Jodhpur MP, had allegedly amassed huge sums in the name of investment from a large number of persons who were not given the returns as promised. A court in Jaipur had ordered investigation into the role of Shekhawat in the matter after checking account transactions of the society, but the high court later stayed that investigation. Some of the victims, who had invested in the society, constituted the ‘Sanjeevani Victims Association’ and moved a petition in the high court at Jodhpur in November seeking appropriate directions for the recovery of investors' hard-earned money, allegedly amounting to Rs 900 crore. The petitioner’s counsel Madhusudan Purohit said managing director Vikram Singh and others, including Shekhawat, duped the investors and kept them in the dark by showing fake records. In another development, Justice Manoj Kumar Garg has called for a factual report of the police investigation in a petition against the society by victim Narendra Singh Rathore. In his complaint, Rathore said he had deposited Rs 1 lakh in January 2017 as a fixed deposit in the cooperative society but the money was not returned on maturity. Rathore had moved court after the police refused to file an FIR against the society. It was finally registered on the orders of the court. “Inspite of the court’s order, the FIR was registered 61 days after the order," he said, adding that nothing has happened in the matter since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-to-shekhawat-inrs-900cr-sanjeevani-scam/articleshow/79930868.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Patna||AAI signs MoA with Gaya dist admn||GAYA: A tripartite Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) was signed by the Gaya district administartion with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the Sulabh International for construction of three toilet complexes in Gaya town and Bodh Gaya on Wednesday. Two state of the art toilet complexes will be made in Gaya town, while one in Bodh Gaya. Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar, Gaya Municipal Corporation (GMC) city commissioner Sawan Kumar, Bodh Gaya Nagar Panchayat executive officer Prathama Pushankar, Sulabh International Social Service Organization (SISSO) additional controller Jai Prakash Jha jointly signed the MoA in presence of district magistrate Abhishek Singh and SISSO CSR incharge Pankaj Jain. The airport director said, “AAI will spend around Rs 1.94 crore over the project under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activity. The project has to be completed within nine months. In Gaya town, the two toilet complexes of 11 units each will be made at Kathokar talab and near ‘tumtum’ (horse cart) stand.” In Bodh Gaya, the fully air conditioned toilet complex of 29 units will be made at Kalchakra ground, towards north-east of the world heritage Mahabodhi Mahavihara. After the project is completed, domestic as well as foreign tourists visiting Gaya and Bodh Gaya will get world class facility,” he said. SISSO will make the complexes and will maintain the same for five years. AAI will make available the fund for construction in different phases in view of progress of work. If the service of SISSO is found to be satisfactory, the period of maintenance might be extended. A large number of devotees visit Gaya to offer ‘pinddaan’ rituals at Vishnupad temple in Gaya town and Dharmaranya in Bodh Gaya. In Bodh Gaya too, a large number of Buddhist devotees and foreign tourists visit world heritage Mahabodhi Mahavihara, who need such public facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aai-signs-moa-with-gaya-dist-admn/articleshow/79928699.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Draft notification issued for merger of 23 villages in PMC||PUNE: The state government on Wednesday issued the draft notification to fully merge the remaining 23 villages in the Pune municipal limits, increasing its total area to 480skm and making it the biggest corporation in the state. The decision, taken three years after 11 villages were included in the jurisdiction of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), would make Wagholi, Khadakwasala and Manjri Budruk a part of the PMC. “The process of calling suggestions and objections from citizens will be carried out. Then the hearing will take place. The process will be completed in two month,” Prashant Waghmare, city engineer of PMC, told TOI. PMC officials stated that though there was a proposal to merge 34 villages in the civic body in 2013-14, it did not take place. Citizens’ group Haveli Taluka Nagari Kriti Samiti had approached the Bombay HC seeking speedy merger of the villages. After the court’s directives, the PMC merged 11 villages in its jurisdiction three years ago. Nine of the villages were partly merged, but Uruli and Phursungi were fully merged. “The municipal wards now must be earmarked on time in the villages for planned development. Only merger is not enough. All issues related to revenue generation and funds allocation should be sorted out,” said Shreerang Chavan of the Samiti. NCP), which has a strong hold on the city’s outskirts, has been keen on the merger ahead of the 2022 municipal polls. BJP currently has a full majority in the civic body. Kothrud MLA and state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said the state government’s decision to merge 23 villages was politically motivated. “The government should clarify the financial assistance it plans to provide to the civic body to tide over the additional burden of the merged villages,” he said.. NCP leader Chetan Tupe said the merger would lead to the planned development of 23 villages. “The MVA government will provide required assistance. BJP should not indulge in politics over the issue. Eleven villages were merged when BJP was in the state government. BJP leaders should give details of the funds provided for these 11 villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/draft-notification-issued-for-merger-of-23-villages-in-pmc/articleshow/79929527.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Junior doctors go on strike, seek stipend hike||PATNA: Health services, especially OPDs, across all government medical colleges and hospitals got affected on Wednesday when junior doctors went on an indefinite strike demanding an increase in their stipend. Junior doctors boycotted emergency, ICUs and surgeries, except for the Covid-19 related services. The strike led to long queues outside the OPDs of many government hospitals and increased the pressure on senior doctors. In Darbhanga, attendants protested outside Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital, after patients were denied treatment. Doctors said if the strike continues, it will aggravate the health crisis. Members of the Junior Doctors Association (JDA) have demanded that their stipend should be equal to the amount given to their counterparts in AIIMS-Patna and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences. PMCH JDA president Dr Harendra Kumar said nearly 550 of them had gone on strike and they took this step as no one was listening to their grievances. He further said that the state government had promised to revise their stipend every three years in 2014. “Our stipend money was supposed to be increased this year as last it was revised in 2017. We have tried to meet senior officials of the health department as well as the health minister, but no one has heard our grievances. We even gave a reminder on December 15,” said Dr Kumar, informing that they were getting Rs 45000 for the first year, Rs 50,000 for the second year and Rs 55000 for the third year, adding they should get what their counterparts were getting at AIIMS-Patna and IGIMS. Dr Ramchandra Kumar, JDA president at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, said there are nearly 250 junior doctors and they have boycotted all services, except for Covid-19 cases. The Resident Doctors Association have extended their support to junior doctors. RDA president Dr Binay Kumar said junior doctors and senior residents have been giving their service with devotion for the past ten months in the Covid-19 pandemic. “Even senior residents in our state get a lesser salary than the stipend given to junior doctors in other parts of the country,” said Dr Binay. However, PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak and principal Dr Vidyapati Chpoudhary said junior doctors have been warned to resume their services from Thursday, failing which action would be initiated against them. “They did not give any prior notice about the strike, neither had they discussed their problem with me. We had a meeting with their representatives along with the heads of all the departments today, and we have told them to come back to work,” said Dr Karak. He said the junior doctors' strike did not have any impact on the PMCH services. More patients were examined at the OPD on Wednesday than the previous day. “We have even prepared a roaster keeping in mind this strike,” added Dr Karak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jr-docs-go-on-strike-seek-stipend-hike/articleshow/79929539.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 24, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan HC notice to Union minister Shekhawat in Rs 900cr Sanjeevani scam||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan High Court has issued notices to Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, his wife and 15 others in a petition related to Sanjeevani Cooperative Credit Society scam in which investors allegedly lost about Rs 900 crore. The court has listed the matter for hearing on January 3. Justice Vijay Bishnoi issued these notices on a prayer by petitioners seeking appointment of a receiver or a forensic auditor on the properties of the society and demanding investigation into the matter by agencies like CBI, ED and Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO). The society, owned by one Vikram Singh and in which Shekhawat was allegedly a partner prior to being elected as Jodhpur MP, had allegedly amassed huge sums in the name of investment from a large number of persons who were not given the returns as promised. A court in Jaipur had ordered investigation into the role of Shekhawat in the matter after checking account transactions of the society, but the high court later stayed that investigation. Some of the victims, who had invested in the society, constituted the ‘Sanjeevani Victims Association’ and moved a petition in the high court at Jodhpur in November seeking appropriate directions for the recovery of investors' hard-earned money, allegedly amounting to Rs 900 crore. The petitioner’s counsel Madhusudan Purohit said managing director Vikram Singh and others, including Shekhawat, duped the investors and kept them in the dark by showing fake records. In another development, Justice Manoj Kumar Garg has called for a factual report of the police investigation in a petition against the society by victim Narendra Singh Rathore. In his complaint, Rathore said he had deposited Rs 1 lakh in January 2017 as a fixed deposit in the cooperative society but the money was not returned on maturity. Rathore had moved court after the police refused to file an FIR against the society. It was finally registered on the orders of the court. “Inspite of the court’s order, the FIR was registered 61 days after the order," he said, adding that nothing has happened in the matter since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/hc-notice-to-shekhawat-inrs-900cr-sanjeevani-scam/articleshow/79933239.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Chill nights, cool days to linger till next week||PUNE: Cold weather continued to keep Pune shivering on Wednesday, the third consecutive day, where the city witnessed single-digit night temperatures and day temperatures below 30 degrees celsius. Shivajinagar recorded a minimum temperature of 8.3 degrees celsius on Wednesday morning, just a tad higher than Tuesday’s 8.1 degrees celsius. Day temperatures in Pune on Wednesday were 29.4 degrees celsius and 29.7 degrees celsius in Shivajinagar and Lohegaon. Shivajinagar was the third coldest city in Maharashtra among others where temperature data is recorded by IMD on a daily basis. The coldest was Gondia with a minimum temperature of 8 degrees celsius, followed by Nashik at 8.2 degrees celsius and then, Shivajinagar at 8.3 degrees celsius. An IMD said there could be a gradual rise in minimum temperatures by 2-3 degrees during the next 2-3 days over Konkan,Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada. But, no significant change in minimum temperatures is expected over Vidarbha during the next three days. JR Kulkarni, founder of Internet Weather Radio Station and a former scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) said apart from the northerly wind flow into the city, local factors are also playing a role in bringing down its temperatures. “Pune primarily has a dry soil type and less vegetation cover, which aids in a steeper dip in night temperatures. If there is more vegetation cover, as is seen in Mahabaleshwar, then the outgoing long wave radiation from the earth’s surface during the night time is trapped, preventing a steeper drop in night temperature. This is why the minimum temperature is generally higher in Mahabaleshwar than Pune during winters, despite the former being a hill station,” he said. Minimum temperatures on Wednesday were between 1 and 4 degrees lower than the normal in most locations in the state. The negative departures in minimum temperatures (3-4 degrees less than normal) have been higher in Vidarbha than other cities in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chill-nights-cool-days-to-linger-till-next-week/articleshow/79929537.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Meerut||Amroha police busts gang providing training formaking country-made weapons; three arrested||BIJNOR: With the arrest of three people, Amroha police claimed to have busted a gang allegedly involved in making country-made weapons and imparting training to others and seized a consignment of half-done weapons and cartridges from their possession on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off about a factory being run at a sugarcane farm between Banska and Gangwar villages under Rehra police station area of Amroha district, police raided the premises and seized 21 finished and half-done weapons, including ‘tamanchas’ (country-made pistols) and a gun, and two cartridges, said Amroha superintendent of police Suniti. The SP said the three accused were identified as Istekaar from Radhana village under Kithhor police station area in Meerut and Haseen and Yameen from Gangwar village under Rehra police station area in Amroha district. “Istekaar is the kingpin. He has several cases registered against him in Amroha and Meerut districts. Earlier, he was arrested three times for several crimes, indulging making illegal weapons,” said the SP. “The accused are expert in making illegal weapons. They not only run illegal weapon-making factories but also impart training to others to spread their business with the panchayat elections approaching,” added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/amroha-police-busts-gang-providing-training-formaking-country-made-weapons-three-arrested/articleshow/79928712.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 24, 2020||India||67 wins in 164 seats gives National Conference best strike rate in Jammu and Kashmir||NEW DELHI: The National Conference had the highest strike rate (proportion of contested seats won) among the four major parties in the just-concluded district development council polls in Jammu & Kashmir. The party won 67 of the 164 seats it contested, giving it a 41% success rate. The PDP had a strike rate nearly as good (40%), winning 27 of the 68 seats it contested, while the BJP’s 75 wins from 230 candidates meant its strike rate was under 33%. The Congress fared worst, winning just 26 of the 160 it contested, a strike rate of barely 16% or one in six. Smaller parties like the CPM (71%) and JKPC (80%) had higher strike rates, but parties that contest very few seats in an alliance tend to have higher strike rates. On the flip side, BJP contesting so many could account for its lower success rate. An analysis reveals the BJP is scarcely present in the Valley and Gupkar alliance almost as marginalized in the southern districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/67-wins-in-164-seats-gives-national-conference-best-strike-rate-in-jammu-and-kashmir/articleshow/79932111.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: SSC results up by 9%, HSC dips by 4% in repeat exams||PUNE: The HSC repeat examination results, declared by Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education online on Wednesday, are the worst in the last two years. The opposite is true for the SSC results. As many as 69,274 students under the nine divisions of Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Mumbai, Kolhapur, Amravati, Nashik, Latur and Konkan appeared for the HSC examinations held in November-December. Only 12,751 students passed recording a pass percentage of 18.41%. In Pune division, comprising Pune, Ahmednagar and Solapur, a total of 12,835 students appeared and 1,917 (14.94%) passed. There has been a 5.57% and 4.76% dip in the HSC results in Pune division, and the state from 2019. SSC repeat students charted a different journey with 12.64% increase in the pass percentage over last year in Pune division, and a 9.74% rise in the state where 41,397 students appeared and 13,495 (32.60%) passed. Aurangabad division had the highest pass percentage at 27.63% and 39.11%. The board’s chairperson Shakuntala Kale said, “Both groups had enough time to study. HSC students may have taken it lightly. SSC students have more parental pressure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ssc-results-up-by-9-hsc-dips-by-4-in-repeat-exams/articleshow/79929548.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 24, 2020||Goa||Govt trying to crush Goa’s future: AAP||Panaji: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday criticised the state government for filing police complaints against activists opposing South Western Railways double tracking project. AAP also condemned the state government for detaining youth and activists who were organising a protest in Panaji that coincided with President Ram Nath Kovind visit on the Liberation Day. “The state government is trying to crush Goa’s future and this will have a bad impact on the state government,” AAP functionary Sandesh Telekar said, adding, “Pramod Sawant is working against Goa, and he needs to correct his ways. He needs to introspect about what he is doing.” Activist Cecille Rodrigues also questioned the government’s move to use police to round up activists and youth who were part of a Save Mollem campaign. “It is a sad day for Goa as any body who wants to protest in Goa, there is no place,” Rodrigues said.  Meanwhile, AAP convenor Rahul Mhambre said that the state government is delaying benefits to handicapped persons registered with the government under the Dayanand Social Security Scheme (DSSS). He said that around 12,000 individuals registered under DSSS have not received any financial support for the last four months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-trying-to-crush-goas-future-aap/articleshow/79930922.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Meerut||Diksha app: Deadline over, just 2% download target met in UP government schools||MEERUT: Government teachers in Uttar Pradesh’s 65 districts were able to meet just 2% target over a month after each educator was told to download NCERT’s Diksha app on the mobile phones of 10 students. Racing against the time to cover the syllabus in the absence of traditional classes in government schools, the state’s education department had passed the direction in the mid of November. Till then, just 11% of students in government schools were using the app. And the rest were at the risk of losing an entire academic year. The app, launched by NCERT in 2017, has lessons in videos and text. In the time of lockdown, when schools are shut, remote learning through the app was the only way out for students across the country. “The teachers were asked to provide details about the number of Diksha app downloads by December 15. In the analysis conducted by the authorities, it was found that as many as 65 districts out of the total 75 had completed less than 2% of the given target,” Vijay Kiran Anand, director general of school education, UP, said in a note. According to the statistics, the maximum target was achieved by Farrukhabad at 22.5%. Findings of the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) for UP showed that 44.9% of the surveyed children studying in government schools owned a smartphone as compared to 64.2% students enrolled in private schools. Over 7,800 children of age group 5-16 were surveyed during the lockdown period. “It is extremely disappointing that the target has not been achieved by the districts even after the deadline has been passed,” said Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/diksha-app-deadline-over-just-2-download-target-met-in-up-government-schools/articleshow/79928722.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 24, 2020||Nashik||BJP MLA booked by Nashik cops||NASHIK: The Indiranagar police booked BJP MLA Devyani Pharande under IPC sections 269 and 188 on Tuesday night for taking a delegation of 30-40 women to the Indiranagar police station in the afternoon. A delegation had gone to the police station in connection with a molestation case in the Wadalagaon area. Senior PI Nilesh Mainkar said: “The MLA should not have brought the crowd to the police station. The police had taken action.” Phrande said, “The police could have cordially asked the women to leave, assuring them that they (the police) would come to their place. The police also did lathicharge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bjp-mla-booked-by-nashik-cops/articleshow/79927940.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||ABAP unhappy with ‘slow pace’ of Kumbh preparations||HARIDWAR: The Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) on Wednesday slammed the Kumbh Mela administration for the slow pace at which the arrangements are ongoing in Haridwar for the mega fair, scheduled in 2021. Addressing media persons at Niranjani Akhada, ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri asked the state government to issue notification for the Kumbh Mela by January 1. “We inspected the ongoing construction works in all 13 akhadas and in other areas of the Kumbh Mela region. However, the progress of the works doesn't look good. The mela administration has reduced the number of sectors and bridges in the Mela area. Either Mela officers did not listen to the government order or they are not taking the fair seriously. If elections can take place during Covid-19, then why is the Kumbh Mela being delayed? The notification of the mega event should be issued on time. The Kumbh Mela administration has also not started land allotment so far,” said Giri. According to TOI sources, the state government will issue the notification for Kumbh Mela in the last week of February. Meanwhile, additional Mela officer Harbeer Singh told TOI, “Most of the works relating to the Kumbh Mela will be completed before January. As far as the notification of the Kumbh Mela is concerned, the government will take a decision soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/abap-unhappy-with-slow-pace-of-kumbh-preparations/articleshow/79928714.cms||MS Nawaz
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||17 booked for night curfew violation on Day One||NAGPUR: As many as 17 people from across the city have been booked for violating night curfew, that came into force on Tuesday. Though the state government had announced the night curfew considering the new Covid strain scare in UK, the decision has been taken in view of the ensuing Christmas and New Year celebrations, which may further worsen the pandemic situation in the state. In commercial areas like Sadar, Sitabuldi, Itwari, Gandhibagh, Mahal, Sakkardara etc, senior police officials took to the streets to ensure enforcement of the night curfew. The cops have also caught many citizens unawares as they took the night curfew announcement very lightly. Many eating joints, especially restaurants, bars and pubs, were found functioning violating the time limit restrictions as several citizens were seen stepping out of the establishments till late night. Nagpur city police said the initial focus was on hotels, restaurants and other business establishments that remain open till late night and 17 persons from across the city were booked for venturing out during the seven-hour curfew period. As most of the eating joints and resorts are situated outside city limits, doubts are being raised if citizens go to such places where no Covid-19 guidelines are being followed. In such condition, the night curfew will defeat its very purpose to break the chain of Coronavirus spread. To make sure the night curfew remains effective, Nagpur city and rural police have decided to conduct joint operation in their respective jurisdictions. Both city and rural police will ensure no eating joint remains open beyond permissible time limits of 10pm. The joint action by both city and rural police is part of a decision taken in a meeting convened by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and attended by district collector Ravindra Thakre, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, commissioner of police (Nagpur city) Amitesh Kumar and rural SP Rakesh Ola. The decisions taken in the meeting will be strictly followed, said Ola. On Day One of the night curfew, police personnel, especially in areas where most eating joints are situated, were seen shutting the shops at 10pm sharp. Ola said he has already instructed senior inspectors of 22 police stations in Nagpur rural to ensure all eating joints and resorts are closed by 10pm everyday. “While life is almost back to normal during the day time, there is still curfew in place between 11pm and 6am. Unless it is for some medical emergency, people are not supposed to be out during that time,” said the rural SP. If any hotel or eating joint is found violating the time restrictions, action will be initiated against not only the owners but the concerned police stations also. “We have also formed teams to be deployed at toll booths at Gondkhairi, Mouda, Butibori etc connecting Nagpur city to check all vehicles coming towards the city,” said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/17-booked-for-night-curfew-violation-on-day-one/articleshow/79928720.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy district gets first three Amma mini clinics||Trichy: The first three of the 58 Amma mini clinics proposed for Trichy district were opened on Wednesday. State tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan and backward and minorities welfare minister S Valarmathi inaugurated the Amma mini clinics at Sangiliyandapuram and Anna Nagar in Thennur in Trichy corporation limits and Thayanur in Manikandam union in the presence of Trichy collector S Sivarasu. Trichy has been sanctioned 58 Amma mini clinics including 54 clinics in the rural areas, three clinics in the corporation jurisdiction and one clinic in Manapparai municipality. The officials said that the clinics will be opened in the rest of the areas at the earliest. Minister Valaramathi said that the Amma mini clinics will be opened in Thiruvembur, Manikandam, Andhanallur, Mannachanallur, Manapparai, Marungapuri, Vaiyampatti, Lalgudi, Pullambadi, Musiri, Thathaingarpettai, Thottiyam, Thuraiyur, Uppiliyapuram in rural Trichy. Amma mini clinics will function from 8 am to 12 pm and 4 pm to 8 pm in corporation and municipality areas. The timing for the Amma mini clinics in town panchayats and rural areas will be 8 am to 12 pm and 4 pm to 7 pm on all days except Saturdays. Each clinic will have a doctor, a nurse and a health worker. Deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy, Dr A Subramani, said that the doctors and health staff appointed under the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) programme will be manning the Amma mini clinics. The officials are in the process of identifying rent-free government buildings in rural areas for setting up the clinics.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-district-gets-first-three-amma-mini-clinics/articleshow/79930930.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Pune||Recruitments for medical college in Pune may begin in January||PUNE: The civic body is expected to issue advertisements for various posts in its medical college by the end of this month, paving way for the recruitments in January. A total of 120 teachers and 144 non-teaching staffers will be hired for the college, which is expected to become operational at Kamla Nehru hospital campus from the next academic year. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has completed the process of trust formation for Bharatratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College. Its trust includes elected members of the civic body. “The parameters for the recruitment have been finalised. The advertisement for the recruitment will be issued around December 30. As the college is going to start at the hospital, some staffers will be available readily,” Ashish Bharati, head of PMC’s health department, said. He said Central norms had been followed to set up the college. Hired doctors will be paid on par with their counterparts in civic hospitals. It will be in accordance with Sixth Pay Commission recommendations. An expert committee gave the green signal to start the college in November. Proposal was then sent to e National Medical Commission for final approval. The visit of NMC committee is expected in February next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recruitments-for-medical-college-may-begin-in-jan/articleshow/79929557.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Protest planned at Nagpur, Vid farmers indifferent||Nagpur: Swabhimani Paksha leader Raju Shetti, who had mobilized farmers’ one-day protest in Mumbai on Tuesday, plans to hold an agitation in Nagpur also. Shetti told TOI, the protest may happen by this month-end or January first week. The state’s farmers are being mainly led by Swabhimani Paksha and Akhil Bharitya Kisan Manch — the peasants’ wing of Communist Party Marxist (CPM). Apart from the protests in Mumbai, a batch of 8,000 farmers has left for Delhi to join the main agitation there. Sources said majority of them are from Nashik, while some are from other districts across the state. Shetti said there were plans to send another batch of farmers to Delhi. However, they are being stopped at Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh border itself. Sources in the outfits mobilizing the farmers agreed that the response to the stir was lukewarm in the region as it may not immediately affect Vidarbha’s farmers. Yashvant Zade of All India Kisan Sabha said, “A large number of farmers from Nashik district came out because the outfit has a strong base in the area.” The Sabha is conducting meetings in rural areas of Vidarbha too, but the farmers here have not been much enthusiastic so far, he said. Zade said he had no communication about the agitation planned in Nagpur, though he may get an intimation soon. Shetti added that farmers want the government to make purchase and minimum support price (MRP) mandatory, rather than going for market intervention when rates fall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/protest-planned-at-nagpur-vid-farmers-indifferent/articleshow/79928728.cms||Shishir Arya
December 24, 2020||Patna||Impart special training to cops in Bihar: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday asked senior officers to ensure specialized training required for state police in the state itself and make the forensic laboratory at Bihar Police Academy in Rajgir fully functional at the earliest. He also asked the senior officers to chalk out plans for police modernization in state and get CCTV cameras installed at all sensitive locations to help maintain better law and order. The CM visited the police headquarters at Sardar Patel Bhawan and held a high-level meeting with additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani, DGP SK Singhal and other senior police officers heading different wings. Nitish said the state government would provide all required resources for training its police personnel in addition to central funds for the purpose. After ADG (SCRB and Modernization) NK Azad made a presentation on police modernization, Nitish said elaborate plan should be drawn for the purpose. Later, the CM told the media that police would bring more improvement in law and order situation in state. “I have already spoken to them thoroughly on the law and order matter. Every aspect of the matter is being looked into in detailed manner and is being analysed,” he said. The CM directed the officers to increase the number of doctors at the Rajgir academy hospital and make arrangements for all kinds of training facilities on its campus. He also asked the officers to develop natural water resources inside academy and ensure the Ganga water supply there. DG (training) Alok Raj made a PowerPoint presentation and apprised the CM about police training programme to be conducted at AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies in Patna in January for handling of land dispute cases. ADG-cum-BPA director Bhrigu Srinivasan informed the CM that 150 DSPs, 2,000 police sub-inspectors and 300 excise inspectors had completed training at the Rajgir academy. He also apprised the CM about online mode of training adopted during the Covid-19 pandemic. Altogether 24 DSPs and 1600 SIs were undergoing such training, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/impart-special-training-to-cops-in-state-cm/articleshow/79929558.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Laptops, other valuables stolen from parked cars||PUNE: Unidentified person(s) broke the rear windows of three parked cars at Bavdhan and Wakad and made off with two laptops, cellphone and and a dash cam, collectively worth Rs60,000, on Sunday night.  Pimpri Chinchwad police said the suspect(s) used a blunt object to break the window glasses. The same night, two thefts were reported from Deccan and Koregaon Park in which laptops and cash, collectively worth Rs1.5 lakh, were stolen. Prashant Jadhav (37), a sales executive with an automobile dealership, had parked his car around 6.30pm on Sunday along the service road of the Katraj-Dehu Road near JSPM college. When he returned after 15 minutes, he found his bag containing laptop, worth Rs 10,000, stolen. Around the same time, one more incident of theft from a parked car was reported from along the service road of bypass. Thieves broke the window glass of a car and stole the dash cam and cellphone collectively worth Rs 25,000. Around 9.30pm the same day, thieves struck at Bavdhan. They broke glass of a car parked along NDA-Pashan Road and made off with laptop and other valuables worth Rs 35,000. Vivek Mugalikar, senior inspector, Wakad police, said, “We suspect involvement of the same gang in all the three thefts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/laptops-other-valuables-stolen-from-parked-cars/articleshow/79929555.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||Pune civic body seals 190 properties||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sealed 190 properties for non-payment of property tax even after notices were issued to owners asking them to clear the dues through an amnesty scheme. A process for auctioning these sealed properties will be initiated if the owners further fail to clear their dues. According to the PMC records, around Rs4,500 crore is to be recovered from property tax defaulters. This includes Rs2,000 crore as principal amount and Rs2,500 crore as penalty. Around Rs350 crore has been recovered through the amnesty scheme. “Some property owners paid the tax after their properties were sealed,” said Vilas Kanade, head of the PMC property tax department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-seals-190-properties/articleshow/79929552.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Goa||NIO, Navy to ink MoU, work on ocean studies||Panaji: The Indian Navy and the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) will be signing a Memorandum of Understanding to collaborate and exchange expertise in the field of ocean studies. The MoU between NIO and the Navy’s directorate of naval oceanology and meteorology will formalise the informal cooperation and scientific research being undertaken between the two agencies informally. As party of the agreement, NIO and the Navy will undertake joint studies in the field of oceanography, particularly ocean modelling, ocean data collection and other professional engagements. The MoU will be signed virtually on Thursday afternoon by Commodore AA Abhyankar and professor Sunil Kumar Singh, director, CSIR-National Institute of Oceanography. Naval officials said that the Indian Navy and CSIR-National Institute of Oceanography have a long history of informal cooperation in various scientific domains of interest and this MoU will now facilitate a roadmap for further meaningful interactions that is drawn on mutual strengths of the two organisations in the specific fields of oceanography. “This collaboration will now facilitate utilisation and sharing the expertise of both the organisations with the latest developments in the field of oceanography,” said NIO in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nio-navy-to-ink-mou-work-on-ocean-studies/articleshow/79931052.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad quack booked after specific tip-off, clinic sealed||AURANGABAD: A 40-year-old quack has been booked by the city police after the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation officials found that he was running a full-fledged ‘Bengali clinic’ in Savitrinagar of the Chikalthana area. Medical officer Dr Archana Rane lodged a complaint against the suspect, following which a case under IPC sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating) was booked. In addition, sections of the Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, 1961, have also been slapped on the suspect. MIDC Cidco police station inspector Vitthal Pote told TOI: “We have detained the quack identified as Nayan Dhali, who ran the Durgamata Hospital.” Civic body officials said that after receiving a specific tip-off, an inspection was carried out by a medical officer. The medical authorities found that on the display board of his clinic, Pote had mentioned a degree and a registration number. Both were found to be false.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-quack-booked-after-specific-tip-off-clinic-sealed/articleshow/79927968.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Excavated cement road on IRR just 5-yr-old, cost Rs65L||Nagpur: The stretch of cement concrete road excavated recently on Inner Ring Road (IRR) was constructed just five years ago at a cost of Rs65 lakh sanctioned by the state government. TOI had on December 18 highlighted that state’s Public Works Department (PWD) excavated 500 meter stretch of cement concrete road on IRR for laying new layer, under the IRR Widening and Concretization Project. The stretch is situated at Dabha. PWD officials had then said the cement concrete road was constructed some 10 years ago. PWD sources told TOI, “Cement road of 500 meter was constructed in March 2015 as pilot project of Ultra Thin White Topping (UTW) technology on the directives of one of the ministers. Cost of the project was Rs64.57 lakh and sanctioned under the PWD’s annual fund approved by the government.” The cement road split into pieces when hit by the mechanical breaker. There was no reinforcement (steel rods) in it, raising suspicious. Reinforcement is mandatory in construction of cement concrete road. PWD official said, “Reinforcement is not used in UTW technology, which makes it cheaper.” Asked for the reason for removal of the cement road, PWD officials said the stretch was undulating and also had cracks in many places. They also said new layer on it would have created other problems. The life of cement road is considered to be 50 years, and even up to 100 years. Architect Pradyumna Sahasrabhojanee said, “Excavation of cement road caused loss of Rs65 lakh public money. Inquiry should be conducted on surface layer getting undulated and developing cracks within five years. It means quality of construction was bad.” As per PWD officials, the cement road was constructed by contractor DC Gurubakshani. City MP Nitin Gadkari became Union minister for road transport and highways in 2014. He had sanctioned Rs400 crore for IRR Widening and Concretization Project in 2014-15. The PWD prepared detailed project report and also executed the project. This raises a big question on reason behind construction of 500-meter cement road with a new technology when entire IRR of 40km, including this particular stretch, was supposed to be concretized using routine technology under the project. This reflects improper planning as cement road was constructed and new project planned by the same agency itself in the same year. PWD superintending engineer Vidyadhar Sardeshmukh said, “There was need for excavation of that cement road for laying new layer as per our engineers. I will conduct an inquiry on cracks developed on the cement road within five years or before that, and also look into reasons behind uneven surface layer.” The officials ruled out an inquiry into improper planning of two works on same road in one year, which resulted in loss of public money. In the city, earlier, a flyover at Chhatrapati Square was demolished to pave way for a new one. Similarly, a decision has been taken to demolish the poorly planned flyover in front of the railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/excavated-cement-road-on-irr-just-5-yr-old-cost-rs65l/articleshow/79928740.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 24, 2020||Meerut||Groom arrested & sent to jail after his video of celebratory fire during wedding goes viral||MEERUT: A newly-married man was booked, arrested and sent to jail in UP's Shamli on Wednesday after he was allegedly involved in celebratory gunfire during his wedding procession last month. A purported video of the incident went viral where the groom could be seen sitting on a horse and firing from a country-made weapon. And the incident came to light on Tuesday. Taking cognizance of the video, an FIR has been registered at Babri police station in Shamli district. The man - in his 20s - was then arrested by the local police and sent to jail. The video was filmed during the marriage procession, and the groom on the way to his wedding got carried away and fired a shot in the air from his horse. The weapon looked more like a country-made shotgun. According to sources, the incident took place during the man's wedding on November 24. However, the video surfaced on social networking sites on December 22, and came to the notice of authorities almost a month later. Police identified and traced the man, who is from Shamli. An FIR has been registered under IPC section 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) and relevant sections of the Arms Act, senior police officials said. "A video of the groom firing shots in the air from an illicit weapon was shared online. The accused has been arrested and the weapon used in the incident recovered," Shamli SP Sukirti Madhav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/groom-arrested-sent-to-jail-after-his-videoof-celebratory-fire-during-wedding-goes-viral/articleshow/79928745.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||Pune police reject plea to hold Elgar Parishad on December 31||PUNE: The city police on Wednesday rejected the application of Justice (Retd) B G Kolse Patil-led Lokshasan Andolan Sanstha seeking permission to organise Elgar Parishad at the Ganesh Kala Krida Manch between 2pm and 7pm on December 31. “We have rejected the plea in view of the Covid-19 situation, especially after recent reports of a new strain of the virus in the UK, and the law and order considerations. We have conveyed the decision to the organisers,” Pune commissioner of police (CP) Amitabh Gupta told TOI on Wednesday. Kolse Patil, a former Bombay high court judge, said, “I am not in Pune, but have learnt only a few moments back about the police’s move to deny us permission for the event. We shall move the Bombay high court for permission considering that we had already booked the venue and were looking ahead to hold the event.” On December 22, the Lokshasan Andolan Sanstha moved a plea before Swargate police station’s senior inspector seeking permission to hold the event. The latter referred the matter to city police higher-ups. It was considered by the CP and other senior officers at a meeting on Wednesday before rejecting the plea. Senior inspector was told to convey the decision to the organisers. The Elgar Parishad, last held on December 31, 2017, at the Shaniwarwada as a part of the “Koregaon Bhima Shaurya Din Abhiyaan”, sparked row over allegations of provocative speeches that, according to police, contributed to caste clashes on January 1, 2018. In a subsequent probe, Pune police claimed the event was a part of a larger conspiracy by the banned CPI (Maoist) to foment trouble and overthrow democratically elected governments. The case has since been handed over to the National Investigation Agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-reject-plea-to-hold-elgar-parishad-on-dec-31/articleshow/79929559.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 24, 2020||Meerut||To check celebratory firing, verification drive of 7,000 arms owners in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: To keep a check on celebratory firing, Muzaffarnagar district administration has now started a verification drive of 7,000 arms owners. They will need to provide details on the use of cartridges in 2018 and 2019, among other details. The verification process is being conducted at Police Lines where every arms holder must provide an affidavit with an undertaking that he would not use his weapon against the conditions on which the licence was issued, police sources said. The exercise, sources said, is not just being conducted in Muzaffarnagar but in other districts, too, as per the directives of the state. Apart from submitting affidavits, the arms owners will have to provide details about the bullets bought in the past two years. Reserve inspector of Police Lines Raees Khan said, "The arms holder should fill up a form which has 25 points, including celebratory firing, and needs to give details of the bullets used. Action will be taken against those who fail to give a satisfactory reply." SSP Abhishek Yadav said, "If we find any irregularity, necessary action will be taken." The ongoing verification drive may be conducted twice a year, police sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/to-check-celebratory-firing-verificationdrive-of-7000-arms-owners-in-mnagar/articleshow/79928726.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 24, 2020||Patna||Make Darbhanga international airport, Nitish Kumar urges Hardeep Singh Puri||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar wrote a letter to Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and also talked to him on Wednesday, requesting for more flights to Darbhanga airport, development of permanent terminal amenities there and naming it after Maithili poet Vidyapati. Puri assured the CM to do the needful at the earliest. “Darbhanga airport is being used by many people in a very short time period. It has the potential to provide connectivity to a large number of people. I had proposed during the foundation laying for the civil enclave on December 24, 2018 to name it as ‘Vidyapati airport’. The then minister, Suresh Prabhu, had agreed to the proposal. Apart from people from Mithilanchal region, it is my feeling as well that Darbhanga airport be notified as Vidyapati airport,” Nitish wrote. The airport belongs to Indian Air Force and flight operations commenced here on November 8 this year. The airport is presently handling three flights of SpiceJet to Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai daily. Nitish has requested Puri to increase the number of flights as well by roping in more airlines. “It is also required to have direct connectivity to Darbhanga from few more prominent cities in the country,” he wrote. The flight operations at Darbhanga commenced following construction of a civil enclave over an area of 15,000 sq ft. Nitish has demanded construction of a permanent terminal building over there. “It is expected from the central government to initiate steps for transfer of land earmarked for construction of permanent terminal building by the Air Force to Darbhanga airport at the earliest. The state government has already allocated funds for acquiring 31 acres of land from the Air Force for the terminal building,” Nitish wrote in his letter. Darbhanga airport has a runway of 9,000ft and six check-in counters and two aprons. The CM opined that it can be developed as an international airport along with cargo services. “Airport expansion along with night-landing facility and installation of necessary equipment for enabling flight operations during poor visibility owing to foggy conditions are required for making it an international airport,” the letter stated. Nitish also requested the minister to initiate steps for raising the boundary wall around Darbhanga airport for security purposes. He said if required and upon approval from the central government, the state government can also take up this work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/make-darbhanga-international-airport-nitish-urges-puri/articleshow/79929618.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 24, 2020||Pune||Reduced capacities and tokens at Pune churches for Christmas Mass||PUNE: Various big and prominent churches have instituted early starts and finishes, reduced capacities and introduced token systems to conduct the midnight masses on Christmas eve on Thursday with the night curfew coming in force. Churches of all denominations in the city had to prepone their midnight masses for Thursday. They also had to seek permission from the local police to hold the gatherings. The entry to the services, some of which have been staggered, has also been restricted, with none of the crowds that marked services at prominent churches in the previous years being expected on Thursday, including at St Patrick’s Cathedral. “We will hold the service inside the church itself. Only 150 people will be permitted inside. Only one service will be held, which will be finished by 9:15pm, much before the night curfew comes into effect,” said SA Louis, rector of the St Patrick’s Cathedral. Services of the Cathedral are often held on its vast grounds to accommodate the parishioners, as well as visitors from other religions, during Christmas. Other churches, like the St Xavier’s Church near the Shivaji Market in Camp, have instituted a token system with the help of its community. It has also obtained permission from the local police to conduct a physically-distanced service on the adjacent St Anne’s School grounds. “The police have given us permission to hold a service for 1200 people at the St Anne’s School compound. All safety measures, including masks and sanitization, have to be followed. We have also implemented a token system,” said Macdonell Baptista, a parishioner at the St Xavier’s Church. “ People with the tokens will be allowed in. Their names will be mentioned on the tokens. Community leaders went around to gather names of those interested to attend. Only those people have been registered and tokens issued in their names,” he added. Some church leaders have, however, criticised the state government and also the local authorities for not consulting the community leaders before implementing the 11pm- 6am night curfew arrangements from Monday till January 5 and mandating the staggered and short services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reduced-capacities-and-tokens-at-churches-for-christmas-mass/articleshow/79929584.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Varsities to get VCs by January||Hyderabad: State Planning Board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar on Wednesday said the government will soon fill all vacant vice-chancellor posts in Telangana universities by the end of January 2021. Speaking at a seminar on ‘Higher Education-Post-Covid Era’, Vinod Kumar said in the recruitment of faculty in universities facing legal litigations “a procedure be laid down so that such hurdles are not faced”. “Even if it requires bringing in a law, let us work together, ” he added. Referring to the Bihar model of a consortium of selected faculty, who are posted based on the recruitment, Vinod said that needs to be explored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/varsities-to-get-vcs-by-january/articleshow/79930977.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Water board to study Delhi’s free scheme||Hyderabad: With the state government gearing up to fulfill its free water promise — made during the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls — a team of senior administrators from the HMWS&SB will soon visit Delhi to study the feasibility of this scheme. The Arvind Kejriwal government is implementing the free water scheme in the national capital by sprucing up the billing system and other logistics to generate revenue for the Delhi Jal Board (DJB). The TRS government is now working on the modalities to provide free water to those who consume 20,000 litres every month in the state capital within a few days. “It’s a marathon exercise to implement free water scheme in the GHMC and its peripheral areas. We are expecting a GO in a day or two. MA&UD conducted a series of meetings with HMWS&SB officials to frame guidelines for the eligible consumers,” water board sources told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-to-study-delhis-free-scheme/articleshow/79931013.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 24, 2020||Pune||36 stolen vehicles recovered in Pune||PUNE: The Khadki police have arrested Alex Lawrence Grams (59), a criminal on record, from Kasarwadi and recovered 36 stolen vehicles from him. The police arrested four of the five men for planning a dacoity on October 29. The fifth suspect, Qureshi, is on the run. A police team, led by sub inspector Pratap Giri, arrested Grams following a tip-off on December 16. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said, “Grams has admitted his involvement in stealing 36 vehicles.” He has also stolen goats from Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, and elsewhere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/36-stolen-vehicles-recovered/articleshow/79929612.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Mumbai||Churches to rework Christmas mass timings after Maharashrta govt curbs||MUMBAI: Archbishop of Bombay, Oswald Cardinal Gracias on Wednesday night issued a video message to priests urging them to rework Christmas mass timings in keeping with new guidelines issued by the home department. “One possibility is to increase masses, have shorter services at quicker intervals. If suitable space is available, you can simultaneously hold masses in different halls. Stagger the beginning of masses a bit to avoid crowding during entry and exit,” Cardinal Gracias said and added that he had contacted government authorities who told him the home department had decided to limit participants to 50 on Wednesday morning. St Michael’s Church (Mahim) decided to cancel masses on December 24 and 25 at the church. The Christmas Vigil mass on December 24 at 9pm and Christmas Day mass at 8.30am will be streamed online. This is only for Christmas and New Year, parish priest Fr Lancy Pinto said. Our Lady of Lourdes, Orlem, Malad, too will only stream masses online. The department issued a circular due to the new strain of Covid-19 that emerged in the UK. The document includes guidelines on social distancing, sanitation and fumigation, which are similar to those issued by Archdiocese of Bombay on December 15. Home minister Anil Deshmukh appealed to Christians to keep celebrations “simple and low key, and follow all Covid norms”. He urged caution in permitting senior citizens above 60 and children below 10. The circular stipulates that mass attendees maintain social distancing, the church be disinfected at regular intervals, a maximum of 10 choristers be permitted with physical spacing, and shops, stalls not be set up outside the church. Thanksgiving mass on December 31 must be held at 7pm, instead of midnight, no cultural events or processions are allowed that draw crowds and no firecrackers may be lit. The government has suggested that online mass be held to avoid crowds. But the sudden cap on participants evoked anger and upset the community, and forced churches to reschedule services. Colaba parishioner Sukrina Lobo of RC Church said, “It is definitely heartbreaking to hear this at such short notice, considering that we had prepared to limit attendance to 100 people as per the circular sent last week. Prior registrations were made at most parishes. It will be very difficult now to be selective and restrain parishioners from coming for services. Of course, we will follow the new rules.” Priests questioned the department’s logic behind permitting only 50 for Christmas mass on the day the state reopened amusement parks and water sports to the public. A priest from Central Mumbai said, “Isn’t there an ambivalence in this move? Moreover, we have advanced mass timings to 8pm to finish before 11pm curfew. We have made masks mandatory, ensured social distancing norms are in place, and all churches will only accommodate 30-50% of their capacity. Fumigation and sanitisation is being carried out. What else should we do, cancel festivities entirely?” Fr Dennis Gonsalves of Byculla’s Gloria Church said, “At least for Christmas, 200 people should be allowed. We have made all arrangements.” A priest in Bandra said the government should have given them 10 days’ notice. A parishioner said, “In buses we have more than 50 persons. We have churches which accommodate 500 people, and after keeping social distance, we can host 200. Then why the curbs?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/churches-to-rework-christmas-mass-timings-after-maha-govt-curbs/articleshow/79930050.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Covid turnaround: This Christmas, home bakers can have their cake and eat it too||New Delhi: The year might not have been sweet to many hospitality professionals after the Covid-19 pandemic robbed them of their jobs, but for the enterprising, the uncertain employment scenario provided the opportunity to start their own ventures. From gingerbread cookies and plum cakes to jams and baked items, these trained people transformed the home baker experience into profitable entities delivering top quality items at par with those from a top-notch bakery. The decision of these pastry entrepreneurs to turn a crisis into an opportunity is bearing fruit, with the social media posts of these chefs and bakers eagerly anticipated by buyers, especially in the days leading up to Christmas. After losing his job in May, chef Amit Wadhawan started his own range of relishes, jams and preserves with wife Reetica Sawhney. After selling his first product in July, Wadhawan says his kiwi and yuzu jam, black currant and apple jam, apple brandy butter, malted chocolate and gluten- and fat-free and vegan options have become the choice of buyers in his locality. Even some hotels have started stocking his jams for their unique taste and quality. Pastry chef Sakshi Singh, who was stranded home during the lockdown, started helping her mother, Vandana Singh, in the latter’s baking delivery La Leurre Cakes and Desserts. Sakshi baked sourdough bread to while away her time, but soon found herself overwhelmed with orders for cookies, babkas (sweet braided bread), plum cakes, brownies and customised cakes. As word spread about the goodness of her goodies, she had to struggle with numerous orders every day. Not that she is complaining. Sakshi happily explains her modest venture is thriving. Hospitality professional Meenakshi Sharma Bajaj is equally happy about having begun her own home enterprise, French Heart Bakery, under the guidance of her pastry chef husband. Bajaj says people can expect a home touch to her products, which are made in small batches, are made to order and freshly baked. Rather than devise her own menu, she noted the demand to finally come up with her offerings, such as ragi and barley breads and customised cakes. Those who turned their hobby into a profession, such as Mona Kapoor who opened Mona’s Bake Box, are already fulfilling several daily orders for festive cakes. Kapoor says the demand from friends has been for “guilt-free” cakes and as a result she is daily sending out sugar-free and gluten-free confections made with almond flour, jaggery and organic cocoa — all stuff that’s easy on the conscience. It has been an eventful year for pastry chef Mitali Sahni too. She had to close a stable bakery during the lockdown, but has now started her own home bakery brand, Mr and Mitts Bakery. Her cakes, mini desserts, rustic beads and artisanal coffee plus her savoury snacks gained popularity in no time. For the festive season, Sahni’s reindeer macarons, snowman choux, DIY gingerbread houses and hot chocolate premixes are proving a rage. These stalwart efforts of home bakers are being supplemented in the Christmas season by the city’s prominent bakeries. Ankita Sood of The Artful Baker says the past few days have been good, with customers in good numbers placing orders, particularly of millet and sesame crackers, banana bread, bite-sized pastries, regular cakes, and, of course, healthy and gluten-free items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-turnaround-this-christmas-home-bakers-can-have-their-cake-and-eat-it-too/articleshow/79939718.cms||Amin Ali
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandi poser to CM on cow slaughter||Hyderabad: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar demanded that CM K Chandrasekhar Rao make his stand clear on cow slaughter in the state. He demanded that the government implement the directives on cow slaughter issued by SC. “Cow is sacred for Hindus,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-poser-to-cm-on-cow-slaughter/articleshow/79931050.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Industries hit by sharp increase in raw material rates||NAGPUR: Industrialists of the region have expressed concern over the sharp increase in prices of raw materials used by them, and requested the government to take steps to contain the prices. A press release issued by a joint coordination committee stated that steel prices had increased from Rs37,000 per tonne to Rs54,000 per tonne in the past six months and the trend is continuing. Iron ore too has seen an increase from Rs3,000 per tonne to Rs6,000 per tonne. Copper has increased from Rs4.5 lakh per tonne to Rs6.8 lakh per tonne, PVC Resin from Rs60,000 to Rs1.4 per tonne, nitric acid from Rs9,000 per tonne to Rs20,600 per tonne. Severe shortage of these materials too is being seen, particularly electrical steel, PVC resin, iron ore and steel scrap. The shortages are providing an opportunity for middlemen to raise the costs even further. Hence, the working capital requirement is shooting up and still 40% more capital is now required to cope with the situation. Emergency working capital limit provided under ECGLS scheme has been fully utilized by MSMEs. This has affected all MSMEs that manufacture end products and those which operate under annual rate contract to complete their orders. Thousands of micro, small and medium industries engaged in manufacturing activities using steel and allied raw materials are badly affected. They are not able to keep up their commitments or to secure fresh orders for manufacture and supply. With the prices of raw material spiralling higher, MSMEs are faced with severe cash crunch, resulting in erosion of working capital with most of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/industries-hit-by-sharp-increase-in-raw-material-rates/articleshow/79931079.cms||Ashish Roy
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Neither merry nor joyous, festive biz in a lull||New Delhi: Kanika Arora Bablani’s phone used to be buzzing at this time of the year with people asking her to organise impromptu Christmas and New Year’s celebrations. As associate director of one of the biggest events companies, Touchwood Group, Bablani planned and executed many events in a day. This year, though, there is a complete lull in her calendar. From product launches, weddings and mall activations to themed events, December was not only one of the busiest times for event organisers but a big employment generator. “However, there are no big celebrations or major party plans this year. It will take a lot of time for such activities to normalise,” Bablani said. Salil Chaudhry of Sports and Gift Emporium in Khan Market concurs with Bablani and discloses that his business is down 30% from last year. With most malls, hotels and clubs having cut down on their décor budget, he is not required to provide festive props for themed celebrations. Orders from offices used to constitute big business for the décor people, but the closure of most offices has been a big setback for them. In the absence of any major events and no certainty of footfall at places that are organising programmes, Chaudhry’s business has suffered a direct impact. The closure of schools and salary cuts too have hit business. “This year, people are sticking to merely a small Christmas tree and not going overboard with festive purchases. Earlier, students also dropped in with parents to buy décor items, but not this year,” he said, adding that whatever small crowds the markets had started attracting had also dwindled with news of the more contagious coronavirus strain in the UK. It is not just the artistes, musicians, décor and retail stores that are facing the music. Even wholesale markets are logging fewer sales than usual. Kunal Pahwa of Pindi Rubber Works, wholesale supplier of imported theme party décor, attributed the lack of too many options in the market this year to the restrictions on travel and imports. He calculated that festive-season business will be just 50% of last year. While Christmas sales gladdened the hearts of Sadar Bazaar market traders, this year shop owners and suppliers to hotels in north India have no takers for their wares. Whatever orders he has received have been online, revealed Pahwa, adding that businessmen are now pinning their hopes on Valentine’s Day and Holi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/neither-merry-nor-joyous-festive-biz-in-a-lull/articleshow/79939747.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Nashik||Special Rajdhani from Mumbai 4 times a week||NASHIK: The Central Railways will run a Rajdhani special train on four days of the week between Mumbai and Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station (in Delhi) for the first time since the train was stopped after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24. The 01221 Rajdhani special will leave Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 4.10 pm on Mondays, Wednesdays, Friday and Saturdays from December 30 and reach Hazrat Nizamuddin at 11am the next day. In the return journey, 01222 Rajdhani special will leave Hazrat Nizamuddin at 4.55am on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays from December 31 and reach Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus 11.50am the next day. The trains will halt at Kalyan, Nasik Road, Jalgaon, Bhopal, Jhansi and Agra Cantonment. While going to New Delhi, the train will arrive at Nashik at 6.43pm. The train returning from Delhi will reach Nashik at 8.30am. The train reservation will open from December 25. As it is a ‘special’ train, only passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the platform before the arrival of the train. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/spl-rajdhani-from-mum-4-times-a-week/articleshow/79928036.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Man arrested for stealing jammer put on his car by cops||NAGPUR: Sadar police on Wednesday arrested one Deepak Ledwani, a resident of Jaripatka, for running away with a jammer put on his four-wheeler by Nagpur traffic police. Police constable Sayed Ahmed attached with Sadar traffic zone on Tuesday put a tyre jammer on a wrongly parked car bearing number MH-31-FA-3911 on Mount Road, to ensure the driver was forced to pay a fine for traffic violation. When Ledwani returned to his vehicle, he saw the jammer and decided to take matters into his own hand. He allegedly unscrewed the wheel along with the jammer and put in the back of his vehicle. He replaced the wheel with a spare and drove off. Later, Sayed lodged a complaint of theft against the car owner and on Wednesday the police traced the owner and arrested Deepak Ledwani. The police produced him before the court which granted him bail on deposit of personal bond of Rs15,000. Meanwhile, Ledwani has been fined Rs3,800 by the traffic police for keeping the jammer with him from the day of the incident till Wednesday. It is learnt that he did not pay the fine. There is a provision to levy a fine of Rs50 per hour on the driver who does not approach the vehicle after seeing the jammer on his car. If a vehicle is parked in a no-parking area, the traffic police can impose a fine of Rs250.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-arrested-for-stealing-jammer-put-on-his-car-by-cops/articleshow/79931126.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Coimbatore||City gets another direct afternoon flight to Mumbai||Coimbatore: From today, frequent fliers to Mumbai will have another flight and timing option with low-cost airline GoAir launching an afternoon flight to the commercial capital.The flight will depart from Mumbai at 12.40pm and land here at 2.30pm. It will leave from Coimbatore at 3pm and reach Mumbai at 4.50pm. It can accommodate 180 passengers.Go Air has launched a flight to and from the city for the first time. Until Wednesday, the city had two non-stop flights to Mumbai - IndiGo’s 6.15am flight and Air India’s 1.30pm flight. “The new 3pm flight will give fliers two afternoon options,” said an airport official.GoAir chief executive officer Kaushik Khona said the present traffic between Coimbatore and Mumbai justified introduction of another flight on the route. “We chose Coimbatore because timings and the route was viable and we can see stable demand between the two cities, unlike routes which see a seasonal or cyclic demand,” he told TOI. “We are seeing demand among not only business fliers, but also leisure travellers who are travelling for holidays. Coimbatore is also an entry and exit point to neighbouring Kerala and Ooty.”According to GoAir, the number of domestic fliers has been increasing by 10% month-on-month to hit 63.54 lakh in November. “If the response is good, we will start flights to Bengaluru and Pune. We also plan to offer a Coimbatore-Pune-New Delhi connection, so people can fly to New Delhi with one stop,” said Khona. The airline is now accepting bookings to Bengaluru flights from February.Based on demand, GoAir will offer Coimbatorians a seamless way to fly abroad via Mumbai, as it is operating flights to Male and Dubai. “Though passengers will have to change flights, we will check-in baggage with international flight norms, move the baggage to the next flight seamlessly and ensure the stopover time is ideal,” Khona added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-gets-another-direct-afternoon-flight-to-mumbai/articleshow/79929707.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Mini truck topples on AJC Bose Road flyover in Kolkata, 7 critical||KOLKATA: Seven people were seriously injured after the mini truck they were travelling in toppled on AJC Bose Road flyover on Wednesday afternoon. The mini truck, cramped with 29 people, including women and children, was returning after a cremation ritual at Babughat when the incident took place. As the injured people lay unconscious on the flyover and were bleeding from their wounds, the Victoria South Gate-Park Circus flank of the flyover had to be shut down for traffic for nearly 30 minutes. Cops said that all the passengers of the truck were taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital (CNMCH) and they underwent preliminary treatment. Seven of them, including a 12-year-old child, were in a critical condition. Ranjit Roy (42), one of the seriously injured passengers, is in ventilation and doctors stated his condition to be very critical. He had suffered multiple injuries on his face. The incident took place around 4:25pm. The mini truck had taken the flyover, heading towards Bamunpara at Ballygunge Phanri. Aakash Mahali, who was admitted to the hospital, said, “The vehicle was running at a high speed. We had tried to caution the driver a couple of times. After crossing the flyover flank that leads to APC Road, the vehicle started shaking slowly and then vigorously. All we heard was a loud thud. When I came back to senses and opened my eyes, I found that I was being helped by a police officer to a vehicle. They brought me here for treatment.” Cops said that the incident took place on the flyover after crossing the Bangladesh High Commission. “From eye-witnesses, we heard that the driver had slammed brakes so hard that the vehicle toppled with its face in the opposite direction and it was dragged to around 30 meters. This can only happen due to some severe mechanical fault. This is being checked,” said a police officer. Asha Mahali, who was also treated at CNMCH, said, “An elderly family member had died. We had gone to Babughat for the ghat-kaaj. While returning, the accident happened. All family members had gone there. There were some relatives who arrived from Burdwan too for the last rites. The vehicle was being driven in a reckless manner.” Cops said they are trying to trace the driver who had fled the spot after the accident. However, the owner of the vehicle has been located and contacted. The driver is a resident of the Tiljala-Tangra area and will be arrested soon, said a police officer. The vehicle is being sent for mechanical tests. “Raids will be carried out to trace the driver,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mini-truck-topples-on-ajc-bose-road-flyover-7-critical/articleshow/79929713.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Malayalam director declared brain-dead, shifted to Kochi||Coimbatore: Malayalam film director Naranipuzha Shanavas, 40, was declared brain-dead at a city hospital on Wednesday. Shanavas was shooting for his upcoming film Gandhirajan in Attapadi in Palakkad, when he suffered a massive heart attack on Sunday. KG Hospital spokesperson P Kantharaj said Shanavas was brought to the hospital on Sunday evening in a state of cardiogenic shock, which stops the heart from pumping blood. “His kidney and brain functions were also affected. We put him on renal replacement therapy, a form of continuous dialysis after which his kidney began recovering. But his brain function did not recover. Doctors declared him brain-dead on Wednesday morning,” he said.Shanavas’s family and crew however, decided to shift him to the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences in Kochi for a second opinion. They left Coimbatore with him around 5.30pm. Police created a green corridor and appealed to the public on the Coimbatore-Kochi route to cooperate, as the family wanted to transport him in one-and-a-half hours. The journey usually takes four hours.Shanavas had made his debut with Karie, which was released in 2015. His second film Sufiyum Sujatayum starring Aditi Rao Hydari, Jayasurya and Dev Mohan, was released on Amazon Prime Video last July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/malayalam-director-declared-brain-dead-shifted-to-kochi/articleshow/79929715.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Coimbatore||3 sandalwood tree stalks stolen from crematorium||Coimbatore: Smugglers cut and stolen three sandalwood tree stalks from the Sunnah Jamaat Kabarasthan in the city on Tuesday night. However, no complaint was filed as the stalks, which count as large saplings, were quite small in height. The corporation and the jamaat both maintain the crematorium. “The crematorium’s security is an elderly person who noticed the trees were cut and alerted mosque authorities. He did not see or hear anything at night. They also have only a 5-ft compound wall, which is easily scalable,” said a constable attached with the Selvapuram police. “But there was no complaint because the trees are small.”However, many institutions like SACON, VOC Park have complained multiple times about smugglers even cutting trees that are hardly eight to nine years old, with barks that are just several inches thick. “They cut the trees even when they are thin and even before they can mature and grow,” says SACON director K Shankar. “We are scared that we will not have naturally occurring sandalwood trees anymore,” he adds. This is despite them erecting tree guards around each tree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-sandalwood-tree-stalks-stolen-from-crematorium/articleshow/79929729.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Farmer suicide: SP says no cheating, min Bacchu Kadu for thorough probe||AMRAVATI: Maharashtra state school education minister Bacchu Kadu on Wednesday said a thorough probe would be conducted in Dhanegaon farmer suicide case even as Anjangaon police made no arrest in the matter despite booking a cop and two orange traders in the case. In a video message issued today, Kadu said he would be visiting the farmer’s bereaved family. Terming the suicide of the farmer and subsequent death of his younger brother due to heart attack as unfortunate, Kadu said the precious life of the farmer could have been saved had he informed him of his plight early. “I came to know about the letter he had written to me asking for justice only after his death,” said Kadu in the video clip that has now gone viral. Meanwhile, rural SP Hari Balaji told TOI that farmer Ashok Bhuyar had consumed liquor heavily when he reached Anjangaon police station to lodge complaint and was making tantrums there. “In order to bring him to senses, a cop did slap him in the back,” said Balaji, adding medical examination of Bhuyar confirmed that he was in an inebriated state. As for the allegation of two orange traders who bought his crop forcibly taking his signature on payment receipt without paying him the amount, Balaji said there was no cheating. “We checked the documents. There was no cheating,” he said. Balaji said the farmer was demanding extra money from the traders even though he was fully paid for the crop. The SP also cited an audio clip gone viral in which the trader is heard to be complaining about the deceased’s behaviour of beating female workers plucking oranges, abusing them and throwing their orange carts. “The matter is still under investigation and nothing concrete has come out yet to warrant arrest of anybody,” Balaji told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmer-suicide-sp-says-no-cheating-min-kadu-for-thorough-probe/articleshow/79931137.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: This trust helps poor diabetic children||COIMBATORE: City-based Idhayangal Charitable Trust, which has been providing free insulin to poor children with Type 1 diabetes, is now raising funds to buy insulin pumps. There are 1,500 children with type 1 diabetes in Coimbatore districts alone, of whom 80% can’t afford even basic insulin, said consultant endocrinologist at Kovai Medical Center and Hospital and founding trustee of the trust Dr Krishnan Swaminathan. “An insulin pump is like an artificial pancreas that produces a basal dose of insulin in small doses throughout the day. With a small press on the device, a child can increase dose before or after meals or reduce it before exercise.” The device, which costs Rs 1.5 lakh, has been sponsored by the trust for 120 children. The trust has tied up with insulin pump supplier Medtronic and philanthropic institutions to get the pumps for as low as Rs 65,000 per child. “An insulin pump is life changing, because it reduces 12-16 pricks over four days to one prick once every 4 days, and is a painless insertion. The pump gives children the freedom to eat whatever they want and exercise, all this while reducing chances of hypoglycemia, brain edema and seziures. The pump is a part of standard treatment for type 1 diabetic children in the west,” Swaminathan. Started in 2017, Idhayangal Charitable Trust supports 200 children with Type 1 diabetes across the state. “We have also sponsored Rs 10,000 worth of consumables every month to them,” the doctor said. The trust gives donors a chance to adopt a child for Rs 3,000 a month. “It actually costs Rs 6,000 a month to support a child with type 1 diabetes — including needles, pen cartridges, glucometer and glucometer strips. We have also sponsored 100 refrigerators to store the cartridges,” said Swaminathan. The trust also raises funds to educate girl children with Type 1 diabetes until college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/this-trust-helps-poor-diabetic-children/articleshow/79929759.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Coimbatore||1,100 small tea farmers get Rs 14cr subsidies||Udhagamandalam: Tea Board of India (south) has disbursed about Rs 14 crore as subsidy to around 1,100 small tea farmers under various schemes this financial year. In a bid to improve the quality of tea in the hills, enhance the production, productivity and quality of made tea, the board has been providing various subsidies to the tea growers. It encourages the production of orthodox teas to ensure quality and to help tea growers to fetch higher price in the market.In addition to subsidies, educational stipend and Nehru Award are being provided to the wards of the plantation workers. Financial assistance to disabled persons, who are working in plantations, for medical purpose is also being provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1100-small-tea-farmers-get-rs-14cr-subsidies/articleshow/79929746.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Trichy||DMK’s charges against AIADMK leaders genuine, says K N Nehru||Trichy: A day after the DMK delegation led by president M K Stalin submitted a memorandum to the governor levelling corruption charges against top AIADMK leaders, party principal secretary K N Nehru said they had not made any baseless allegations. “Our president (Stalin) submitted a memorandum of 97 pages pointing out the corruption against them. We brought it to the governor’s notice before moving the court. We don’t make baseless allegations. If we are at fault, they can take action against us,” Nehru told reporters while participating in the grama sabha meeting campaign “We Reject AIADMK” at Peruvalanallur in Lalgudi, Kuratheru in Trichy west and Poonampalayam in Mannachanalur constituencies. He also said that some of the ministers have been holding the same portfolio for more than ten years which was unprecedented. He criticized the Amma mini clinic scheme calling it an election bait. “Can they reveal how many doctors have been recruited for it? They divert doctors from primary health centres (PHCs) and other places to the clinic,” he said. Nehru said the Pongal gift of Rs 2,500 to rice card holders will not have any impact on voters. “Even if they give Rs 5,000 or Rs 10,000, people will vote for DMK as they are fed up with the government’s failure,” he said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmks-charges-against-aiadmk-leaders-genuine-says-k-n-nehru/articleshow/79931139.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Voters list for panchayat polls same as for assembly elections: HC||NAGPUR: While dismissing a petition that contested deletion of a Chandrapur resident’s name in the gram panchayat voters list, the high court (HC) clarified legal provisions stating the list is based completely on electoral roll of Maharashtra legislative assembly. The petitioner had approached the Nagpur bench of Bombay HC after his name was shown as ‘deleted’ in the gram panchayat list notified on September 25. The State Election Commission (SEC), through advocate Jemini Kasat, told the court that changes, if any, need to be done during a specified period in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly electoral roll itself. Kasat contested the petition saying the gram panchayat voters list is simply taken from the legislative assembly roll, as has been specified under Section 12 of the Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act. Kasat also submitted before the court that there are separate procedures given for revision of voters list prepared for parliamentary and assembly polls under Section 22 and 23 of the Representation of the People Act (1950), and Registration of Electors Rules (1960). Kasat reiterated in his arguments that there was no merit in the petition, based on review of the existing legal provisions. Assistant government pleader NR Patil too took the same line of argument. The bench headed by justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote dismissed the petition by citing reasons in its detailed order. Their order went into the rules under Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act as well as a previous order by a division bench in a similar case, and held that the name of the petitioner could not be included in the voters list after September for the purpose of gram panchayat elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/voters-list-for-panchayat-polls-same-as-for-assembly-elections-hc/articleshow/79931138.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Six arrested for trying to sell tusks||COIMBATORE: The forest department arrested an anti-poaching watcher and five others at Pollachi on Tuesday for attempting to sell a pair of tusks. After receiving a tip from Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) that tusks were sold at a pet shop in NM Sungam, Pollachi, two teams of the forest department and WCCB officials visited the shop around 8pm on Tuesday, a forest official said. Posing as customers from Kerala, officials inquired about tusks. When shopowner P Manikandan feigned ignorance, officials said that they had purchased tusks from him before. When the owner acknowledged the claim, officials requested him to present the tusks to verify their authenticity. As soon as tusks were presented, officials seized them and detained Manikandan, the forest official added. On questioning him, Manikandan revealed that tusks were removed from dead elephants by anti-poaching watcher K Samiappan and A Kathavarayan, a sanitary worker at the Anaimalai Tiger Reserve, while they were on patrolling duty. Subsequently, they passed the tusks to Sikkandar, a resident of Angalakurichi, who kept it in a farm house with aid of one Sarathi. To sell the tusks, they enlisted the help of the shopowner and his friend Nanda Kumar. Officials arrested all the six after the seizure and booked them under the Wildlife Protection Act. The accused were later produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/six-arrested-for-trying-to-sell-tusks/articleshow/79929788.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Ramanathapuram police seize 3,800kg of ration rice seized||COIMBATORE: The Ramanathapuram police on Tuesday night seized 3,800kg ration rice from a warehouse, which was to be smuggled to Kerala. Police had raided the warehouse on Nethaji Nagar at Ramanathapuram after receiving a tip-off. “We found 76 sacks of ration rice and detained Sahul Hameed. Inquiry revealed that Hameed, along with Jafer, was planning to smuggle the rice to Kerala,” a police officer said. The accused and the seized rice were handed over to the food cell police. Ten days ago, flying squad of the civil supplies and consumer protection department, food cell police and forest department had arrested three people for attempting to smuggle 500kg ration rice from the district to Kerala near Anaikatti check post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3800kg-of-ration-rice-seized/articleshow/79929774.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Air emergency again: Two back-to-back ‘severe’ days||New Delhi: Delhi’s air quality remained in ‘severe’ category for the second consecutive day due to light wind, low minimum temperature, high moisture level and poor ventilation. Air Quality Index (AQI) of the national capital was 433 on Wednesday, according to Central Pollution Control Board. On Tuesday, it was 418. CPCB’s central control room data showed that the 24-hour average PM2.5 concentration for Delhi-NCR was in ‘emergency’ range of Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) as it remained above 300 micrograms per cubic metre for over 16 hours. The 24-hour average PM2.5 concentration for Delhi-NCR crossed 300-mark at 3 am on Wednesday and was 312.2 micrograms per cubic metre at 6 pm. The standard for PM 2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre. The 24-hour average PM10 concentration for Delhi-NCR was 476.2 micrograms per cubic metre at 6 pm on Wednesday, as against standard 100 micrograms per cubic metre. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Calm winds prevailed over Delhi from Tuesday night to Wednesday afternoon and led to accumulation of pollutants. The average wind speed of 5 kmph was recorded later in the day, which impacted dispersion process. The low minimum temperature and high moisture level due to fog slowed the dispersion of pollutants.” On Wednesday, the minimum temperature was recorded at 4 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal. Moderate fog was observed during the morning hours as the visibility dropped to 200 metres. Met officials said cold wave conditions were reported in parts of Delhi. VK Soni, head, Environment Monitoring and Research Centre, IMD, said, “The air quality deteriorated mainly due to calm winds during daytime and poor ventilation. However, it is predicted that the air quality may improve marginally on Thursday. The air quality is likely to see improvement after December 25 after the wind speed may pick up.” System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said on Wednesday: “Under the high humidity and cold temperature, night-time inversion layer height is becoming too low, keeping pollutants near the surface, which is forecast to continue until tomorrow. These conditions will continue to put a brake on the dispersion of accumulated pollutants.” “AQI is forecast to stay in the ‘severe’ category by December 24 but thereafter, it may marginally improve to the higher end of ‘very poor’ on December 25 due to slightly better ventilation conditions,” it added. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature on Wednesday was 23.3 degrees Celsius. The minimum and maximum are likely to be around 4 and 23 degrees, respectively, on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-emergency-again-two-back-to-back-severe-days/articleshow/79939784.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 24, 2020||Agra||‘Love jihad’: UP Police find ‘missing’ woman in Delhi||AGRA: A team of UP Police found a 21-year-old woman from a house near Delhi’s Karkarduma metro station on Wednesday, 35 days after she went “missing” from Etah district. Meanwhile, Mohammad Javed, the main accused of “abduction and unlawful conversion” of the Hindu woman to Islam along with four of his close relatives remained elusive. Etah police approached a local court to issue non-bailable warrants against the five men who are on the run after being booked under the new anti-conversion law of the state. The court issued the warrants against the five accused in the afternoon. Three teams of Etah police are searching for them. So far, 14 relatives of Javed, including three women, have been arrested and sent to jail. The woman was brought to Etah on Wednesday evening. “After medical examination, she will be produced in court on Thursday,” a police officer said. Deputy superintendent of police Ram Niwas Singh said, “After six days of efforts, we managed to recover the woman from a house near Karkarduma metro station in Delhi. The main accused had kept her at his friend’s house. She is not willing to share any information about allegations of her abduction and unlawful conversion, as made by her father. She will tell everything in court on Thursday.” 28-year-old Javed and his five family members were booked on last week for allegedly kidnapping the woman and converting her to Islam at Etah’s Jalesar police station. According to police, the woman had been missing since November 17. But her family filed a case last Thursday when they received a letter by Javed’s lawyer from Delhi purportedly informing about the woman’s conversion and the subsequent marriage in a court. The case was registered under IPC section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) and under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. When contacted, Zafar Alam, a social activist, said, “The entire fate of such cases depends on the statement of the woman in court. UP Police should restrain from arresting family members of the accused in cases of ‘love jihad’ before on record confession of the victim.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/love-jihad-up-police-find-missing-woman-in-delhi-non-bailable-warrant-issued-against-5-accused/articleshow/79928065.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Micro industries feel pinch of rising raw material costs||COIMBATORE: Like other industries in the district, micro industries too have started to feel the pinch of rising price of raw materials. To tide over the current crisis and minimize the loss, micro industries in the district have demanded the product manufacturers to accept rise in price of spare parts supplied to them by 30%. Following the increase in price of raw materials, the product manufacturers had increased the price of their products by considerable percentage but most of them are not ready to buy spare parts with revised price hike of 30%, they said. District president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT) J James said, “We have been supplying spare parts to product manufacturers like pump sets and wet grinders, with a marginal profit of just 8%. With an average increase in the price of raw materials by 25%, we were forced to bear huge loss as the product manufacturers do not accept our revised price of spare parts.” Explaining that the number of inquiries has fallen considerably in the recent times when the industries had been recovering from the Covid-19 pandemic, he said that even those who place orders want the industries to supply the products for the price that was quoted months ago and are not considering the increase in price of raw materials. “Following the usage of automatic machinery, companies providing job orders to micro industries had provided Rs 300 as labour’s wage per hour. But now, they have reduced it to Rs 150 to Rs 180. In this rate, it is impossible for the industries to sustain because they will have to pay wages to the labours, electricity bill and loan. That’s why we have been demanding the manufacturers to increase the labour wage by 50%,” he added. The members also demanded the central government to set up a micro industry park at 25 to 30km away from the corporation limit as most of the industries are functioning in rental building and are paying up to Rs 20,000 as monthly rent. Pointing out that the loan that was announced during the pandemic time for the industries is applicable only to those who had already taken a bank loan, James said that the government should announce a separate scheme for all the industries and include it in their election manifesto. The district has about 10,000 to 15,000 micro industries doing spare parts and another 20,000 industries doing job orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/micro-industries-feel-pinch-of-rising-raw-material-costs/articleshow/79929790.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||MSEDCL to miss deadline for solar farm pumps||NAGPUR: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has set a target of installing one lakh solar agricultural pumps per year. This is a difficult task as Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has been able to install only 60,000 such pumps in two years under the Mukhyamantri Saur Krushi Pump Yojana (MSKPY). The erstwhile BJP-Shiv Sena government had set a target of installing one lakh solar farm pumps in November 2018. MSEDCL was asked to complete the job by June 2021. However, officials say the target will be achieved by September 2021 end. A senior officer said MSEDCL had issued demand notes to a large number of farmers, but many had not paid up till now. “This is delaying the project,” he added. MSEDCL is installing pumps of 3 horse power (HP) and 5 HP capacity in the state. Farmers belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) category have to pay 5% of the cost. The figure for a 3 HP pump is Rs12,750 and that for a 5 HP pump is Rs19,250. Other farmers have to pay 10% cost of the pump, which comes to Rs25,500 for a 3 HP pump and Rs38,500 for a 5 HP pump. Maximum number of solar pumps have been installed in Jalna district of Marathwada region — 9,803 — followed by the neighbouring Beed district 5,636. In Vidarbha, maximum number of pumps have been installed in Washim district (adjoining Marathwada) — 3,599 — followed by Buldhana district — 2,831. In Nagpur district, only 1,416 pumps have been installed. Meanwhile, the state government has sanctioned Rs1,500 crore per year for coming five years to MSEDCL for providing farm pump connections — conventional as well as solar. This amount is to provide connections to farmers who had applied from April 1, 2018 onwards. Energy minister Nitin Raut has promised to provide 8 hours three-phase power supply to farmers during day time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msedcl-to-miss-deadline-for-solar-farm-pumps/articleshow/79931144.cms||Ashish Roy
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Car rams into guard rails for naka checking, driver held||KOLKATA: A car, approaching towards Chowbaga Road at a high speed, hit the road divider and guard rails before coming to a screeching halt around 9.45pm on Monday when cops were about to begin naka checking. The driver, Neeraj Pant (29), who was behind the wheels of the car under the influence of alcohol, was arrested. None was reportedly injured. Cops flagged down the car near EM Bypass but the driver sped up in a bid to escape and dashed the road divider, damaging some parts of the guard rails on the road. The spot, where the incident was reported, houses an outpost for Anandapur police. “The driver of the car was heavily intoxicated and could not produce any valid driving license,” said a police officer. According to sources, the accused introduced himself as a kin of a defence personal. Cops also lodged a suo-motu FIR in connection with this incident. Arindom Sarkar, a sergeant of Anandapur police station stated in the FIR that the accused drove the car in a rash and negligent manner, endangering human life and safety to others on eastern flank of Chowbagha Road. The accused has been charged under sections 185, 130(1) and 177 (general provisions) of the Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/car-rams-into-guard-rails-for-naka-checking-driver-held/articleshow/79929824.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 24, 2020||Trichy||CBI conduct searches at nationalised bank||PERAMBALUR: Sleuths from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) from Madurai conducted a search at a nationalised bank in Perambalur on Wednesday. According to sources, a team of five headed by inspector, Madhusoodhanan, arrived at the branch located at Venkatesapuram at 11 am on Wednesday and verified all the records and ledgers maintained by the bank. The search went on till 4 pm. During the search, the CBI authorities reportedly questioned all the staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cbi-conduct-searches-at-nationalised-bank/articleshow/79931147.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Panel to propose health hub in West Bengal||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission will propose the concept of a health hub to the state government — a facility that will have patient care services under one roof. The decision was taken during the annual meeting of the health commission on Wednesday. “The health hub will function under the commission. Once the concept paper is ready, we will send the proposal to the government. It can be a facility by the government or a private facility or the one on PPP model,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairperson of WBCERC. The commission entrusted Sugata Dasgupta of RG Kar Medical College to prepare the concept paper within a month. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/panel-to-propose-health-hub-in-state/articleshow/79929849.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Bareilly||Probe ordered after Asaram’s followers distribute blankets, books inside UP jail||Bareilly: Days after blankets and books were distributed inside UP's Shahjahanpur district jail by followers of self-styled godman and rape convict Asaram Bapu, DG jail Anand Kumar has ordered a thorough probe on Wednesday. Notably, a man whose daughter had been raped by Asaram demanded the probe for "glorifying" the convict during a programme held inside the prison. The programme was reportedly held on Monday by two of Asaram’s "criminal" followers, Arjun and Narayan Pandey. Arjun is a co-accused in the case of murder of a key witness. He has been absconding since. Narayan, 27, secured bail on "health grounds". A shocked father in Shahjahanpur questioned how the jail authorities could allow an absconding murder accused Arjun and an undertrial Narayan Pandey to distribute blankets and Asaram’s books inside the prison. "There is definitely a larger conspiracy. Even though Arjun has been absconding, he is still running Asaram’s ashram in Lucknow. In the prayer meet, Asaram was glorified," the father claimed. "Action should be taken against the guilty officials. They must have helped Narayan Pandey to secure a bail citing medical reasons,” he added. The event was also held despite strict restrictions on visitors’ entry into state prisons amid the Covid pandemic. DIG jail RN Pandey will take up the probe. He is expected to visit the district jail in Shahjahanpur soon. “The allegations are serious. We will also check whether Arjun actually visited the jail with the ashram team. Any official found guilty will not be spared,” Pandey told TOI on Wednesday. When quizzed, jail superintendent Rakesh Kumar said, “The blanket distribution event was held after a request from Narayan Pandey. When he was lodged in one of the prison cells here, he suffered from GB syndrome and became paralysed." Jail authorities gave him proper treatment due to which he was able to recover, Kumar added. "After securing bail eight months ago, Narayan said that he wanted to do something for the poor in the jail and requested us to allow him to distribute blankets. Our jailor was monitoring the event and inmates were given a blanket and a set of Asaram’s books,” the jail superintendent explained while dismissing any allegations that Asaram was "glorified". The incident came to light on Monday when an official from the Shahjahanpur district jail released a press note and a few photographs stating that a set of six books - published by Asaram’s ashram - along with a blanket each were distributed to 75 jail inmates. The press note and photographs were retracted soon after. The Shahjahanpur girl had accused Asaram of raping her in his Jodhpur ashram and had lodged a case in this regard. Asaram was arrested by the Jodhpur police in 2013, and has been kept in prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/probe-ordered-after-asarams-followers-distribute-blankets-books-inside-up-jail/articleshow/79928088.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Health cards for everyone by Aug: CM||New Delhi: The health department was directed by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday to select a vendor by February 2021 for issuing health cards to all residents of the city. The system is expected to be implemented by August next year. The health cards, which are a part of the ambitious Health Information Management System (HIMS) to be implemented in Delhi government hospitals, would be QR code-based to identify and track basic clinical details of patients so that services like immunisation of children, follow-up check-ups, etc could be done effectively. All family members would be mapped so that there is active data about their health. Kejriwal gave the direction while reviewing the HIMS project, e-health cards and helpline. The authorities concerned were asked to ensure that the helpline was finalised by mid-2021. Health minister Satyendar Jain, while expressing satisfaction over the work done on HIMS, e-health cards and helpline, instructed the department to complete them within the fixed time frame. Under HIMS, a web portal and mobile app would be launched. A cloud-based database of the health information of all residents would be maintained to enable people to avail information on one platform, which would help during an emergency. All patient care services, hospital administration, budgeting and planning, supply chain management and back-end services and processes would be brought under the system. “Once implemented, Delhi will become the only state to have a cloud-based health management system. This facility will be extended to private hospitals in the future,” Delhi government said. The e-health cards would help map residents for all eligible schemes and programmes. Integration with HIMS would be done for seamless information exchange. Physical cards with QR codes would be issued to each person after physical verification. A provision would also be made for issuing modified or duplicate cards. A centralised centre with two escalation levels would be set up to implement the scheme. In the first level, the operator would receive calls and messages, give relevant information to the caller and make a report. In the second level, Delhi government doctors and experts would give patients an appointment to meet them. In case of an emergency, they would immediately accept the calls of patients and resolve their issues. If required, they would contact specialised doctors for the disease. The centre is expected to have a total of 45 seats, five of them for peak hours. The number of seats at night and during holidays may be reduced by 10. Each shift of the 24-hour call centre would be of eight hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/health-cards-for-everyone-by-aug-cm/articleshow/79939814.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||USDMA and IIRS join hands for conducting urban flood hazard assessment of areas along Rispana and Bindal rivers||DEHRADUN: In a first, Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority (USDMA) and Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS) to conduct urban flood hazard assessment of areas along Rispana and Bindal rivers, and also in other parts of Dehradun city. The project involves the use of high-resolution spatial data from Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) based surveys to prepare various inputs as required for hazard analysis, said a senior USDMA official. Particularly, the UAV-based survey of areas along Rispana and Bindal rivers in Dehradun would be carried out. Some areas have already been identified for the survey while some will be identified later, according to Ridhim Agarwal, Additional CEO of USDMA. Also, high-intensity drones would be used for getting high resolution images to identify areas where there are changes of blockades in the event of heavy rains and there is possibility of submerging of nearby areas. The whole project will be completed within one year, said Ridhim Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/usdma-and-iirs-join-hands-for-conducting-urban-flood-hazard-assessment-of-areas-along-rispana-and-bindal-rivers/articleshow/79928094.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||First trial a success, Metro set to run till Dakshineswar in February-end||KOLKATA: The first trial run for north-south Metro’s 4km extension from Noapara to Dakshineswar was successfully completed on Wednesday. “After Dakshineswar station is added, Kolkatans can hope to use 31km of north-south corridor by February-end,” Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi, who was on board the first train from the Noapara terminal, told TOI. Once the new 4km elevated section is commissioned, people can travel all the way from the temple town of Dakshineswar in the northern suburbs to Kavi Subhas (New Garia) in the extreme south. The existing Kavi Subhas-Noapara line, cutting the city’s north-south axis covers 27km. Around 15km of it is underground. The trial run started around 10.30am on the GM’s special coach from Noapara. The GM stood in the motorman’s cabin, watching the maiden run through viaduct and the newly built Baranagar station. On reaching Dakhineswar station, Joshi, along with senior officials, inspected the platforms, concourse, entry and exit gates, circulating area, lifts, escalators and other passenger amenities. Locals stood by the side of the tracks to watch the train roll up and down. Following successful trials, the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) will inspect the new section in a month from now. CRS, under the ministry of civil aviation, gives the mandatory safety nod for commercial operations of any new Metro line in the country. But the preliminary permission (“minor sanction” in railways’ lingo) from the CRS is pending. “Continuous trials can start only after this,” said an official of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), tasked to implement most of the city’s Metro projects. “The CRS has asked for documents that we have sent. The physical inspection’s date will be given by CRS and its inspection conducted. Then there would be other formalities that must be duly fulfilled. We can hope for operations to start in February-end,” the Metro GM said. Effectively, the new Dakshineswar Metro will link the southern suburbs with the northern suburbs, via central Kolkata. People from vast stretches on either side of BT Road, Bally, Dunlop, Dankuni will be able to access the city’s and India’s first underground rapid transit system. “In the next two months, off and on, trains will be run along the stretch culminating in the start of full-fledged operations post the CRS nod for commissioning,” an RVNL official said. Of the 4km tracks, 1.5km are on the railway embankment of Dakshineswar railway station. The rest is on an viaduct. Track work was finished two months ago and that of other systems, like signalling and electrification, was done. Stations started getting finishing touches since September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1st-trial-a-success-metro-set-to-run-till-dakshineswar-in-feb-end/articleshow/79929855.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Travel travails for south Kolkata commuters as buses on 14 routes stay off roads over losses||KOLKATA: Commuters in south Kolkata had a trying time on Wednesday, when nearly 14 routes suspended their services, citing huge losses due to sharp rise in operating cost.  Kamal Das of 42a,/42b and 42c syndicates said operations on routes 12, 12a, 12b, 12c, 1b, 1a, 42a, 42b, 123, 161, 39 were suspended. The West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association will hold an emergency meeting on Thursday to review the situation and decide whether to continue with or discontinue the suspension of services. Wednesday’s withdrawal of services left commuters in the lurch, especially in the evening peak hours, when the number of buses suddenly dropped drastically. “I had to wait for a long time in the evening. When I failed to get any direct bus, I changed three buses to return home. I also had to pay thrice the fare,” said Amit Sarkar, a lawyer. But bus operators claimed to have no choice. “We have been struggling to remain afloat during the pandemic and the state has made the situation worse by not revising the fare. The diesel price is now Rs 78 a litre. There aren’t enough passengers but we have to keep running our essential services,” said Pradip Narayan Basu of West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners’ Association. Basu also alleged they have not been paid for ferrying health workers during the lockdown. But government officials said the payment was being processed and that many operators had received their money. A state transport official, however, claimed buses of only a handful of routes were suspended. “We have to see whether the suspension was due to shortage of passengers or for other reason. We deployed enough state buses. We have no report of commuters facing inconvenience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/travel-travails-for-commuters-as-buses-on-14-routes-stay-off-roads-over-losses/articleshow/79929903.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||Statehood agitators stage protest over long-pending demands||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand statehood agitators staged a protest against the state government in Dehradun on Wednesday to push their long-pending demands — including making Gairsian a permanent capital, proper investigation in the infamous police firing incidents held in various cities during statehood agitation, a recognised board for the state agitators, land reforms in the state, among others. Various state agitation groups took out a march up to the Vidhan Sabha but were stopped mid-way. After being stopped by the police force, the agitators staged a sit-in protest and raised slogans against the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/statehood-agitators-stage-protest-over-long-pending-demands/articleshow/79928101.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt in talks to acquire land to set up Ramayapatnam port||Amaravati: Putting the process for the development of Ramayapatnam port in Prakasam district on fast track, the district administration has started negotiations with farmers for land acquisition. The district administration is planning to take over nearly 3,800 acres in which 800 will be acquired in the first phase. The government has set 2024 as target to commence commercial operations from the port. The district administration has identified land in Karlapalem, Avulavaripalem and Modivaripalem villages of Gudlur mandal for acquisition in the first phase. Lands in Ravuru, Chevuru and Salipet villages would be taken over in the next phase. The Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board would pay land acquisition compensation to the locals identified by the district administration. “We are planning to commence the port construction works as soon as possible after land acquisition. We are going to call tenders for the port construction in January-February,” said AP Maritime Board managing director K Ramakrishna Reddy. Reddy said that Ramayapatnam port would have four berths in the initial stage. He said that the port in Prakasam district would spur the development particularly in the backward regions of Kandukur constituency. Local legislator Manugunta Mahidhar Reddy is playing a key role in convincing the locals to part with their lands. Mahidhar Reddy is promising 75% jobs to the locals who gave up their lands. In addition, the legislator is also promising to get decent compensation for the land under the Land Acquisition Act, 2013. “It is my responsibility to see that people from my constituency get benefitted the most from the port development. The locals are keen to support the project,” said Mahidhar Reddy. Refuting the speculation that entire Rapur village would be evacuated, Mahidhar Reddy said that the district administration had identified only agriculture lands for the acquisition. “There is no truth that Rapur village would disappear once the port construction commenced. We will not touch the houses in the village,” said MLA. Mahidhar Reddy said that fishermen will be provided better facilities to continue fishing activities even after the completion of the port. He added that they would provide other employment opportunities to the fishermen who would be losing livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-in-talks-to-acquire-land-to-set-up-ramayapatnam-port/articleshow/79930144.cms||Samdani MN
December 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Another man branded as informer, killed by Maoists||Visakhapatnam: Maoists killed a man at Vangarai village under Pedabayalu mandal in Visakha tribal area on Wednesday. The deceased, 27-year-old Chikkudu Satish — a resident of Chintagondi village under G Madugula mandal — was branded a police informer by the militants. The security forces’ armed outpost (AOP) at Nurmathi is only eight kilometres from the spot of the incident. This is the second such killing in the last ten days to take place close to a security outpost. On December 14, 35-year-old Gemmeli Krishna Rao of Vakapalli was branded an informer and killed. According to sources, Satish was a militia member and police had put up posters of him at various places. However, many within the Maoist ranks started growing suspicious of him following a few encounters, surrenders, and arrests of their cadres. Sources said around 40 Maoists entered the village and dragged Satish out of his house on Tuesday night. His wife was beaten when she and other villagers tried to stop the Maoists. After interrogation, he was hacked to death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/another-man-branded-as-informer-killed-by-maoists/articleshow/79930541.cms||Siva G
December 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||379 new Covid-19 cases in AP, three more dead||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 379 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,79,718. The toll increased to 7,085 as three more succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease. Deaths were reported one each from Chittoor, Kadapa and Krishna. As many as 490 patients were declared cured on Wednesday. There are currently 3,864 active cases with 8,68,769 cumulative recoveries and 7,085 deaths. Krishna reported 84 new infections on Wednesday, followed by Chittoor (64). The remaining 11 districts logged less than 50 cases with Vizianagaram recording as low as four cases. There are only 72 active cases in Vizianagaram and 92 in Kurnool. Other than Krishna (678) and Nellore (535), the active cases dropped below the 500-mark in the remaining 11 districts. So far, four districts have achieved a recovery rate of 99% . Andhra Pradesh conducted 57,716 Covid-19 tests and detected 379 new cases on Wednesday. This translates to a case positivity rate of about 0.7%. The overall positivity rate stood at 7.7% with 1.14 crore tests conducted as of Wednesday since the beginning of the outbreak in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/379-new-covid-19-cases-in-ap-three-more-dead/articleshow/79930182.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cops to start fining parking violators from December 28||VISAKHAPATNAM: City traffic police have warned motorists in the city that heavy fines will be imposed if they were found violating rules under the Motor Vehicle Act. The police have been conducting special campaigns to spread awareness among locals and mall managements on the importance of proper vehicle parking for the last two weeks. Speaking to TOI, additional deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ch Adinarayana said that they would continue the awareness drive till December 27 and from the next day onwards they would go for enforcement drives. “Four special teams with seven police constables for each team have been formed to handle the enforcement drive. We will not excuse violators after December 28”. A senior road transport authority (RTA) officer said that the city has nearly 9.34 lakh motor vehicles including around 8 lakh bikes and one lakh motor cars. “As per our estimates, nearly 90% of vehicle owners in the city have no proper vehicle parking practice though we have to admit, the city also doesn’t have proper vehicle parking places,” he said. Police said they were also identifying commercial establishments that do not have cellar parking for vehicles. “During the drive, violators are being counselled but later (for future violations) we will impose a fine of Rs 1,000 in addition to the charges require for towing their vehicles,” a traffic police official said. Most parking problems reported from areas such as Maddilapalem, Dwaraka Nagar, MVP Colony, Madhurawada, Daba gardens, Jagadamba Junction, Siripuram, Vizag Beach, VIP Road, Gajuwaka, Gopalapatnam among other places. Cops said lack of space cannot be used as an excuse for illegal parking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-to-start-fining-parking-violators-from-dec-28/articleshow/79930510.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 24, 2020||Delhi||6 flyers from UK test positive at Delhi airport||New Delhi: Six people who had arrived from the United Kingdom tested positive for the novel coronavirus at Indira Gandhi International Airport on Wednesday. The total count is now 11 passengers and crew members, including five who had tested positive on Tuesday. The swab samples were sent to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for further research using genome sequencing to determine if the infection was of the new strain of the virus, which is considered more infectious. Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder and director of Genestrings Lab, said, “Since the directive from the civil aviation ministry, four flights have landed at IGI Airport. Testing was done as directed, irrespective of any existing reports or exemptions. Over 950 inbound passengers from London were tested at our lab at T3 and 11 of them tested positive. These 11 samples have been sent to NCDC. We do not know yet if any of these are of the new UK strain.” On Wednesday, about 500 passengers arrived on two flights from the UK. “In all, 50 passengers were quarantined. The health ministry has asked for proper contact tracing, so passengers sitting in the same row or nearby rows on the flight might have been quarantined,” said an official. The SOP for surveillance by state governments mentions that all contacts (without any exception) of those travellers who arrived at airports on December 21-23 and tested positive would be subjected to institutional quarantine and tested according to ICMR guidelines. A senior official said that given the uncertainty and fear around the new strain, “both DIAL and Genestrings were fully equipped to brace themselves and be on the forefront to ensure that the country did not face another wave of this deadly virus”. All passengers and crew would be tested on arrival, irrespective of exemptions and existing negative reports. “All those who have tested positive have been shifted to Vallabh Bhai Patel Quarantine Facility and will be kept there till they test negative,” said an airport official. The airport authorities have ensured separate arrangements in the waiting lounge, so that passengers do not share space with those from other countries. The manpower was also doubled overnight to ensure both locations run smoothly and RT-PCR results were given in less than four hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/6-flyers-from-uk-test-positive-at-delhi-airport/articleshow/79939849.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: IAS officers transferred||KOLKATA: The state on Wednesday transferred several senior IAS officers. Vivek Kumar, a 1990-batch IAS officer, who was principal secretary of environment department, will head forest department. Vivek Kumar, however, will continue to be the chairman of West Bengal valuation board. Now, Arnab Roy will be heading the environment department. Roshni Sen a 1993 batch IAS officer will be principal secretary of Sunderbans affairs department. Hrisdesh Mohan, an IAS officer of 1990 batch, was posted as principal secretary of public enterprises and industrial reconstruction department. Soma Bhattacharya was posted as secretary, state commission for protection of child rights. S Poonambalam was posted as executive director of WBIDC. Barnali Biswas was posted as secretary, consumer affairs and self-help group and self-employment departments. Randhir Kumar was posted as additional secretary, technical education department. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ias-officers-transferred/articleshow/79929908.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||More checkposts along AOB to curb inflow of illicit liquor||Visakhapatnam: The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the Vizianagaram police have decided to increase the number of check-posts on the Andhra-Odisha border in a bid to check inflow of hooch and other contraband. The continuing inflow of contraband from Odisha, despite numerous raids and arrests, prompted this decision. SEB officials have observed that people from low-income groups continue to consume illicit liquor for its low cost and bootleggers continue to find ways to move hooch from Odisha to AP. SEB ASP N Sridevi Rao said that there are illegal distilleries operating along the Andhra-Odisha border in Vizianagaram district. “Since the illegal distilleries are located on the Odisha side of the border, we are chalking out plans to conduct joint raids with the Odisha police,” the ASP said. Enforcement bureau officials are also planning to set up check-posts at strategic locations and deploy more police personnel to check inflow of hooch, gutkha, khaini, ganja and non-duty paid liquor (NDPL). Vizianagaram police chief B Raja Kumari said that SEB officials registered as many as 1,511 cases and arrested over 1,600 people between May 15 and December 16. Over 60,000 litres of hooch was seized and three lakh litres of jaggery wash destroyed. More than 500 vehicles were seized. “We are planning to further strengthen enforcement to stop inflow of hooch,” the police chief added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/more-checkposts-along-aob-to-curb-inflow-of-illicit-liquor/articleshow/79930368.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||20-50kg of dry ganja moved from Agency areas every day||Visakhapatnam: A string of recent searches by the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has revealed that between 20 to 50 kilos of dry ganja flow into Vizag city from tribal pockets of Vizag Agency every day. To evade detection, peddlers have taken to selling the contraband in small packets to students and youngsters. The use of weed, especially in the 18 to 30 age category, has become an area of concern for enforcement officials. SEB officials in the city have registered as many as 67 drug busts and seized over 2,300 kilos of dry ganja so far in 2020. Of this, 29 cases have been registered in the past few weeks. Speaking to TOI, ADCP (SEB), Vizag city, Ajitha Vejendla said cannabis is more toxic for teenagers and the increase in consumption of ganja among youngsters is a matter of concern. Apart from weed, some youngsters and students are also using drugs such as LSD, weed oil, MMDA and Fortwin, she added. Nowadays, she added, ganja smugglers are selling weed in small quantities to students and each packet sells for around Rs 100. City police pointed out that some peddlers are procuring LSD and MMDA through the dark web and making payments through Bitcoins. The drugs are then sold to students as well as other individuals at high prices. Some students have also turned drug peddlers to make easy money, police added, and weed is available in a few colleges, especially in hostel blocks. A senior police officer with the City Task Force said drug peddlers have adopted a new strategy to sell weed in small packets at a cheaper price. The strategy is to make weed accessible and affordable, particularly to the student community. Some smugglers are also procuring weed from Vizag Agency and supplying it to Goa and Mumbai in exchange for drugs such as LSD and MMDA, he added. The SEB and police personnel have begun the exercise to identify kingpins in the ganja trade in Vizag city to break the supply chain. Officials said an organised drug network exists in the city that procures ganja from various sources in Vizag Agency and supplies it through a well-oiled network of peddlers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/20-50kg-of-dry-ganja-moved-from-agency-areas-every-day/articleshow/79930478.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 24, 2020||Trichy||Course in biz analytics launched at IIM Trichy||Trichy: Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Trichy inaugurated the first batch of postgraduate certificate programme in business analytics and applications (PGCBAA) on Wednesday. With total 131 students in the inaugural year, the programme is designed to help working professionals to learn the skills and knowledge for asking meaningful questions, addressing it with analysis of data and finally make decisions with insights gained from the analysis. The one-year long programme offered in a device-to-device mode in association with Jaro education is expected to provide a framework for transforming data into business acumen to create an effective business decision-making process. Inaugurating the program, K Ganesh from McKinsey & Company Inc highlighted the need for professionals with a capability to apply analytics in business. He said organisations have transformed to integrate analytics in the decision-making process after the impact of Covid-19 on business. Kumar Alagappan from Hewlett Packard Enterprise, who was the guest of honour, highlighted the need for understanding the business, the requirement of customers and the importance of the human element in using analytics for making decisions. Godwin Tennyson, director in-charge of IIM Trichy, programme directors, were also present during the inaugural event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/course-in-biz-analytics-launched-at-iim-trichy/articleshow/79931149.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Cognizable crimes in AP witness 15% dip||VIJAYAWADA: The state saw a 15% decrease in cognizable crime this year compared to 2019, as per the latest data released by AP police on Wednesday. DGP D Gautam Sawang, who addressed the year-ending press briefing, said amongst cognizable offences, there has been a marked reduction in property offences by 12%, white collar offences by 13%, crime against women by 7.5% and bodily offences by 2%. The DGP started his address by paying tributes to the 109 police officers who lost their lives to Covid-19 pandemic this year. “No one could have seen such a challenge in their lifetime and the police personnel were at the forefront to tackle the virus and in the process got exposed to the danger,” he noted. The annual data also highlights that the 58% increase in enforcement work was mainly due to the contribution of the special enforcement bureau (SEB) formed seven months ago. While excise cases increased by 72%, sand theft cases rose by 56%, gaming act by 33%, gutka cases by 13% and NDPS cases by 9 per cent. Amongst the cognizable offences reported across the state, Kadapa saw a 49% decrease in cases while Nellore saw an increase in offences by 11 per cent. Property offences like robberies, dacoity and murder for gain witnessed a significant decline. Deputy inspector general of police G Palaraju mentioned that theft cases saw a 11% increase primarily due to crackdown on illegal smuggling of sand. When it came to crime against women, rape cases and rapes committed under false pretext of marriage saw a marginal decrease of one per cent. While molestation cases increased by 10%, harassment cases saw a 19% dip. West Godavari, Kurnool and Krishna district police jurisdictions are the major contributors to crimes against women. Worryingly, the state saw a 13% rise in POCSO cases. However, cybercrimes saw a 9% dip this year compared to last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cognizable-crimes-in-ap-witness-15-dip/articleshow/79930419.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Tighten testing, follow-up of travellers, HC tells govt||New Delhi: The looming threat from a new Covid-19 strain found an echo in Delhi High Court on Wednesday, as the judges asked the AAP government to tighten testing and follow up with the travellers. “Keeping in mind the recent decision of the Centre of suspending flights from UK till December 31, and the fact that a large number of people had flown in before suspension of the flights from UK, Delhi government shall ensure prompt and adequate testing and follow up with those found positive with all seriousness to avoid another spate of infection in the city,” a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad noted. The directions were issued while hearing a PIL where the court was monitoring Delhi’s fight against the pandemic. In other key directions, it also asked Delhi government to frame standard operating procedures (SOPs) to deal with post-Covid complications in recovered patients, who continued to face serious health issues and were finding it difficult to resume normal life. “The expert committee already constituted by Delhi government shall examine the aforesaid aspect and come up with an SOP, which will be given wide publicity. Needful shall be done within two weeks. A copy of the SOP shall be filed along with the next status report,” the court directed the government through standing counsel Satyakam. During the hearing, the bench took note of the district-wise Covid data submitted by Delhi government, where it assured the court that it was “enhancing contact tracings and creating more containment zones” where the positivity rate was more. It also told the court that, at a meeting on December 21 by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), it was decided that the “representative testing” shall be followed and focus would be more on pockets where the positivity rate was more. The court observed that the positivity rate in Delhi between December 11 and 20 had dipped from 2.64% to 1.29%, and cautioned the government to ensure “while following the “representing testing”, it should ensure testing through RT-PCR remained higher than RAT.” According to the status report filed by Delhi government, as of December 19, the positivity rate was below 2% in all the districts except North-West, where it was 2.12%. The court on December 3 had directed Delhi government to “focus on testing and tracing” to deal with the number of Covid cases in the capital, as the “fear factor” regarding the virus was “huge” in the minds of the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tighten-testing-follow-up-of-travellers-hc-tells-govt/articleshow/79939860.cms||Abhinav Garg
December 24, 2020||Bareilly||After stand-off & clash in Moradabad, a group of UP farmers reach Delhi border||PILIBHIT: A group of over 200 farmers from Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur and Lakhimpur Kheri districts of Uttar Pradesh, carrying food and other essential supplies for protesters, arrived at Delhi border on Wednesday morning, over 44 hours after they had set off on the journey braving cold weather in open tractors, police scrutiny at over 12 check posts and a stand-off which sparked a minor clash in Moradabad. The farmers were last detained on Moradabad outskirts near Munda Pandey area, where a heavy police force equipped with water cannons blocked their way leading to a traffic jam on NH-24. Police said that Moradabad SSP was injured in the skirmish which followed, but the farmers said it were policemen who “behaved like rioters”. They claimed that policemen used force on them to deter them from moving ahead. Head of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, also reached the spot on Tuesday and said the role of local police reminded him of “British Raj”. Sirsa, who oversaw the remaining journey of the farmers from Moradabad to Ghazipur border, said it was a victory over “suppression”. Kuldeep Singh from Andbojhi village and Preet Pal Singh from Gadvakhera village of Pilibhit, who were the part of the journey, told TOI that they were also stopped in Amroha, and then at Dasna area of Ghaziabad. “But we managed to reach Ghaziabad border on Wednesday morning,” Singh said. With over 100 women and children, the group, which had assembled outside Kajri Gurdwara on Monday morning, started its journey for the UP-Delhi border along with 22 tractor-trolleys full of grain, pulses, wheat flour, rice, quilts and blankets, was first stopped by police on Pilibhit-Basti NH-730 near Bhopatpur village on Monday. But, after a brief stand-off, they crossed the border of Pilibhit district and continued their journey. They were again stopped on Moradabad outskirts where the alleged clash took place. The farmers completed the 300-km journey on tractors and crossed at least at 12 check posts in six districts. Meanwhile, the president of UP-Uttarakhand Sikh Sangathan, Jasveer Singh Virk, has given a call to Sikh farmers to reach the Ghazipur border in huge numbers on December 25. “The Centre is conspiring to assemble the fake farmers and hired people to impress upon the countrymen that millions of farmers have given support to the three farm laws. We have to expose this conspiracy," Virk said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-stand-off-clash-in-moradabad-a-group-of-up-farmers-reach-delhi-border/articleshow/79928109.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Development Authority clears launch of housing scheme||NEW DELHI: The new year will bring good news for homebuyers with Delhi Development Authority (DDA) approving the launch of its Housing Scheme 2021 in a meeting chaired by LG Anil Baijal on Wednesday. Around 1,210 flats are on offer under the scheme for various categories at locations such as Dwarka, Jasola, Vasant Kunj and Manglapuri. The scheme, which is expected to be launched in January with a draw of lots likely in March, will offer 215 higher income group (HIG) 3BHK flats in Jasola and 15 in Vasant Kunj; 352 middle income group (MIG) 2BHK flats in Dwarka Sector 19-B and 348 in Sector 16-B and four in Vasant Kunj. There will be 276 flats for economically weaker section (EWS) at Manglapuri in Dwarka, an official said. The MIG flats will be priced approximately Rs 1.2 crore and the HIG ones around Rs 2.2 crore. A DDA spokesperson said the scheme would be completely online from the processing of application to the possession of flats through the newly developed AWAAS software. “The applicant will have to visit DDA only for the purpose of execution deed. It was further decided not to have preferential location charges for DDA flats, as decided earlier,” he said. The authority has also given preliminary approval for development control norms formulated for all unauthorised colonies under NCT Regulations 2019. As per the norms, meant to pave the way for planned development of the existing colonies, land owners or residents welfare associations can prepare an unauthorised colony regeneration scheme by amalgamation and reconstitution of the plots with access from a minimum 12m right of way. Various parameters have been laid based on the plot sizes with specific norms for parking, setbacks, public green spaces etc. The scheme also envisages incentives through allotment of floor area ratio (FAR) to create additional public and semi-public facilities. FAR of 200 will be permitted without any regularisation charges but additional scheme-level FAR will have to be bought at DDA’s rates. Regularisation will be possible for the existing colonies meeting planning requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dda-clears-launch-of-housing-scheme/articleshow/79929947.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Trichy||Madras HC order on Sangam-era fort exploration excites enthusiasts||TRICHY: The Madras high court’s direction to archaeological survey of India (ASI) to consider a proposal from Tamil Nadu Open University (TNOU) to study the Sangam-era fort at Porpanaikottai in Pudukottai district will help unearth several hidden facts about the region, say archaeology enthusiasts. Perhaps the only fort in Tamil Nadu belonging to Sangam era, hero stones with Tamil Brahmi inscriptions dating back to the second century CE have been found in it, said Karu Rajendran, president, Pudukkottai Archaeological Research Forum (ARF), who petitioned the high court on the need to carry out excavation around the fort. While broken earthen pots were found in the fort built of Sangam era bricks, around 14 furnaces made after drilling rock surface stand testimony to the extraction of metal from its ore during the era, he said. “While we have been insisting on studying the fort and other archaeological remains found from it, Tamil Nadu Open University too had submitted a proposal to the state archaeology department in this regard. But it was pending over the last few years,” said forum founder A Manikandan. Though the archaeology department had sent the proposal to ASI, it has been pending. The court directed ASI to consider the request from TNOU before January 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hc-order-on-sangam-era-fort-exploration-excites-enthusiasts/articleshow/79931172.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: House panel move to seek info from civic bodies stayed||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Wednesday intervened in the ongoing tussle between Aam Aadmi Party and the three municipal corporations. Justice Navin Chawla stayed the move by a newly constituted “Committee on Municipal Corporation in Delhi” by the legislative assembly to demand information on the functioning of one of the corporations. Granting an interim stay the court also sought to know from the assembly secretariat and AAP government if a committee can conduct parallel proceedings to oversee working of the civic agency when standing committees under the municipal corporation law conduct the same work. The court acted on a petition filed by Rajdutt Gehlot, chairman of South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s standing committee. In his plea Gehlot argued that the assembly panel is illegal and sought quashing of the constitution of the committee. “It is submitted that the accounts and finances of the corporation are required to be scrutinised/audited by the authorities constituted under DMC Act, in particular by the standing committee, the same issue cannot be subject to scrutiny by an agency outside the statutory provisions of DMC Act. Such an act on the part of the respondent not only amounts to transgressing and over the limits and powers of the respondent, but also is an act amounting to interference with the functioning of the petitioner as the chairman of the standing committee,” the plea said. Appearing for the chairman, senior advocate Sanjay Poddar highlighted that by a December 4 notice, the assembly committee has asked for information in respect of activities, staff, finances, pending recoveries during the previous 5-10 years of SDMC, without any basis. He questioned the move to conduct “a roving and fishing inquiry with ulterior motives” and urged the high court to quash the panel. The plea also informed the court that by another notice on December 16, the committee has asked all the commissioners of the civic agency to appear before it. The south corporation said the agenda of the meeting is unknown nor the source of power has been disclosed to call for such a meeting. The petition said that DMC Act envisages complete autonomy to promote local governance. It said urban local bodies can’t be made subservient to the assembly as these are “vibrant democratic units of self government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/house-panel-move-to-seek-info-from-civic-bodies-stayed/articleshow/79929982.cms||Abhinav Garg
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Woman found murdered in New Town guest house||KOLKATA: The body of a 22-year-old woman—naked, wrapped in a bed sheet and covered in blood—was found at a guest house in New Town on Tuesday evening, hours after she had checked in with a male companion in the afternoon. room service executive. Police said the mother of a four-year-old child seemed to have been strangled with the cord of a mobile charger and attacked multiple times in her belly, possibly with a broken alcohol bottle that was found lying on the floor. “We have started a murder case. We have got the name and address of the man accompanying the woman and also have a CCTV footage of him sneaking out of the hotel in the evening,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. Sources said they found a bloodstained fork and a piece of paper with a scribbling, which reportedly said the man “did not want to kill her but was forced to do so for some reason”. Police said the woman checked in with 33-year-old Amit Ghosh at the guest house at DD Block in New Town around 1.30pm on Tuesday. They told the staff they would check out around 7pm. But when they didn’t check out till 8pm and didn’t respond to repeated calls, guest house staff opened the door with a duplicate key to find the woman lying dead. Police have sent the body for post-mortem and started a probe to see if the woman was sexually assaulted. Cops found bloodstains in the washroom, indicating the assailant had cleaned himself. “Going by the photo ID proofs, the woman was a resident of Binpur in West Midnapore. The man’s address is Gopiballavpur in West Midnapore,” said an officer. On contracting the woman’s family, officers said the woman lived in Howrah address with her husband and child. The husband said she had met Amit on Facebook and he had allegedly promised her a lucrative job. “A hotel staffer said he knew Amit as both of them worked at another hotel earlier. Amit had asked him to reserve a room for him on Tuesday. We are questioning the staff,” said an officer. Guest house staff said the two had ordered paratha and chicken in their room. “They seemed like a couple. The TV was playing at a very high volume when our staff walked into the room. We called the cops. The man was nowhere to be found. The CCTV footage showed him leaving around 5.45pm,” said a guest house staff er.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-found-murdered-in-new-town-guest-house/articleshow/79929977.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 24, 2020||Goa||Doctors at ESI hospital say confident of tackling 2nd wave||MARGAO: For close to a month now, ESI hospital in Margao, the state’s first designated Covid-19 hospital, hasn’t seen any fresh admissions ever since the last patient under treatment was discharged on November 30. However, after having successfully treated nearly 2,400 Covid-19 cases over the past nine months, including critical ones and those with multiple comorbidities, doctors at the hospital are confident of handling the second wave of SARS-CoV-2 if and when it does strike the state. Referring to the second wave of the coronavirus in England that has now seen a new and more infectious strain of the virus, the administrator of ESI-Covid hospital, Dr Uday C Kakodkar, said the behaviour of the virus remained unpredictable. “We will have to wait and watch how the behaviour of the mutated virus unfolds,” he told TOI. “The new strain has taken Europe by surprise. Just at the time when they were preparing for festive holidays, the UK has had to go back on its plans and declare an emergency lockdown.” He said that considering the availability of adequate medical infrastructural facilities and trained medical personnel in Goa, the health department was better prepared to deal with any emerging situation. “Compared to the first wave of the Covid-19 breakout, we are definitely better prepared, both mentally as well as in terms of available resources. We are confident as we have successfully handled all types of Covid-19 cases; the only thing is we have to see how it behaves if and when the second wave actually happens,” Kakodkar said. However, with the government yet to spell out its plans for the ESI hospital, the medical and paramedical personnel deployed at the facility are working under a cloud of uncertainty. “During the initial phase of the outbreak, the ESI hospital served as the only lifeline for the patients,” said a healthcare worker at the ESI hospital, requesting anonymity. “The professionalism with which the team worked motivated all of us to work hard selflessly, often going beyond the call of duty to help the patients and their kin. If the government intends to retain the hospital for Covid patients, new admissions should begin, lest the motivational levels of the staff ebbs. Strangely, the place that was buzzing with activity all day and night not long ago, has now gone irritatingly silent.” Sources said that the last patient to be discharged from the ESI hospital was on November 30. After that, no more patients were admitted. Kakodkar said the facility hasn’t been de-notified as a Covid hospital yet, but added that he was unaware about where the ESI hospital currently stands in the scheme of the things as far as government’s plans for Covid management are concerned. “It’s for the government to take this decision. Currently, patients are treated at the new South Goa district hospital, which will eventually serve as a full-fledged Covid hospital,” he said. Although the state’s Covid-19 caseload has declined, Kakodkar advised people not to let down their guard down during Christmas and New Year celebrations. “It’s the responsibility of each and every person to observe all personal hygiene measures. Policing people isn’t possible everywhere. While one is free to enjoy Christmas, it’s also his responsibility to take all safety measures – wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, and frequently washing hands,” he stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-treating-over-2k-covid-cases-esi-hospital-confident-of-tackling-second-wave/articleshow/79931182.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||26 booked in Kolkata during special drink-driving raids||KOLKATA: The cops on Tuesday started special anti drink-driving prosecutions across 50-odd spots in the city — an annual exercise keeps drink driving at bay during the year-end festive season. But this year, prosecuting a person became difficult owing to the complete ban on use of breathalyzers. Cops booked as many as 26 people during the three-hour drive, which started from 10.30pm. Though Tuesday’s focus was on two-wheelers, cops said specific drives against private vehicle drivers, too, will be carried out soon. “We have prosecuted 326 persons for violating safety rules while driving or riding across the city in the same drive,” said DC (Traffic) Rupesh Kumar. This is more than the combined 321 prosecutions of the past four nights put together. With the Christmas weekend approaching, the cops have decided to step up these late-night raids beyond 1am. Starting Wednesday, raids will begin as early as 9pm. The drive began after sergeants across 25 traffic guards were provided specific instructions by the police top brass. “Concentrate your teams near bars, intercept two-wheeler riders and give them tests to perform (usually asking them to count the fingers, ask drivers to walk straight and to try and fetch a particular car-related document from multiple documents). If they fail, send them to hospital through local police. Use body cameras compulsorily during interception (so cops cannot be challenged later). Follow all Covid guidelines,” the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/26-booked-in-city-during-spl-drink-driving-raids/articleshow/79929959.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Judge puts nameplate on forgery accused's Audi Q7, suspended||DEHRADUN: Prashant Joshi rode into Mussoorie in style on Monday. An Audi Q7, jet black, with leather seats. And a board that announced authority, ‘District Judge’. But the two words on an official nameplate have brought the man down. Dehradun district judge Joshi was on his way to a rather routine two-day camp court, where small offences are disposed of quickly in semi-formal settings. It was official business. He was supposed to take his official car. Instead, he appears to have “got” one from a Rajpur-based property dealer, Kewal Krishan Soin, who has been buried in criminal charges — cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy. The car was parked outside the official High Court Guest House, where the camp court at Mussoorie is often organised. That is where it caught attention. "Everyone was surprised — how did a judge arrive in a car like this? It was very unusual," a lawyer present there that day said. Word reached the Uttarakhand high court office. “Grave misconduct,” said Uttarakhand high court registrar general Hira Singh Bonal in a memorandum issued on Tuesday. “Said conduct is unbecoming of a judicial officer.” The order said Joshi violated rules 3(1) (absolute integrity and devotion to duty), 3(2) (conduct oneself in keeping with government orders on behaviour) and, specifically, rule 30 (no use of conveyance belonging to a private person or subordinate government servant) of the Uttarakhand Government Servants’ Conduct Rules, 2002. But it’s about more than propriety. The memorandum said placing his official nameplate in the car of someone accused of crimes could protect those in the car when “nefarious activities” were being committed. “The act and conduct touches upon (his) integrity.” Soin, against whom an FIR is registered at Rajpur police station in Dehradun, meanwhile, is contesting the charges against him in the Uttarakhand high court. For now, Joshi has been suspended, shunted to Rudraprayag. “During the period of suspension and until further orders, Sri Prashant Joshi shall remain attached with the District Judgeship’s headquarter Rudraprayag and he shall not leave the station without obtaining the prior permission of the Hon’ble Court,” said the suspension order. He will receive half his salary during suspension if he “furnishes a certificate, that he is not (engaged) in any employment, business etc.” Compensatory allowance will be given only when he can show actual expenses. And he will no longer have an official car to himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/judge-puts-nameplate-on-forgery-accuseds-audi-q7-suspended/articleshow/79928121.cms||Prashant Jha
December 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Kunhalikutty to quit LS, contest in assembly polls||Kozhikode: Making a return to state politics, IUML national general secretary and Malappuram MP, P K Kunhalikutty will resign his Lok Sabha seat and contest the next assembly elections. A decision taken by the IUML high power committee in this regard was endorsed by the party working committee meeting held at Panakkad on Wednesday. “Considering the special situation in the state, the party has decided that Kunhalikutty should return to Kerala politics as a full-time worker. He will contest the upcoming assembly polls and arrangements will be made to enable the conduct of election to the Malappuram Lok Sabha seat along with the state assembly elections,” IUML state general secretary K P A Majeed said after the working committee meeting. The party views that the full-time presence of Kunhalikutty, a master political strategist for the party as well as a trouble-shooter for the UDF, is essential for the UDF at a time it is gearing up for the assembly poll. Kunhalikutty resignation from the Lok Sabha will be timed is such a manner to ensure that the Lok Sabha byelection for Malappuram constituency will coincide with the assembly elections expected to be held in April‐May. Majeed said that Kunhalikutty and M K Muneer MLA will base themselves in Thiruvananthapuram to work and strategize for UDF victory in the next assembly polls. Kunhalikutty, had decided to shift to national politics in 2017 while he was an MLA from Vengara constituency and had got elected in the bypoll held for Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency which fell vacant after the death of veteran IUML leader E Ahmed. In 2019 general elections he got elected from the constituency with a margin of 2.6 lakh votes, but there was not much scope for him in the national level as envisaged as the UPA alliance fared poorly in the polls. There have been enough hints of Kunhalikutty’s re‐entry to the state politics with the IUML in September entrusting him with the responsibility for leading the party in the local body elections. “It is up to the party and Panakkad Hyderali Shihab Thangal to decide what one should do especially at a time a time when the UDF has had a small setback in the state. It is the responsibility of all leaders to obey that decision,” Kunhaliikutty said adding that there was no question of the party diluting its secular credentials. Kunhalikutty’s return comes at a time when the IUML is stridently fighting the allegations from both the CPM and BJP that it is calling the shots in the UDF. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had recently said that the developments after the local body polls raised suspicion that IUML was taking over the mantle of UDF leadership. BJP state president K Surendran termed the decision as a totally irresponsible one that makes a mockery of democracy. “It would necessitate a bypoll in Malappuram out of taxpayer’s money. It is also aimed at strengthening the supremacy of IUML in UDF,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kunhalikutty-to-quit-ls-contest-in-assembly-polls/articleshow/79928876.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Trichy||Farmers’ bodies organize hunger strike opposing new agri laws||Trichy: Demanding to revoke farm bills and showing solidarity with protesting farmers in Delhi, more than 40 farmers’ associations under the banner of joint action committee of Tamil Nadu farmers’ associations staged a hunger strike at Chinthamani near Anna statue in Trichy on Wednesday.President of the joint action committee and president of Cauvery delta farmers’ association, Cauvery S Dhanapalan headed the hunger strike.Farmers, who participated in the protest along with the Desiya Thanninthiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam state president P Ayyakannu, staged a novel protest by lying down on the road posing as a dead body stating their demands.The hunger strikes prolonged till the evening. Earlier on December 19, the joint action committee was formed and had adopted a resolution to conduct the hunger strike on December 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-bodies-organize-hunger-strike-opposing-new-agri-laws/articleshow/79931184.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal families lose belongings & dreams to fire||KOLKATA: A 15-year-old boy whose father had spent several month’s savings to buy him a smart phone for his Class X online classes saw the phone, books and dream of becoming an engineer reduced to ashes as a blaze gutted 35-odd shanties on Maniktala main road near Bengal Chemical on Tuesday. The blaze at Gulmohar Colony apparently started in one of the 200 shanties and spread to the other huts, including the one-room home of the Class-X student, Chandranath Sardar, and his parents and brother. Chandranath was inconsolable as he clutched on to a couple of burntbooks and searched for his phone. “I don’t know how I will study for my final exams in less than two months,” he cried. “My first concern was to save my phone and books but failed.” Him scavenging through the burnt debris mirrored the misery of the other families that lost everything to the fire. A 17-year-old professional athlete who was to participate in a national meet in Punjab next month said his medals, certificates and even the cash for the meet were gone. “I think this is the end of my sports career,” said Subhajit Mistry. The displaced residents were on Wednesday given temporary sheds inside the adjacent Purbasha housing estate, where representatives of political parties and civic body distributed woollens and blankets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/families-lose-belongings-dreams-to-fire/articleshow/79929984.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 24, 2020||Bareilly||Crop residue management: Pilibhit DM felicitated for securing 1st position in UP||Pilibhit: Pilibhit district magistrate Pulkit Khare was facilitated by Uttar Pradesh agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi for securing the first position in the state for outstanding crop residue management on the occasion of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh in Lucknow on Wednesday.The award was received by deputy director of agriculture Yashraj Singh as Khare remained busy monitoring the law and order situation in the district in view of the on-going farmers’ protest on Delhi borders. According to official records, Pilibhit had reported as many as 368 incidents of stubble burning in the open fields during the previous year, which was drastically reduced to mere 38 in the current year.Also, farmers were provided with advanced farm machinery from the custom hiring centres and technical assistance for decomposing the crop residue in the field, said Khare.“The farmers, especially small and marginal who normally lack access to advanced scientific methods of crop residue management, were provided with 2,500 decomposer capsules invented by Delhi-based Indian Agriculture Research Institute and 5,000 decomposer capsules developed by the state agriculture department for decomposing the crop residue at a faster rate in the field. The farmers were also provided with comprehensive knowledge on the application of these capsules,” said Khare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/crop-residue-management-pilibhit-dm-felicitated-for-securing-1st-position-in-up/articleshow/79928125.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 24, 2020||Goa||Positivity rate up to 7% as active cases rise to 999 in Goa||PANAJI: Goa’s active count of Covid-19 cases rose to 999 on Wednesday after registering a dip for the past few days. As many as 125 more people were found positive while 70 recoveries were registered during the day. With two more Covid related deaths, the toll increased to 728. An 83-year-old woman from Ponda and an 82-year-old man from Vasco, both having comorbidities, succumbed to the virus at Goa Medical College. Goa’s case positivity also rose to 7%, while the recovery rate remained at 96%. 25 patients were hospitalised during the day, while 66 opted for home isolation. On Wednesday, Ponda, Porvorim, Panaji and Chimbel witnessed a marginal rise in new infections, whereas Margao, Quepem and Candolim registered a decline. With a significant drop in cases seen over the past two months, especially in North Goa, Covid care centres have been empty, whereas those in South Goa have a few patients. Also, with most patients opting for home isolation, the occupancy at these centres has been declining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/positivity-rate-up-to-7-as-active-cases-rise-to-999/articleshow/79931186.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lawyer missing, Rs 16 lakh demanded||KOLKATA: A lawyer based in Baruipur has been missing since Monday. His family alleged they were asked to pay Rs 16 lakh in ransom by some people who answered the calls they made on his mobile phone. A missing person’s diary has been lodged by the family of lawyer Kshirodgopal Sardar with Baruipur police. Additional SP of Baruipur Indrajit Basu said, “We can’t say for sure that it is a case of kidnapping. We are probing all possible angles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lawyer-missing-rs-16l-demanded/articleshow/79929988.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala special assembly session: CPM, UDF lash out at governor||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Both CPM and UDF have come down heavily against governor for rejecting the demand of state government to convene a special session of the assembly to pass a resolution against the farm bill brought out by Centre. “The governor by denying the request of the state government has set a wrong precedence. The act is not suitable for a governor who holds the highest constitutional power. The governor should have acted as per the constitutional provisions,’’ said CPM state secretary A Vijayaraghavan. The state government does not function by informing the governor what all the state government is going to do in the assembly, he said. The agenda of the assembly is decided by the government and the business and advisory committee of the assembly. The governor has no role in it, He has to just give the consent for the state government to convene the session as per the constitutional provisions, said the CPM state secretary. The UDF MLAs met at the chamber of the opposition leader in the assembly and condemned the action of the governor. The UDF had asked the chief minister to convene the meeting of all the MLAs at the members’ lounge inside the assembly and protest against the farm bill. “The government was not ready for this. It was unfortunate. The government is feared of going against the Centre for dubious reasons,’’ said former chief minister Oommen Chandy after the meeting of the parliamentary party. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala urged the state government to come out with a legislation to overcome the farm bill of the Centre. He said the bill should be discussed in the ensuing assembly session. He also urged the government to pass the resolution against the farm bill on the first day of the assembly session which will begin on January 8. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran termed the act of the governor as undemocratic. “The governor is protecting the interests of the BJP government at the Centre. But he forgets the fact that he holds a constitutional power and he should not mix politics with his power,’’ said Ramachandran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/special-assembly-cpm-udf-lash-out-at-governor/articleshow/79928886.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to come up with start-up policy for students||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will soon come up with a start-up policy for students interested to turn entrepreneurs, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced at the ninth convocation of BR Ambedkar University of Delhi (AUD) on Wednesday. “We are coming with a comprehensive start-up policy with legal and technical guidance and will also help students in getting loans to implement their ideas,” Kejriwal said through videoconferencing. Graduating students have a responsibility towards the society and while they should do their job, “they should also think about starting their own business. Try creating jobs for others,” he added. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also said students needed to be job providers, not job seekers. Urging everybody interested in politics to join AAP, Kejriwal said that even if they didn’t join a party, they should be involved in politics. “If people remain silent and don’t participate in democracy, it will go for a toss.” Sisodia said, “If we come out with just job seekers, we are doing a wrong to the society. Entrepreneurship lessons should be there in all courses.” The education minister also said Covid-19 taught us that “annual assessment doesn’t matter”. He claimed that while all institutions following this system got stuck, “AUD showed that the final exams are just one of the exams”. He asked the university’s technical and academic advisers to think about the post-Covid world. “The way we were calling students regularly for classes, will it be possible?” AUD vice-chancellor Anu Singh Lather said the varsity responded to the pandemic with online classes and looked after mental health of its students. In all, 1,003 students have graduated, an increase of 21.4% from last year, she added. Stressing that “diversity is the core spirit of AUD”, the VC said 65% of the graduates were women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-to-come-up-with-start-up-policy-for-students/articleshow/79929989.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Bareilly||Pulled up by father for missing online exam, Class XI boy shoots himself dead in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 17-year-old Class XI boy allegedly shot himself dead in Bareilly’s Subhashnagar locality on Monday midnight after his father, a railway technician, “scolded” him for missing an online exam. The boy locked himself inside the storeroom of his house and shot himself dead with a country-made pistol, said police, who are trying to find out the source from where the boy got the pistol. The family lives in Rajeev Colony under the jurisdiction of Subhashnagar police station. Police said the boy’s parents refused to take further action. Subhashnagar SHO Suneel Kumar said, “The storeroom was locked from inside when the incident took place. It’s a case of suicide. The father said that the boy was upset after he scolded him for not appearing in an exam.” “We are, however, further investigating the case. We will soon find out the source from where the boy got the pistol. An FIR has not been registered in this connection, so far,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pulled-up-by-father-for-missing-online-exam-class-xi-boy-shoots-himself-dead-in-bareilly/articleshow/79928134.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Schools question plan to defer nursery admissions||NEW DELHI: With Delhi government planning to defer nursery admissions for academic session 2021-22, private schools have raised some concerns and challenges. The body representing private schools would be holding a meeting among themselves and seeking an appointment with the education minister to discuss the issue. As schools are still shut due to the pandemic, the government is thinking about carrying out admissions in the next academic session. Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, said, “We have requested a meeting with the education minister to discuss the challenges parents and schools will face if this decision is taken. Parents are also facing anxiety issues and have been sharing that they are finding it difficult to keep children engaged. This year, nursery class children did not attend school and were kept engaged synchronously and asynchronously. We sent material from school for them to play with and also kept them engaged with poems and rhymes.” Most principals highlighted that losing a year would mean affecting the important foundational years of the children. “National Education Policy stresses on bringing children to school when they are three years old. Now, with this plan of deferring admissions, children may lose a year. It will be difficult to compensate them for the loss,” said a principal on the condition of anonymity. Concerns have also been raised by schools about the old fee structure and on not charging annual fees and other expenses. “The schools are already cash strapped. With board exams approaching, we will need more staff to ensure social distancing and maintaining cleanliness and hygiene. These things will have to be discussed with the government,” added the principal. Wattal pointed out that admissions had already been conducted in schools in the NCR towns, so children in the capital would lose out. SK Bhattacharya, president of Action Committee, an umbrella body of private schools, said, “It is not like schools are not reopening. Even if they open in July or August, will students stay at home? Taking this decision will mean that the entire rules and regulations will have to be changed.” Lakshya Chhabaria, president of Affordable Private Schools’ Association, said, “Wasting one year of children does not make sense. The government should rethink its plan.” However, a senior government official said, “The decision will be taken only after holding consultations with all stakeholders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/schools-question-plan-to-defer-nursery-admissions/articleshow/79929996.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 24, 2020||Goa||Look beyond beaches to revamp Goa’s tourism image: Study||PANAJI: A survey report released by the tourism ministry has made a bold recommendation aimed at addressing long-standing inherent issues plaguing the industry and “transforming Goa’s identity” as a destination. Released by the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC), the survey titled ‘Coping with Covid-19, survival and revival of Goa’s tourism’ states that the disruption caused by the pandemic crisis has given cause to reshape strategy and sharpen the vision for the future. The 155-page report, which was released last week, has gone into details of the major problems the industry has to deal with before it can start thinking about profits and strongly advocates a change of image for the state as a destination. “Do it by focusing on its waters — going beyond beach tourism — promoting ecotourism, wellness tourism and heritage tourism,” the report states. While Goa’s core USP, its beaches, entertainment and MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions), will continue to draw tourists, it is shifting focus beyond these segments that will likely revive and revamp Goa’s brand name, enhance the experience for tourists, and eventually increase the industry’s value, the report states. The report lists several products that Goa tourism must have on its menu if it seriously wants to modify its image and bring about the change. Inland river transportation, edutainment nautical tours and glamping must be introduced, the report states. The state has 35 major beaches, but the outside world is yet to fully explore its nine rivers, 12 lakes and a dense network of backwaters. The survey suggests Goa leverage these underutilised assets to develop high-revenue tourism activities. This can be achieved by promoting ecotourism, developing trekking corridors, introducing the concept of green weddings, organising farming workshops and promoting community-based village tourism. To popularise the green wedding concept, the report suggests that the state provide wedding planners with a certification. This will simultaneously assure prospective couples and elevate the state’s green image. Green weddings, the report states, will curb the environmental impact of the “big-fat-Indian-wedding, meet the growing demand for eco-friendly lifestyle among foreigners and urban Indians, position Goa as a front runner in terms of a responsible tourism destination”. To promote wellness tourism, offer quality ayurveda centres, commence therapy holidays as well as working holidays. To promote heritage tourism, the report suggests culinary tourism and a mobile game to discover unknown aspects of Goa. A major finding, the survey states, is that a large section of industry stakeholders advocate the development of nature-based ecotourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/study-look-beyond-beaches-to-revamp-states-tourism-image/articleshow/79931260.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Shops gutted in Kolkata's Baguiati||KOLKATA: Two shops at a local market in Baguiati were gutted after a fire broke out on Wednesday evening. An employee of a shop complained of choking in the smoke and had to be admitted to a hospital. Seven fire tenders managed to bring the flames under control in one-and-a-half hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shops-gutted/articleshow/79929992.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Over 1 crore identified for early anti-corona jab||Ahmedabad: The completion of door-to-door survey for people vulnerable to Covid-19 infection – initiated close to a fortnight ago – has resulted in a list of over 1 crore persons who are above 50 years of age. The survey has also identified 2.6 lakh people below 50 years with co-morbidities. Of the total count in Gujarat, 14.6 lakh people above 50 years and 37,260 with co-morbidities are in eight municipal corporation areas, revealed the survey results. “As we know from our experience of living with the virus for the past nine months, those above 50 years of age and those with co-morbidities are susceptible to Covid-19 viral infection which can also lead to death. Thus, they would be the first in line to receive the Covid vaccination once the drive starts by the state government,” said a senior health department official. The state administration had earlier mentioned that the two-day intensive survey across the state was carried out based on the electoral rolls. Special booths will be set up to vaccinate people based on the electoral rolls of citizens. Those who get vaccinated would also be marked with indelible ink like election process, they added. The health sector workers will be the first in line to get vaccinated, followed by various government arms. The high-level meetings are convened regularly at the top levels to keep an eye on the vaccination process including storage and transport of the vials. Sola Civil Hospital in Gujarat is currently one of the centres for Covaxin trial. However, the central government so far has not identified any vaccine which would be given nod for a large-scale vaccination drive. Out of 1,00,91,545 persons identified in above 50 years age profile, 86.3 lakh are in non-corporation areas, whereas 2.23 lakh persons in the below 50 years age group, but having co-morbidities, are from non-corporation areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-1-crore-identified-for-early-anti-corona-jab/articleshow/79930013.cms||Kapil Dave
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Redress HSRP grievance within three days: Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot||NEW DELHI: In the wake of many public grievances with regards to the affixing of high-security registration plates (HSRPs) and colour-coded fuel stickers in vehicles, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Wednesday directed the officials to streamline the overall grievance mechanism to make the process more smooth. He also directed Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) to scale up and strengthen their home fitment facility. The minister recommended that each grievance must be assigned a unique reference number and its receipt should be acknowledged within the next 24 hours. “It should also be ensured that the grievance is resolved within the next 3-4 working days,” Gahlot directed. The minister said that increased presence of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and dealers must be ensured in areas where the sufficient number of dealers are not available. The directions were issued in a review meeting attended by senior officers from the transport department, IT department, all zonal motor licensing officers and other stakeholders, such as SIAM, HSRP manufacturers and the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA), major OEMs and suppliers of HSRPs in the capital. SIAM sought time to streamline the overall process of booking and delivery of HSRPs and colour-coded stickers and agreed to resolve all issues before the next meeting, which is scheduled for December 30. SIAM has also been directed to strengthen their home fitment facility so that public does not have to step out to get their HSRP affixed. In response to the increasing queries on vehicles registered in other states, SIAM and transport department have been advised to come up with a solution as soon as possible to ensure that the people of Delhi are not inconvenienced. The Supreme Court has instructed all the states to ensure the affixation of HSRPs and colour-coded stickers on vehicles for increased security and easy identification of fuel types. Subsequently, the ministry of road transport and highways in December 2018 notified the manner of display of registration marks on the motor vehicles under the Central Motor Vehicles Rule (CMVR), 1989. The unique high-security registration plate should be linked electronically to the vehicle after its affixture on the vehicle on registration. The background for colour-coded stickers for diesel vehicles is orange, light blue for petrol and CNG vehicles and grey for all other vehicles. A user can apply through a single window for both the HSRP and colour-coded sticker by logging into https://www.siam.in/ or https://www.bookmyhsrp.com/. For any grievance or queries, a user can call on 1800 1200 201 or write to hsrpquery@siam.in, grievance@bookmyhsrp.com and homegrievance@bookmyhsrp.com (for home delivery related issues).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/redress-hsrp-grievance-within-three-days-gahlot/articleshow/79930005.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 846 post-November 25 arrivals from UK under Covid lens||KOLKATA: Immigration authorities at Kolkata airport are collating data of all passengers who have arrived by Air India flights from London since November 25 for handover to the state health department that will then monitor their conditions and take any suspected Covid cases into institutional quarantine. The authorities are also looking at passengers from Dubai, Sharjah, Doha and Dhaka to see if anyone had transited airports in the UAE, Qatar and Bangladesh to reach Kolkata during this period. The move follows a new set of SOPs issued by the Centre that prescribes various actions from the point of entry and in the community for all international passengers who have travelled from or transited through the UK from November 25 to December 23. Between November 25 and December 17, international flights flew 4,742 passengers into Kolkata. Sources at Kolkata airport said four direct flights had reached Kolkata since November 25, carrying 846 passengers. Of them, 152 passengers got RT-PCR tests done on arrival, leading to the identification of four persons with Covid-19. Two of them had arrived on the flight on December 6 while the other two had come on the flight on December 20. Prior to that, two other persons had tested Covid positive on arrival, one on October 25 and another on November 15. According to the new SOP, all 846 passengers who arrived since November 25 will now be under surveillance. Similarly, once the data on other travellers from the UK is available, they will also be put under the watchlist to check if the virus manifests in them. But most importantly, there will be an attempt to ensure these persons do not violate the home quarantine norms till they are declared safe. Should any of them develop symptoms, they will have to undergo immediate Covid test. A positive result will lead to them being hospitalised and their Covid gene will also be sequenced to see if there is a match with the mutant virus. “A detailed analysis of genome stains of 1,000 Covid patients done in India did not throw up this strain from UK. So, it has been decided we will analyse the stored RNA of all RT-PCR positive patients who had arrived from the UK from November-end,” National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBG) director Saumitra Das said. Assuring that there was no cause for immediate panic, Das pointed out that only epidemiological and mathematical model suggested more infectivity of the new virus strain. “There is no no experimental evidence so far,” he added. Apart from the NIBG, the state might also take the help of Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB) at Jadavpur for genome analysis of positive samples from flyers who arrived from the UK if there is the need for analysis of more swab samples to detect if the infection was caused by the mutated virus. “These two institutes in the state have the latest technology and expertise for genome sequencing. For now, we will be banking on the Kalyani institute. And if the need arises for more sample analysis or random sequencing, we might seek the help of the institute at Jadavpur,” said a source at the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/846-post-nov-25-arrivals-from-uk-under-covid-lens/articleshow/79930001.cms||Subhro Niyogi
December 24, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur corpn sanitary workers stage protest||THANJAVUR: Sanitary workers from Thanjavur Corporation staged a protest against the delay in implementation of the government orders pertaining to wages and other monetary benefits in Thanjavur on Wednesday. Around hundred members of the association also raised slogans demanding action against the officials who have misappropriated money remitted by the sanitary workers as EMI for availing loan from cooperative society. The Thanjavur district urban development and civic body employees’ association affiliated to CITU staged the protest in front of the corporation office in the city. While addressing the gathering, CITU district deputy secretary K Anbu alleged that despite the sanitary workers promptly repaying the loan money on monthly basis, the money had not been credited to the society by the concerned corporation employees. The protesters also demanded to disburse the monthly salary before 5th day of every month. Meanwhile, though the government had announced Rs 10,000 as advance in view of Diwali festival, the same has not een yet disbursed to the sanitary workers, they alleged. Moreover, despite several sanitary workers waiting for loan applied from the employees' provident fund (EPF), that too has not been approved and sanctioned, they further stated. Sanitary workers have not been provided their earned leave salary till now. That should be disbursed immediately. Leave benefits for the confirmed employees has also not been formalized properly, the protesters added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-corpn-sanitary-workers-stage-protest/articleshow/79931245.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala governor Arif Mohammed Khan lists out lapses of cabinet||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The stand-off between state government and governor has worsened, a day after Arif Mohammed Khan refused to convene an emergency session of assembly to pass a resolution against the farm bill brought by BJP-led government at Centre. In reply to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s letter condemning his decision, governor Khan on Wednesday sent a strongly worded letter that listed out the lapses on part of the cabinet and how he had been kept in the dark about the motive of the proposed emergency session. The governor also flayed Vijayan for leaking the letter written to him to the media. The governor said in his letter, “When I opened the letter which was written strictly confidential, the contents of the confidential document were being read by an anchor of Kairali channel.” The governor also came down heavily for putting him in the dark on the reasons behind convening the emergency session. He said when he had asked to elaborate on what was the purpose to convene a single-day session, the chief minister in his reply had said “to discuss some emergency issues”. “You will agree that as chief minister it is your constitutional duty to keep the governor fully informed about the decisions of the government and it is my right to be consulted and to counsel the government. But somehow, you give information when I raise questions; otherwise, you take shelter behind vague terms, like in the current case, “to discuss some serious issues,’’ the governor said. “In your letter, you have made several assertions about subjects which I had never raised in my queries regarding your proposal to summon an emergent session of the assembly on December 23. But these assertions lack connectivity with the background contained in the relevant file. I feel it would have been appropriate had your letter come to me as part of the file concerned,” said the governor in the letter to the CM. When a recommendation is made to summon a session at short notice or emergently and in the present case, at a notice of about 24 hours, then it becomes duty of the gubernatorial office to ensure that departure from rule does not result in departure from the spirit of the rules of conduct of business. The governor said the cabinet had decided on December 17 that a session of the assembly be held from January 8, 2021. The file reached his office the next day and on December 21, the approval was given to the notification to summon the assembly. However, on December 21, Raj Bhavan received another note from the chief minister’s office saying that “the government has decided to withdraw the recommendation to convene the session and further decided that a special session of the assembly be held on December 23 to discuss some serious issues”, and sought the approval to summon the assembly accordingly. The note did not mention any reason for change of the decision, except saying “to discuss some serious issues”. “I requested you to spell out the reasons clearly to summon the assembly urgently, particularly when your earlier recommendation to summon the assembly from January 8 had already been approved by me. In response to my query, you said: The state cabinet has recommended to convene a special session of the assembly to discuss serious issues in the agricultural sector and the problems faced by the farming community which are matters of general public interest”. However, the governor had written back to the chief minister to spell out the exact reasons behind the need for the emergency assembly session. “It was in response to this note that you opened up partially and admitted that the important issue that you referred to was “the ongoing protest by farmers” around Delhi and it became clear that you wanted this special session to discuss a problem for which you have no jurisdiction to offer any solution,’’ said the governor. The governor reminded about the two ordinances which was withdrawn by the government after he approved it. “Recently you had asked me to approve an ordinance amending Kerala Police Act, I held back the file for more than three weeks as I was hoping that you will reconsider the issue. But finally, I signed it and the public outcry forced you to withdraw it within one week,’’ he said. “Similarly, last year you wanted me to approve an ordinance for the reorganisation and delimitation of local-body constituencies, which I refused and you were not happy about it. You went to the assembly and got the bill passed and despite the fact that one of your ministers had expressed apprehension whether it will get nod from the Governor, I immediately signed it and it became a law. But again, you found it not possible to implement it and brought back the old law through an ordinance which I took no time to sign,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/governor-lists-out-lapses-of-cabinet/articleshow/79928900.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Flyer from Doha sent to Kolkata hospital for recent travel history to UK||KOLKATA: A resident of Patuli, who had arrived from Dubai, was escorted to the CNCI unit in Rajarhat late on Tuesday after immigraion officials found that he had travelled to the UK recently. The 32-year-old is the sixth person to be quarantined on arrival since the ban on flights from the UK kicked in on Sunday afternoon. In the early hours of Tuesday, five passengers who had come from Doha were also taken to the Rajarhat facility for Covid test and quarantine. Four out of the five are from one family. Meanwhile, all the six flyers from the UK who had arrived in two different flights have tested negative to Covid-19, giving a relief to health department officials. Their negative reports reached the health department on Wednesday. But the flyers will continue to be in institutional quarantine for now. “Even as their Covid-19 test result is negative, they will continue to be under institutional quarantine for about 14 days for better monitoring. If any of them develops symptoms, his sample will be sent again for confirmatory tests,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services. All six are now being quarantined at the government’s CNCI facility in Rajarhat. Doctors are monitoring them regularly for signs and symptoms of infection. So far, none of them has developed sysmptoms. But they are being treated as potential carriers of the mutant virus recently found in the UK, which is far more contagious than the earlier strain. This has led to many countries shutting the doors to travel from the UK to stop a spike in infections. “The flyer who is admitted to our hospital is also fine and is mostly asymptomatic. But since he had tested positive, we have been asked to keep him under close observation as a protocol for at least 10 more days,” said Indranil Biswas, medical superintendent and vice-principal of Medical College Hospital, Kolkata. Just hours before the ban kicked in and new norms for checks on passengers from the UK were announced on Sunday, a flight from London had landed in Kolkata carrying 226 passengers. Of them, 26 passengers had not got Covid tests done prior to boarding and underwent tests on arrival. Out of them, two youths — both students — were found Covid positive. One of them was admitted to Calcutta Medical College & Hospital. “We have also started tracing other flyers who had arrived in the city from November-end onwards. This is to enable us keep track of their condition and keep a check on the development of symptoms. If needed, they will be sent to institutional quarantine,” said an official at Swasthya Bhawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flyer-from-doha-sent-to-hospital-for-recent-travel-history-to-uk/articleshow/79930003.cms||Subhro Niyogi
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC judges to work from chambers||Ahmedabad: All the judges of the Gujarat high court will be working from their respective chambers in the Sola campus from January 4, 2021 as they resume judicial work after the winter vacation. The judges will be conducting their court from their chambers through video conferencing, according to a circular issued by the HC’s registrar general upon the chief justice's order. Since March 24, the judges have been conducting cases online from their respective residences after the Covid-induced lockdown was implemented. Last month, the chief justice had issued a circular conveying that the full court would review the situation on December 20 and take an appropriate decision on whether to resume physical functioning of the court from January 4. Meanwhile, a sitting judge of the high court, Justice G R Udhwani passed away of Covid-19 complications earlier this month. The bar associations and the Bar Council of Gujarat (BCG) have been repeatedly requesting the chief justice for resumption of physical hearings in courtrooms. The HC has permitted lower courts across the state, except in four major cities, to hear cases in courtrooms. The HC had also decided to open courtrooms in Sola campus in a phased manner, but the plan was postponed following detection of Covid cases among HC staffers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-judges-to-work-from-chambers/articleshow/79930010.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Take up regular promotions of top cops in 3 weeks: HC to Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court said it is not ready to accept states’ insistence that they be allowed to go ahead with ad hoc promotions to senior police officers. The court directed Telangana to take up regular promotions to additional SPs and non-cadre SPs within three weeks in tune with the combined seniority list prepared by Andhra Pradesh. A bench comprising Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Vinod Kumar gave this direction while disposing of several interim applications filed by N Ashok Kumar, Shanti Srinivas, R Sudarshan, Jagadiswar Reddy and other police officials. The judges permitted Telangana to undertake regular promotions to the posts of additional SPs (non-cadre) and SPs (non-cadre, conferred IPS and ex-cadre) and said this exercise should be completed within three weeks. The judges, however, said those who secured interim orders and were continuing on promoted posts with the help of such interim orders need not be disturbed for now. Followed by court directions, AP had finalised the seniority list of police officers by taking June 1, 2014, as the cut-off date. Telangana, however, raised objections to this list. Citing Telangana’s objections, the Centre too remained inactive. Again, following court’s intervention, states started effecting promotions. But with Telangana resorting to ad hoc promotions, several aggrieved police officers approached the court lamenting that these ad hoc decisions are doing injustice and adversely affecting the morale of the police force. “When the final seniority list is ready and the Centre too had issued a notification to this effect, it is not correct to ignore that list,” the judges said. “There may be legal challenges to the list. It may take longer time to resolve all those pleas. But since the list is now ready, you have to act on it,” the judges said. “Otherwise, several officials would retire in the meantime without getting their due promotions,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/take-up-regular-promotions-of-top-cops-in-3-weeks-hc-to-t/articleshow/79930007.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: VS Hospital admits to body swap||AHMEDABAD: The VS Hospital has accepted the goof-up on its part in the episode of swapping of dead bodies in its morgue, but opposed before the Gujarat high court the demand of Rs 50 lakh compensation from the elderly woman’s family members, who did not receive the body back for cremation. During the hearing, Justice Umesh Trivedi pulled up the authorities for the mistake and said that the issue is in public interest. There might be cases of body swapping in the past in this cold storage, but this has come to the fore because the family of the deceased has approached the court. The concerned staff should strictly adhere to the norms of handing over the bodies to relatives and the authorities must see that such a mistake is not repeated in future, said petitioner’s advocate Sachin Vasavada. The in-charge medical superintendent of the VS Hospital, Dr B S Patel, filed an affidavit in response to the high court’s notice over a petition filed by Pranavkumar Chand’s family complaining that the dead body of Lekhaben Chand (70) was missing from the morgue and the body was mistakenly handed over to another family last month. The hospital authority has blamed a contractual appointee, doctor Priya Pargada and two of its servants working in the cold storage – Kamleshbhai and Mangilal — as responsible for the goo- up. The HC was told on Wednesday that the hospital has not renewed the contract of Dr Pargada and issued a chargesheet to the two employees. The chargesheet was issued on the same day when the mistake came to the notice of the authorities – on November 13. The hospital has also blamed the family of Divyaben Bagadiya, as responsible for the goof-up for not identifying the body while accepting Lekhaben’s dead body instead on November 13. When the controversy erupted, the Bagadiya family swore an affidavit and declared on November 18 that they had cremated Lekhaben’s dead body and came to collect Divyaben’s body. After narrating in details how the mistake was made, the hospital asserted that the demand on part of the Chand family for compensation “is not justified”. Since the court notice was not served on police authorities, the court asked to serve the notice on the Ellisbridge police inspector after impleading him as a party respondent in litigation. Further hearing is posted on January 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vs-admits-to-body-swap/articleshow/79930016.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Two Kolkata hospitals inch towards third phase of Sputnik V trial||KOLKATA: After much delay, the College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital (CMSDH) might get into the Phase III clinical trial of Sputnik V. The institute’s technical advisory committee has finally given approval for the trial. The ethics committee is expected to meet in the first week of January. Once this committee gives the go-ahead, decks will be cleared for the vaccine trial at this state-run hospital. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has been preferring government-run institutes for the clinical trial of Sputnik V. Accordingly, Dr Reddy’s had approached CMSDH for the Phase II pan-India trial as well and had even enlisted the medical college as a potential site. But with delay in response from the hospital authority, the second phase of the trial had to be shelved at the institute. Peerless Hospital, where the institute’s ethics committee had cleared the Sputnik V’s clinical trial, is expecting the approval from DCGI any time now. If all goes well, the hospital expects to kick-start the trial by the first week of January. Around 100 volunteers will be part of the trials at the two hospitals each. “A total of around 500 volunteers have already registered themselves for trials at the two hospitals. They will undergo the process of screening for eligibility once the trial gets rolled out,” said CliniMed LifeSciences business development head Snehendu Koner. The site management organisation is coordinating for Sputnik V’s studies in Bengal on behalf of Dr Reddy’s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-hospitals-inch-towards-third-phase-of-sputnik-v-trial/articleshow/79930009.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: IITians crack mock test, cook up meatless eggs||NEW DELHI: Eggs made with mung beans, chicken and fish created in a laboratory from cereals, pulses and vegetables — IIT Delhi has created India’s own version of mock meat. The research, which began in February last year, has culminated in the team from the institute’s Centre for Rural Development and Technology and led by professor Kavya Dashora coming up healthier ware for non-meat eaters. “We observed people in the institution, including students, consuming food that was not nutritious enough, mostly fast food that gave them instant energy but lacked proteins or essential fats,” explained Dashora. “The carbohydrate spike would give them energy, but their concentration levels were low. We also saw staff members who had come from distant places and live in small houses without a full-fledged kitchen unable to have balanced meals.” These observations made the team realise that they needed to come up with nutritious food while realising that for those who were vegetarians, it was difficult to move to a diet containing eggs and meat. Team member Anshu Yadav said the need was to provide an alternative to people who required protein but could not consume some items due to their vegetarianism beliefs. Dashora added that the team aimed at creating nutritionally balanced products that could become a healthy meal. Dashora said that a few plants have protein content similar to meat and eggs. “But we had to develop ways to extract the protein. Animal protein is stable, but the plant proteins break down easily,” she revealed. “So, we used the technology we developed on our own to extract protein from cereals, pulses, vegetables and fruits.” The team tested the toxicity of the extracted proteins and their bio-absorbability in the human body. “We then worked on their texture and then in January this year, surveyed our faculty members, including our director V Ramgopal Rao, and housewives, students and food enthusiasts on our products,” said the professor. “On their suggestions, we added flavour to create the chicken patty and fish alternative.” The egg omelette developed by the team from mung bean won the $5,000 first prize at United Nation Development Programme’s Accelerator Lab India’s Innovate4SDG contest. UNDP felt the mock egg would help quicken the progress towards sustainable zero hunger, good health and well-being across the world. IIT-Delhi claimed, “The development of the mock egg meets the protein needs of the diet-specific, health-conscious, vegan and vegetarian people.” Dashora told TOI that the team was now planning to develop alternatives to mutton for Indian consumers and beef and pork for international consumers. “In fact, we were about to launch turkey alternatives, but couldn’t because our laboratories were shut due to the Covid pandemic,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/iitians-crack-mock-test-cook-up-meatless-eggs/articleshow/79930022.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 24, 2020||Kozhikode||‘CPM’s communal card will help BJP’||Kozhikode: The Jamaat-e-Islami has alleged that the CPM is engineering a communal polarisation in Kerala to ensure a second term for the LDF government, which will ultimately benefit the BJP. Addressing a news conference here on Wednesday, Jamaat Kerala amir M I Abdul Azeez said of late, CPM and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan have become the propagators of the Sangh Parivar politics. “CPM is practising a heinous politics of demonising Muslim organisations and widening the communal divide. The party is attempting to turn Christian and Muslim votes in its favour,” Abdul Azeez said. “What CPM does now is what the imperialists do at international level and BJP does at the national level. It is difficult to separate the voices of the CPM and the BJP now,” he said. “The statement that Kunhalikutty, Hassan and the amir are deciding things in the UDF is ill-motivated,” he said. The Jamaat leader said that CPM had practised communal politics in the past too. “But at that time CPM was the lone beneficiary, now there is BJP waiting for a chance in Kerala,” he said. He said those who raise the allegation of extremism against Jamaat have the responsibility to prove it. “The organisation was banned twice. The court had lifted the ban after it found no reason to impose the ban,” Abdul Azeez said. He said that there is a misunderstanding among Christians that Muslims are unilaterally enjoying the benefits under the minority welfare activities of the government. “It is the duty of the government and the department of the minority welfare to dispel these misconceptions. But they are keeping a studied silence,” he said. There should be a dialogue between the communities, he said. Jamaat assistant amir P Mujeeb Rehman, general secretary V T Abdulla Koya, secretaries Sheikh Muhammad Karakunnu and Shihab Pookkottoor were present at the conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cpms-communal-card-will-help-bjp/articleshow/79928917.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||150 firms floated by AgriGold promoters, funds diverted: ED||HYDERABAD: Investigations by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) revealed that the main accused in the multi-crore AgriGold scam had floated 150 companies and diverted huge funds to various entities, including those in the Cayman Islands. ED sleuths on Tuesday arrested the key accused — AgriGold chairman Avva Venkata Rama Rao, MD Avva Venkata Seshu Narayana Rao and director Avva Hema Sundara Vara Prasad — in the Rs 6,380 crore ponzi scam. “They tried to colour it as a real estate business, but in reality it was an unregulated, unlicensed collective investment scheme. The AgriGold group of companies did not obtain permission from the RBI to collect such deposits,” ED said. SEBI has also reported that the AgriGold Farm Estates India Private Limited business was nothing but a collective investment scheme and ordered the company to stop taking further deposits and return the money to the depositors. “Instead of complying with the directions of the SEBI, Venkata Rama Rao opened new companies and started collecting deposits in the names of new companies on the pretext of real estate business with the help of an army of commission agents and turned it into a ponzi scam,” ED said. Agri Gold Farm Estates India Pvt. Ltd, Agri Gold Constructions Pvt. Ltd, Dream Land Ventures Pvt. Ltd are the flagship companies involved in the fraud. “Investigation under PMLA also revealed that the accused also set up companies abroad and diverted large amounts of funds to off-shore entities. Their names also figured in the Paradise Leaks and they had incorporated companies in the Cayman Islands,” the agency said. Earlier, searches were conducted at the residences of Rama Rao and other directors including the residences of auditors at Vijayawada and Hyderabad. Various property related documents, cash amount of Rs 22 lakh, digital devices and other documents were recovered and seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/150-firms-floated-by-agrigold-promoters-funds-diverted-ed/articleshow/79930015.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After agency changed decision, airlines worry over timings||KOLKATA: An eleventh-hour decision by the Airports Authority of India on terminating the services of ground handling agency (GHA) Bhadra International from January 1 has left officials of two airlines worried about on-time performance of flights from Kolkata due to the short time to migrate to another service provider. Ground handlers are considered the wheels that run the airline industry. GHA provides a host of services that are crucial for aircraft operations, including guiding aircraft into and out of parking position, towing with pushback tractors, lavatory drainage, water cartage, airstart units, luggage handling, ground power, passenger stairs, wheelchair lifts and hydraulic mules. Air India Air Transport Services Ltd (AIATSL), the only other GHA at Kolkata airport, currently handles multiple airlines, including Air India, GoAir, Emirates, Singapore Airlines, Etihad Airways and Biman Bangladesh. It now has less than 10 days to recruit more workers and requisition additional machinery to service flights of AirAsia India and Vistara in the new year in addition to Thai Airways, Cathay Pacific and other carriers that are now serviced by Bhadra International. IndiGo and SpiceJet have their own ground-handling teams. “There is anxiety over the ability of AIATSL to meet the quicker turnover time of AirAsia India. Unlike Air India flights that have a 40 minute turnover — or the gap between a flight’s arrival and departure — AirAsia India has a turnover time of only 25 minutes. That essentially means the AIATSL unit has to function a lot more efficiently. Or else, there will be delays that can jeopardise the flight schedule and lead to losses for the airline,” said an airport official, who is aware of the concerns. Since AIATSL will be the sole GHA facility available at Kolkata and Chennai, airlines fear monopoly will come in the way of efficiency. TOI attempted to contact AIATSL officials but the calls went unanswered. Sources said the concerns expressed by airlines had led to the airport director holding multiple meetings with AIATSL officials. “They (AIATSL) have assured me that they are putting in place the requisite manpower and equipment needed to handle additional flights. There may be some teething problems for the first few days before they are sorted out,” said director Kaushik Bhattacharjee, adding that tenders would soon be floated for a second GHA for Kolkata that is expected to be functional in two-three months. An official of the Airlines Operators Committee at Kolkata airport said the lead time for switchover from one GHA to another needed to be at least five-six months for a smooth transition. “Manpower has to be recruited, trained and certified. Ditto with machinery that needs to be tested, audited and certified. The decision was hanging in the balance for nearly three years. If one GHA is being phased out, the decision should have been announced at least six months ago. That would have given the alternative GHA enough time to prepare to service the additional flights,” the AOC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-agency-change-decision-airlines-worry-over-timings/articleshow/79930017.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Active cases in Ahmedabad city now fewer than 2,500||Ahmedabad: With the number of new Covid cases recorded in 24 hours in the city falling below 200, the number of active cases in the city has also fallen below 2,500. The number of micro-contained societies has also fallen to just 10. AMC officials said that in the last week of October, there were 3,100 active cases in the city. The number of new cases reported in the city began to increase after Diwali, rising to 300 cases a day. This had caused a situation where people found it difficult to get beds even at private hospitals, forcing the AMC to send patients to Anand and Gandhinagar districts. Officials said as the number of new cases have recently been curtailed, falling to less than 200 a day, and with the number of patients being discharged matching or surpassing the number of fresh cases, the city was able to bring the situation under control. Some 14 hospitals have since been relieved of their Covid designation. Officials said that the case positive ratio for RT-PCR tests, which had increased to over five per cent has now come down to three or lower. Officials also said that there has also been a considerable drop in the number of patients who tested positive in antigen tests. Officials said that till Sunday, four of the seven AMC zones — West, North West, South West and South — had more than 400 active cases each. Now, only the South Zone, comprising Maninagar, Khokhra, Behrampura, Danilimda, has 413 cases, the West Zone, comprising Ranip, Paldi, Naranpura Navrangpura and Vadaj, has 400 active cases. The North West Zone, comprising Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota and , Ghatlodia, now has 398 active cases. The South West Zone, which includes the areas of Bopal, Jodhpur, Vejalpur and Sarkhej, now has 397 active cases. Officials said that in the first week of December, the number of micro-contained areas had crossed the 150 mark. Now, just 10 societies are micro-contained. Of these, four societies were added a week ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-in-ahmedabad-city-now-fewer-than-2500/articleshow/79930049.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||22-year-old widow injured in acid attack||Hyderabad: An unidentified man threw acid on a 22-year-old widow in Thimmapur village in Jagtial district on Wednesday night. The accused is on the run. Police said when the woman was walking on the road along with her sisters at 7.30 pm, the accused walked up to her and hurled acid suddenly. “The accused covered his face with a helmet and threw acid on the right side of her face. She suffered burn injuries on her ear, cheeks and collar bone. Her condition is stable,’’ police said. She was taken to a local hospital and later she was shifted to a hospital in Nizamabad district. Officials said her statement was recorded. She suspects the role of her sister’s husband, who dislikes her due to disagreements on family issues. The 22-year-old woman, who resides at Dabba village, went to Thimmapur to attend a function in her sister’s house. The accused covered his face with a helmet and threw acid on the right side of her face. She suffered burn injuries on her ear, cheeks and collar bone. Her condition is stable||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/22-year-old-widow-injured-in-acid-attack/articleshow/79930018.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||TPCC may get new prez by Dec 28||Hyderabad: The new president of the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) may be announced soon. After consulting party officials and district level leaders, TPCC in charge Manickam Tagore and All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary have finalised three names. As predicted, Congress MPs A Revanth Reddy and Komatireddy Venkat Reddy along with Congress legislature party leader in the assembly Bhatti Vikramarka made it to the final list. Party sources said that the name of the new president will be announced either on Thursday or on December 28. Sources said that there will be many changes in TPCC along with the change of guard. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tpcc-may-get-new-prez-by-dec-28/articleshow/79930030.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Eight injured as DTC bus rams half a dozen vehicles||NEW DELHI: Eight people were injured when a speeding Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus rammed about half a dozen vehicles in Mangolpuri on Wednesday afternoon. The driver has been arrested. According to police, the incident took place in K Block around 12.30pm and a call was received at Mangolpuri police station in this regard. A senior police officer said that five out of the eight injured were discharged from SGM Hospital after receiving the basic first aid while three others were still undergoing treatment. The injured were earlier shifted to the hospital by the cops. “People at the spot told the cops that the driver was speeding and lost control over the bus in a crowded area. The bus rammed multiple vehicles before coming to a halt. The bus driver was apprehended from the spot. A case of rash and negligent driving has been registered against him and the incident is being probed. CCTV footage is also being checked to establish the sequence,” the officer said. Police have seized the bus for technical inspection. Till December 15, the prosecution of DTC bus and cluster bus was 326 and 958, respectively. Forty five cases of simple accidents and 15 cases of fatal accidents were registered against the DTC buses in the time period in which 48 persons were injured while 15 died in the accident. Fifty seven cases were registered for simple accidents against the cluster bus. Seventy six were injured and 22 died in 20 fatal accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eight-injured-as-dtc-bus-rams-half-a-dozen-vehicles/articleshow/79930035.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Trichy||Jallikattu organisers will have tough time controlling crowds||TRICHY: While the state government has permitted jallikattu events ahead of the Pongal season amidst the pandemic, conducting these events would be a challenge for jallikattu organisers as they have to follow the regulations put forth by the government. State president of Veera Vilayattu Meetpu Kazhagam (a Jallikattu organisation) T Rajesh said jallikattu is different from any temple festival where the crowd can be regulated and streamlined by restricting them. Jallikattu crowd will be completely unpredictable as the majority of the crowd is a floating population. Therefore, maintaining 50% crowd or thermal scanning of each spectator is technically not possible, he said. Similarly, Covid-19 testing has been made mandatory for bull tamers and they will be allowed to enter the jallikattu arena only if they possess a document showing that they are Covid-19 negative. When back-to-back jallikattu events are planned after the Pongal festival, especially in the southern and central districts, bull tamers may not be able to provide fresh test certificates for each event, he said. While 300 bull tamers are allowed at a jallikattu event, there is no communication on the number of bulls to be allowed during each event, said state secretary, Tamilar Veera Vilayattu Pathukappu Peravai T Ondiraj. Seeking relaxation of norms in allowing spectators, he said that allowing only 50% spectators is unfortunate as it would bring down the excitement of the event. “Allowing only 300 bull tamers will cut short the duration of the event and many bull owners won’t be able to enter jallikattu arena with their bulls,” he said. Welcoming the government decision, member of the organising committee of Periyar Suriyur jallikattu, S Raja Manikandan said the organisers have a major role to play in jallikattu events this season to ensure that the norms are strictly followed. We have decided to raise galleries for spectators in such a way that social distancing is maintained, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/jallikattu-organizers-will-have-tough-time-controlling-crowds/articleshow/79931305.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 24, 2020||Agra||Notice issued to 20 officials for showing carelessness in monitoring devp works||Agra: Despite the state government orders for physical verification of projects worth over Rs 50crore, officials in Agra region failed to move out of their offices and no progress report was prepared. In this regard, divisional commissioner has issued notice to municipal commissioner of Agra, Firozabad and Mathura and 17 other officials seeking a response for not adhering to the government orders. On September 14, chef minister Yogi Adityanath, during a video conferencing, had ordered to appoint nodal officers to monitor the development works worth over Rs 50 crore. On October 7, divisional commissioner had appointed administrative and technical nodal officers for monitoring of major development works. Divisional commissioner Anil Kumar said, “Around 20 officers have not conducted spot inspection at the site of major development works. No progress report was received from them. Notices have been issued to these officials seeking clarification for not taking care of the assigned task”. In Agra division, 29 development projects costing over Rs 50 crore are being implemented. These include 12 in Agra district, eight in Mathura, six in Firozabad and three in Mainpuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/notice-issued-to-20-officials-for-showing-carelessness-in-monitoring-devp-works/articleshow/79928195.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Uncertainty over Kovind’s southern sojourn||Secunderabad: Uncertainty prevails over President Ram Nath Kovind’s annual southern sojourn. So far, the Telangana government did not receive any confirmation regarding his yearly visit to Hyderabad. “As per the norms, the state government should receive the President’s tentative schedule by the first week of December. We are now in the fourth week and yet to receive any official communication from the Rashtrapati Bhavan,” said an official of the Telangana general administration department, adding that the reports regarding the second wave of Covid-19 could be the reason. “The pandemic conditions and the reports regarding the new Covid-19 strain could be the reason for the delay,” the source added. Between December 20 and 28 last year, the President visited Rashtrapati Nilayam in Bollarum as part of his annual southern sojourn. The President visits other places of south India during this visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uncertainty-over-kovinds-southern-sojourn/articleshow/79930025.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Order reserved on Vipul Chaudhary’s bail plea||Ahmedabad: A city sessions court has reserved its order till Thursday on a bail application filed by former home minister and ex-chief of Mehsana’s Dudhsagar Dairy, Vipul Chaudhary, who was arrested on charges of financial irregularities. Chaudhary, who is facing charges of siphoning off Rs 14 crore from dairy employees’ bonus amount to deposit Rs 9 crore with the dairy as directed to him by the tribunal, claimed innocence and asserted that he had deposited the money by selling his ancestral land. Chaudhary also alleged that he was arrested to prevent him from contesting the coming elections in the dairy. His advocate argued that the probe is conducted in a sluggish manner. Opposing the bail, CID (Crime) submitted that the financial fraud was huge in quantity. Chaudhary is an influential person and has got considerable hold on the dairy management. Releasing him on bail might affect the investigation. Meanwhile, Chaudhary’s plea in the HC is pending by which he has challenged the disqualification of the milk cooperative, from where he has filed the nominations for the dairy elections. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/order-reserved-on-vipul-chaudharys-bail-plea/articleshow/79930052.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu needs to do more to support breastfeeding moms, says report||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu has one of the most institutional deliveries in the country, but needs to do more to support breastfeeding mothers and ensure infants receive exclusive breast milk from their mothers an hour from their birth, a report has said. ‘Spotlight on infant feeding in Tamil Nadu -2020’ said the state has not been following the ‘Ten steps to successful breastfeeding,’ including training staff to implement breastfeeding practices. The report, produced by the Breastfeeding Promotion Network of India (BPNI) and State Breastfeeding Trends Initiative (SBTi) team in TN, was released on Wednesday by health secretary J Radhakrishnan. TN scored 64 of 100 on policy and programmes based on 10 parameters, including maternity protection, health and nutrition care systems, infant feeding and HIV, and state policy governance and funding, says SBTi. Of the 10, TN was poor in following 10 steps to successful breastfeeding, implementing infant milk substitutes feeding bottles, and infant foods and infant feeding during disasters. It highlighted the NFHS-4 survey which found early initiation of breastfeeding within 1 hour of birth was 54.7%. Exclusive breastfeeding in children under 6 months was 48.3% and children 6-8 months old receiving solid or semi-solid food and breast milk 67.5%. TN did well in providing accurate and unbiased information support, monitoring and evaluation. “Tamil Nadu is doing fairly well in most indicators and with focused attention on those areas where we have some gaps, we can certainly bridge them,” said Radhakrishnan. Keshav Desiraju, former Union health secretary, said the fact that 34% of births are by C-section is disturbing. “This is well above the WHO threshold of 15%; it is also well above the rate recorded in other states.” Arun Gupta, central coordinator and SBTi founder, said Tamil Nadu can certainly, as the report guides and recommends, move towards specific district plans and spend adequately for these activities. Experts say the government can also involve private sector hospitals and launch periodic monitoring and assessments. In TN, which has a 40% female labour workforce participation against the national average of 25.8%, providing skilled support, maternity entitlement, and crèche during maternity and young child-rearing period is needed, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-needs-to-do-more-to-support-breastfeeding-moms-says-report/articleshow/79930051.cms||Aditi R
December 24, 2020||Bareilly||Crop residue management: Pilibhit DM felicitated for securing 1st position in UP||PILIBHIT: Pilibhit district magistrate Pulkit Khare was felicitated by Uttar Pradesh agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi for securing the first position in the state for outstanding crop residue management on the occasion of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh in Lucknow on Wednesday. The award was received by deputy director of agriculture Yashraj Singh as Khare remained busy monitoring the law and order situation in the district in view of the on-going farmers’ protest on Delhi borders. According to official records, Pilibhit had reported as many as 368 incidents of stubble burning in the open fields during the previous year, which was drastically reduced to mere 38 in the current year. Also, farmers were provided with advanced farm machinery from the custom hiring centres and technical assistance for decomposing the crop residue in the field, said Khare. “The farmers, especially small and marginal who normally lack access to advanced scientific methods of crop residue management, were provided with 2,500 decomposer capsules invented by Delhi-based Indian Agriculture Research Institute and 5,000 decomposer capsules developed by the state agriculture department for decomposing the crop residue at a faster rate in the field. The farmers were also provided with comprehensive knowledge on the application of these capsules,” said Khare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/crop-residue-management-pilibhit-dm-felicitated-for-securing-1st-position-in-up/articleshow/79928233.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 24, 2020||Agra||Order for police custody of 4 men on way to Hathras ‘unlawful’: Mathura district court||AGRA: Three months after the arrest of four men on their way to Hathras on sedition and terror charges, the district court in Mathura has said their police remand order was issued by a court that was not empowered to do so. Magistrates do not have the power to grant remand, including police custody remand (which was used to detain the four men for questioning), for suspects booked under the UAPA, district and sessions judge of Mathura Yashwant Kumar Misra said in his order on Tuesday. Citing the October 2020 Supreme Court judgment in Bikramjit Singh vs State of Punjab, the judge added that the remands granted by the chief judicial magistrate court to the UP Special Task Force (STF) in the case were “not as per law.” The four men — Masood Ahmad (28), Atikur Rahman (28), Mohammad Aalam (37) and Siddhique Kappan (41) — wanted to meet the Hathras victim’s family and were on their way to the village from Delhi on October 5 when they were arrested. Police said they’d found “sensitive literature”, that they were associated with the Kerala-based Islamic organised Popular Front of India and its student wing Campus Front of India, and that they were plotting to “disrupt peace” in Hathras. The case seeking Kappan’s release is being fought in the Supreme Court while that of the others is being heard by the Allahabad high court. “We will place all these facts before the high court, which has admitted a habeas corpus petition by the three accused — Masood, Atikur and Aalam — at the next hearing on January 5,” defence counsel Madhuvan Dutt Chaturvedi said. There are two reasons, he explained, the CJM order was considered beyond its jurisdiction. “Since UAPA offences are listed under the NIA Act, they are to be tried exclusively by special courts set up under NIA.” Only the government can notify a special court under Section 11 (which empowers the Centre) or 22 (which empowers the state) of the NIA Act. “The Mathura CJM court was not a designated one.” Besides, Section 6 of the NIA Act says that after an offence is registered, the station in charge is supposed to file a report to the state government, which informs the Centre. Within 15 days, the Centre takes a call on whether it was a scheduled offence or not, Chaturvedi said. “The STF was simply not authorised.” When these grounds were raised, the CJM court had rejected them. “The additional sessions judge had also dismissed the objections on December 14, saying that the Supreme Court ruling was not applicable to this particular case,” Chaturvedi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/order-granting-police-custody-of-4-men-on-way-to-hathras-unlawful-mathura-dist-court/articleshow/79928227.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Software engineer from Telangana run over by train in New Jersey||HYDERABAD: A software engineer from Telangana was run over by a train in New Jersey in US on Tuesday. Praveen Desini was killed at Edison station.  The software engineer hailing from Hanamkonda in Warangal was run over by a train at Edison Train Station. Praveen Desini was said to be on his way to New York where he works when the mishap occurred. “The Northeast Corridor train 3920 which departed Trenton at 6:47 am and was scheduled to arrive at Penn Station New York at 7:58 am, struck and killed a pedestrian just east of the Edison station,” authorities in New Jersey Transit Corporation said. Family and friends have mourned the death of Praveen Desini who is survived by his wife Navatha Desini and two-year-old son Ganan. A ‘gofundme’ page created to raise funds to send the body of Praveen to India got more than 19,000 dollars in donation out of the three lakh dollars goal. He has been supporting his family financially. His mortal remains will be transported to his hometown for the final rites,” his friend, Kranthi Koyadda said urging people to contribute to help cover the expenditure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/software-engg-from-t-run-over-by-train-in-new-jersey/articleshow/79930041.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu owes most to power generation cos, states report||CHENNAI: Despite being a turnaround case in power — from hugely deficit to surplus in the past eight years or so — Tamil Nadu’s energy health is not at peak efficiency. According to a study released by ICRA Analytics at a conference on Tamil Nadu’s emergence as a power sector leader by Madras Chamber of Commerce & Industry (MCCI), the state utility Tangedco has huge outstanding payments to power generating companies which is much higher compared to distribution companies (discoms) in other industrialised states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra and Karnataka. As of October 2020, TN’s outstanding to power generating companies is Rs 18,520 crore, the study noted. In contrast, Gujarat discom’s outstanding was Rs 448 crore, Maharashtra’s Rs 7,358 crore and Karnataka’s Rs 7,127 crore. However, the October outstanding was less than the Rs 19,034 crore due in September 2020. Tangedco’s technical and commercial losses, at 17.47%, is higher than Gujarat’s 13.98% and Maharashtra’s 14.73%. Karnataka’s 19.82% is higher than that of TN. “A 5% reduction in technical and commercial losses of Tangedco may reduce current losses by approximately 25%,” said Satyajit Suklabaidya, head-energy & natural resources, ICRA Analytics. The culprit in the case of Tamil Nadu is the free power concept mostly for agri consumers. Former power secretary R V Shahi said, “The health of the discom is an area of concern. If the government wishes to subsidise a certain section of consumers, then the extent of the subsidy should be paid to the distribution company so they run professionally and on commercial lines”. Among the top 10 states having maximum annual losses in the electricity sector, Tamil Nadu is No. 1, he added. “This is due to a mismatch between cost of supply and revenue realised due to the irrational way of looking at the tariff.” Also Tangedco’s higher dues “are affecting cash flow of generating and transmission companies, making Tamil Nadu’s power sector less attractive for investors who build this risk into their projects,” added Suklabaidya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-owes-most-to-power-generation-cos-states-report/articleshow/79930073.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
December 24, 2020||Agra||95.9% Covid patients cured of infection in Agra district||AGRA: About 95.98% of patients have been declared cured of Covid-19 and discharged in Agra, out of the 10,110 cases reported in the district. On Wednesday, the number of active Covid cases dropped to 236. Moreover, at least 29 new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 10,110. The patients included one staffer of the SN Medical College and a patient of the district hospital. Besides, there were three patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, two of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and one kidney patient. Also, 29 Covid patients were discharged on Wednesday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.45%. So far, 9,704 people have been cured of the infection. People who have come in contact with Covid patients are being screened. Random testing is being conducted in different parts of the city." Meanwhile, the district administration has constituted a special team to identify those who recently travelled to the United Kingdom. All such people will be tested. Their samples will be sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for detection of a new strain of the virus, as reported in the UK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/95-9-covid-patients-cured-of-infection-in-agra-district/articleshow/79928237.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune metropolitan region active caseload slides to 8,053, lowest in 6 months||PUNE: The active Covid-19 cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) dropped to a six-month low of 8,053 on Wednesday, following higher recoveries and fewer infections since September peak. The number of active patients stood at 7,935 on June 30, while the count was 8,398 on July 1. Since then, the cases had been on the rise and did not slip below 8,500 even once. In fact, in August and September, the active case tally was around 30,000 and 40,000, respectively, while in October and November, it reduced around 15,000 and 10,000, respectively. The number of active cases started declining only at the beginning of December when the caseload started recording a downward trend. On December 1, the active caseload was at 11,588. Within the last 22 days, the cases have slipped by over 3,000, ending below 8,500. Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health chief at PMC, said, “The city has been reporting around 300 new cases every day and we have been monitoring the numbers. The active cases have dropped but we are ready with the plan to tackle more cases in case of outbreak. All the required machinery has been kept ready. We will be deploying additional staff as per requirements. There is a plan to tackle over 19,000 active cases.” A rise in infections was anticipated after mid-November, the post-festive season. The data released by the district health office has, however, revealed that daily positive cases have not recorded an alarming rise in both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits, besides the rural areas, in the last one month. In fact, the daily caseload has reduced, leading to a drop in active cases. On Tuesday, the PMC areas had 5,020 active cases, followed by the PCMC limits (1,743) and the rural as well as cantonment areas (1,583). Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol warned citizens against any laxity in approach and said, “People must follow precautions and social distancing norms to restrict further spread of infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-active-caseload-slides-to-8053-lowest-in-6-months/articleshow/79930067.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops to enforce Covid protocols strictly||Ahmedabad: Gearing up for strict implementation of night curfew even during Christmas and New Year’s Eve, police will not allow public gatherings to celebrate the festival and even party plots and house parties will be under constant vigilance. City police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava said that citizens should strictly follow social distancing and other guidelines of the government while celebrating the upcoming Christmas and New Year festivals. He said that no celebration will be allowed during night curfew hours and action will be taken against those found violating the norms. Srivastava said that cops will patrol and keep vigil around party plots and house parties. He said police will book people found in large gatherings even inside any house. He said that churches conducting mass prayers are directed to follow guidelines and in most of the cases online mass prayers will be held. The city police commissioner said that though AMC (Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation) has been keeping a watch over 269 passengers who landed in city from UK, city police have also asked for their details to keep vigil. Sources in police said that cops have already obtained lists of various party plots and farmhouses in the city and on outer side of the city where New Year parties are usually held. If cops spot any such parties, then participants and organizers will be booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-to-enforce-covid-protocols-strictly/articleshow/79930057.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Goa||‘Install freedom fighters’ portraits in assembly lobby’||Valpoi: Sattari Itihas Sanvardhan Samiti (SISS) has demanded that portraits of Goa’s freedom fighters be installed in the lobby of Goa Legislative Assembly. SISS convener Shivaji Desai said that as the state government is currently celebrating the 60th year of Liberation, the portraits will be a befitting tribute to those who fought to free Goa from colonial rule. Dessai said that a few years ago the samiti had submitted a memorandum to chief minister Pramod Sawant, when he was speaker of the legislative assembly, providing names of the freedom fighters. He said Sawant had been requested to put up their portraits along with a bit of information. “We again request the government to give due honour to the persons who contributed in the freedom struggle of Goa,” Desai said. SISS member Mhalu Gawas said that Dipaji Rane was a great freedom fighter and had made a significant contribution in fighting the Portuguese. “I strongly demand that a statue of freedom fighter Dipaji Rane be installed in Goa in his memory,” Gawas said. SISS convener Shivaji Desai said that as the state government is currently celebrating the 60th year of Liberation, the portraits will be a befitting tribute to those who fought to free Goa from colonial rule||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/install-freedom-fighters-portraits-in-assembly-lobby/articleshow/79931365.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 45% work complete on two Metro stretches in 4 years||PUNE: The work of two Metro corridors — Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation to Swargate and Vanaz to Ramwadi — progressed 45% in four years after PM Narendra Modi laid their foundation stone on December 24, 2016, but the target to operate trains by this year could not be achieved. Brijesh Dixit, the managing director of MahaMetro (Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited), said, “We are certainly expecting to open two sections (on the two corridors) in the next year as work on both is in advanced stage. The MahaMetro was able to expedite the work in the underground section this year. Two machines have completed digging in one stretch.” The two Metro corridors would cover a distance of 32km, of which 5km would be under the ground. MahaMetro has divided the work in various sections for faster execution of the project. It is hoping to run trains from the PCMC to Dapodi and Vanaz to Garware College sections on the two corridors by the next year. Dixit said the progress of the Pune Metro work had been satisfactory so far and it would gather more speed in the coming days. He said the project faced several challenges in the past four years on getting the required land, obtaining permissions and alignment issues. The lockdown because of the Covid-19 pandemic also hampered the work to some extent. The civil work of the project was started on the PCMC-Dapodi stretch first. Later, it was extended on Vanaz-Garware College and Civil Court-Ramwadi stretches, besides the underground section. MahaMetro said the work was on a slow track at three locations — Paud Phtata, near Shivtirthnagar on Paud Road and Khadki — because of various obstacles, which were cleared recently. The work could not progress in the Kamgar Putala and Mandai areas because of pending rehabilitation of residents and shopkeepers. MahaMetro is constructing two depots to maintain the rakes. Around 50% work of both have been completed so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/45-work-complete-on-two-metro-stretches-in-4-years/articleshow/79930062.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 24, 2020||Pune||WHO expert says national database can track strains||PUNE: Global and national databases of genome sequencing and epidemiological data should be set up to track mutations in the pandemic virus, World Health Organisation’s chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan has said. She said India, with a huge capacity for genome sequencing, has to ensure the research is available on a single database. Both the UK and South Africa were able to detect the latest mutation as they could track epidemiological and clinical data.  Dr Swaminathan said there was still no evidence to suggest the strain impacts vaccines. But she added manufacturers will have to stay alert. “It is unlikely that a couple of mutations in the spike protein can change the immune system’s response to a vaccine,” she said. The top expert also did not rule out the variant’s spread to other parts of the world. “So far, what is known is that this variant’s R0 is higher and in the UK, there were several young people who were infected. But all other parameters are being studied,” she said. The WHO scientist feels that there is a need for increasing testing and prevention of transmission by examining the samples that are available and having said she said one cannot rule out the possibility of transmission across the world. She said that if more countries studied their genomic data, they may find this variant or other circulating variants . Like this B1.1.7 variant which was detected in September and then became the dominant variant in November. It is unlikely that a couple of mutations in the spike protein would change the response of the immune system to the vaccine, however manufacturers should keep a close watch and study the same, she said As many as 30 countries including India have banned flights to and from the UK. Dr Swaminathan said experiments to better understand the new UK strain - labelled B.1.1.7 - were taking place, but said that these were going to take a couple of weeks to get results. "It is really important that all countries put in place measures to control the virus and bring down transmission. We know what these measures are - testing, and contact-tracing and isolation of positive cases and quarantining of contacts - this should continue," she reiterated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/who-expert-says-national-database-can-track-strains/articleshow/79930076.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 24, 2020||Goa||Pernem cops dress as Santa, give out masks to create awareness||Panaji: Pernem police traded their khaki uniforms for a red suit on Wednesday to spread not just Christmas cheer but Covid awareness as well. Pernem police station staff conducted the awareness drive among tourists and locals covering the dos and don’ts of Covid-19 as Christmas nears. While police personnel elsewhere are resorting to fining those without masks in public areas, Pernem police handed out masks to those who weren’t wearing one. The personnel handed out chocolates and informative pamphlets to the public, said Pernem PI Jivba Dalvi, who planned the initiative with the aim of creating awareness among citizens about preventive measures against Covid-19. Dalvi accompanied the Santa Claus engaging passers-by in conversation over Covid and getting them to answer questions on the do’s and don’t’s of the fast-spreading virus. The police personnel drew attention to themselves by using a sound system to invite people around them for a conversation on the pandemic. Recently, the state government increased the fine for not wearing masks from Rs 100 to Rs 200 and police are engaged in imposing fines. Pernem police decided to approach the situation differently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pernem-cops-dress-as-santa-give-out-masks-to-create-awareness/articleshow/79931371.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Stringent watch for X’mas, New Year’||Gandhinagar: Minister of state for home, Pradipsinh Jadeja, said on Wednesday that the government will strictly implement its SOP to control spread of the Covif-19 pandemic during the Christmas and New Year celebrations. He said that prayer meetings in churches or prayer halls will be allowed with only 50% capacity or 200 persons, whichever is lesser. People will not be allowed to hold public meetings, prayers, rallies or processions during the festive season. Jadeja said people of the state have cooperated with the administration during the pandemic and it is necessary that all people observe guidelines so that the pandemic can be brought under control. The minister said that law enforcement authorities have been directed to strictly enforce the SOP to control Covid-19 spread during the year-end festivities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stringent-watch-for-xmas-new-year/articleshow/79930105.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Chargesheet against NDA principal in ‘fraudulent appointments’ case||PUNE: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a chargesheet in a special court in Pune against Om Prakash Shukla, principal of National Defence Academy (NDA) in Khadakwasla, in a case of alleged fraudulent appointments, including his own, to various posts of civilian faculty at the defence academy. The central probe agency’s release said, “During 2007-08, the accused (Shukla) fraudulently secured appointment as professor in economics at the NDA and subsequently, during 2011 as principal, NDA, on the basis of false claims made in his applications to the Union Public Service Commission regarding teaching/research experience. Thereby, he cheated the Ministry of Defence, Government of India.” Shukla told TOI, “I don’t want to comment anything on the matter right now.” In 2017, the CBI had received a complaint relating to alleged irregularities in the civilian faculty appointments. A preliminary inquiry was conducted. Based on its outcome, the CBI, on May 8, 2018 had filed an FIR against Shukla and others for cheating and other offences. The probe agency also carried out searches at Shukla’s residence on June 6, 2018, and claimed to have recovered incriminating documents. M R Kadole, the CBI’s superintendent of police (anti-corruption) in Pune, said there were more allegations of irregularities in the appointments of three persons to the posts of professors and associate professors in the academy, but their investigation did not reveal any prosecutable evidence. He said, “Based on our probe, we filed a chargesheet only against Shukla. We have also recommended disciplinary action against him to the MoD. The allegation against him was that he furnished a certificate showing an exaggerated experience for getting selected as principal of NDA. He also aided irregularities in the appointments of other civilian faculties.” Kadole said the MoD’s public services regulation criteria has adopted the UGC guidelines in faculty appointments which requires a specific level of academic performance indicator score. This score comes from articles published in peer-reviewed journals, publication of books and journals. “A minimum score of 300 is required for selection and the allegation was that Shukla had these scores were spiked,” he added. The court will now take up the chargesheet for consideration of framing of charges that will lead to a trial. (With inputs from Sandip Dighe)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chargesheet-against-nda-principal-in-fraudulent-appointments-case/articleshow/79930079.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Khaparkheda fly-ash being discharged into Kanhan river again||NAGPUR: Khaparkheda power plant authorities seem to be least bothered about controlling pollution. Once again, fly-ash laden water from the plant’s ash bund being discharged into Kanhan river has come to light. Activist Anil Wadpalliwar had taken photographs of a nullah containing ash-laden water flowing into Kanhan river on Monday. He had provided these snaps to TOI, which forwarded it to Mahagenco spokesperson for the company’s comments. However, the spokesperson did not offer any reaction even after passage of two days. Kanhan river is one of the sources of water supply to Nagpur city. The fly-ash in its water thus poses health hazard to Nagpurians. On August 6 this year, fly-ash from Waregaon ash bund of Khaparkheda plant got discharged into Kanhan river forcing Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to stop pumping for four hours. At that time, Khaparkheda chief engineer Prakash Khandare had stoutly denied that there was any leakage of fly-ash from Waregaon. In October-end, Pratap Goswami, district organization secretary of Aam Admi Party (AAP), went to Waregaon ash bund and found fly-ash flowing out of it after rains. He clicked photographs and provided it to TOI. A Mahagenco spokesperson claimed that while ash bund overflows, the ash did not get discharged into Kanhan river. “Downstream, there is a sump and pump house and the fly-ash laden water was pumped back into the bund,” he had told TOI. Wadpalliwar said fly-ash is carcinogenic and can cause many ailments among humans. “I am unable to understand why Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) is not taking any action against authorities of Khaparkheda and Koradi power plants for causing pollution. Water pollution is less visible, but everybody can see that the two power plants pollute air by using poor quality coal,” he added. According to data supplied by Chicholi (near Khaparkheda) public health centre (PHC) officials to Wadpalliwar, between January and October 2020, 639 people were afflicted by influenza-like illnesses, 2,956 suffered from common cold and cough, two people had pneumonia and two suffered from bronchitis. He claimed compared to other areas, respiratory illnesses were far higher in Khaparkheda area due to the emissions from the plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/khaparkheda-fly-ash-being-discharged-into-kanhan-river-again/articleshow/79930077.cms||Ashish Roy
December 24, 2020||Nashik||RTO posts schedule for camps||NASHIK: The Regional Transport Office (RTO), Nashik, has announced the schedule for the camps to be held in the rural area for the convenience of those in need of learner’s license and driving license. Over 150 camps will be organised in the rural areas over the next 12 months. The camps will be organised in Pimpalgaon, Sinnar, Yeola, Niphad, Ghoti, Lasalgaon, Dindori, and Wani, among others. Vinay Ahire, deputy officer of RTO, Nashik, said the camps are organised every year so that those from the rural areas do not have to go to Nashik city for the licence-related tests. The tests are conducted at the camp. They are same as the ones conducted at the Nashik RTO office. The only difference being the tests are conducted on desktops in Nashik RTO while in camps, people are given tabs. The other processes are the same. Camps in the rural areas were not held as per schedule t due to the outbreak of Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rto-posts-schedule-for-camps/articleshow/80032316.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 91-year-old man recovers at Civil Hospital from virus attack||AHMEDABAD: Madhukar Pandya, a 91-year-old Covid-19 patient, got discharged from Civil Hospital on Wednesday after 17 days of treatment. “Starting from mild, the symptoms got developed up to moderate. But I was active in sports during my youth, and I was not ready to give up. In the ward, we Covid patients kept supporting each other and motivating each other,” said Pandya, adding that his spiritual bend of mind gave him moral strength against the infection which is not kind to the elders with co-morbidities. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that they have started India’s first geriatric ward for Covid-19 patients keeping in mind specific issues associated with the old age. Civil Hospital on Wednesday also reported discharge of an 11-year-old girl. The girl had sustained a severe injury on her vertebrae after a wooden plank fell on her neck, and she required a corrective surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/91-year-old-man-recovers-at-civil-from-virus-attack/articleshow/79930106.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Twenty days after Covid recovery, 63-year-old runs half-marathon||AHMEDABAD: He was admitted to a hospital last month with Covid-19 which had badly infected his lungs. On the 21st day of being discharged, Jagat Karani, 63, covered a distance of 21.1 kilometres in just 2 hours and 42 minutes in a marathon, setting an example of willpower and positive attitude. “A team of six doctors, all my friends and even my wife advised me not to take part in the half-marathon. But I wanted to convey the message in these despairing times that no matter how bad the situation is, one must not get depressed and lose confidence,” said Karani, who completed the half-marathon in Gandhingar on December 6. Karani, who took up long distance running four years ago, has participated in 84 marathons so far, and has completed all the 84 races within the prescribed time. “I have not missed the chance to participate in a single marathon since 2016, but this one was very special. I ran this marathon to spread the message that we should not be cowed down by the pandemic,” he said. The Adani Ahmedabad Marathon was held on November 29 and seeing his friends participating, Karani decided that he would participate as well. The next Sunday, on December 6, Karani ran the half-marathon in Gandhinagar, even as his race was monitored virtually by the organizers using apps. “Many of my running buddies cheered me as they drove beside me in cars and other vehicles. They were worried whether I would be able to complete the race, but I did so with so with no complications at all,” said Karani. “Senior citizens really need to put Covid-19 fears behind them and face situations with a positive attitude,” said Saurashtra-born Karani, who settled in Gandhinagar about two decades ago after returning from Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/twenty-days-after-covid-recovery-63-year-old-runs-half-marathon/articleshow/79930107.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Data of police dept personnel being compiled for vaccine||NAGPUR: City and rural police are learnt to have slipped into an emergency mode to compile the data of their personnel for uploading them in the central government’s CoWin portal by December 25 this month as a part of the Covid vaccine roll out plan. The Covid warriors from the police department are set to get the shots as frontline workers in the second phase after health workers. The state criminal investigation department (CID) has been earmarked as the nodal agency. DCP, state CID, Anil Paraskar has been appointed as the state nodal officer working under the state level committee having Addl DG (establishment) Kulwant Sarangal as its member secretary. The state police has also appointed a nodal officer in every unit, especially the commissionerate. The state government would issue a further notification regarding uploading of the data in the CoWin portal. DCP, headquarters, Sandeep Pakhale and Addl SP, Nagpur rural, Rahul Maknikar, were appointed as the nodal officers for the time-bound compilation work. The police department has been also urged to collect data from the smaller units like caste verification departments. A letter from the Addl DG’s office has urged the units to form a committee under their nodal agencies headed by officers. The committee would exclusively work for the data compilation task till the completion of the process. City police have lost 17 personnel due to Covid while another 1,900 along with their family members tested positive. In rural too, three cops died. It’s learnt that the city and rural polices’ medical teams too have got engaged in compiling the data of the personnel. According to an official, in the initial phase, the entire list of the personnel would be furnished along with their age and posting details. City police chief Amitesh Kumar said the work of compiling the data of the personnel is underway as per the schedule. “We are in the process of completing the compilation of the data for the vaccine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/data-of-police-dept-personnel-being-compiled-for-vaccine/articleshow/79930087.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Autos to be present at railway station, buses will ply during curfew hours||PUNE: Police on Wednesday said a considerable number of autorickshaws would be available at the railway station and various bus stands during the 11pm-6am night curfew hours to ensure hassle-free commute for people reaching the city. “The aim of the night curfew is mainly to restrict unnecessary congregation on Christmas and New Year’s Eve. The police will adopt a humane approach while allowing and stopping people commuting during the curfew hours. We currently do not intend to provide any special passes to the autorickshaws,” Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told TOI.  “Those travelling in private vehicles to pick up friends or relatives from the station or bus stands can carry a copy of the tickets and identity cards,” another police officer said. Senior Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) officials said buses would ply during the curfew hours. “Our services come under essential services. Night service is for people returning home after work. The number of buses plying during night will be decreased. But buses will not stop plying. There will be buses at the Pune station for the passengers,” PMPML chairman-cum-managing director Rajendra Jagtap told TOI. Autorickshaw unions said more clarity was required on the recent arrangements and they would speak to the authorities. “We have requested the authorities to allow around 50 autorickshaws at the railway station during the late night and early morning hours. People reaching the city should not be inconvenienced,” said Nitin Pawar, convener of the Rickshaw Panchayat, said. The Rickshaw Panchayat is the biggest auto union in the city. Cab aggregators Ola and Uber did not provide any official statement about whether their vehicles would ply or not during the curfew period. A source in Ola said, “Our cabs will remain operational.” A reaction from Uber was awaited till the time of going to the press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/autos-to-be-present-at-rly-station-buses-will-ply-during-curfew-hours/articleshow/79930102.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 24, 2020||Pune||Massive surveillance begins to test all UK arrivals in Maharashtra after November 25||PUNE/MUMBAI: Following the emergence of a new Covid strain in the UK, a huge state-wide surveillance drive has been launched to check for infection among travellers from the western country who landed between November 25 and December 23. The month-long surveillance exercise — expected to continue at least till January 20 — will include sending positive samples to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology, which will conduct genomic sequencing to determine if a patient has the new virus variant. “Nearly 4,500 people travelled from the UK during this period. Of these, 3,000 are from Maharashtra and the rest from outside the state,” said Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state’s public health department. It is learnt the Airport Health Organisation (APHO) Mumbai has received a communication from the Centre seeking details of passengers who landed at Mumbai airport from London in the past 21 days, said a source. “Addresses of these passengers have already been sent,” the official added. The APHO is a unit of international health division under the directorate general of health services, ministry of health and family welfare. The state task force too asked labs to reanalyse samples of UK returnees who may have tested positive over the last two weeks. Task force member Shashank Joshi said, “We need to sequence viruses from positive samples to check if the UK variant is already here. And those with the new variant will have to remain at isolation units of hospitals.” The new strain is being referred to as VUI (Variant Under Investigation) 202012/01 (the first variant of concern from 2020, December), or B.1.1.7. Reports said it’s at least 70% more infectious. A health department official in Mumbai said, “The surveillance exercise has already started in the city. It will continue at least till January 20 as people will have to be followed up till 28 days after taking RT-PCR tests.” Once the RT-PCR reports are available, positive samples will be sent to NIV for genomic sequencing. State health minister Rajesh Tope said all contacts of positive cases will be quarantined at identified institutions. All these contacts will be tested on Day 5 to 10 from their day of contact with a positive case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/massive-surveillance-begins-to-test-all-uk-arrivals-in-state-after-nov-25/articleshow/79930086.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: 37 held on charge of giving fake sureties in courts||PUNE: As many as 37 people were arrested and five others were booked on Tuesday on the charge of furnishing fake sureties/guarantees in courts at Shivajinagar and Pune Cantonment for securing release of accused granted bail in crimes like thefts, armed robberies, burglaries, dacoities and sexual offences. The Shivajinagar police registered seven FIRs in this connection. Pune commissioner of police (CP) Amitabh Gupta said on Wednesday, “The suspects, including agents and their employees using different names, would submit bogus documents like Aadhaar card, ration card, 7/12 revenue extracts, property documents and photographs, among others, as a part of the procedure for standing surety/guarantor to the accused granted bail by the court. Offences of cheating and forgery have been registered.” Gupta said, “We received reliable information around 10 days ago that at least five gangs were involved in preparing forged documents for securing bail for accused. We then verified the information and established the identity of the suspects. We constituted police teams, conducted searches at seven places outside the district and sessions court gate number four, arrested the suspects, and recovered forged documents, fake seals, rubber stamps and photographs, among other documents from them.” The police teams comprised personnel from the Shivajinagar and Khadak police stations, and the crime branch. The CP said, “The accused have furnished sureties in thousands of cases in 2019-20 but we don’t know the exact figure as of now. Preliminary investigations revealed that the 37 people, including six women, furnished sureties in at least 70 to 80 cases in a year. They told the police that they were charging fees ranging from Rs12,000 and Rs20,000 for standing sureties for accused involved in criminal cases pending before magisterial and sessions courts.” Asked if lawyers and court staffers were involved in the fake sureties’ racket, Gupta said, “We are questioning the suspects to establish their links with other persons.” He added, “We shall form a team headed by an assistant commissioner of police for conducting in-depth investigations for establishing the identity of the main suspects in all the seven cases because large number of people have been arrested in a crime having wider ramifications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/37-held-on-charge-of-giving-fake-sureties-in-courts/articleshow/79930093.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kerchief as mask: Police not fine||Ahmedabad: A resident of Isanpur was booked by Maninagar police on Monday for not wearing a mask; he was fined Rs 1,000. Tulsi Ashwin, a resident of Maruti tenements, was also taken to the police station. Later, Ashwin alleged that the cops themselves were not wearing masks. He said he was fined even though he had used a handkerchief as a face covering. Government guidelines say that people can use a face covering such as a mask or a handkerchief to avoid infection. When this issue was raised before the city police chief, Sanjay Srivastava, during a press conference he said that people can use a handkerchief or a double-layered cloth. However, it appears that Maninagar police personnel haven’t heard the commissioner. Sources in police said that every police station is given the target of filing at least 80 cases of mask violation every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kerchief-as-mask-police-not-fine/articleshow/79930108.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||Rail traffic hit after goods train to Ahmedabad derails||PUNE: Four trains were cancelled and 21 were diverted after 12 loaded wagons of a goods train on way to Ahmedabad derailed between Shrigonda and Belvandi stations on the Daund-Manmad single line section under the Solapur rail division around 11.45pm on Tuesday. “The wagons were loaded with cement. The derailment caused damage to some overhead equipment (OHE). The reason could be anything from poor visibility to a problem on the railway tracks or even sabotage,” a Central Railway official said. Central Railway’s chief public relations officer, Shivaji Sutar, told TOI that an investigation has been initiated to ascertain the reason behind the derailment. Pune-Amravati Special, Kolhapur-Gondia Special, Pune-Mumbai Special and Gondia-Kolhapur Special were among the trains that were cancelled. “Some more trains may be cancelled or diverted. Work on removing the wagons from the tracks, maintenance of the tracks and OHEs is ongoing,” another official said. “The work of opening the track for regular train movements is expected to be completed by Wednesday late evening,” Sutar said. Vasco-Hazrat Nizamuddin Special, Kolhapur-Gondia Special, Sangola-Narkher Kisan Special, Mysuru-Varanasi Special, Bengaluru-Hazrat Nizamuddin Special and Pune-Danapur Special were among the diverted trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rail-traffic-hit-after-goods-train-to-ahmedabad-derails/articleshow/79930082.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||Youth tests +ve 17 days after return from UK, sample sent to NIV Pune for Covid-2 test||NAGPUR: A 28-year-old youth from Nandanvan in South Nagpur, who returned from the United Kingdom (UK) 25 days ago tested positive eight days ago, on the 17th day of his return. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has admitted him in a special ward developed at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Wednesday, and sent his swab sample to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, to test for Covid-2. Four family members of the youth had also tested positive, two with him on December 15, and the remaining two the next day. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande told TOI, “The person told us he visited his relative’s house in Gondia before testing positive here. He asked the relatives to get tested after he came positive, and they also tested positive.” Dr Gawande added the patient does not have fever but mild symptoms like cough, sneezing currently. “We collected two swab samples, one being tested at GMCH itself for Covid-19. We handed over second swab sample to NMC,” he said. An NMC official said, “The sample has been sent to NIV, Pune, to test for Covid-2. Kit of Covid-2 is not available with laboratories in the city.” Gawande said the person had stayed in the UK for a month. “He worked in a IT-based company here. He returned on November 29. He tested negative in rapid antigen test at the airport on arrival. He developed symptoms a week ago, so got tested on December 14.” NMC sources said, “The youth was having mild symptoms within 10 days of returning to the city. He and his family members got tested when one of the elders in the family got more symptoms.” Following directives from the state government, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Tuesday had appealed to all persons who returned from countries in Europe, Middle East and South Africa in last 30 days to contact NMC control room. There is sudden emergence of a fast-spreading variant of Covid-19 in UK, which is believed to be up to 70% more transmissible than the original strain. “It is a cause of concern. Therefore, standard operating procedures (SoPs) were issued for air passengers of countries in Europe, Middle East and South Africa.” Following the appeal, the youth contacted NMC control room and disclosed voluntarily his tour to UK and positive test report. NMC additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane sent a team from NMC Nehru Nagar Zone to the youth’s house to counsel him about the latest SoPs. Then the youth was admitted at special ward in GMCH. “We have asked his family members to maintain home isolation. Our team will monitor them till receipt of the results of swab samples of the person. Our team has also started to trace all contacts of the youth and will get them testes,” Nipane said. Three more persons who returned from countries in Europe have also contacted the NMC control room. Nipane said, “They all tested negative in RT-PCR on returning back, and do not have any symptoms. Still, we have asked them to get RT-PCR test done at NMC’s centres.” On the first day, none from these countries arrived at the city airport. Following NMC directive, airport officials have started to take an undertaking from flyers coming from out of the state that they have not any of these countries. Radhakrishnan had on Tuesday clarified FIR will be registered against persons who give wrong undertaking. He said NMC is expected to get list of flyers from these countries over last 30 days and on day-to-day basis. The civic chief issued additional guidelines for flyers from these countries. “All will be in quarantine in hotels for 7 days. RT-PCR test will be done at the cost of passenger on days 5 and 7. Passenger will be discharged if they are negative after 7 days with a condition of home quarantine for more 7 days. In case they are positive, passenger will be in same hotel for 14 days or in GMCH,” he said. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said, “Quarantine centres were closed after home quarantine and isolation were allowed. We will make available institutional quarantine facility for these flyers soon, where they can stay free of cost if they do not wish to stay in hotels.” NMC had released a list of nine private hotels with capacity of 250 beds for institutional quarantine facility. Kumar said same directives have been issued to people residing in remaining five districts of Nagpur division. “Maximum people coming from these countries are residents of Nagpur city. Very few might be from other districts. Still, we will follow SoPs in entire division,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/youth-tests-ve-17-days-after-return-from-uk-sample-sent-to-niv-pune-for-covid-2-test/articleshow/79930084.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 24, 2020||India||Father Kottoor, Sister Sephy get life term for Sr Abhaya’s murder||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CBI special court here, on Wednesday, awarded life sentence to Father Thomas Kottoor, and Sister Sephy, on charges of murder of Sister Abhaya, 21, in 1992 and subsequently destroying evidence. On Tuesday, CBI judge K Sanilkumar had found Father Thomas Kottoor, 71, of Kottoor House, Kidangoor, Kottayam, guilty of charges of murder, destruction of evidence and criminal house trespass, and Sister Sephy, 57, of St Joseph Generalate, S H Mount, Kottayam, guilty of murder and destruction of evidence. Before delivering the sentence, the court heard the prosecution and the two convicts for one last time. The prosecution pleaded for capital punishment for the two convicts citing that it is perhaps the first time in history that a priest and nun were being convicted for the murder of another nun. The prosecutor also cited that the victim was a hapless novice, the accused were her superiors and they carried out systematic and comprehensive destruction of evidence. Father Kottoor pleaded that he was a senior citizen and was suffering from various diseases, including stage IV prostate cancer, and sought maximum mercy. Sister Sephy also pleaded for leniency of the court while deciding the quantum of sentence citing ill-health as she was suffering from deep vein thrombosis. She also cited that she had parents, both of them in their 90s. The defence counsel pleaded against awarding capital punishment citing that the offence was not a pre-planned one and the accused did not have criminal antecedence, apart from citing their advanced age and ill-health. The prosecution had examined 49 witnesses during the trial. In his 229-page order, Sanilkumar did not forget to address the extraordinarily long time the case took to reach its conclusion. In the introduction of the order itself, the judge observed that this attention-grabbing case has been dragging on for more than a quarter of a century. In its conclusion, the judge held that the evidence on record is more than sufficient to hold that the unbroken chain of circumstances that cumulatively point towards the guilt of the accused having caught red-handed in compromising position that led them to inflict fatal blow on the head of Sister Abhaya knowing that the injuries were sufficient to cause her death. The two convicts were sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and a fine of Rs 5 lakh is imposed on each of them for the offence of murder. In default of payment of fine, the accused shall undergo an additional simple imprisonment for a period of two years They shall undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven years and a fine of Rs 50,000 is imposed on each of them for the offence of destruction of evidence. In default of payment of fine, the convicts shall undergo additional simple imprisonment for a period of one year Accused number one, Father Thomas Kottoor is also sentenced to undergo life imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1 lakh is imposed on him for the offence of house trespass. In default of payment of fine, he shall undergo additional simple imprisonment for a period of one year Meanwhile, human rights activist Jomon Puthenpurackal, who has been fighting the Sister Abhaya murder case since 1992, said he was happy with the verdict. “The CBI judge delivered the punishment like a judicious God. I am also glad that the verdict came on the 10th death anniversary of former CM K Karunakaran. It was Karunakaran who took the decision to hand over the case to CBI. Had local police been probing the case, there wouldn’t have been any breakthrough,” Puthenpurackal told TOI. The Archdiocese of Kottayam, belonging to the Knanaya Catholics, reacted for the first time on Wednesday after Sister Abhaya case verdict by the CBI special court. A press note by the PRO of the Archdiocese Aji Koyickal said: “The death of Abhaya, who was a member of the Kottayam archdiocese, was sad and unfortunate. The CBI special court have found that Abhaya was murdered and pronounced life term for Fr Thomas Kottoor and Sr Sephy who both are also members of this diocese. The allegations against them are unbelievable. Even then we respect the court verdict. The accused persons have the right to go for appeal against the verdict and prove their innocence. However, the archdiocese is sad and sorry in the developments,” said the press note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/father-kottoor-sister-sephy-get-life-term-for-sr-abhayas-murder/articleshow/79932296.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cops turn heat on loan masterminds||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police have conducted searches at three call centres operating from Gurugram and Bengaluru as part of the crackdown against illegal money lending app businesses. Meanwhile, Hyderabad police have identified 75 bank accounts linked to the four companies and have written to the banks asking to provide details. After arresting six persons in one money lending app case on Tuesday, Cyberabad police started focusing on eight other cases registered against operators of various illegal money lending apps. Most of these cases have been registered in the past one week after the suicide of 28-year-old software engineer P Sunil at Attapur due to harassment from the money lending app operators. As part of the investigation into four such cases, special teams of Cyberabad cyber crime sleuths went to Bengaluru and Gurugram and started raids at two call centres in Gurugram and one call centre in Bengaluru. “We are conducting searches in other states in relation to illegal money lending app cases,” Cyberabad commissioner V C Sajjanar said. Police said that none of the call centres being currently raided for operating money lending apps seem to have any tie-ups with NBFCs or any other permitted financial institution. Meanwhile, Hyderabad cyber crime police found out that the call centres operated by PinPrint Technologies Pvt Ltd in Hyderabad are being disbursed through a company named Focus Technologies. Based on the information given by employees, police plan to initiate legal action against Suresh of Focus Technologies as he refused to cooperate. Cyber crime sleuths have also identified 75 bank accounts linked to Pinprint Technologies, Nabloom Technologies Pvt Ltd, Hotful Technologies Pvt Ltd and Liufang technologies Pvt Ltd and wrote to the banks seeking details of the account holders and financial transactions from the accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-turn-heat-on-loan-masterminds/articleshow/79930097.cms||Mahesh Buddi
December 24, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 32.6% (SSC), 18.4% (HSC) students pass repeater exams||MUMBAI: Only 32.6% and 18.4% students passed in the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) repeater exams of November, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education announced on Wednesday morning. Out of 69,274 students who appeared for HSC re-exams, only 18.4% passed, compared to 23% last year. In the three streams, the highest success rate of 34.1% was in science. Arts and commerce stream students recorded success rates of 13.9% and 15.4% respectively. The SSC success rate was up to 32.6% from 22.8% in 2019. Out of 41,397 students who appeared, 13,495 passed. Mumbai region, which includes Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar, recorded success rates of 29.8% (SSC) and 16.4% (HSC). Among the nine divisions, the highest success rates of 27.6% and 39.2% for HSC and SSC respectively was from Aurangabad. The board conducts re-exams after announcement of results in June, giving students a second chance to join their peers for the next academic session without waiting for a year. But this year the re-exams were held between November 20 and December 7 due to Covid-19. SSC students who passed the exam this year can participate in subsequent First Year Junior College (FYJC) rounds of admissions, as that too was delayed due to Covid-19 and the Supreme Court’s interim order that stayed Maratha quota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/32-6-ssc-18-4-hsc-students-pass-repeater-exams/articleshow/79930032.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Chennai||Four test Covid-19 positive, curtains down on ‘Annaatthe’ for now||Actor-politician Rajinikanth’s latest flick ‘Annaatthe’ suffered a jolt on Tuesday after four members of the film crew tested positive for Covid-19 and the producers, Sun Pictures, decided to postpone shooting. While Rajinikanth and other members of the cast have tested negative, the film unit has been asked to pack up for now. “During routine testing at #Annaatthe shoot four crew members tested positive for Covid-19. Superstar @rajinikanth and others have tested negative. To ensure utmost safety #Annaatthe shooting has been postponed,” Sun Pictures tweeted. According to sources, Rajinikanth may return to Chennai immediately. It’s not known if actor Nayanthara, who was part of the star cast, was on the sets in Hyderabad. The film’s shooting resumed on December 14 at the Ramoji Film City in Hyderabad after a break of several months due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The production team had created a ‘bio-bubble’ to ensure safety of the crew. “Shooting is unlikely to resume for a month,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/4-test-ve-curtains-down-on-annaatthe-for-now/articleshow/79930111.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Covaxin antibodies may persist for 6-12 months: Bharat Biotech||HYDERABAD: India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, has shown long-term antibody and T-cell memory responses three months after vaccination of Phase I volunteers. It can generate antibodies that may persist for 6-12 months, the developer Bharat Biotech said in a research paper. The paper, with Covaxin Phase I and II studies, was uploaded on ‘medRxiv’, a server which carries preprints of research work before it is peer reviewed. Covaxin also showed tolerable safety outcomes with enhanced humoral and cell mediated immune responses in the Phase II study, the paper stated. What makes these findings more interesting is that Covaxin is perhaps the first Covid-19 vaccine candidate globally to have tested for response in children as young as 12 years. It started the tests in September. While Pfizer vaccine commenced testing in children as young as 12 years in October, Moderna began enrolling participants of 12 years and above in December. The Covaxin Phase II study, conducted on 380 volunteers, included participants in the 12-65 years age bracket. The double-blinded, Phase II clinical trials saw 190 volunteers each receiving two vaccine formulations (3 µg and 6 µg with Algel-IMDG). The two-dose intramuscular vaccine was administered at a 28-day interval to the volunteers in Phase II, while the two-dose vaccine was given at a 14-day interval to participants in the 18-55 years age group in Phase I. Both the vaccine groups elicited more Th1-biased cytokines than Th2-biased cytokines, said the paper about Covaxin, codenamed BBV152. “After two doses, local and systemic adverse reactions observed in both vaccine groups were minimal, and the majority of them resolved within 24 hours of onset. No serious adverse events were reported in this study,” the company said. “The results from the phase 2 study show that both humoral and cell-mediated responses were observed. No neutralising antibody differences were observed between sexes and across age groups. BBV152 was well tolerated in both dose groups with no serious adverse events,” Bharat Biotech said. “No severe or life threatening (Grade 4 and 5) solicited adverse events were reported,” it said. “In the phase 1 trial…at day 104 (three months after the second vaccination dose), we observed detectable humoral and cell-mediated responses. Serum neutralising antibodies were detected in all the participants on day 104. These findings are in accordance with those on the mRNA-1273 vaccine, which will be licensed soon..” “A sizeable T cell memory population was also observed at this time point. A routine schedule (vaccination occurring four weeks apart) was evaluated in the Phase 2 trial for 3 µg and 6 µg with Algel-IMDG. Here, immune responses were significantly higher than those in the phase 1 trial, which concurs with reports that a routine schedule offers higher immune responses 20. It is hypothesised that the humoral and cell-mediated responses reported in this study may persist until at least 6-12 months after the second vaccination dose,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-antibodies-may-persist-for-6-12-months-bharat-biotech/articleshow/79930098.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 in Telangana: 1,200 UK returnees being tracked, 20 teams formed||HYDERABAD: The state health department has made a list of 1,200 people who have returned to the state from the UK since December 8 and a massive exercise of contact tracing has begun in the state. Twenty surveillance teams have been formed to trace the returnees, visit them at their addresses, check their current health status and test them for Covid-19. None of the people who returned from the UK so far tested positive for the virus. “Samples of those testing positive will be sent to the CCMB (Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology) for genome sequencing. All returnees will be tested for the virus using the RT-PCR method. By genome sequencing, we will come to know if any of them have been affected by new variant of the virus,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana, speaking to TOI. He added that contract tracing began in the state on Tuesday and teams have been formed in districts depending on the number of returnees in each district. While the number of returnees was initially pegged at 358 on Tuesday after the central health authorities had sounded an alert in view of the spread of a new variant of the virus in the UK, the number jumped several times. increasing the count of returnees in the last two weeks. The director of public heath added that those who have come directly to the state from the UK after December 9 or have travelled through the UK have to provide their details by calling 040-24651119 or WhatsApp to 9154170960. Rao said, “People with the new type of virus need not worry but are urged to be vigilant. Use the mask properly, follow physical distance, and wash your hands regularly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1200-uk-returnees-being-tracked-20-teams-formed/articleshow/79930124.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Accused worked with MNCs before||Hyderabad: Main accused K Sharath Chandra, who was nabbed by Cyberabad police along with five others in the illegal money lending apps case, has good academic qualifications and worked in top MNCs before launching his own business. On questioning, Sharath Chandra tried reasoning with police, claiming he has tie-up with nine non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) to disburse loans through the money lending apps, operated by his companies, Onion Credit Pvt Ltd and Credfox Technologies Pvt Ltd. However, police found that out of the three apps being operated by the accused only two — Cash Mama and Loan Zone — had tie-ups with nine NBFCs operating from other states. “The third money lending app, operated by Sharath Chandra and others, did not have any tie-up with NBFCs and staff of his call centres were threatening clients and harassing their families which is illegal,” Cyberabad commissioner VC Sajjanar said. Sharath Chandra, who finished engineering from Bangalore University and then pursued MS from Texas A&M International University, has worked in the US in business intelligence sector before returning to India about six years ago. Subsequently, he pursued MBA from a prominent business school in Gachibowli and worked for a software MNC in Gachibowli before starting his own companies. “When we pointed out the illegal aspects of the money lending app operations, Sharath claimed it might have happened without his knowledge,” a cyber crime official said. Cyerabad police have sealed two call centres being operated by Sharath Chandra and the other accused in the city with 110 employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/accused-worked-with-mncs-before/articleshow/79930136.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||62,000 FYJC seats still vacant in Pune, list for special round today||PUNE: The centralised admission committee for the first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions will display the merit list of the first special round on Thursday. Till Wednesday, 45,445 students had taken admission and 61,585 seats were vacant across 304 junior colleges in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation areas. Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education of Pune division, said, “As of now, in most of the renowned colleges, more than 95% seats have filled up. Students who get the allotment in this round should decide before giving up the seat hoping to get a college of their choice in the next round. There will be another centralised round of admissions after December 25.” Shendkar said there is no stay on junior colleges starting their online classes for students who have already been admitted. “It has been the norm that after the college gets more than 50% admission, it can start classes. On November 23, the government had allowed the physical reopening of classes for standards IX, X and XII. However, colleges have not reopened physically in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. There is no restriction on imparting online education to admitted FYJC students if the college wishes to do so now,” she said. In the three CAP rounds so far, of the 1,48,527 registered students, 75,594 had been allotted seats. Among them, only 36,967 students took admission. In the management quota, in-house quota and minority quota, 2,348 students were admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/62k-fyjc-seats-still-vacant-list-for-special-round-today/articleshow/79930104.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 24, 2020||Pune||Three in net for theft of fuel worth Rs 13.4 lakh in Maharashtra||PUNE: The rural police on Tuesday arrested three members of an Osmanabad gang on the charge of stealing diesel from petrol pumps in Pune and Solapur districts. The police probe revealed that the three men — Shriram Kale (19), Bhima Kale (21) and Nana Pawar (56) — and their accomplices stole 17,000 litres of diesel worth Rs13.4 lakh from five petrol pumps in Pune and the neighbouring Solapur district recently. The police have recovered a truck, metal cutter and pipes, collectively worth Rs16.3 lakh. Senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of the local crime branch of the Pune rural police told TOI that thefts of petrol and diesel from fuel stations in the district were on the rise. “During the probe, we found that the suspects behind the fuel thefts were related to the transport business and frequently visited Pune district for delivery of goods,” Ghanwat said. Accordingly, a trap was laid and they were nabbed. He said, “The suspects would carry empty cans with them in the truck. After identifying the closed petrol stations, they would park the truck outside and cut the lids of the underground fuel tank. They would then use the electric motor pump to pump the fuel from the tank.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-in-net-for-theft-of-fuel-worth-rs-13-4l/articleshow/79930116.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Nagpur||No impact of new strain so far in Vidarbha as cases, deaths remain low||NAGPUR: No immediate impact of the mutant coronavirus has so far been seen in the 11 districts of Vidarbha though health officials and local administration have swung into action following the latest scare. As per the research in UK, the new strain is 70% more transmissible, thus causing more number of infections. Yet, Wednesday’s figures of new cases, recoveries and mortality don’t indicate any unusual spike considering the new more contagious strain has wreaked havoc in Europe in the last one month. Continuing the trend, all districts reported relatively low number of fresh cases making for 711 in the region while fatalities too were just 14. At 607, recoveries too almost matched the new cases of the day. Six districts —Wardha, Gondia, Chandrapur, Amravati, Gadchiroli and Washim didn’t report any deaths. Except Nagpur and Yavatmal, all districts reported new cases under 50. Health authorities said the sudden spike or mortality could be the first indicator of the new strain affecting people. The 14 deaths were from Nagpur (7), Bhandara (2), Akola (1) Yavatmal (3) and Buldhana (1) for a total 6,455. The new cases were from Nagpur (365), Bhandara (33), Wardha (34), Gondia (34), Chandrapur (27), Gadchiroli (23), Akola (43), Amravati (39), Yavatmal (52), Buldhana (39) and Washim (22). Vidarbha’s cases rose to 2,46,725. Recoveries reached 2,31,914 following 607, including 264 at Nagpur, Bhandara (68), Wardha (19), Gondia (23), Chandrapur (54), Gadchiroli (17), Akola (29), Amravati (30), Yavatmal (40), Buldhana (52) and Washim (11). This left 8,371under treatment Gadchiroli: No death was reported on Wednesday. New case count increased by 23 while 17 recoveries were reported. The district now has 297 active cases, while total cases are 8,856. So far, 98 have succumbed to the disease while 8,461 defeated Covid and declared recovered in the district. Washim: The district didn’t report any Covid deaths on Wednesday. The district reported the lowest number of day’s cases in Vidarbha at 22 along while 11 patients recovered and got discharged. Death toll is 148. The new cases took the tally to 6,563, discharged rose to 6,165 while 249 are active. Buldhana: No Covid death took place while 39 new cases and 52 recoveries were reported on Wednesday. According to official data, the district now has 12,266 cases, 11,771 recoveries, 148 deaths and 249 active cases. Bhandara: The district reported two Covid deaths, 33 new cases and 68 recoveries on Wednesday. The district has 500 active cases. Total caseload is 12,063cases and 11,275 discharged patients. Covid toll is 288. Gondia: The district witnessed 23 recoveries and 34 new cases on Wednesday. Number of patients under treatment is 315. The new positive patients took the tally to 13,433. So far, 177 succumbed , whiled 12,941 recovered. Akola: The district reported 43 new cases, 29 recoveries and one Covid death on Wednesday. The cases tally climbed to 10,261. So far, 313 people have died of Covid. With new recoveries, the tally touched 9,164. Still 784 are active patients. Yavatmal: The district recorded three deaths, all men, from Pusad, Wani and Kalamb, taking the toll to 397. Out of the 357 reports, 52 tested positive. Currently, there are 340 active positive patients undergoing treatment. Amravati: Thirty-nine new cases took the district's caseload to 19,142 on Wednesday even as the death toll remained constant at 393 for the second successive day. Recoveries of 30 patients took the total to 18,327. This left 422 active cases under treatment. Wardha: District’s cases rose to 8,784 with new 34 ones, while 19 were discharged and recoveries reached 8,209 on Wednesday. At present, there are 308 active positive patients undergoing treatment in the district. Chandrapur: On Wednesday, 54 were discharged, while 27 tested Covid positive in the district. No deaths were reported. The Covid total has now climbed to 21,978 with the ones discharged at 20,978. There are at present 644 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-impact-of-new-strain-so-far-in-vidarbha-as-cases-deaths-remain-low/articleshow/79930129.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Bird seller arrested, 15 barn owls rescued||Hyderabad: In a joint operation, Task Force sleuths along with forest department officials have apprehended a bird seller at Falaknuma and rescued 15 barn owls from his possession. Acting on specific information, police and forest officials arrested Kamran Ali Farooqui, 22, a bird seller from Teegalkunta in Falaknuma. According to police, Kamran Ali Farooqui has been selling birds for the past five years at Murgi Chowk in Hussaini Alam. “Kamran has been travelling to remote villages in Srisailam forest area and captures barn owls resting on dilapidated water tanks early in the morning. He has been selling them for Rs 10,000 to Rs 1 lakh, encashing on people’s superstitions,” Task Force inspector S Raghavendra said. The accused, and the 15 barn owls, have been handed over to the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bird-seller-arrested-15-barn-owls-rescued/articleshow/79930151.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Goa||AP man killed in hit-and-run case in Vasco||Vasco: A 37-year-old man was crushed under the wheels of a loaded truck on FL Gomes Road in Vasco on Wednesday. The truck driver, who tried to flee the scene with his vehicle, was traced and later arrested. Vasco police said the victim, Ammisetty Giri, a native of Andhra Pradesh, was walking on the road opposite Tilak Maidan when the accident took place. At 5am, the loaded truck was travelling towards the port when the truck hit the pedestrian and dragged him for some distance. The driver Maruti Domara, a native of Maharashtra, immediately ran away, but was successfully traced and arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ap-man-killed-in-hit-and-run-case-in-vasco/articleshow/79931390.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||Flyers skirt travels to avoid institutional quarantine in Maharashtra||PUNE: Dubai-based working professional Rahul Dalwale stands out in the crowd of flyers having second thoughts about their visit to the city after the state government made institutional quarantine mandatory for people coming from the Middle East. “My father will undergo a cardiac surgery. I was confused on Tuesday over multiple orders from the state government and the local municipal corporation about the quarantine regulations. At one point, I had thought of going to Ahmedabad and take a train to Pune to avoid the hassles. My friends in Pune helped me get the correct information. I also called the Pune airport authorities. A seven-day institutional quarantine is fine for me and I have not cancelled my trip,” Dalwale told TOI. Dalwale is an exception. Many flyers to and from Dubai were mulling over cancelling their trips, travel agents in Pune stressed. Sameer Pai and his family members from Koregaon Park were scheduled to travel to Dubai in the first week of January. Pais cancelled their trip in the changed scenario. “We cancelled our tickets on Wednesday. It is disappointing as we wanted to go for a holiday after more than a year. We had thought things had started to get better. I shall definitely not want to come back and go for an institutional quarantine with my family,” Sameer said. Nilesh Bhansali, the director of Travel Agents’ Association of Pune (TAAP), said, “Business had resumed recently after the lockdown. The new regulations are a concern now. A large number of international travellers from Pune prefer going to Dubai or the Maldives. Many want to postpone their trips now for the quarantine hassle. A group set to travel to Dubai on December 30 is worried. The state government should be a bit flexible regarding the regulations and make it a win-win situation for all.” Santosh Gupta, the owner of Shree Vinayak Holidays, said, “No passenger wants to go in an institutional quarantine. Hence, we are looking at a lot of cancellations in the coming days. It will be bad for business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyers-skirt-travels-to-avoid-institutional-quarantine/articleshow/79930139.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Fr Kottoor, Sr Sephy get life term for Sr Abhaya’s murder||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CBI special court here, on Wednesday, awarded life sentence to Father Thomas Kottoor, and Sister Sephy, for the charges of murder of Sister Abhaya, 21, and subsequently destroying evidence. On Tuesday, the CBI judge K Sanilkumar had found Father Thomas Kottoor, 71, guilty of charges of murder, destruction of evidence and criminal house trespass, and Sister Sephy, 57, guilty of murder and destruction of evidence. Before delivering the sentence, the court heard the prosecution and the two convicts for one last time. The prosecution pleaded for capital punishment for the two convicts citing that it is perhaps the first time in history that a priest and nun were being convicted for the murder of another nun. The prosecutor also cited that the victim was a hapless novice, the accused were her superiors and they carried out systematic and comprehensive destruction of evidence. Father Kottoor pleaded that he was a senior citizen and was suffering from various diseases, including stage IV prostate cancer, and sought maximum mercy. Sister Sephy also pleaded for leniency of the court while deciding the quantum of sentence citing her ill-health as she was suffering from deep vein thrombosis. She also cited that she had parents, both of them in their 90s. The defence counsel pleaded against awarding capital punishment citing that the offence was not a pre-planned one and the accused did not have criminal antecedence, apart from citing their advanced age and ill-health. After hearing all the pleas, the judge took a 15-minute break following which he returned to the bench and delivered the sentence. The prosecution had examined 49 witnesses during the trial. In his 229-page order, Sanilkumar did not forget to address the extraordinarily long time the case took for its conclusion. In the introduction of the order, the judge observed that this attention-grabbing case has been dragging on for more than a quarter of a century. In its conclusion, the judge held that the evidence on record is more than sufficient to hold that the unbroken chain of circumstances that cumulatively point towards the guilt of the accused having caught red-handed in compromising position that led them to inflict fatal blow on Sister Abhaya’s head, knowing that the injuries were sufficient to cause her death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fr-kottoor-sr-sephy-get-life-term-for-sr-abhayas-murder/articleshow/79929032.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Surat||NRG who returned from UK tests positive||Surat: A resident from Bharuch town, who recently arrived from the UK, has tested positive for coronavirus infection.Bharuch district health department has been taking various measures following the growing concern over a new and more infectious strain of coronavirus in the UK. Official sources said that about 80 people arrived in the district during the last fortnight and all were tested for Covid-19 as per the protocol. Following the new infectious strain, India has suspended flights to and from UK starting Wednesday till December 31. A health officer of Bharuch district said, “The person who has been tested positive has been quarantined and the health teams are keeping a close watch. The person arrived two days ago in Bharuch town and that he lives in Britain”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nrg-who-returned-from-uk-tests-positive/articleshow/79928280.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Proposal for curbs in rural areas post-dark||PUNE: Superintendent of police (Pune rural), Abhinav Deshmukh, submitted a proposal to the district collector, Rajesh Deshmukh, on Wednesday for night curfew to be imposed in the rural parts, considering the possibility of urban revellers shifting their base to locations such as Lonavla, Mulshi and Panshet, among others ,for New Year’s Eve celebrations. “We submitted the proposal on Wednesday. A decision from the state government is expected within a day or two,” he said. Meanwhile, popular camping event organizers from rural areas have demanded clarity about the night curfew regulations. Many of the organizers have stopped bookings for New Year’s Eve. Gaurav Gunjal from Trekfit Adventures, a professional trekking group in Pune, said they were getting many inquiries about New Year’s Eve. “We can book the camping sites and make arrangements, but if at the last minute we are told not to engage in camping activities, then all the costs will have to be borne by us, which would be a huge loss,” he said. Babu Kale from Pavana lake camping group, said they too had halted bookings due to lack of clarity over the issue. Ayush Prasad, the chief executive officer (CEO) of Zilla Parishad Pune, said, “The Pune ZP has not or will not issue any night curfew order. We are fully prepared, as tourism in rural Pune is on since August. Revellers should engage in responsible celebrations by following social distancing norms and wear masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/proposal-for-curbs-in-rural-areas-post-dark/articleshow/79930141.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||600 fresh Covid cases, four deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded 635 new cases of Covid-19 and four deaths on Wednesday, raising the total caseload to 2,82,982. While the death toll stands at 1,522. The state now has 6,627 active cases and a total of 2,74,833 patients, who have recovered from the coronavirus infection. The recovery rate in the state has further improved and is currently at 97 per cent, indicating that the majority of people getting infected are recovering from the infection. On Wednesday, a total of 45,6709 samples were tested for the virus. Telangana has tested 65.7 lakh samples so far and has reached a figure of 1,76,426 tests per million population. Of the samples tested on Wednesday, 66 percent were of people who have come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient in the recent days. Nearly 90 percent of these tests were conducted in government facilities while 10 percent were conducted in private run facilities. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporate (GHMC) recorded 115 of all cases, while Ranga Reddy recorded 57 cases, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri with 49 cases and Warangal Urban with 39 cases. All other districts in the state recorded new cases as well, except Narayanpet where authorities did not report any new case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/600-fresh-covid-cases-four-deaths-in-telangana/articleshow/79930142.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Gambling fraud money pumped into instant loan apps?||Hyderabad: Chinese national Yah Hao, who is behind the bars ever since he was arrested for alleged online gaming fraud by Hyderabad Central Crime Station (CCS) in August, is now spending a quiet life at the Chanchalguda prison. Hyderabad police suspect he might be a relative of a few key Chinese nationals who are behind the operations in Beijing T Power Company. A key reason why he was tasked to supervise South-East Asia operations is his ability to speak English and his smart business skills in setting up business operations in foreign countries. While he was studying in China, he secured a job at Beijing T Power Company and from last few years he has been working as South-East Asia operations head. As part of his business assignment in the past, he had travelled to Vietnam, Pakistan, Dubai and a few other countries. Hao, who is unmarried, got stuck in India after outbreak of coronavirus in China. Later, a lockdown came into force in India and he got stranded here. As the crackdown on instant financing apps has started, as suspected in the past, Telangana police now have information that some instant loan apps are being operated by Chinese. Probe is on to check whether the money earned through online gambling was diverted into instant loan apps. Since he is a member of the foreigners’ cell, the prison authorities usually serve him a different diet unlike Indian prisoners. He gets soup, meat balls and other dishes consumed by Chinese.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gambling-fraud-money-pumped-into-instant-loan-apps/articleshow/79930140.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||8 depts team up to plan & roll out vaccination drive||Hyderabad: Seven government departments in addition to the health and family welfare department will be involved in the planning and roll-out of the Covid vaccination programme in the state. These include the women and child welfare department, the education department, the revenue department, among others. Each of the departments will have a predefined role. The revenue department, for instance, will extend support in identification and organizing vaccination sites. Education department will identify schools for session sites. The electricity department will be required to provide uninterrupted electric power supply at all cold chain points while the home department (police) will upload data of frontline workers, be responsible for social mobilization and maintaining law and order if required. Home guards will be put up for site management and crowd management. The municipal administration department will play a pivotal role in registration of frontline workers and support for organizing session sites. “The vaccination exercise is a huge one. This is different from regular vaccination programmes which largely focus on children. This time feeding data of frontline workers, beneficiaries like elderly and people with comorbidities, will require a lot of data entry and back-end verification work, even with the option of self-registration,” said a senior health official. Moreover, with a huge number of beneficiaries in the first phase and authorities aiming at completing the process as early as possible, the roll-out plan will require a lot of inter-departmental work. There are around 80 lakh beneficiaries to be covered in the first phase. Inter-departmental convergence and responsibilities for women and child development department include support of vaccination team members and mobilization, while panchayati raj department will support identification, organizing ans sanitising vaccination session sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-depts-team-up-to-plan-roll-out-vaccination-drive/articleshow/79930174.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 24, 2020||Surat||69-year-old man strangles wife, hangs self in Songadh||Surat: A 69-year-old man hanged self to death after allegedly strangling his 65-year-old wife at his residence in Songadh town of Tapi district on Wednesday.The deceased Arjun Hire left a suicide note stating that he was taking the extreme step as his wife Sushila used to insult him often. Police said that Hire’s son had died six months ago and since then the couple’s life had been stressful.The incident came to life when residents of Pipli Faliyu did not notice any movement in Hire’s residence on Wednesday morning. They knocked on the door, but when nobody opened they checked from the window and found Hire hanging from the ceiling. The neighbours informed the police which broke open the door.Preliminary investigation revealed that Sushila was strangled with her own sari by Hire, who later hanged self. Hire has his own metal fabrication business in Songadh. The couple had shifted to Songadh a few months ago from Surat city. “The exact reason behind the dispute between the couple is not yet known,” said a police officer. Police are also trying to find out how Hire’s son died and was his death reason for friction between the couple. Cops are also checking the financial condition of the duo, who also have three married daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/69-year-old-man-strangles-wife-hangs-self-in-songadh/articleshow/79928286.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||19-year-old kills self over dowry harassment||Hyderabad: A 19-year-old newly married woman killed herself at her in-laws’ house in Chandrayangutta on Wednesday due to dowry harassment. The victim, Firdous Begum, was the daughter of Syed Jahangir, a fruit seller from Qutbullapur. On November 5, Firdous, married 27-year-old Mohammed Iqbal, a cellphone repair shop worker from Chandrayangutta. At the time of wedding, Jahangir gave two tola gold as dowry. A few days after the wedding, Iqbal and his family members started harassing Begum, asking her to get additional dowry to buy a bike for Iqbal. Jahangir sought some time to arrange money for the bike and on Wednesday, Begum’s mother-in-law called Jahangir and informed that his daughter had been admitted to OGH due to poor health. Upon reaching the hospital, Jahangir realised that his daughter had ben brought dead to the hospital by Iqbal’s family. He lodged a complaint with police alleging that she had killed herself by hanging due to dowry harassment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-year-old-kills-self-over-dowry-harassment/articleshow/79930178.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Mumbai||Matka king’s kin was to target 2 at wedding, say Mumbai cops||MUMBAI: Investigations into the murder conspiracy of matka queen Jaya Chedda and her sister Asha Bhatt by matka king, the late Suresh Bhagat’s elder brother Vinod, has compelled police to look beyond the revenge angle. Police said the sisters would have been shot dead on December 6 at a marriage hall in Chembur, at Asha’s son’s wedding reception, but for the absence of the main shooter. Crime branch (unit IX) on Monday arrested Vinod, Mohammed Javed Ansari (41), Ramvir Sharma (39), Mohammed Shabbir Darji (31) and Maqsood Qureshi (35) and recovered two country-made revolvers and six cartridges, and Jaya’s photograph. Preliminary investigations suggested that Vinod wanted to kill Jaya to avenge his brother’s murder in 2008. “But the plan to kill even her elder sister compelled us to believe the motive could be more than revenge. The arrested accused told us they would get Rs 30 lakh for each killing,’’ said an officer. He added the total amount was too much for a contract killing. Jaya, prime accused in seven murders, including her husband Suresh in 2008 in an orchestrated accident in Alibaug, is out on bail on medical grounds. She had been convicted to life imprisonment. Crime branch had in 2011 arrested Asha while trying to pay Rs 1 crore to an approver to turn hostile in Suresh and six others’ murder case. Police are probing if Vinod believed that Jaya and Asha were running the matka business and he wanted to take it over. Two accused told police that though they did two recees of Jaya and Asha’s houses in Ghatkopar, the plan was to bump both at the party. “But the main shooter, Maqsood Qureshi, could not make it to the spot for some personal reason and the plan was dropped at the last moment. Javed and Shabbir were at the reception and even had food,’’ said investigating officer Nandkumar Gopale. Police have sent mobile phones of Bhagat and two others for retrieval of data. Deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan said they have strong electronic evidence against the accused and they would soon issue a lookout notice to Mammu Bashir Suleman Baigaini in Manchester. On June 11, 2008, Bhagat and six others, including two bodyguards, were killed when a truck rammed into their vehicle on Alibaug-Pen Road. The truck driver, Praveen Shetty, said he got a contract of Rs 3 lakh from Harish Mandvekar to kill Bhagat. Mandvekar told police he was paid Rs 25 lakh by Roge, who revealed the names of Jaya and Hitesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/matka-kings-kin-was-to-kill-2-sisters-at-wedding-reception-on-dec-6-cops/articleshow/79930037.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 24, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation sells another dream......while some older ones gather dust||CHENNAI: The ambitious mega streets project, which will see important stretches redesigned and transformed, has begun to take shape. Greater Chennai Corporation will send the designs to the government by December-end under the project that is scheduled to be completed in two years, said Meghanath Reddy, deputy commissioner (works). MC Road in Thiruvottiyur, Cathedral Road and Khader Nawaz Khan Road in Nungambakkam, CP Ramasamy Road in Mylapore, Little Mount and Race Course Road in Velachery, Taluk Bank Road, West Canal Bank Road and Canal Bank Road in Adyar and Third Avenue, Pulla Avenue, Kilpauk Garden Road in Anna Nagar have been selected for revamp. “Once we get the funds, we will start the project immediately. Utilities and aesthetics are the major aspects. Apart from this, the stakeholders are at the core as we are consulting them at every stage. Recently, we held meetings with various stakeholders and sent out forms to be filled. One of the major aspects raised is maintenance which we will ensure,” said Reddy. The cost of laying each kilometre will be between `15 crore and `20 crore. “The redesigned stretches will have footpaths, cycle tracks and public spaces to ensure people of all social status can use them. In front of Phoenix Mall in Velachery, we will create space for everyone. On Race Course Road, all art forms will be performed and recreational space will be created. Vendors on the stretch from Concord Jn to Little Mount Link will be regularised to form an eat street,” said Nitin Warrier of IBI Designs, consultant for Velachery. MC Road will have an arch at the entrance making it a tourist destination. A consultant from Oasis Designs Inc said the image of North Chennai, neglected in terms of street and pedestrian infrastructure, is set to change. “Metro station will be the centre around which we will design roads with designated vending area, shopping area, pedestrian footpath, play spaces and toilets,” he said. Corporation commissioner G Prakash had told TOI earlier that after the project was complete, the roads would not be dug up for at least 30 years. “All utilities will be underground and won’t require digging for repairs.” However, residents remain apprehensive as vendors are back at the Pondy Bazaar pedestrian plaza and in places like KK Nagar, Besant Nagar and other places with such plazas, two-wheeler parking is a nuisance. V S Jayaraman of T Nagar said residents were not consulted for any project. Another resident, B Kannan, said Pondy Bazaar plaza had created traffic snarls on interior streets as the narrow road was now a parking lot. A corporation official said the mistakes made in Pondy Bazaar will not be repeated. “We are consulting stakeholders this time. We will demarcate spaces for hawkers. We will ensure utilities are underground,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-sells-another-dream-while-some-older-ones-gather-dust/articleshow/79930165.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Arterial roads jammed on 28th day of stir||NEW DELHI: With an increase in the number of farmers at the Ghazipur border, the traffic at various diversion points has become heavy. On the 28th day of the agitation, several roads in Delhi witnessed major traffic snarls near Ghazipur, Mayur Vihar, Akshardham, Ashram and other arterial roads. Amid the farmers’ protests against three central farm laws, Delhi Police has kept the Tikri and Dhansa borders closed. “Tikri, Dhansa borders are closed for any traffic movement. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement,” Delhi Police tweeted on Wednesday. The Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders are also closed and traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. Delhi Police has also requested commuters to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and National Highway 44. “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, and Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad Saboli and Singhu school toll tax borders,” it tweeted. As farmers’ unions continue with their protest for repeal of the three agricultural laws, the central government on Sunday invited farmer leaders for a fresh round of talks amid various attempts to end the agitation. Farmers have been agitating at the borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/arterial-roads-jammed-on-28th-day-of-stir/articleshow/79930213.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Jomon, Varghese hail punishment||Thiruvananthapuram: Human rights activist Jomon Puthenpurackal, who has been fighting the Sister Abhaya murder case since 1992, said he was happy with the verdict. “The CBI judge delivered the punishment like a judicious God. I am also glad that the verdict came on the 10th death anniversary of former CM K Karunakaran. It was Karunakaran who took the decision to hand over the case to CBI. Had local police been probing the case, there wouldn’t have been any breakthrough,” Puthenpurackal told TOI. When asked about the allegations in social media about the role of a Keralite chief justice in sabotaging the probe in Sister Abhaya murder case, Puthenpurackal said all those are absurd. “The same judge was the one who quashed the high court order against me delivered by Justice Ramkumar in 2008. Ramkumar ordered a detailed probe against me just because I was a petitioner in the case. In 2010, Justice K G Balakrishnan quashed the order and reinstated my civil rights. If the HC order remained unchallenged, I couldn’t have associated with the case. Now, some people say that judge worked to sabotage the case. How can that be true?” he asked. Welcoming the verdict, CBI former DSP Varghese P Thomas said he didn’t feel the appeal court will amend the verdict by the trial court. “I view it as the result of doing my work sincerely. Hence, I am proud. The court has handed over a judicious punishment to the convicts. There is no way for them to escape the punishment as the crime has been proven,” he told reporters in Pathanamthitta. Thomas, who had quit CBI in 1994 alleging pressure from superior officers to close the case as suicide, said he felt the hands of God visible in the judgment. “This is the punishment by God. No punishment can be based on judge’s personal conviction. There was enough scientific evidence and circumstantial evidence in this case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/jomon-varghese-hail-punishment/articleshow/79929078.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Dr Reddy’s to use CMO for vaccine||Hyderabad: Pharma major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which is conducting Phase II and III clinical trials for Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India and will also be distributing the vaccine in the country, is roping in contract manufacturing players to churn out millions of doses of the Russian vaccine in the country. Dr Reddy’s has already tied up with a contract manufacturing operator (CMO) for Sputnik V and is in parleys with other CMOs, sources said. RDIF has already entered into an agreement with Hyderabad-based pharma player Hetero Biopharma to manufacture 100 million doses of Sputnik but the vaccine doses to be manufactured through Dr Reddy’s will be over and above that, it is learnt. When contacted a Dr Reddy’s spokesperson confirmed that they are taking the CMO route to produce Sputnik V in India but refused to divulge any details about the number of partnerships expected or the quantum of doses these tie-ups will produce. Earlier this week, Russian envoy to India, Nikolay Kudashev, had said in New Delhi that Sputnik V vaccine will be manufactured in India by Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, while RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev was recently quoted by a Russian media outlet as saying that RDIF has agreements with four large manufacturers in India and will produce 300 million doses of Sputnik V in the country next year. As per the pact RDIF inked with Dr Reddy’s in September this year, the Hyderabad-based company was to distribute around 100 million doses of Sputnik in India but later a top Dr Reddy’s Labs official had said that the distribution figure could well be much higher than that. Sputnik V, which has been developed by Russian sovereign wealth fund Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, became the world’s first registered vaccine against Covid-19 based on the human adenoviral vector platform on August 11, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dr-reddys-to-use-cmo-for-vaccine/articleshow/79930200.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Fund key projects: KTR tells Centre||Hyderabad: Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao has written to the Union minister of commerce and industry, Piyush Goyal, requesting the Centre to allocate funds in the upcoming Union Budget for key state projects such as the Hyderabad Pharma City, National Investment & Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) at Zaheerabad, National Design Centre (NDC) and industrial corridor. While welcoming the decision of National Industrial Corridor Development and Implementation Trust (NICDIT) to include Hyderabad-Warangal, and Hyderabad-Nagpur industrial corridors for development, KTR requested the Centre to consider funding infrastructure development at the initial two nodes — Hyderabad Pharma City (HPC) and NIMZ-Zaheerabad, which would cost Rs 5,000 crore. He urged Goyal to allocate at least 50% of the project cost of these projects. Stating that the Pharma City has an investment potential of around Rs 64,000 crore and capacity to generate 5.6 lakh jobs, Rao sought Rs 4,922 crore for external and internal infrastructure. He also said NIMZ at Zaheerabad, Sangareddy district, was accorded final approval by the commerce ministry in January 2016. The state government had requested the Centre to initially release Rs 500 crore for phase-I development of external and internal infrastructure out of the total project cost of Rs 9,500 crore. KTR said the required land is already with Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Ltd (TSIIC). In another letter, KTR also sought initial budget allocations of Rs 200 crore for the NDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fund-key-projects-ktr-tells-centre/articleshow/79930207.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Hargobind Nagar woman dies of Covid, 30 test positive||LUDHIANA: An elderly woman of Ludhiana died due to Covid-19 and 30 residents tested positive on Wednesday. As per the local media bulletin, the 80-year-old woman was a resident of Hargobind Nagar. She had chronic kidney disease and died at civil hospital. Besides, two outsiders succumbed to the virus and 15 tested positive here on the day. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district fatality figure has now increased to 953 and that of outsiders to 439. To date, 5,21,196 persons have been tested. Of the 30 new cases from Ludhiana, 15 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), five positive cases’ contacts, eight from OPD, one through tracing process, and one international traveller. The local health department officials said the district case count was 24,486 and that of outsiders 3,605. So far, 23,085 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.27% of the total cases. There are 445 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,811. On Wednesday, 42 persons were quarantined and 2,639 samples collected. There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at CMCH. Seven patients, including three of Ludhiana, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hargobind-nagar-woman-dies-of-covid-30-test-ve/articleshow/79928288.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Surat||Accused builder tests positive, bail extended||Surat: The interim bail of an accused in the tragic 2019 Takshashila Arcade fire, which snuffed out 22 lives, was extended by a local court on Wednesday after he tested positive for Covid-19. The sessions court extended the relief to accused Dinesh Vekariya who was out on temporary bail of 21 days to perform the last rites of his mother since December 5. His advocate Kalpesh Desai told the court that Vekariya had tested positive for Covid on December 21 and advised home isolation. Vekariya is one of the builders of the Takshashila Arcade and was booked under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and others at Sarthana police station. He was arrested by the city crime branch on February, 2, 2020. The fire had broken out in the coaching centre located on the fourth floor of the building on May 24, 2019. Dreadful videos of young students desperately jumping down from the fourth floor to save their lives had shaken the entire country. About 22 children died of severe head and body injuries due to the fall while others were charred to death beyond recognition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/accused-builder-tests-positive-bail-extended/articleshow/79928291.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Mumbai||Court seeks Maharashrta update on marriage registrars||MUMBAI: Bombay high court has directed the state government to inform it about progress and steps take for appointing marriage registrars for Christians. The direction by a bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav on December 18 came on a petition by Vasai resident Allen Cusher (35), a Roman Catholic, about inconvenience caused to Christians since the last registrar retired in February. Pointing out that Christians from all over Maharashtra go to Mantralaya to get their church marriage certificates countersigned to make it official, the petition said the Christian community has a sizeable population in Vasai, Mumbai and rest of Maharashtra. His advocate, Ashley Cusher, submitted that there has to be a marriage registrar in every district for Christians. Government pleader Poornima Kantharia said the government has taken note of the difficulties and was doing it best to expedite appointment of registrars. But she said the process could take time as the government will have to call for acceptance from gazetted officers of a particular rank and thereafter their credentials will have to be examined. Kantharia also said the process will have to be carried out for different districts. The judges posted the next hearing on January 15, 2021, adding, “The state government will place on record the progress in respect of the appointments and steps taken.” Cusher’s petition said his marriage in May 2017 was solemnized at Our Lady of Grace Cathedral, Papdy. The church issued him a marriage certificate which was attested by the chancellor at Bishop House, Vasai. When he visited Mantralaya on November 24, he was told there is no marriage registrar and hence the certificate could not be stamped. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-seeks-state-update-on-marriage-registrars-for-christians/articleshow/79930043.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Glada lists defaulter colonisers, warns people against buying plots||LUDHIANA: Developers who have failed to deposit the external development charges (EDC) with the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) even after getting the licence have been declared defaulters. Their list has been put up on the Glada website and the public is warned against buying plots in these colonies as their registries will not be allowed. Before constructing a colony, the developers take licence from the department and then deposit the EDC within a given time period. But many did not deposit the charges and now when Glada has taken action, those who live in these colonies will not be able to sell their plots or houses. These colonies are located at Ferozepur Road, Dhandhran Road, Thakkarwal, Gill Road, Canal Road, Daad, Phullanwal, Jainpur, Chuharpur, among others. Some developers got the licence way back in 1997-98, but still have not deposited the EDC. Sources said officials were trying to pressurise the developers through people living in these colonies or those who have invested there. If resale is not allowed, they will approach the developers for a solution. Glada additional chief administrator Bhupinder Singh said, “We have been regularly serving these developers notices, and now we are forced to take action. We have written to the revenue department for stopping registries of defaulters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/glada-lists-defaulter-colonisers-warns-people-against-buying-plots/articleshow/79928287.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Delhi||AAP ready to extend legal aid to farmers over ‘slur’: Raghav Chadha||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party will provide all possible legal assistance to farmers who want to move court against the derogatory remarks allegedly made by some BJP functionaries against the farmers who are protesting at Delhi’s various borders against the farm laws. AAP functionary Raghav Chadha said at a press conference that the farmers had been termed terrorists, anti-national, etc. “The three black farm laws have the propensity to destroy the lives and livelihoods of our farmers, who have been fighting for justice and for their rights for several weeks now. Their collective sorrow and pain is for everyone to see. In order to make themselves heard, the farmers marched towards Delhi, only to be stopped at the borders, only to be insulted, abused and maligned,” Chadha said adding that the “powers that be treated our farmers as an enemy of the state but the farmers continued with their peaceful movement.” “The farmers have been requesting the Modi government to listen to them, but in turn were abused. BJP ministers, elected representatives, leaders have used only filthy and foul language to describe the farmers. They said the farmers are agents of China and Pakistan; they said the farmers’ movement is being funded by Canada and Pakistan; they said our farmers are terrorists, goondas; they even called our farmers ‘dalaal’. It is evident that the entire BJP is strategically working to destroy and discredit the farmer movement with their relentless abuse,” Chadha stated. The AAP MLA said the farmers had reached out to AAP for help in getting justice. “They want to avenge the onslaught of insults. We will extend wholehearted support to our farmers,” said Chadha. “Whether with respect to registering a case, or taking the case to its final stages, AAP takes a pledge to provide all help to aggrieved farmers who want to move court against BJP functionaries for their defamatory remarks against protesting farmers,” Chadha said, adding that AAP has stood with the farmers since the beginning of the agitation and will stand with them always.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-ready-to-extend-legal-aid-to-farmers-over-slur-chadha/articleshow/79930285.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Amid night curfew, hotels eye Thai clocks to ring in 2021||PUNE/AURANGABAD/NASHIK: The Maharashtra government’s 11pm-6am night curfew has disrupted plans of ringing in the New Year at midnight, forcing hotels, gastropubs and lounges to start the celebrations according to the time in Thailand and Singapore — a good one to two hours ahead of India. Hotels, gastropubs and lounges in Mumbai, Pune and Aurangabad said they were making arrangements to bring in the New Year according to the time in some southeast Asian countries. They said the hospitality and tourism industries were expecting some business around the year-end after the nearly year-long drought due to the pandemic, but the curfew dashed their hopes. Leading hotelier Sunit Kothari, chairman of the Aurangabad Tourism Development Foundation, said, “Traditionally, Christmas to New Year is peak season for the hotel industry. When the curfew was announced, we decided to begin the New Year celebrations at 10.30pm IST, which would be midnight in Thailand.” Kothari said some hotels are also planning to offer one-night stay packages even for local guests. Dishant Pritamani, founder and owner of The Daily All Day, a gastropub and wine bar in Pune’s tony Koregaon Park, told TOI, “Many places will be ringing in the New Year as per Singapore/Thailand or even Tokyo’s New Year time. We are trying to zero in on a southeast Asian country hitherto not chosen by other lounges. We want to ring in the New Year at around 9.30pm so that patrons can get at least an hour after that before heading home.”Special plans are in order just to lift people’s spirits, with lounges in Pune planning Sunday brunches for all days of the curfew fortnight.Lovely Narang, owner of Agent Jack’s, which has branches in Senapati Bapat road, Amanora mall, NIBM road and Koregaon Park, told TOI that his outlets will follow Thailand time to usher in the New year. “Also, just so people get less bogged down with the pandemic and curfew, we have extended our Sunday brunches to all days of the curfew period and sundowners from Friday to Sunday,” he said. At Swig in Koregaon Park, the New Year celebrations will start at 5pm instead of 7pm each year on December 31. “The New Year countdown will begin one minute before 10pm or 10.30 pm, with a proper celebratory end to the day as well as year. It has been planned in such a way that patrons will not feel it “isn’t midnight as yet”, because it will look like the real thing,” said floor manager Rhea Kanwar. Though the government had imposed the night curfew only in municipal corporation areas, on Wednesday it allowed district collectors to issue similar restrictions in areas under their jurisdiction if needed. This has caused some confusion among resort owners and holiday places in the state. Hoteliers said they had earlier expected small gatherings in the run-up to the New Year, but they are now facing cancellation of bookings because of the curfew. Aurangabad Hotels and Restaurants Association president Anjali Pratap told TOI, “We had some bookings for weddings and receptions at our resort for the last week of December, but they have been either cancelled or postponed now.” The curfew has also scotched travel plans in Aurangabad and Nashik, with tour operators and tourist guides complaining of cancellations. Prominent tour operator Datta Bhalerao, former president of the Travel Agents Association of Nashik (TAAN), said around 8-10% of the 25,000 bookings for different tourist destinations around this time have been hurriedly cancelled. The demand was mostly for destinations within the country and the state. Konkan, Goa, Mahabaleshwar, Andaman and Nicobar, Kerala and Gujarat were preferred destinations. TAAN president Rajendra Bakare admitted that cancellation of tour plans was around 7-8% but feared it would increase. Undri resident Rakesh Agarwal said he has decided to have a house party and invite friends over to bring in the New Year. “Instead of being forced to go back home before 11pm, our friends can stay the night and leave when the curfew is lifted in the morning,” he said. (With inputs from Anjali Jhangiani)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/amid-night-restrictions-lounges-hotels-eye-thai-clocks-to-ring-in-2021/articleshow/79930266.cms||Neha Madaan
December 24, 2020||Surat||Surat: Lost minor girl reunited with parents||SURAT: A four-year-old girl, who had gone missing from her house in Pandesara, was rescued and reunited with her parents within hours. The police control room (PCR) received a call on Tuesday evening with the caller informing about a little girl being spotted crying on the road. Swinging into action, a PCR van reached the spot in just seven minutes and brought her to the police station. Meanwhile, her parents also came there and the girl was united with the family. City police commissioner Ajay Tomar announced reward to the PCR van for swift response. The minor went missing at around 12 noon from Gita Nagar while playing near her house. Her father Rakesh Kushwaha, a painter, had gone to his work place while her mother was busy working at home. At around 2.30 pm, she was spotted crossing the road by a vegetable shop owner Suresh Patel near Tirupati Circle, around half a km away from her house. Patel stopped the girl and asked her the address, but she was unable to describe. Patel then told her to wait at a nearby tea stall of Ajay Gupta and see if her family members came searching for. “The girl was not able to tell the address and spent around two hours at my stall. At around 5pm, when no one came to take her, Patel called up the control room,” said Gupta. A P Chaudhary, police inspector, Pandesara police station, said, “The girl was brought to the police station and made comfortable. Her parents were searching for her and they had also approached police by that time.” With an aim to prevent cases of sexual assaults on minor girls, the police are creating awareness among locals in labour colonies where such heinous crimes have been reported. “Due to the awareness drives, we are receiving timely information about children going missing or being found,” said J K Pandya, assistant commissioner of police, F division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lost-minor-girl-reunited-with-parents/articleshow/79928299.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||How Udaipur will soon become dumping yard-free city||JAIPUR: While Jaipur city is still waiting to have a full-fledged waste segregation system, Udaipur has been using it for years. Udaipur Municipal Corporation (UMC) has even started bio-mining to remove thousands of tonnes of garbage generated from the city. UMC officials said in 62 out of 70 wards, 100% garbage is collected in a segregated manner and the rest will soon follow. There are two dumping grounds in the city – Titadi and Baleecha. Titadi is a four-decade old dumping ground which was shut down in 2010 and a new land was allotted to the UMC in Baleecha. However, garbage was still present in 32,000 sqmtr land in Titadi and UMC decided to take care of it. UMC commissioner Himmath Singh Barahath said at first they decided to reclaim the land which was under the garbage. “We pulled all strings and in a scientific manner capped the garbage under the soil. We reclaimed 12,000sqmtr land,” said Singh. In the remaining 20,000 sqmtr land, officials developed a garden, established a 30-material recovery facility (MRF Plant) where dry waste is segregated in different categories and a wet waste plant. In the MRF plant, dry waste is segregated in 18 categories to be reused and wet waste is converted into fertilizer. If any waste which cannot be further used, is sent to the cement factories. For Baleecha dumping yard, UMC decided to go for bio-mining as capping of garbage is now forbidden by the National Green Tribunal. It was decided to be done in two phases. Executive engineer of UMC, Mahendra Sambani said, “In first phase, we processed around 60,000 cubic metres of garbage and in the second phase we have to process 1 lakh cubic metres. Of the 1 lakh, 60,000 cubic metres is done and remaining will be completed within three months.” A construction demolition material plant was also established at Baleecha dumping yard by spending Rs 8 crore under Smart City project. Another Bio-Methane plant under Smart City project will be established by January 2021 for which tenders have already been floated. According to Udaipur officials, they utilized Smart City money to improve the solid waste management in the city. This success story needs to be replicated in other parts, especially in state capital Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/how-udaipur-will-soon-become-dumping-yard-free-city/articleshow/79930233.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
December 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Amid night curfew, hotels eye Thai clocks to ring in 2021||PUNE/AURANGABAD/NASHIK: The Maharashtra government’s 11pm-6am night curfew has disrupted plans of ringing in the New Year at midnight, forcing hotels, gastropubs and lounges to start the celebrations according to the time in Thailand and Singapore — a good one to two hours ahead of India. Hotels, gastropubs and lounges in Mumbai, Pune and Aurangabad said they were making arrangements to bring in the New Year according to the time in some southeast Asian countries. They said the hospitality and tourism industries were expecting some business around the year-end after the nearly year-long drought due to the pandemic, but the curfew dashed their hopes. Leading hotelier Sunit Kothari, chairman of the Aurangabad Tourism Development Foundation, said, “Traditionally, Christmas to New Year is peak season for the hotel industry. When the curfew was announced, we decided to begin the New Year celebrations at 10.30pm IST, which would be midnight in Thailand.” Kothari said some hotels are also planning to offer one-night stay packages even for local guests. Dishant Pritamani, founder and owner of The Daily All Day, a gastropub and wine bar in Pune’s tony Koregaon Park, told TOI, “Many places will be ringing in the New Year as per Singapore/Thailand or even Tokyo’s New Year time. We are trying to zero in on a southeast Asian country hitherto not chosen by other lounges. We want to ring in the New Year at around 9.30pm so that patrons can get at least an hour after that before heading home.”Special plans are in order just to lift people’s spirits, with lounges in Pune planning Sunday brunches for all days of the curfew fortnight.Lovely Narang, owner of Agent Jack’s, which has branches in Senapati Bapat road, Amanora mall, NIBM road and Koregaon Park, told TOI that his outlets will follow Thailand time to usher in the New year. “Also, just so people get less bogged down with the pandemic and curfew, we have extended our Sunday brunches to all days of the curfew period and sundowners from Friday to Sunday,” he said. At Swig in Koregaon Park, the New Year celebrations will start at 5pm instead of 7pm each year on December 31. “The New Year countdown will begin one minute before 10pm or 10.30 pm, with a proper celebratory end to the day as well as year. It has been planned in such a way that patrons will not feel it “isn’t midnight as yet”, because it will look like the real thing,” said floor manager Rhea Kanwar. Though the government had imposed the night curfew only in municipal corporation areas, on Wednesday it allowed district collectors to issue similar restrictions in areas under their jurisdiction if needed. This has caused some confusion among resort owners and holiday places in the state. Hoteliers said they had earlier expected small gatherings in the run-up to the New Year, but they are now facing cancellation of bookings because of the curfew. Aurangabad Hotels and Restaurants Association president Anjali Pratap told TOI, “We had some bookings for weddings and receptions at our resort for the last week of December, but they have been either cancelled or postponed now.” The curfew has also scotched travel plans in Aurangabad and Nashik, with tour operators and tourist guides complaining of cancellations. Prominent tour operator Datta Bhalerao, former president of the Travel Agents Association of Nashik (TAAN), said around 8-10% of the 25,000 bookings for different tourist destinations around this time have been hurriedly cancelled. The demand was mostly for destinations within the country and the state. Konkan, Goa, Mahabaleshwar, Andaman and Nicobar, Kerala and Gujarat were preferred destinations. TAAN president Rajendra Bakare admitted that cancellation of tour plans was around 7-8% but feared it would increase. Undri resident Rakesh Agarwal said he has decided to have a house party and invite friends over to bring in the New Year. “Instead of being forced to go back home before 11pm, our friends can stay the night and leave when the curfew is lifted in the morning,” he said. (With inputs from Anjali Jhangiani)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amid-night-restrictions-lounges-hotels-eye-thai-clocks-to-ring-in-2021/articleshow/79932427.cms||Neha Madaan
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||This Xmas, it’s a spirit of sharing & caring||Hyderabad: With subdued celebrations owing to covid-19 restrictions, several residents have found a more fulfilling way of ushering in Christmas — by giving and spending time with the needy. From celebrating with street children, to feeding beggars and visiting orphanages, city dwellers say they are spreading cheer in their own unique way. “Today me and my friends gathered at Mother Teresa Statue, Secunderabad. We celebrated the festival season with needy kids on the street. We shared food, gave them gifts and sang songs with them. We realised the importance of helping at this time,” said Christine Lazarus, a former MLA. “Yesterday we spent time with the underprivileged in Mehdipatnam,” she added. Residents say that in light of the difficulties posed by the pandemic, they have realized the importance of giving. “Me and my family are neither hosting nor attending family get-togethers, elaborate luncheons and midnight mass. We decided to help orpahans and the needy,” said Lawrence D’Souza from West Maredpally. However, the Christmas cheer was palpable across the city. For instance, a Christmas house for Santa Claus has been designed by K Sudhakar of Sudha Cars museum. Inspired by European architecture, the house covers an area of 45sft (3ft x 15ft). The house has a water closet, shower, sink, kitchenette, fridge, cutlery unit and a collapsible bed. “The high roof narrow house is adorned with lights, fans and mirror lights to amplify the Christmas mood,” said Sudhakar. While there are fewer events being organised this year, smaller gatherings for carol singing and midnight mass are anticipated. Many people also said they would continue the tradition of conducting prayers in Telugu, English and Tamil, duly following Covid-19 guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/this-xmas-its-a-spirit-of-sharing-caring/articleshow/79930232.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Amid night curfew, hotels eye Thai clocks to ring in 2021||PUNE/AURANGABAD/NASHIK: The Maharashtra government’s 11pm-6am night curfew has disrupted plans of ringing in the New Year at midnight, forcing hotels, gastropubs and lounges to start the celebrations according to the time in Thailand and Singapore — a good one to two hours ahead of India. Hotels, gastropubs and lounges in Mumbai, Pune and Aurangabad said they were making arrangements to bring in the New Year according to the time in some southeast Asian countries. They said the hospitality and tourism industries were expecting some business around the year-end after the nearly year-long drought due to the pandemic, but the curfew dashed their hopes. Leading hotelier Sunit Kothari, chairman of the Aurangabad Tourism Development Foundation, said, “Traditionally, Christmas to New Year is peak season for the hotel industry. When the curfew was announced, we decided to begin the New Year celebrations at 10.30pm IST, which would be midnight in Thailand.” Kothari said some hotels are also planning to offer one-night stay packages even for local guests. Dishant Pritamani, founder and owner of The Daily All Day, a gastropub and wine bar in Pune’s tony Koregaon Park, told TOI, “Many places will be ringing in the New Year as per Singapore/Thailand or even Tokyo’s New Year time. We are trying to zero in on a southeast Asian country hitherto not chosen by other lounges. We want to ring in the New Year at around 9.30pm so that patrons can get at least an hour after that before heading home.”Special plans are in order just to lift people’s spirits, with lounges in Pune planning Sunday brunches for all days of the curfew fortnight.Lovely Narang, owner of Agent Jack’s, which has branches in Senapati Bapat road, Amanora mall, NIBM road and Koregaon Park, told TOI that his outlets will follow Thailand time to usher in the New year. “Also, just so people get less bogged down with the pandemic and curfew, we have extended our Sunday brunches to all days of the curfew period and sundowners from Friday to Sunday,” he said. At Swig in Koregaon Park, the New Year celebrations will start at 5pm instead of 7pm each year on December 31. “The New Year countdown will begin one minute before 10pm or 10.30 pm, with a proper celebratory end to the day as well as year. It has been planned in such a way that patrons will not feel it “isn’t midnight as yet”, because it will look like the real thing,” said floor manager Rhea Kanwar. Though the government had imposed the night curfew only in municipal corporation areas, on Wednesday it allowed district collectors to issue similar restrictions in areas under their jurisdiction if needed. This has caused some confusion among resort owners and holiday places in the state. Hoteliers said they had earlier expected small gatherings in the run-up to the New Year, but they are now facing cancellation of bookings because of the curfew. Aurangabad Hotels and Restaurants Association president Anjali Pratap told TOI, “We had some bookings for weddings and receptions at our resort for the last week of December, but they have been either cancelled or postponed now.” The curfew has also scotched travel plans in Aurangabad and Nashik, with tour operators and tourist guides complaining of cancellations. Prominent tour operator Datta Bhalerao, former president of the Travel Agents Association of Nashik (TAAN), said around 8-10% of the 25,000 bookings for different tourist destinations around this time have been hurriedly cancelled. The demand was mostly for destinations within the country and the state. Konkan, Goa, Mahabaleshwar, Andaman and Nicobar, Kerala and Gujarat were preferred destinations. TAAN president Rajendra Bakare admitted that cancellation of tour plans was around 7-8% but feared it would increase. Undri resident Rakesh Agarwal said he has decided to have a house party and invite friends over to bring in the New Year. “Instead of being forced to go back home before 11pm, our friends can stay the night and leave when the curfew is lifted in the morning,” he said. (With inputs from Anjali Jhangiani)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/amid-night-restrictions-lounges-hotels-eye-thai-clocks-to-ring-in-2021/articleshow/79932426.cms||Neha Madaan
December 24, 2020||Kochi||Sister Abhaya case verdict: Sad and sorry, says Knanaya Church||KOTTAYAM: The Archdiocese of Kottayam belonging to Knanaya Catholics have reacted for the first time on Wednesday after Sister Abhaya case verdict by the CBI special court. A press note by the PRO of the Archdiocese Aji Koyickal said: “The death of Abhaya who was a member of the Kottayam archdiocese was sad and unfortunate. The CBI special court have found that Abhaya was murdered and pronounced life term for Fr Thomas Kottoor and Sr Sephy who both are also members of this diocese. The allegations against them are unbelievable. Even then we respect the court verdict. The accused persons have the right to go for appeal against the verdict and prove their innocence. However, the archdiocese is sad and sorry in the developments,” it said. The Archdiocese did not react on Tuesday when both Fr Kottoor and Sr Sephy were found guilty by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sad-and-sorry-says-knanaya-church/articleshow/79929104.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Father of 3 held for raping 5-year-old||LUDHIANA: The police on Wednesday evening arrested a 40-year-old man for raping a five-year-old girl in Ludhiana district. The accused, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, works as a labourer here and is the father of three children, including two daughters and a son. The survivor’s grandmother, 53, said in her police complaint, “I am a homemaker. My daughter lives with me along with her two daughters, aged 5 and 2. Her husband had passed away in 2017. We live on the first floor and have a barn in the basement.” On Tuesday, she and her daughter were on the first floor and her granddaughter was playing on the ground floor when they heard her crying. “We went out looking for her. Around 2pm, we reached a room and saw the accused raping her. On seeing us, the accused ran away,” she added. She took her granddaughter to a hospital and informed the police. The complainant said, “The accused had come along with a mason to work at our house about 20-22 days ago. They had worked here for seven to eight days.” On receiving the complaint, police booked the accused under sections 376 AB (punishment for rape on woman under twelve years of age), and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Investigating officer inspector Prem Singh said, “The accused was arrested from the district on Wednesday evening. The survivor was sent to PGI for a medical examination. Her condition is stated to be fine.” Police said the accused had come to Punjab about five years ago. “One of the children of the accused is of the age of the survivor,” said a cop. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/father-of-3-held-for-raping-5-yr-old/articleshow/79928300.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Udaipur||How Udaipur will soon become dumping yard-free city||JAIPUR: While Jaipur city is still waiting to have a full-fledged waste segregation system, Udaipur has been using it for years. Udaipur Municipal Corporation (UMC) has even started bio-mining to remove thousands of tonnes of garbage generated from the city. UMC officials said in 62 out of 70 wards, 100% garbage is collected in a segregated manner and the rest will soon follow. There are two dumping grounds in the city – Titadi and Baleecha. Titadi is a four-decade old dumping ground which was shut down in 2010 and a new land was allotted to the UMC in Baleecha. However, garbage was still present in 32,000 sqmtr land in Titadi and UMC decided to take care of it. UMC commissioner Himmath Singh Barahath said at first they decided to reclaim the land which was under the garbage. “We pulled all strings and in a scientific manner capped the garbage under the soil. We reclaimed 12,000sqmtr land,” said Singh. In the remaining 20,000 sqmtr land, officials developed a garden, established a 30-material recovery facility (MRF Plant) where dry waste is segregated in different categories and a wet waste plant. In the MRF plant, dry waste is segregated in 18 categories to be reused and wet waste is converted into fertilizer. If any waste which cannot be further used, is sent to the cement factories. For Baleecha dumping yard, UMC decided to go for bio-mining as capping of garbage is now forbidden by the National Green Tribunal. It was decided to be done in two phases. Executive engineer of UMC, Mahendra Sambani said, “In first phase, we processed around 60,000 cubic metres of garbage and in the second phase we have to process 1 lakh cubic metres. Of the 1 lakh, 60,000 cubic metres is done and remaining will be completed within three months.” A construction demolition material plant was also established at Baleecha dumping yard by spending Rs 8 crore under Smart City project. Another Bio-Methane plant under Smart City project will be established by January 2021 for which tenders have already been floated. According to Udaipur officials, they utilized Smart City money to improve the solid waste management in the city. This success story needs to be replicated in other parts, especially in state capital Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/how-udaipur-will-soon-become-dumping-yard-free-city/articleshow/79936836.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
December 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Sex-determination racket busted, woman arrested||A team of Hisar health department, on Wednesday, caught a woman tout with Rs 5,000 in Shimlapuri on the charge of conducting sex-determination tests. Her operator, however, managed to escape with the rest of the money. The woman tout was running an illegal clinic, from where the department team recovered a portable ultrasound machine and medicines for medical termination of pregnancy (MTP), among others. Hisar PNDT nodal officer Dr Anamika Bishnoi said, “We had received a secret information about a gang running a sex-determination test racket in Ludhiana. This was communicated to senior officials and a team was formed. The team sent a decoy pregnant woman for sex-determination test. The team cracked down when the woman tout and her operator took the pregnant woman for sex-determination test.” Earlier, on September 23, too, the Hisar health department team had caught a woman tout in Ludhiana on the similar charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sex-determination-racket-busted-woman-arrested/articleshow/79928294.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Number of people taking antibody tests shoots up||BHOPAL: Fear of coronavirus is making people opt for antibody tests for Covid-19. While the rush is still limited, it is rising with an increase in awareness. More than 37,000 Covid-19 cases have been reported from the city so far. As on December 23, there are around 2,100 active cases in the city. Covid-19 rapid antigen tests are also being done in private clinics for detecting the virus, but apart from it, several citizens are also opting for the antibody tests. Dinesh Malviya, a pathologist who runs three centres in the city, said, “It is mostly active and educated people who are opting for the antibody tests. However, in the month of December, I do not know why the number of such tests has gone down. Till November, we used to get at least 10 samples every day. Now, it has come down to 2-3 samples a day.” Prem Shankar, who runs a pathology centre in Katara Hills, said, “Overall, we get around 200 samples a day, and of these, 5-10 are for conducting Covid-19 antibody tests. Mostly, people come on their own for antibody tests.” Sources said that those opting for antibody tests are mostly aware and educated people who have to be in the field and want to see if they have developed immunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/people-queue-up-for-antibody-tests-every-day-as-cases-rise/articleshow/79929107.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 24, 2020||Surat||Bail plea of BJP leader Sarma accused in cheating, forgery case rejected||Surat: The Surat district and sessions court on Wednesday rejected bail plea of city BJP leader and former income tax officer PVS Sarma (56) who was arrested in connection with the cheating and forgery case in November last week.Sarma along with two others is alleged to have been involved in forging documents to show inflated circulation figures of local Gujarati and English daily newspapers to get advertisements. He is also accused of showing purchase of raw materials by making false entries and preparing forged documents of purchase bills/ vouchers in the name of many non-existing companies. The investigating officer in his affidavit opposing Sarma’s bail stated that Sarma and others had cheated private as well as government agencies to the tune of crores of rupees.Sarma’s lawyer had argued that his client had served the Income-tax Department for years and has recently joined “Satyam Times” (daily newspaper) as one of the directors and had no role in the case. He further claimed that Sarma had not forged or created bogus documents for showing inflated numbers of copies of their newspaper in circulation.Public prosecutor N L Sukhadwala opposed the bail plea and submitted that the accused not only showed false entries, but had committed cheated government agencies of Rs 70 lakh and private agencies to the tune of Rs 2 crore.The court while rejecting bail also took into consideration the fact that a probe was also being carried out by income tax authorities with regard to allegations of disproportionate assets amassed by Sarma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bail-plea-of-bjp-leader-sarma-accused-in-cheating-forgery-case-rejected/articleshow/79928314.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Waste segregation still a distant dream for Jaipur||JAIPUR: Heaps of garbage accumulated at Sewapura landfill site gives a holistic picture of the end result of door-to-door garbage collection from Jaipur city. Millions of tonne garbage have become a major cause of air and water pollution in the surrounding areas of the landfill site at Sewapura. One of the major causes of this accumulation is the lack of segregated collection of garbage. Door-to-door garbage collection started more than five years back in the city but till now dry and wet waste is not collected separately. The hoopers driving around the city although have separation in their vehicles for dry and wet waste but it was never seriously implemented. Every day, 1,400 metric tonne of garbage is generated in the city out of which around 800 tonne is dumped in Sewapura landfill site and 700 tonne in Mathuradaspura site. One compost plant from wet waste is established in Sewapura site and a dry waste plant in Mathuradaspura site. However, they are of little importance because of non-segregated waste. The contractor running the Sewapura compost plant said, “We get 250 metric tonne of garbage every day out of which we can utilize only 20% of the waste because our main energy is focused on segregation of useless waste for compost. The remaining 80% is dumped back in the landfill site. If the waste is given segregated manner, we would be able to utilize it better.” There have been many initiatives take by the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) over the years but due to lack of will from the authorities it hasn’t been successful. Due to non-segregation of waste, the ranking of Jaipur has always been affected. Till last year, Swachhta Survekshan was divided into four parts with 1,500 marks each. This year there has been a change in the pattern of marking with 2,400 marks for service level program, 1,800 for citizen’s voice and 1,800 for certification. Service level programme includes segregated collection, processing, disposal and sustainable sanitation. All of which are not present at present in Jaipur. To clean the dumping site, JMC proposed Rs 150 crore of project of bio-mining which hasn’t been approved by the authorities due to financial constraints. Until the project is approved, waste segregated, cleaning of the dumping sites, there is no possibility of Jaipur ever reaching in Top 10 rank in Swachhta Survekshan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/waste-segregation-still-a-distant-dream-for-city/articleshow/79930256.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Tussle between Heritage and Greater mayors over illegal dairies||JAIPUR: Mayors of both the civic bodies here had a verbal duel on Wednesday when JMC-Greater mayor Somya Gurjar entered the Civil Lines area that comes under JMC-Heritage following complaints of illegal animal dairies. Gurjar visited the area after getting several complaints regarding illegal dairies operating in Katewa Nagar from where cows venture into JMC-Greater areas. Gurjar reached Katewa Nagar in the evening with deputy commissioner of animal management and vigilance branch where an illegal cattle dairy was found with more than 50 cows with white strips tied in their legs. According to a senior JMC-Greater officer, these white strips were an identification that these cows belong to a particular owner looking at which animal husbandry workers would not seize them. “The moment officers reached Katewa Nagar which comes under JMC-Heritage, crowd gathered and started threatening us. Gurjar even called up JMC-Heritage mayor Munesh Gurjar complaining about the functioning of illegal dairies in her area which are cause nuisance in Greater area,” said a senior officer. The Greater mayor also raised questions on the corporation officials for not catching these cows and blamed them of having a nexus with the culprits. Some officers at JMC-Greater animal husbandry department are now being questioned for having a link with the accused. JMC-Heritage mayor objected to this step and said that if her counterpart thinks she can handle Heritage better, they could switch corporations. “This is an infringement of our rights and JMC-Greater officials cannot just enter in our area and take action. There are many illegal dairies functioning in JMC-Greater as well. If Somya Gurjar had written to us, we would have taken appropriate action. But this is not acceptable,” said Munesh. This was the first territorial fight between the two newly elected mayors and was an indication that teh duo were not on good terms with each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tussle-between-heritage-and-greater-mayors-over-illegal-dairies/articleshow/79930257.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Sewapura residents rue ‘garbage village’ tag, want landfill shifted||JAIPUR: Just 30-km away from here, residents of Sewapura village near the dumping site are forced to live a miserable life. Around 25 years ago, this site was allotted by the government, the consequences of which were not known to people. Every morning and evening, the smell from the dumping site mixes in the air and spreads around 15 kilometres. During monsoon the situation worsens. “Is wachhta important only for those in urban areas. Why should we suffer because of tons of garbage generated in the city? Our village is now known as ‘Kachra Ganv’ (Garbage Village) everywhere,” said Rohitash Gurjar, sarpanch of Sewapura village. Every household that TOI visited has at least one patient suffering from skin disease or asthma. Ruma Devi, an 80-year-old woman began crying while showing her rashes on the body. “I am fed up of scratching all day long. The smell from the garbage is intolerable for me at this age,” she said. Due to the presence of dumping site, outsiders are not ready to marry their daughters to men in the village. Many people complained of not finding wives for their sons in the village. “Just wait for a few more years and I believe people will refuse to marry our daughters as well fearing some skin or other ailment. Many children have started complaining of irritation in the eyes. The future of our children is ruined until this dumping site shifts,” said Umed Singh, a resident of the village. The dirty water that gets discharged from the garbage enters the earth and pollutes groundwater. Many people have stopped using boring water and travel to other parts of the village to fill their utensils. Earlier villagers used to produce grains and vegetables but due to polluted water, they are now limited to just wheat and chana. The sarpanch said that during the lockdown period Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) started dumping medical waste of the city which forced them to protest. “Hundreds of villagers stopped the trucks and shouted slogans. JMC officials put up false cases against me and sent me to jail. Only the support of villagers saved me,” said Gurjar. This is not the first time though. Many times, villagers have staged protest against this dumping site but officials are least bothered. Villagers have even sent a letter to Prime Minister’s Office. “Unless it’s about elections nobody cares about our village or rural people. If this dumping yard was near the city it would have been shifted elsewhere quickly,” said Hastimal Mali, another resident of the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/polluted-life-of-residents-living-in-sewapura-village/articleshow/79930244.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||21-year-old student arrested for blackmail||Hyderabad: Rachakonda cyber crime sleuths arrested 21-year-old B Tech student A Bharath Kumar of Ghatkesar for trying to extort Rs 10,000 from a victim whose phone number he found on e-classifieds portal. The accused used to randomly use mobile numbers as password for Google accounts and logged into the victim’s account. He downloaded the victim’s personal photos and began blackmailing her. The accused created a WhatsApp account using a virtual phone number generated through an app solely to blackmail the victim, Rachakonda police said. Bharat sent the QR code of a grocery store owner from Ghatkesar to the victim and asked her to transfer Rs 10,000. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/21-year-old-student-arrested-for-blackmail/articleshow/79930282.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man poses as GHMC engineer, dupes contractor of Rs 5.5 lakh||HYDERABAD: A contractor was conned on Wednesday in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) head office by a man impersonating an executive engineer. Narsing Rao, who maintains a few washrooms in the Hyderadbad Metrol Rail Limited (HMRL) corridor and GHMC limits, was duped to the tune of Rs 5.5 lakh. On Monday, he got a call from a person who introduced himself as GHMC executive engineer Venkat Reddy. The latter said that he was impressed with Rao’s work and the GHMC wants to award him more maintenance contracts. Reddy met Rao near the deputy mayor’s cabin on Wednesday and said that his work station is also on the same floor. The fake engineer also showed him some washrooms in the city and promised that, those units will also be handed over to him for maintenance. “The fake engineer said that the money should be deposited in the bank located on the GHMC premises. A little while later he said that they were running short of time and he will deposit the money. I gave him cash after which he headed towards the bank. However, he did not return and his phone was switched off,” said Ravinder, Narsing Rao’s assistant. A cheating case has been registered at the Saifabad police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-poses-as-ghmc-engineer-dupes-contractor-of-rs-5-5-lakh/articleshow/79930295.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 24, 2020||Kochi||NHAI, PWD spar over Mangalam bridge rebuilding||PALAKKAD: The dispute between National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and state public works department (PWD) over reconstructing 77-year-old Mangalam bridge at Wadakkenchery after its demolition recently, has put on hold the works of the new bridge. NHAI wants the bridge to be constructed with 11m width as the Wadakkenchery-Walayar National Highway is being widened as 45m six-line road. But as per the estimates prepared by PWD, the bridge is only 9.7m wide. PWD officials said that bridge reconstruction will begin on December 28 and if NHAI wants 11m bridge they have to take over construction. The work was tendered and it has to be cancelled by compensating the bidder and getting government sanction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nhai-pwd-spar-over-mangalam-bridge-rebuilding/articleshow/79929120.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot wants a model industrial zone in Bhiwadi||Jaipur: In a review meeting on Wednesday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot directed the officials to set up new and modern industrial area in Bhiwadi to attract investors.  “Being part of the NCR region, Bhiwadi has lot of potential for new investments. Keeping this in mind, we should development a modern industrial area with the help of town planners,” said the chief minister. Gehlot said that the state should encourage private industrial areas. “The opportunities for industries will be huge due to DMIC and the private companies can also join in boosting industrial infrastructure,” added Gehlot.  Recently, the government has launched one stop shop for faster clearance and approvals of applications. Gehlot said under the one stop shop, 98 permissions under 14 departments will be given. The officers of the 14 departments will meet every Monday and Thursday to clear the application and give approvals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-wants-a-model-industrial-zone-in-bhiwadi/articleshow/79930283.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Landlord, family booked after tenant kills himself||Ludhiana: Khanna police booked three members of a family and a villager after the tenant of the former ended his life by consuming a poisonous substance in Jatana village, alleging harassment by them.Deceased Parminder Singh also made a video before ending his life. The accused—Harmail Singh, his wife Narinderpal Kaur, son Parvinder Singh and villager Pardeep Singh—are residents of Jatana village. In her statement to the police, Harjeet Kaur, wife of the deceased, said she married Parminder Singh in 1999 against his family’s wishes and so they were not given share in property. Twelve years ago, they started living at Harmail Singh’s house in Jatana village on rent. The complainant told police officials that Harmail moved to Doraha with one of his sons, Parvinder Singh, while his other son Pappu lived in Jatana. She added that they entered into a house deal with Pappu in 2018 and Parminder gave him Rs 5 lakh as advance.Wife of the deceased said Pappu died and Harmail Singh, his son Parvinder Singh and wife Narinder Pal Kaur started harassing them to vacate the house and also didn’t return Rs 5 lakh. She alleged that on December 20, her son was alone at home when the trio, along with another villager, came to the house and started throwing out their belongings. The complainant told cops that she and her husband reached there and tried to stop the accused. She said Parminder paid Rs 8,000 rent on the spot, and also said that he wanted to kill himself as he had been insulted. On this, the accused said they did not care even if he died, she added. Alleging humiliation, Parminder made a video on his mobile phone and committed suicide on Monday. He said in the video that he could not build a house and had endured a lot, so he was taking his life. Police said after being informed about the incident, Khanna police reached the spot and started a probe. Police booked the accused under section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC on Tuesday evening. Investigating officer sub-inspector Sukhwinderpal Singh said the accused were yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/landlord-family-booked-after-tenant-kills-himself/articleshow/79928324.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Goa||Goa’s philatelists receive record Liberation Day cancellations||PANAJI: After the department of Goa posts released a special cancellation for the 60th Liberation Day, philatelists across the state made efforts to send and receive the special philatelic material. At the end of the task, some received posts in hundreds — something very rare for a one-day cancellation. The special Goa Liberation cancellations were planned at post offices in Bicholim, Curchorem, Margao, Mapusa, Panaji, Ponda and Vasco, with different colour cancellations such as Red, Green, Purple, Black etc. To make the cancellations, philatelists have to go to each of the post offices as it is only after going through the postal route that the philatelic item becomes a collectible. With the Liberation Day cancellation being a one-day one, to be cancelled at all the seven post offices, it makes it a rare one. “Many philatelists received a record of number postal articles on a single day from different parts of Goa within the next possible working day, that is December 21,” president of the Goa philately and numismatics society (GPNS), M R Ramesh Kumar said. Shaikh Samiruddin, the only person who travelled to all the seven places to get the cancellations, has over 1,000 cancellations, bringing in his kitty probably the highest number. Kumar received 231 cancellations. It costs Rs 22 per letter if it is registered. Another philatelist Ludovico Ferrao received 350 cancellations with about 50 from each post office. “Since the cancellation was only for one day, the challenge here was to get all seven as a set. The various hues of the cancellation makes the collection look very beautiful. It evokes a sense of pride, since these are done on the 60th Liberation Day,” he said, adding that his friends from various parts of Goa helped him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-philatelists-receive-record-liberation-day-cancellations/articleshow/79931461.cms||Nida Sayed
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar: MLA reaches stadium with lathi for duel with BJP neta||ALWAR: In a brazen disregard for law, Independent MLA Baljeet Yadav challenged former BJP MLA Jaswant Yadav to a duel and reached the Behror stadium wielding a lathi on Wednesday. The 42-year-old MLA’s supporters too were carrying bamboo batons challenging the 67-year-old BJP leader for a fight. Jaswant had made remarks against the young MLA during the local body polls in Behror last month. Baljeet responded by reaching the stadium laced with a lathi for an open fight. The lawmaker was on his way to Shahjahanpur border didn’t show any regret for his act. He posed for pictures holding 6-feet long lathi and himself shared it on the social media platforms. The tiff between the two leaders is old and the verbal attacks between the two intensified during the local body polls last month. Baljeet was supporting Congress candidates in the local polls and played a role in forming Congress party’s board in Behror. During one of the election meetings, Jaswant reportedly challenged Baljeet to settle all disputes in a physical fight once for all. Since then, the young lawmaker was commenting against Jaswant, his family and Alwar MP Balak Nath. The MLA even made objectionable remarks against the daughter-in-law of Jaswant and MP Balak Nath and didn’t go well with both of them. Baljeet challenged Jaswant along with Alwar MP Balak Nath in a victory celebration meeting held recently. “Nath is a fake sadhu who cannot beat me in the race. He doesn’t know to hold prayers and has kept others for his primary job,” said Baljeet. A video of his remarks has gone viral. Talking to TOI on Wednesday’s development, Jaswant confirmed of challenging Baljeet first for a fight since the lawmaker had been making lewd comments against him and his family members. “His challenge came without any prior notice. Next time he should inform me in advance so that I can teach him a lesson for life,” said Jaswant, who was so angry that he assured Bajeet that he is ready to file an affidavit that if anything happens in the physical fight with Baljeet nobody should be held responsible. Defending his move, Baljeet says that he was provoked by Jaswant’s challenge to fight with him. “I gave him noon time and venue Behror school ground, but he didn’t turn up. He (Jaswant), his son or anyone from his family can come and fight with me in whatever way they want. Drink milk and cream for the next six months and thereafter come and see me,” said Baljeet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mla-reaches-stadium-with-lathi-for-duel-with-bjp-neta/articleshow/79930272.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Bhopal||1,000+ new Covid-19 cases again in Madhya Pradesh, positivity rate inches near 94%||BHOPAL: A total 1,007 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday, taking the tally of cases so far to 2,34,331. And once again, more people recovered from Covid-19 than testing positive in a single day, on Wednesday. Against 1,007 new people testing positive, 1,223 patients recovered in the state. The total recoveries in the state now stand at 2,20,051. As on December 23, the overall recovery rate for Ccovid-19 in the state was 93.9%. Apart from the fresh cases, 12 casualties were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin, released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the death toll reached 3,514 in the state on Wednesday. Districts where these casualties were reported include Indore where 3 deaths were reported, Bhopal where 2 deaths were reported and one death each was reported from Gwalior, Khargone, Sagar, Ratlam, Vidisha, Betul and Harda districts. On Wednesday, fresh cases were reported from 48 of the total 52 districts of the state. Maximum cases were reported from Indore where 364 new patients were found on Wednesday, followed by Bhopal where 156 new patients were found, then Jabalpur where 43 new patients were reported and Gwalior where 32 new patients were found. A total 26,577 samples were tested on Wednesday, of which 1,007 tested positive. Thus, the positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Wednesday stood at 3.7 per cent. As on December 23, there were a total 10,766 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1k-new-cases-again-in-state-positivity-rate-inches-near-94/articleshow/79929114.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Sarpanch to drug lord in 6 years||LUDHIANA: In just six years of becoming the sarpanch of Payal area's Rano village, Gurdeep Singh built assets that exceed Rs 50 crore. Before the election, his family lived hand to mouth. The special task force (STF) against drugs says it's looking into how the lowly paid insurance agent, who had only 6 acres, an old-model scooter, and a small business of used cars, became the richest, most influential man of his village after one unopposed election. When arrested with three accomplices on November 7, the now ex-sarpanch had Rs 21 lakh unaccounted-for cash, eight high-end cars, an SUV, some heroin, and illegal guns and ammunition. An STF investigator says Gurdeep Singh's political contacts gave him benefits of the mining and liquor mafia. A 2016 trip to Australia introduced him to drugs under the tutelage of Ludhiana peddler Ravej. On a 2019 visit to Australia and Thailand, he started doing heroin. The fear of losing his supply kept him from boarding the return flight until Ravej assured him home delivery. The STF officer said: “Ravej's couriers helped him keep his word. In January, Gurdeep Singh entered drug trade after bagfuls of heroin at the Sector-32 house of drug smuggler Manjeet Singh Manna dazzled him. He said goodbye to the lower middle class life and bought cars, lands and bungalows.” His political face and top links fetched him the acquiantance of cops. He hooked constables Amrinder Singh Ravi and Harbhajan Singh to drugs and made them his personal bodyguards in khaki. The source in the STF said: “Ravej introduced Gurdeep Singh to smugglers Avninder Singh Shenty and Kewal Krishan, who ran their racket from Ludhiana's Central Jail. On yet another Australia trip, he added wanted smuggler Tanveer Bedi to this drug network that extended from foreign lands to the Indian jails. The STF claims to have seized more than 31-kilogram heroin from him, besides 6-kg party drug ICE, 2-kg drug powder, and a machine to refine heroin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sarpanch-to-drug-lord-in-6-years/articleshow/79928317.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Revanth Reddy’s discharge plea delaying tactic: ACB||HYDERABAD: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), which is investigating the cash-for-vote case pertaining to the 2015 MLC elections, on Wednesday told the ACB special court in Hyderabad that key accused and Congress MP A Revanth Reddy is resorting to dilatory tactics to frustrate the course of justice. ACB special counsel V Surender Rao filed a counter in the ACB court to this effect when the latter took up a plea filed by the Congress MP for hearing. Revanth had earlier filed a petition urging it to discharge him from the cash-for-vote case. He is the prime accused in the case, wherein he was caught red-handed in May 2015 when he was trying to bribe an independent MLA with Rs 50 lakh cash to lure him into voting for a TDP nominee in the MLC election held in June 2015. In his petition, Revanth had contended that this case could at best be seen as one connected to electoral malpractices. “There are enough provisions to deal with such offences in the Representation of People Act and also IPC,” he said. “But ACB filing this case under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act is unsustainable under law. Hence, this case is not maintainable under PC Act and an ACB court cannot hear it,” he said, urging the court to scrap the case against him on this ground alone. Refuting the contentions of the accused, the ACB, in its counter, said the ACB court has already dismissed the discharge plea of three accused in the same case. The court had held that “there is prima facie case” under the provisions of Section 12 of the PC Act and IPC provisions related to conspiracy. “This court cannot review its decision now,” ACB officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanths-discharge-plea-delaying-tactic-acb/articleshow/79930311.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||Bird diverters in 4 months, no overhead lines in new power projects: NGT’s order to save last 150 Great Indian Bustards||Dehradun: In an attempt to save the dwindling Great Indian Bustard population, down to the last 150, the National Green Tribunal on Wednesday in a landmark order asked the Union environment ministry to ensure two things — that bird diverters are installed on all solar power lines and that no new power projects are approved unless the lines are laid underground. The order applies to five states where the ‘critically endangered’ bird is found — Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. For any new solar power project in these states, a biological impact assessment has to be incorporated into the mandated Environment Impact Assessment report. High-tension power lines cause 15% of all Great Indian Bustard deaths, according to an environment ministry report. “They are heavy birds, have poor frontal vision and are vulnerable to collision,” senior scientist at Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dr YV Jhala, who heads the Bustard Recovery Program, said. They simply can’t see power lines. Bird diverters are bright, small devices mounted on power lines, which rotate as the wind blows. Transmission wires become easy to spot and, globally, research has shown bird mortality is cut by half when they are installed. “This is a welcome move. It will protect the birds and their habitats. Laying power lines underground will also save many other raptors (birds of prey),” Bhanu Bansal, founder of the Centre for Wildlife and Environmental Litigation (CWEL), told TOI. “We have submitted a plan for laying power lines to the five states,” Sutirtha Dutta, a scientist at WII and co-investigator of the Bustard Recovery Program, said. CWEL had filed a petition in 2019 seeking NGT’s intervention in protecting the dwindling population of the Great Indian Bustard. A year before that, TOI had first cited a WII survey report on its shrinking population, which was when the matter came to the NGT’s attention. Even six decades ago, the Great Indian Bustard would span the entire country — all the way from Punjab to Tamil Nadu. There were around 1,200 to 1,500 birds of the species at the time. Rapid urbanisation and habitat loss kept shrinking its population and by 2013, the IUCN had designated it as a ‘critically endangered’ species. While efforts to protect those surviving continue, the WII has also been trying to boost the count with a captive breeding programme. “We have been able to raise 16 Great Indian Bustards, between two and 16 months old now, at the Jaisalmer conservation breeding facility,” Dutta said. Eggs collected from the wild were artificially hatched and the chicks are being bred in controlled surroundings. “It is a small success.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bird-diverters-in-4-months-no-overhead-lines-in-new-power-projects-ngts-order-to-save-last-150-great-indian-bustards/articleshow/79929134.cms||Shivani Azad
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Singhu border: Smart cooker can cook for thousands in a jiffy||NEW DELHI: Supplying community meals non-stop to thousands of visitors every day is a challenge for protesting farmers at the Singhu border. To make it happen seamlessly, they have adopted smart techniques for food preparation such as installing steam-cooking units. These cost-effective devices — reducing daily fuel expenditure to one-third — are also safe and time saving. Taranjit Singh of Gurudwara Tap Asthan Sant Baba Hazara Singh Ji at Gurdaspur district said the decision to bring a steam-cooking unit from Punjab was taken after an increase in the footfall at the protest site. “The unit with multiple containers can cook food for 6,000 people in one hour and 3,000 people in 25 minutes,” he said. The unit has three containers and can cook at least 50kg dal, 50kg vegetables and 50kg rice at a time, Singh added. Even tea is prepared in it. “The best part is that one person can handle it alone, easily.” Earlier they were using eight-10 commercial LPG cylinders every day, costing Rs 11,000- 12,000. “Now we are spending Rs 4,000-5,000,” Singh said. In this system, one-two quintal wood is used and after water starts boiling, steam is captured and supplied through pipes to cook all items, he pointed out. The units take limited space and are easy to maintain. “We have a bigger unit at the gurdwara,” said Singh. At the same pandal, devotees are using a fully automatic chapati-making machine to make thousands of rotis from two quintal flour every day. “The footfall is increasing daily and we can’t depend on conventional methods of cooking. To prepare a full meal in a limited time, we are using these devices that take less time to prepare food,” said Karanjit Singh, who has been engaged in preparing food for the last 24 days. A little away, similar methods have been adopted at another pandal. “Even after so many days, people are working devotedly to serve any number of visitors,” said a farmer. “The government should learn from us and hear our issues with an open heart,” he added while helping others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/singhu-border-smart-cooker-can-cook-for-thousands-in-a-jiffy/articleshow/79930340.cms||Vibha Sharma
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Owners want no land conversion, stipulation in size & road width||Edited (480)Jaipur: Tourism department has prepared a draft for a guest house scheme for 6 to 20 rooms to increase affordable accommodation for tourists and also assuage the concerns of the stakeholders that it is unviable to run paying guest houses up to 5 rooms professionally as they have to pay electricity, water and other charges at commercial rates. The tourism department has circulated the draft scheme to UDH and LSG for seeking comments, especially if it is required for the guest houses to convert the land into commercial use. Surendra Singh Shahpura, a hotelier, said that in the Master Plan-2023, a guest house is a permitted activity in a residential zone whereas in the Model Building Bylaws-2020, the guest house has been categorized as a commercial activity.“When a guest house is permitted in a residential zone in the Master Plan, then why it is considered as a commercial activity in the Model Building Byelaws. It means a guest house is treated at par with a hotel and no differentiation between the two has been made. If someone would pay the conversion charges and undergo the total process, then why would one construct a guest house? He can construct a full-fledged hotel and avail of all the facilities such as bar, etc,” said Shahpura.The industry wants the Model Building Bylaws be amended and the guest house of up to 20 rooms be permitted in residential zone so that guest houses are able to be opened without conversion of land in the residential zone.With regard to the proposal that a residential house with a minimum plot area of 500 sq mtr located at a minimum 60 ft wide road will be eligible, Shahpura said again this is not in sync with the Master Plan-2023.“The size of the land and the width of the road should be as per the parameters of the residential area. Since the facility is used for a public purpose, however small it is, it is understandable that the electricity and water charges are levied at commercial charges. But when you talk of families offering hospitality services to guests, it is fundamentally a residential activity,” added Shahpura.In the amended building by laws 2011, permission s for guest houses in residential areas were given by the UDH and there was no ceiling on rooms. The industry said that those guest houses should also get automatically registered in the current policy as they were already approved by competent authorities.In the draft scheme, the tourism department also said that it has been observed that many PG houses after obtaining approval add more rooms to make it viable but do not disclose the same. By allowing more rooms will help them do their business transparently. However, the PG scheme up to 5 rooms in residential houses already in place will not be affected by the guest house scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/owners-want-no-land-conversion-stipulation-in-size-road-width/articleshow/79930312.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
December 24, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Used car sales in top gear as many say no to public transport in Covid times||BHOPAL: Sale of second-hand cars has picked up considerably during the post-lockdown period in cities like Bhopal and Indore. Market analysts attribute the 25% increase in sales to the fear of Covid-19 infection as several middle class and lower middle class families are choosing to have their own car rather than using public transport during the pandemic. “People, who have two-wheelers, now wish to own a four-wheeler so that their small family could go anywhere together without having to hire a cab or an auto. This is the corona effect. Middle class families, who saving up for a new car, are settling for second-hand cars now. Not only do they not want to use public transport, public transport vehicles themselves seem to have disappeared,” said a salesman at a second-hand car showroom, on the condition of anonymity. A car dealer, said, “New cars are also selling, but there has definitely been an upswing in the sale of second-hand cars. There are specific companies whose old cars have greater resell value and have separate dealers for sale of old cars. Mostly, the second-hand cars are priced between Rs 1.50 lakh to Rs 2 lakh. A majority of the buyers are people, who have preponed their plan to buy a car in the wake of the pandemic and are settling for an old, good car.” President of Bhopal Automobiles Association, Ashish Pandey, said, “There has been a 25% increase in the sale of second-hand cars. There are three major reasons for it -- fear of Covid infection, which is keeping people off public transport vehicles, thereby making those who can arrange enough finances to opt for old cars in excellent condition. Such cars are available in plenty and manufacturers also give warranty on them, which raises their reliability. Finances are easily available. Banks are also giving loans for purchase of old cars. And, of course, the tag of the company and its warranty, which allows people to believe that the car they are buying can be trusted and if there is any problem, they can go to the company’s authorised station for repair or replacement of any part.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/used-car-sales-in-top-gear-as-many-say-no-to-public-transport-in-covid-times/articleshow/79929165.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||BSF IG stays with jawans for six days on border||JAISALMER: The BSF Rajasthan frontier IG Ayushmani Tiwari completed his six-day visit to the border areas on India-Pakistan international border adjoining Jaisalmer district on Wednesday. Tiwari visited many border outposts in longewala, Tanot and Kishangarh and inspected the security arrangements along with patrolling on foot and camels, operation activities. BSF DIG Anand Singh Takhsat, Commandant Sanjay Sharma, Deputy Commandant G Branch Anil Sharma and other officers were with Tiwari. According to information from BSF sources, Tiwari visited many BOPs in 161st battalion area. He went to Longewala and praised the jawans discharging their duties in severe cold conditions. Sources said the IG directed the jawans to use night vision devices and technical resources in guarding the borders. He also went on patrolling on foot for 5km and took feedback about the operational activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-ig-stays-with-jawans-for-six-days-on-border/articleshow/79930322.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Woman raises fawn orphaned by stray dogs||JAISALMER: A woman of Lathi area in Jaisalmer district has been showering a mother's love on a fawn whose mother was killed by stray dogs. She fed the fawn cow milk in a bottle and took care of it. Maya, wife of Noore Khan and a resident of Keraila village, said stray dogs killed the mother deer after which she raised the fawn for seven months like her child and named it Din. After seven months, she handed it over to the forest department. Maya said unlike a deer which runs away on hearing noise, Din comes when Maya and her family calls her. “The fawn has grown healthy and in these seven months and has got attached to the family,” she said. The family said they were scared of attacks by dogs and looking at it, the forest department personnel were informed about it and the fawn was handed over to them in the presence of wildlife enthusiasts Radheyshyam Pemani, Dharmendra Pawar, Suresh Jat, Mahendra Khan and Alsher khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-raises-fawn-orphaned-by-stray-dogs/articleshow/79930339.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaisalmer: Woman raises fawn orphaned by stray dogs||JAISALMER: A woman of Lathi area in Jaisalmer district has been showering a mother's love on a fawn whose mother was killed by stray dogs. She fed the fawn cow milk in a bottle and took care of it. Maya, wife of Noore Khan and a resident of Keraila village, said stray dogs killed the mother deer after which she raised the fawn for seven months like her child and named it Din. After seven months, she handed it over to the forest department. Maya said unlike a deer which runs away on hearing noise, Din comes when Maya and her family calls her. “The fawn has grown healthy and in these seven months and has got attached to the family,” she said. The family said they were scared of attacks by dogs and looking at it, the forest department personnel were informed about it and the fawn was handed over to them in the presence of wildlife enthusiasts Radheyshyam Pemani, Dharmendra Pawar, Suresh Jat, Mahendra Khan and Alsher khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/woman-raises-fawn-orphaned-by-stray-dogs/articleshow/79937086.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||ACB arrests ‘former’ Baran district collector in corruption case||JAIPUR: After interrogating former Baran district collector Inder Singh Rao for two hours, the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested him on Wednesday. This has come a fortnight after his personal assistant was arrested by ACB for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1.4 lakh. When the name of Rao was included in the FIR by ACB, he was placed on awaiting posting order (APO) on December 10 by the state government. This is probably the first arrest of a serving district collector by ACB in a graft case. “We had worked on various evidences, including documentary, circumstantial and oral ones. He was summoned for questioning on Wednesday at 3pm to ACB headquarters and was asked about various things, including conniving with his personal assistant Mahaveer Nagar,” said ACB additional director general (ADG) M N Dinesh to TOI. “The complainant was waiting for an NOC for a petrol pump for the past one-and-a-half months. Even the state government had given the nod for NOC. His papers were forwarded on December 8. A day after, the collector's PA Mahaveer Nagar was arrested with a bribe of Rs 1.40 lakh," Dinesh said. “We confronted Rao with these questions, but he dodged most of them," said a senior officer, who was part of the interrogation. Rao has had a history of corruption and his name first emerged in 2004 when he was posted as additional district magistrate (ADM) in Sriganganagar. “During that time, the ACB had chargesheeted him and sought a prosecution sanction from the then government. However, till 2006, the state government did not grant sanction in the case. We had incriminating evidence against him this time and his arrest was inevitable,” said additional director general (ADG) B L Soni. In the evening, the ACB began a search of his residence in Civil Lines in the city. He has been found to own eight properties - four in Jaipur-Hari Om Marg in Civil Lines, Airport Enclave at Tilawala and Adarsh Nagar Colony, agriculture land in Fulera; and one each in Ajmer, Gurugram, Delhi and Saharanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-arrests-former-baran-dist-collector-in-corruption-case/articleshow/79931465.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jodhpur||BSF IG stays with jawans for six days on border||JAISALMER: The BSF Rajasthan frontier IG Ayushmani Tiwari completed his six-day visit to the border areas on India-Pakistan international border adjoining Jaisalmer district on Wednesday. Tiwari visited many border outposts in longewala, Tanot and Kishangarh and inspected the security arrangements along with patrolling on foot and camels, operation activities. BSF DIG Anand Singh Takhsat, Commandant Sanjay Sharma, Deputy Commandant G Branch Anil Sharma and other officers were with Tiwari. According to information from BSF sources, Tiwari visited many BOPs in 161st battalion area. He went to Longewala and praised the jawans discharging their duties in severe cold conditions. Sources said the IG directed the jawans to use night vision devices and technical resources in guarding the borders. He also went on patrolling on foot for 5km and took feedback about the operational activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bsf-ig-stays-with-jawans-for-six-days-on-border/articleshow/79937177.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Mumbai||Maratha candidates to get 10% EWS quota benefit||MUMBAI: Maratha candidates will now be allowed to avail the benefit of the 10% Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota in educational institutions and government jobs, subject to the ongoing hearing in the SEBC (Socially and Educationally Backward Class) quota matter before the constitutional bench in the Supreme Court. This extension of EWS benefits will be applicable for the year 2020-21, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government said in a resolution issued late on Wednesday evening. After the state’s GR, the CET cell has decided to extend the admission dates for all professional courses. EWS benefits: No clarity yet on MBBS & BDS admissionsCandidates from the Maratha community, who are also eligible for EWS and fulfill the income criteria, can seek benefits under the quota, the state has said. It has instructed all district administrations to set up special cells to initiate drives for issuing EWS certificates. The state also said it would be optional to avail benefit of the EWS quota for Maratha candidates. However, those students or candidates who would go in for EWS quota would be ineligible for SEBC reservation this year. Registration dates for admissions to all courses were to end in a day or two. With the state’s GR, an official from the CET cell said they will have to extend registration dates and allow Maratha candidates to apply under the quota. “This may require a few days,” said the official. However, there is no clarity on whether admissions to MBBS and BDS courses will be disturbed. The official said the registration process for these two courses started in the first week of December, and admissions are almost coming to an end. The centralised rounds are almost over and the mopup round has started, he said. Sanjay Lakhe-Patil, who had petitioned court for the state to withdraw an earlier GR that did not allow SEBC candidates to seek benefit of EWS quota, said Wednesday’s GR will bring relief to Maratha candidates. “The state has mentioned the 2020-21 academic session in the GR, and if there is even a single eligible student who does not get the benefit of EWS, it will be unfair. The eligibility list will have to be re-done to give everyone a chance,” he said. But BJP MP Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje opposed the EWS benefit, saying it would adversely affect the SEBC case in SC. There is general unrest among the Maratha community over the MVA government’s handling of the SEBC matter in SC. Maratha Kranti Morcha has started fresh protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maratha-candidates-to-get-ews-quota-benefit/articleshow/79932320.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Modified silencers can’t fool cops||NEW DELHI: In a crackdown against loud noise, Delhi Police has started prosecuting owners of vehicles and motorcycles fitted with modified silencers, and disk jockeys under Delhi Environment Protection Act, 2000. This is the first time that police are using Sound Level Meters for the prosecutions. Last September, TOI had reported about decibel meters being procured by police to curb noise pollution. During the drive that started on Sunday, a disk jockey and an owner of a motorcycle fitted with a modified silencer were prosecuted in Chandni Mahal. The DJ, Mohammad Ashraf Ahmed, was challaned after an inquiry officer during patrolling heard loud music being played in the area. The system was checked using a sound meter and it was found to be 145.5 decibels. The same day, a motorcycle was found making noise louder than 113.1 decibels. An inspection revealed that the biker had got the silencer modified after which he was prosecuted. On Monday, a three-wheeler owner was prosecuted for playing loud music around 7.15pm at Urdu Bazaar Road. DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said the stereo was at such a high volume that it was causing nuisance in the area. “The sound of the stereo was found to be 108.3 decibels on the sound meter. The driver, Amir Khan, also couldn’t produce any documents for the autorickshaw. Subsequently, a case was registered against him and the auto was seized,” he added. The sound meters were used by police teams in Central district for the first time and field officers were trained to use the device to prosecute the violators. “Primarily, disk jockeys, three-wheeler drivers and those using modified silencers in motorbikes are being prosecuted under Environment Act and Delhi Police Act, 1978,” said Bhatia. According to the air quality standard with respect to noise, industrial areas can have decibel levels of 75 during the day and 70 at night, commercial areas 65 during the day and 55 at night and residential areas 55 during daytime and 45 at night. Silence zones can have a noise level of 50 decibels during daytime and 40 at night. This implies to all types of vehicles, shops, events, open areas, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/modified-silencers-cant-fool-cops/articleshow/79930409.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government’s 50% rebate on property tax to continue till March 31||HYDERABAD: Telangana government’s 50% rebate on property tax in the state will continue till March 31, 2021. With a hung verdict in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls, confusion prevailed among property owners and some people even visited municipal offices to enquire whether the scheme would be applicable now due to the poll results. The rebate would be applicable to those who pay tax up to Rs 15,000 a year in Greater Hyderabad. “If property owners have already paid tax this year, the amount (50% balance) will be adjusted in the next financial year,” GHMC said in a statement. “Several sops were announced ahead of polls and tax rebate was one among them. With new members being elected, doubts were raised pertaining to the property tax scheme,” Madhav Goud, who was clutching property tax papers and printouts of the text message sent by GHMC regarding property tax rebate and waiting at Serilingampally zonal office, told TOI. Resident welfare associations and members of housing societies blamed social media for the confusion. “The confusion prevailed after text messages and videos were circulated on social media claiming that due to the hung verdict in GHMC council, all schemes will no longer be applicable and property tax was one among them,” United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (UFERWAS) vice-president Major Shiva Kiran (retd) said. The tax rebate would benefit 11.84 lakh property owners across the city. Highest revenue was generated from GHMC Khairatabad zone, covering central part of the city followed by Serilingampally zone covering the IT corridor and Secunderabad zone. A GHMC source said it was always owners of commercial establishments who delay payment of property tax. “There is no issue pertaining to residential properties, bill collectors are facing issues while collecting taxes from owners of commercial establishments,” a GHMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/property-tax-scheme-till-march-31/articleshow/79930401.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Chennai||Central panel defers eco nod for hydroelectric plant in Nilgiris||Chennai: The Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) of the Union environment ministry has deferred an environmental clearance proposal from Tangedco to set up a 600MW hydroelectric project at Kundah in Nilgiris. The panel has asked Tangedco to carry out an impact study, prepare wildlife conservation and environment management plans to obtain EC. The Rs 650-crore project aimed at addressing peak-time power deficiency in the state faced stiff opposition from environmentalists and locals. The project’s proposed location — between two major wildlife national parks and near elephant corridors — is detrimental in both engineering and environment fronts. Economically too, there are better options to supply power to western districts, said Godwin Vasanth Bosco, an ecologist from Save Sillahalla Movement, which has been fighting against the project for years now. “Around 10,000 people might lose their lands and be affected directly and indirectly. Kundah watershed has also been witnessing more extreme weather events such as rainfall and landslides in the past three years. These facts have been overlooked,” said Vasanth, who welcomed EAC’s move to defer nod at the December 2 meeting. Initial Environmental Clearance (EC) given for the project in 2007 was extended in various stages till May 2020 but the project couldn’t be commissioned by then due to fund shortage and announcement of GST. When Tangedco approached EAC again, the panel asked it to apply for a fresh EC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/central-panel-defers-eco-nod-for-hydroelectric-plant-in-nilgiris/articleshow/79930416.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Panchayats must have power for land conversion for rural guest houses||Jaipur: In a bid to promote tourism in rural areas, the tourism policy had announced introducing an incentive and interest subsidy scheme to encourage setting up of guest houses and budget hotels.But the industry believes that restrictions for guest houses like owner residing in the property should be removed. Again, the authority for conversion of residential or agricultural land into commercial land should vest with municipality or the concerned panchayat with the general body meeting having the power to convert land up to 2,000 sqmtr.Surendra Singh Shahpura, a hotelier, said, “Because these properties generate direct and indirect local employment within a panchayat, the village population will benefit the most from it. Therefore, I think the villages should be empowered to take such decisions.”He said some tourists want to stay at very small properties of 2-3 rooms where there are no other guests and keeping that need in mind, the minimum number of rooms criteria should be lowered to two rooms instead six.There is a feeling that the government should clarify the definition of guest house and budget hotel. “Even a small property of 2 to 20 rooms can be called both a guest house and a budget hotel.”Small hotels up to 20 rooms in rural areas cannot afford bar licence cost Rs 8 lakh per year. Shahpura said the fee needs to be reduced to Rs 1 lakh per year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panchayats-must-have-power-for-land-conversion-for-rural-guest-houses/articleshow/79930372.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: New draft rules to cloud rooftop solar’s future||JAIPUR: The new regulations for rooftop solar projects proposed in the draft notification released on Wednesday by Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission are likely to derail the growth of the segment as much of the tariff incentives enjoyed by such projects will be unavailable. But if the state electricity regulator follows the Union ministry of power (MoP) regulations on ‘Grid Interactive Rooftop Solar PV system’, it will certainly help the financially stretched out discoms as migration of high value consumers to solar will be curbed. The MoP’s decision notification restricts net metering loads up to 10KW and thereby depriving benefits to projects above 10KW (gross metering). While the state regulator has not proposed any load caps, like the MoP it has created two segments – net metering and gross metering, which was not there earlier for projects up to 1 MW. RERC has in the draft notification said for the gross metering projects, the discoms will enter into connection agreement at an average tariff of solar projects of 5MW and more, discovered through competitive bidding in previous financial year and an additional incentive of 25%. “We have not given caps for projects that would come under net metering. We will seek feedback from the industry and there are guidelines already announced by the MoP. We will consider all aspects before arriving at caps for net metering and gross metering,” said Shreemat Pandey, chairman, RERC. But industry experts said that if one goes by the cap of 10 KW laid down by MoP as eligibility criteria, 95% of the rooftop projects will be out of net metering. Under net metering, the consumer uses the cheaper rooftop solar power instead of the costly discom power. Under the gross billing or metering, as per the draft proposals, the project owner will have to pay normal electricity rate to discoms even though it uses cheap power from its rooftop plant. The discoms will pay the gross meter project owner for the solar rooftop energy generation at rates discovered through auction along with 25% incentive which would be far lower than the discom rates of around Rs 8 per unit. The industry estimates projects under gross metering not getting more than Rs 4 per unit of solar power which is the cost of production. Sunil Bansal, general secretary Rajasthan Solar Association said, “At these rates for gross metering, nobody will come forward to set up rooftop plants. This segment, covering educational institutes, hospitals, offices, and factories, accounts for 95% of the rooftop industry. There will be very few new projects and will sound a death knell to the industry.” Bansal said after the focus of the Central government on the rooftop segment, a whole new MSME industry flourished to cater to the requirements of the rooftop plants. ‘Now, all these MSME units are shocked to see the MoP bringing in rules that will not only create roadblocks for the solar industry but also put at risk the existence of MSME units in the solar sector,” added Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/new-draft-rules-to-cloud-rooftop-solars-future/articleshow/79936975.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rape accused hangs self, 8 booked in Jhalawar district||KOTA: A 35-year-old man, who was accused of raping a woman in Lapsya village under Ghatoli police station of Jhalawar district, allegedly committed suicide by hanging from a tree in his agriculture field late on Tuesday night. The police, on the basis of suicide note and report by family members, booked eight persons of the village under Section 306 IPC for abetment of suicide. The cops handed over the body to family members after post-mortem by medical board on Wednesday morning. The man has been identified as Nanuram Meena, son of Phoolchand, a resident of Lapsya village. SHO at Ghatoli police station, Ajit Choudhary said the suicide note, recovered from possession of the deceased accused at least eight persons of the village of harassing and torturing him and of having burnt his tractor. The initial investigation into the matter revealed that the deceased man was booked under Section 376 of IPC for raping a woman of the village, he said, adding it was also found that people of a group in the village earlier allegedly burnt his tractor that had left him despondent and depressed. On the bases of the suicide note and the report by the brother of the deceased, the police lodged a case of abetment of suicide under section 306 of IPC against 8 identified persons of the village and initiated investigation into the matter, the SHO said. The police handed over the body to family members after postmortem by medical board on Wednesday morning, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-accused-hangs-self-8-booked/articleshow/79930351.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: New draft rules to cloud rooftop solar’s future||JAIPUR: The new regulations for rooftop solar projects proposed in the draft notification released on Wednesday by Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission are likely to derail the growth of the segment as much of the tariff incentives enjoyed by such projects will be unavailable. But if the state electricity regulator follows the Union ministry of power (MoP) regulations on ‘Grid Interactive Rooftop Solar PV system’, it will certainly help the financially stretched out discoms as migration of high value consumers to solar will be curbed. The MoP’s decision notification restricts net metering loads up to 10KW and thereby depriving benefits to projects above 10KW (gross metering). While the state regulator has not proposed any load caps, like the MoP it has created two segments – net metering and gross metering, which was not there earlier for projects up to 1 MW. RERC has in the draft notification said for the gross metering projects, the discoms will enter into connection agreement at an average tariff of solar projects of 5MW and more, discovered through competitive bidding in previous financial year and an additional incentive of 25%. “We have not given caps for projects that would come under net metering. We will seek feedback from the industry and there are guidelines already announced by the MoP. We will consider all aspects before arriving at caps for net metering and gross metering,” said Shreemat Pandey, chairman, RERC. But industry experts said that if one goes by the cap of 10 KW laid down by MoP as eligibility criteria, 95% of the rooftop projects will be out of net metering. Under net metering, the consumer uses the cheaper rooftop solar power instead of the costly discom power. Under the gross billing or metering, as per the draft proposals, the project owner will have to pay normal electricity rate to discoms even though it uses cheap power from its rooftop plant. The discoms will pay the gross meter project owner for the solar rooftop energy generation at rates discovered through auction along with 25% incentive which would be far lower than the discom rates of around Rs 8 per unit. The industry estimates projects under gross metering not getting more than Rs 4 per unit of solar power which is the cost of production. Sunil Bansal, general secretary Rajasthan Solar Association said, “At these rates for gross metering, nobody will come forward to set up rooftop plants. This segment, covering educational institutes, hospitals, offices, and factories, accounts for 95% of the rooftop industry. There will be very few new projects and will sound a death knell to the industry.” Bansal said after the focus of the Central government on the rooftop segment, a whole new MSME industry flourished to cater to the requirements of the rooftop plants. ‘Now, all these MSME units are shocked to see the MoP bringing in rules that will not only create roadblocks for the solar industry but also put at risk the existence of MSME units in the solar sector,” added Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/new-draft-rules-to-cloud-rooftop-solars-future/articleshow/79936972.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
December 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Let govt and SEC hold another round of consultations, says HC||Vijayawada: The AP High Court on Wednesday suggested that the state government and the State Election Commission (SEC) hold another round of consultation on holding elections to the local bodies. After hearing a petition moved by the state government seeking suspension of proceedings issued by the SEC to hold elections in February 2021, Justice AV Sesha Sai said that the high court will give further orders on December 29. Arguing on behalf of the state government, advocate-general S Sriram said that the election commissioner has already indicated his mind that elections will be held in February despite the state government reaching out to him explaining the Covid-19 situation and other operational difficulties. He said they had to move the high court as the proceedings were issued without considering the practical problems and public safety concerns. The counsel for SEC, N Ashwani Kumar, said that the reasons outlined by the government for postponing elections are baseless and untenable. He said the state government does not show any material record to justify its stand and created poor excuses for postponement of elections. Taking the arguments of both sides into consideration, the high court proposed that both parties take up another round of consultation. The high court said the government may send a team of officials to SEC to explain operational difficulties they may face in conducting elections in February. The high court further said the election commissioner should consider the representation submitted by the state government and in turn should also explain his reasons for conduct of elections at the earliest. As the state government and the SEC are at loggerheads over the issue, the high court indicated an alternative method to resolve the issue before pronouncing the orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/let-govt-and-sec-hold-another-round-of-consultations-says-hc/articleshow/79929175.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: New draft rules to cloud rooftop solar’s future||JAIPUR: The new regulations for rooftop solar projects proposed in the draft notification released on Wednesday by Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission are likely to derail the growth of the segment as much of the tariff incentives enjoyed by such projects will be unavailable. But if the state electricity regulator follows the Union ministry of power (MoP) regulations on ‘Grid Interactive Rooftop Solar PV system’, it will certainly help the financially stretched out discoms as migration of high value consumers to solar will be curbed. The MoP’s decision notification restricts net metering loads up to 10KW and thereby depriving benefits to projects above 10KW (gross metering). While the state regulator has not proposed any load caps, like the MoP it has created two segments – net metering and gross metering, which was not there earlier for projects up to 1 MW. RERC has in the draft notification said for the gross metering projects, the discoms will enter into connection agreement at an average tariff of solar projects of 5MW and more, discovered through competitive bidding in previous financial year and an additional incentive of 25%. “We have not given caps for projects that would come under net metering. We will seek feedback from the industry and there are guidelines already announced by the MoP. We will consider all aspects before arriving at caps for net metering and gross metering,” said Shreemat Pandey, chairman, RERC. But industry experts said that if one goes by the cap of 10 KW laid down by MoP as eligibility criteria, 95% of the rooftop projects will be out of net metering. Under net metering, the consumer uses the cheaper rooftop solar power instead of the costly discom power. Under the gross billing or metering, as per the draft proposals, the project owner will have to pay normal electricity rate to discoms even though it uses cheap power from its rooftop plant. The discoms will pay the gross meter project owner for the solar rooftop energy generation at rates discovered through auction along with 25% incentive which would be far lower than the discom rates of around Rs 8 per unit. The industry estimates projects under gross metering not getting more than Rs 4 per unit of solar power which is the cost of production. Sunil Bansal, general secretary Rajasthan Solar Association said, “At these rates for gross metering, nobody will come forward to set up rooftop plants. This segment, covering educational institutes, hospitals, offices, and factories, accounts for 95% of the rooftop industry. There will be very few new projects and will sound a death knell to the industry.” Bansal said after the focus of the Central government on the rooftop segment, a whole new MSME industry flourished to cater to the requirements of the rooftop plants. ‘Now, all these MSME units are shocked to see the MoP bringing in rules that will not only create roadblocks for the solar industry but also put at risk the existence of MSME units in the solar sector,” added Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-draft-rules-to-cloud-rooftop-solars-future/articleshow/79930371.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
December 24, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: New draft rules to cloud rooftop solar’s future||JAIPUR: The new regulations for rooftop solar projects proposed in the draft notification released on Wednesday by Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission are likely to derail the growth of the segment as much of the tariff incentives enjoyed by such projects will be unavailable. But if the state electricity regulator follows the Union ministry of power (MoP) regulations on ‘Grid Interactive Rooftop Solar PV system’, it will certainly help the financially stretched out discoms as migration of high value consumers to solar will be curbed. The MoP’s decision notification restricts net metering loads up to 10KW and thereby depriving benefits to projects above 10KW (gross metering). While the state regulator has not proposed any load caps, like the MoP it has created two segments – net metering and gross metering, which was not there earlier for projects up to 1 MW. RERC has in the draft notification said for the gross metering projects, the discoms will enter into connection agreement at an average tariff of solar projects of 5MW and more, discovered through competitive bidding in previous financial year and an additional incentive of 25%. “We have not given caps for projects that would come under net metering. We will seek feedback from the industry and there are guidelines already announced by the MoP. We will consider all aspects before arriving at caps for net metering and gross metering,” said Shreemat Pandey, chairman, RERC. But industry experts said that if one goes by the cap of 10 KW laid down by MoP as eligibility criteria, 95% of the rooftop projects will be out of net metering. Under net metering, the consumer uses the cheaper rooftop solar power instead of the costly discom power. Under the gross billing or metering, as per the draft proposals, the project owner will have to pay normal electricity rate to discoms even though it uses cheap power from its rooftop plant. The discoms will pay the gross meter project owner for the solar rooftop energy generation at rates discovered through auction along with 25% incentive which would be far lower than the discom rates of around Rs 8 per unit. The industry estimates projects under gross metering not getting more than Rs 4 per unit of solar power which is the cost of production. Sunil Bansal, general secretary Rajasthan Solar Association said, “At these rates for gross metering, nobody will come forward to set up rooftop plants. This segment, covering educational institutes, hospitals, offices, and factories, accounts for 95% of the rooftop industry. There will be very few new projects and will sound a death knell to the industry.” Bansal said after the focus of the Central government on the rooftop segment, a whole new MSME industry flourished to cater to the requirements of the rooftop plants. ‘Now, all these MSME units are shocked to see the MoP bringing in rules that will not only create roadblocks for the solar industry but also put at risk the existence of MSME units in the solar sector,” added Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/new-draft-rules-to-cloud-rooftop-solars-future/articleshow/79936974.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Christmas to be low-key at ‘Mother Church’ in Beawar||JAIPUR: Shoolbred Memorial, one of oldest churches of Rajasthan, stands tall but forgotten in the quaint town of Beawar. Around 160 years ago, Scottish missionary reverend Williamson Shoolbred had laid the foundation of this church which later became the stepping stone for the expansion of Christianity in the state. The construction of Church started on March 3, 1860 and completed after 12 years in 1872. Shoolbred and Thomas Steel Blair were first two missionaries who arrived in Beawar as a part of the Missionary of Rajputana Presbyterian Mission who worked for the service of the people in the city, established this Church and a school adjoining to it. Thomas Steel Blair died of a disease soon after his arrival. Till this date, Church has had 35 reverends out of which Shoolbred served for the longest until in 1896 after which he returned to England. Present reverend Prem Prakash claiming it to be the oldest church of the state explained that the architecture of this church is in such a form that all the slabs are interlocked with each other without any support of the pillar. “The church is of historical importance and we call it to be the ‘Mother Church’ of Rajasthan. It has been an important part of the town but not many people of Rajasthan are aware about the historical importance of this church which laid the foundation of Christianity in the state,” said Prakash. A brass bell is situated at the clock tower of the church. This brass bell of more than 50 kilograms was made in London in 1871, is being held by two wooden planks till this date. The visitors of the church are still astonished to imagine how people of that time put it on the tower. Similarly, the brass clock was made by a company in London 1873. The echo of the bell and clock can still be heard around the church every day. There are 834 Christians in Beawar town with 300 families. This year, however, for the first time the colour of Christmas is faded. Pandemic is going on so, church authorities have decided to just have a small ceremony of prayer on December 25. “We distributed sweets and gifts amongst children. We have decided to keep the festival celebration simple and will just pray to get all of us safely through this pandemic. The church is an epitome of solidarity amongst all the religion in Beawar. Despite being a Christian people of all communities invite me in any event pertaining to the town. This church will remain as a symbol of heritage and peace for the years to come,” said Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/xmas-to-be-low-key-at-mother-church/articleshow/79930417.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Collect public feedback on secretariats: Jagan Mohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday asked officials to take feedback from people on the working of village and ward secretariats across the state. The chief minister reviewed the performance of village and ward secretariats at his Tadepalli residence. Chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, senior officials Neerabh Kumar Prasad, Adityanath Das, Praveen Prakash, Ajay Jain, Anil Kumar Singhal, Y Sri Lakshmi, S S Rawath, Sashibushan Kumar, B Rajasekhar and others were present at the review. The chief minister said the village and ward secretariats were created to take administration closer to the people. The very purpose of creating the system was to minimise inconvenience to the people and give better services, he said. He wanted senior officials to ensure that every staff attached to village and ward secretariats work hard with courtesy. The chief minister also directed the officials to give better display of the toll-free number 1902 at every secretariat for the people to register their grievances. He also told officials to start taking feedback from the people on the performances of village and ward secretariats. The feedback could also include individual performance of the staff, he said. The chief minister told senior officials to give training to engineering assistants posted in secretariats. Once the training is complete, he asked officials to hold departmental examination to put the engineering assistants on probation. The test should be held once every three months, the chief minister said. The chief minister also told officials to create village-level agriculture committees. As such committees were already formed at the mandal, district and state level, the chief minister wanted village committees to be integrated with them. Officials briefed the chief minister on the performance of secretariats and the responsibilities that every staffer handles. The officials also told the chief minister that 3.95 lakh employees were working in 15,004 village and ward secretariats across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/collect-public-feedback-on-secretariats-jagan/articleshow/79929199.cms||Gopi Dara
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Two Telangana girls in linewomen job quest ace pole test||HYDERABAD: At a training ground in Hyderabad on Wednesday, two young women scripted history as they climbed to the top of an eight-metre pole to become Telangana’s first linewomen in power distribution companies. The position reserved for men, thus far. The duo could well be India’s first linewomen. Though on paper, the job title reads 'junior linemen', the duo is certain of wearing their gender on their sleeve. “We worked hard to get here. We will ensure we are referred to as linewomen,” said 20-year-old Babburi Shirisha, elated at the achievement she shares with 32-year-old, V Bharathi, a mother of two. Both hold a certificate in industrial training (ITI) as electricians and are adept in fixing and maintaining electricity lines. But it hasn’t been easy for the women. It took them a year-long legal battle with power distribution companies who did not want women in the field job. First, they tried to block their written test results and later put brakes on their pole climbing exam – the two rounds an aspirant must clear to become a lineman. Their argument – women cannot climb poles. It was only after the Telangana high court intervened that these two women, who had cleared the written test, were allowed to appear for round two. And on Wednesday, the aspirants cruised through it, by finishing the climb in just a minute. They still have to appear before a single-judge bench to get their appointment letter. “That’s what the court had decided last time, while instructing Transco to take their pole test. But we are certain the court will support them, now that they have cleared the test,” said senior advocate, S Satyam Reddy, representing the women. Even the girls are confident of reporting to duty soon. “Now there is nothing that can hold us back. We will prove to everyone that women are no less in any job they do,” said Bharathi, resident of a small village in Warangal. Sharing the credit of her victory with husband, Mohan S Maloth, she added: “For two hours every day he trained me to ace the pole climbing test. I hope men in the (power) department were as supportive of women as he is.” Agreed, Shirisha, who was incidentally trained by her uncle near her home in Siddipet's Chebarthi hamlet. “In fact, I think we will be better at the job,” she said, not forgetting to thank her mother who toiled as a coolie to fend for her education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-in-linewomen-job-quest-ace-pole-test/articleshow/79931942.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Christmas to be a sombre affair at ‘Mother Church’ of Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Shoolbred Memorial, one of oldest churches of Rajasthan, stands tall but forgotten in the quaint town of Beawar. Around 160 years ago, Scottish missionary reverend Williamson Shoolbred had laid the foundation of this church which later became the stepping stone for the expansion of Christianity in the state. The construction of Church started on March 3, 1860 and completed after 12 years in 1872. Shoolbred and Thomas Steel Blair were first two missionaries who arrived in Beawar as a part of the Missionary of Rajputana Presbyterian Mission who worked for the service of the people in the city, established this Church and a school adjoining to it. Thomas Steel Blair died of a disease soon after his arrival. Till this date, Church has had 35 reverends out of which Shoolbred served for the longest until in 1896 after which he returned to England. Present reverend Prem Prakash claiming it to be the oldest church of the state explained that the architecture of this church is in such a form that all the slabs are interlocked with each other without any support of the pillar. “The church is of historical importance and we call it to be the ‘Mother Church’ of Rajasthan. It has been an important part of the town but not many people of Rajasthan are aware about the historical importance of this church which laid the foundation of Christianity in the state,” said Prakash. A brass bell is situated at the clock tower of the church. This brass bell of more than 50 kilograms was made in London in 1871, is being held by two wooden planks till this date. The visitors of the church are still astonished to imagine how people of that time put it on the tower. Similarly, the brass clock was made by a company in London 1873. The echo of the bell and clock can still be heard around the church every day. There are 834 Christians in Beawar town with 300 families. This year, however, for the first time the colour of Christmas is faded. Pandemic is going on so, church authorities have decided to just have a small ceremony of prayer on December 25. “We distributed sweets and gifts amongst children. We have decided to keep the festival celebration simple and will just pray to get all of us safely through this pandemic. The church is an epitome of solidarity amongst all the religion in Beawar. Despite being a Christian people of all communities invite me in any event pertaining to the town. This church will remain as a symbol of heritage and peace for the years to come,” said Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/xmas-to-be-a-sombre-affair-at-mother-church-of-raj/articleshow/79930414.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Kid’s uncle held for rape & murder in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Vishwakarma police station on Wednesday arrested the uncle of the 7-year-old girl who was found dead in his house. The man was questioned by police soon after the girl’s body was recovered from his house on Tuesday. DCP (West) Bajranj Singh said the case has been filed against the accused under Posco Act. “Prima facie it appears to be a case of rape. The post mortem report is awaited which will clear all doubts,” said Singh. The girl’s body was found inside a drum of her uncle’s house. Police traced the body after they got a tip off that girl was last seen at her uncle’s residence, which was 300 metres away from her house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kids-uncle-held-for-rape-murder/articleshow/79930418.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Waste management firm gives notice to MC for leaving work||LUDHIANA: Solid waste management is going to be a tough task for the civic body in the coming days as the A2Z waste management company, which handles garbage lifting from secondary garbage collection dumps to be taken to the main dump and then process the solid waste, has served a notice to the civic body that they want to leave this work. Various deadlines have been fixed for solid waste management by the National Green Tribunal committee members and in the next two months the Swachhta Survekshan will also take place. Now, it will be seen how the MC will be able to tackle the garbage lifting and then its processing at the plant. The company has given 45 days to the civic body and February 4 is the last day of the notice. The company has reasoned that the MC was delaying their payment and since June they did not get money. But sources revealed that even the company was unable to undertake the waste processing at the plant properly and fearing action from the Punjab Pollution Control Board and NGT committee, this decision had been taken. The sources also revealed that even officials wanted to get rid of this firm as there were several complaints about garbage lifting and processing. Requesting anonymity, one of the officials claimed that A2Z waste management company was supposed to do door-to-door garbage lifting as well, along with lifting from secondary collection points. There are 54 secondary points for garbage collection. But they could cover only 35% of the area under door to door collection. He said the company was getting around Rs 325 per tonne for garbage lifting, whereas now the rate was a minimum of Rs 1,200 per tonne. So, in case the MC officials will try to hire another firm, the cost will increase. He said there was shortage of staff in the civic body and it would become a tough task to get things done at their level. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The company has served the notice and we are looking for making arrangements. We will see how we can arrange things as per law.” Recently, the PPCB had refused to give consent to the firm for RDF plant as the firm was not following all norms. However, after the intervention of the mayor and commissioner, the PPCB gave consent to the firm, but the PPCB officials had again showed dissatisfaction over the functioning of the plant. Moreover, the firm was not doing complete processing of garbage at the dump as they were unable to get price for energy, which they were producing through refuse-derived fuel (RDF). The A2Z group had started waste management in 2011 and agreement with the firm was signed for 25 years. The firm was supposed to handle door to door garbage collection as well, but it could not handle the same. The interference of informal sector and involvement of MC unions made it even tougher for the firm to undertake the task. Whenever they tried doing it, they had to face stiff resentment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/waste-mgmt-firm-gives-notice-to-mc-for-leaving-work/articleshow/79929207.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu govt permits jallikattu in 2021||CHENNAI/MADURAI/ TRICHY: The Tamil Nadu government has granted permission to hold popular bull taming sport jallikattu next year with certain restrictions. The announcement brought mixed reactions with some tamers and enthusiasts bursting fireworks and distributing sweets in parts of Madurai, while some remained sceptical. Bull taming sports such as jallikattu, manjuvirattu and vadamadu will be permitted with a maximum of 300 tamers. A maximum of 150 racers will be allowed in the traditional bull race Erudhu vidum vizha across the state. The traditional events are held between January and May. “In all events, only 50% of the audience capacity will be allowed and only after thermal screening,” said an official release. Tamers will have to show a Covid-19 negative certificate from government testing laboratories to participate. Observers have to wear masks and maintain physical distance, and the government will release a standard operating procedure for the events, the release said. After huge protests erupted in the state following the Supreme Court’s ban on jallikattu, the state government enacted a law in 2017, amending the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, to preserve the cultural heritage of the state and to ensure the survival and wellbeing of the native breeds of bulls, legalising the jallikattu events. The members of Alanganallur Jallikattu Oorganising Committee burst fireworks and distributed sweets at vaadivaasal. Committee president J Sundarajan said the announcement brought immense relief to bull owners and tamers. “We will start the preparatory work shortly. We will also hold talks with the district collector and elected representatives for a safe jallikattu,” he said. The organisers say the Covid restrictions would mean lesser crowd but would not hamper festivities. Prizes such as cars and motorbikes will continue to be given away. Major events would take place in Avaniyapuram, Palamedu and Alanganallur. “We are eagerly looking forward to the events. We can’t wait to play with the bulls in the arena. Pongal celebration will not be complete without jallikattu,” S Rajesh, a bull tamer from Kodimangalam village said. Jallikattu organisers in the central region were sceptical about the permission, since major temple festivals were cancelled due to Covid-19. Veera Vilayattu Meetpu Kazhagam president T Rajesh said jallikattu was different from any temple festival, where the crowd could be made to follow certain regulations and restrictions. “The crowd turning up for jallikattu events are completely unpredictable. We cannot expect them to pay heed to the instructions. Therefore, maintaining 50% crowd or thermal scanning of each spectator is technically not possible,” he said. When back-to-back jallikattu events are planned after the Pongal festival, especially in southern and central districts, bull tamers may not be able to give fresh test certificates for each event, organisers say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-govt-permits-jallikattu-in-2021/articleshow/79932846.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||564 new Covid-19 cases & 8 deaths surface in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Uttarkahand recorded eight more coronavirus-related deaths and 564 new infections on Wednesday. With this, the overall tally of positive cases shot up to 87,940 and the toll of the virus reached 1,447 in the state. Among the victims, the eldest one was a 85-year-old man who breathed his last at AIIMS Rishikesh while the youngest was a 13-year-old girl who died at Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani. On Wednesday, the highest of 230 cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by Nainital (113), Haridwar (37), Udham Singh Nagar (31), Pithorgarh (30), and Rudraprayag (26) districts. Till Wednesday, the state was yet to get test results of 15,393 samples and had 5,507 active cases. Meanwhile, 547 people recovered from Covid-19 infection on Wednesday, taking the overall number of such cases to 79,888 in the state. Notably, Uttarakhand had 18 containment zones till Wednesday. Among these, five are in Uttarkashi, four each in Dehradun and Pauri, three in Nainital, and two in Tehri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/564-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/79928381.cms||Shivani Azad
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Travel itch? Try these roads less taken||NEW DELHI: Christmas and New Year’s getaways are hampered this year with the borders of Delhi closed by the ongoing farmers’ protests. Delhiites who usually drive to places like Jaipur, Agra, Corbett Tiger Reserve and the hill towns of Uttarakhand around this time are having second thoughts about such trips due to the uncertainty caused by the protest. Kanika Vasan did go to Shimla for her honeymoon recently, but the blocked Singhu border killed their excitement. “Taking another route, it took us over two hours more to reach Shimla. We had to skip our planned breaks on the way for lunch and tea and reached our hotel when it was pitch dark. It was overall a terrible first trip for us together,” said Vasan. A traffic police officer admitted that the Punjab and Haryana highways were blocked, there are the best of provisions at alternative routes that have been made by the Delhi Traffic Police. “People travelling to Shimla, Chandigarh or in that direction can take a detour to Singhu toll tax road or towards Palla,” said a traffic officer. People going to Jaipur can hope for a smooth journey. College student Rishabh Chanana was in two minds about a trip to his cousin’s house in December before taking the plunge. “Luckily NH8 was clear for traffic though there was heavy police deployment at the border. However, we cut short our trip and returned within two days for fear of getting stuck coming back,” said Chanana. For businessman Raghav, 27, the trip to Chandigarh for his brother’s wedding was planned well in advance and they had no option but to leave Delhi. “We were not aware about the diversions, and had to take another direction at the Singhu border,” he said. “There was heavy traffic and it took us an additional three hours to reach Chandigarh. It was a nightmare and we did not want to go through the hassle again, so I will leave my car in Chandigarh and return home in a train. I will retrieve my car when the roads are normal.” Police had expected to see heavy traffic as is usual every year on the highways during the Christmas and New Year periods. “Even though we have created alternative routes for travellers, we aren’t seeing the kind of traffic we expected. The traffic is spreading to the arterial roads, but we have been able to efficiently handle that upsurge. We have regularly been updating our Twitter handle and have been issuing road advisories for the benefit of commuters,” said the traffic officer. Meanwhile, for those who are in a fix and undecided about whether or not they should plan a drive as 2021 approaches, places like Agra and Jaipur are approachable and don’t provide too many traffic problems. On the other hand, a few hours of delay can be encountered when one drives to Uttarakhand towns, Shimla and Chandigarh due to the closure of the borders at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/travel-itch-try-these-roads-less-taken/articleshow/79930465.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Quorum key to TRS getting GHMC mayor post||HYDERABAD: A quorum on the day of mayoral election will decide whether TRS will select a mayor independently. If all the TRS corporators are present and in case 10 corporators from other parties abstain themselves from voting, TRS can select a mayor without support of other party members. TRS has around 30 ex-officio votes and 56 members have been elected as GHMC corporators, summing up to 86 votes in GHMC council. As per GHMC Act, out of the total 191 members who are part of council, if at least 96 members, including ex-officio are present, then quorum for mayor and deputy mayor will be achieved. As per GHMC Act, if quorum is not achieved in the first meeting, then a second chance is given. If the quorum is not achieved for the second time, the mayor and deputy mayor are elected in the third meeting by the existing elected members and ex-officio members present in the third meeting. TRS has 56 corporators & 30 ex-officio members, AIMIM has 44 corporators & 10 ex-officio members and BJP has 48 corporators & two ex–officio members. “Election for mayor and deputy mayor of Greater Hyderabad will be held after February 10, 2021. The gazette notifications is likely to be issued on January 11,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/quorum-key-to-trs-getting-mayor-post/articleshow/79930474.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||Four bills passed in House, Congress stages walk out||DEHRADUN: On the third day of the winter session of the Uttarakhand assembly, four bills were passed in the House. The day also saw a high-voltage drama as the Opposition Congress demanded a debate on various issues and later, its members staged a walkout. The bills which were passed on Wednesday include — the Uttarakhand Public Services (Reservation for Economically Weaker Sections) (Amendment) Bill, 2020, in the House, The Uttarakhand (The Uttar Pradesh Land Revenue Act, 1901) (Amendment) Bill 2020, The Uttarakhand Martyr’s Dependent Ex-Gratia Bill, 2020, and The Uttarakhand Subordinate Service Selection Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2020. These were tabled in the House on Tuesday. Notably, Uttarakhand Martyr’s Dependent Ex-Gratia Bill, 2020, aims to provide one-time ex-gratia grant for livelihood in future to dependents, widows, parents of soldier of Defence Forces and Para military forces killed in war, border, skirmishes and internal security of Uttarakhand state. The Uttarakhand Public Services (Reservation for Economically Weaker Sections) (Amendment) Bill, 2020 has provision for filling any vacancy reserved for Economically Weaker Sections in case not filed due to non availability for a suitable candidate then, suitable candidate belonging to General Category in any recruitment year, by amending the section 3 of the Uttarakhand Public Services (Reservation for Economically Weaker Sections), Act, 2019. Meanwhile, Congress alleged that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had ordered a probe against KS Panwar, who is the industrial advisor to CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, for an alleged money laundering of Rs 200 crore. They claimed that a firm in which Panwar was Director had carried out the money laundering. Replying to the allegations, parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik said, “Congress came with a weak homework on Tuesday, which was even worse on Wednesday. We got the allegations cross-checked from the RBI and the body mentioned that no such probe has been ordered. The questions of Congress members were properly answered. They threatened to stage a walkout, which they did. We cannot stop anyone from walking out. Their questions were duly answered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-bills-passed-in-house-cong-stages-walk-out/articleshow/79928384.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Cases in 8 worst Covid-hit districts goes down||JAIPUR: The eight worst-hit Covid districts, where the state government had imposed night curfew, has been seeing a continous dip in cases. The eight districts had collectively reported 18,586 cases from November 24 to December 23. In the next 10 days (from December 4 to 13), cases dipped to 10,346. From December 14-23, 6,192 cases were reported. Jaipur has also witnessed significant improvement. From November 24 to December 03, Jaipur had reported 6,363 cases, which went down to 4,172 in the next 10 days and 2,351 cases in another 10 days. The eight districts, which were under the watchful eyes of the state government due to increasing cases are Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Alwar, Bikaner, Udaipur and Bhilwara. From November 24 to December 23, these eight districts had reported 18,586 cases (out of 27,318 cases reported from the entire state) accounting for 68% of the cases. In the next 10 days, these districts reported 10,346 cases accounting 61.5% of the cases. In the last 10 days, these districts collectively reported 6,192 accounting for 59.4% of cases. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the decreasing cases was a good sing but people should not become careless. “For the upcoming festive season, Christmas and New Year, people should celebrate at homes,” said Sharma. In the last 24 hours, eight persons died while 992 tested positive. This took the cumulative casualty count to 2,642 and infections to 3,01,708. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (168), Kota (104), Jodhpur (78), Udaipur (51), Dungarpur (49), Ajmer (45), Bhilwara (42), Rajsamand (40), Tonk (39), Nagaur (34), Sriganaganagar (32), Alwar (31), Pali (31), Chittorgarh (28), Barmer (22), Jaisalmer (21), Jhalawar (21), Sikar (20), Bharatpur (18), Bundi (16), Churu (13), Baran (12), Jalore (12), Banswara (11), Dholpur (11), Sirohi (10), Hanumangarh (7), Sawai Madhpur (6), Dausa (6), Karauli (5), Jhunjhunu (5) and Bikaner (4). Jaipur reported its 493rd Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 280th, Kota 164th, Sikar 95th, Alwar 77th, Jhunjhunu 51st, Jaisalmer 25th and Bundi reported its 16th Covid-19 death. Districts where night curfew was imposed Cases from Dec 14-23 Cases from Dec 04-13 Cfrom Nov 24-Dec 03 Jaipur 2351 4172 6363 Jodhpur 885 1861 3941 Kota 880 1003 2188 Ajmer 455 884 1748 Alwar 401 641 1570 Bikaner 122 291 771 Udaipur 595 844 1094 Bhilwara 503 650 911 Total of above eight districts 6,192 10,346 18,586 State 10,419 16,803 27,318 BOX: Today’s positive: 992 Cumulative positive: 3,01,708 Today’s death: 8 Cumulative death: 2642 Today’s recovered: 937 Cumulative recovered: 2,87,418 Active cases: 11,736||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cases-in-8-worst-covid-hit-districts-goes-down/articleshow/79930447.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt permits jallikattu in 2021||CHENNAI/MADURAI/ TRICHY: The Tamil Nadu government has granted permission to hold popular bull taming sport jallikattu next year with certain restrictions. The announcement brought mixed reactions with some tamers and enthusiasts bursting fireworks and distributing sweets in parts of Madurai, while some remained sceptical. Bull taming sports such as jallikattu, manjuvirattu and vadamadu will be permitted with a maximum of 300 tamers. A maximum of 150 racers will be allowed in the traditional bull race Erudhu vidum vizha across the state. The traditional events are held between January and May. “In all events, only 50% of the audience capacity will be allowed and only after thermal screening,” said an official release. Tamers will have to show a Covid-19 negative certificate from government testing laboratories to participate. Observers have to wear masks and maintain physical distance, and the government will release a standard operating procedure for the events, the release said. After huge protests erupted in the state following the Supreme Court’s ban on jallikattu, the state government enacted a law in 2017, amending the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, to preserve the cultural heritage of the state and to ensure the survival and wellbeing of the native breeds of bulls, legalising the jallikattu events. The members of Alanganallur Jallikattu Oorganising Committee burst fireworks and distributed sweets at vaadivaasal. Committee president J Sundarajan said the announcement brought immense relief to bull owners and tamers. “We will start the preparatory work shortly. We will also hold talks with the district collector and elected representatives for a safe jallikattu,” he said. The organisers say the Covid restrictions would mean lesser crowd but would not hamper festivities. Prizes such as cars and motorbikes will continue to be given away. Major events would take place in Avaniyapuram, Palamedu and Alanganallur. “We are eagerly looking forward to the events. We can’t wait to play with the bulls in the arena. Pongal celebration will not be complete without jallikattu,” S Rajesh, a bull tamer from Kodimangalam village said. Jallikattu organisers in the central region were sceptical about the permission, since major temple festivals were cancelled due to Covid-19. Veera Vilayattu Meetpu Kazhagam president T Rajesh said jallikattu was different from any temple festival, where the crowd could be made to follow certain regulations and restrictions. “The crowd turning up for jallikattu events are completely unpredictable. We cannot expect them to pay heed to the instructions. Therefore, maintaining 50% crowd or thermal scanning of each spectator is technically not possible,” he said. When back-to-back jallikattu events are planned after the Pongal festival, especially in southern and central districts, bull tamers may not be able to give fresh test certificates for each event, organisers say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-permits-jallikattu-in-2021/articleshow/79930461.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ludhiana||NSS, NCC volunteers to make people aware on not polluting Buddha Nullah||LUDHIANA: Now, volunteers of the NSS and NCC from city colleges will help the civic body in making people aware through a special camp on not throwing solid waste into the Buddha Nullah. The camp is going to start in the next few days and will continue for 15 days. For getting suggestions from colleges, a meeting was called at the MC office on Wednesday, where Swachh Bharat Mission director Puran Singh and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal shared the plan. The idea is to approach people through door-to-door campaign, so that they could be motivated for not polluting the drain with solid waste. The principals and representatives from colleges like SCD Government College, Government College for Girls, Kamla Lohtia College, ITI, Arya College, Government Polytechnic College and SDP College were present in the meeting. The colleges were asked to give their suggestions about the drive and some of them said students should be given training online, whereas some said it should be offline. The civic body officials said that information about this drive would be uploaded on MC’s Facebook page and Twitter account. The volunteers will be divided in groups of three people for awareness work. The project director, Puran Singh, said, “We want to involve NSS and NCC volunteers from colleges because they are already disciplined and it will not take much time to make them understand how to convince the people.” He said for liquid waste they were already making plans, but solid waste is equally polluting the drain, so now they would take care of this thing now. He said due to Covid-19, they were planning to knock at every house near the drain and involve people in this drive. The MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal, said, “We have already deputed staff to check garbage throwing into the drain, but side by side an awareness drive will continue. Along with this, removal of encroachments has also started so that beautification could also take place.” He said the public should support the MC and stop polluting the drain in any way. A public meeting was called up for discussion of Buddha Nullah rejuvenation plan and during this meeting activists and residents had asked the authorities concerned to plan something about solid waste in the drain and it was after that meeting that the authorities started planning these awareness drives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/nss-ncc-volunteers-to-make-people-aware-on-not-polluting-buddha-nullah/articleshow/79929212.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu govt permits jallikattu in 2021||CHENNAI/MADURAI/ TRICHY: The Tamil Nadu government has granted permission to hold popular bull taming sport jallikattu next year with certain restrictions. The announcement brought mixed reactions with some tamers and enthusiasts bursting fireworks and distributing sweets in parts of Madurai, while some remained sceptical. Bull taming sports such as jallikattu, manjuvirattu and vadamadu will be permitted with a maximum of 300 tamers. A maximum of 150 racers will be allowed in the traditional bull race Erudhu vidum vizha across the state. The traditional events are held between January and May. “In all events, only 50% of the audience capacity will be allowed and only after thermal screening,” said an official release. Tamers will have to show a Covid-19 negative certificate from government testing laboratories to participate. Observers have to wear masks and maintain physical distance, and the government will release a standard operating procedure for the events, the release said. After huge protests erupted in the state following the Supreme Court’s ban on jallikattu, the state government enacted a law in 2017, amending the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, to preserve the cultural heritage of the state and to ensure the survival and wellbeing of the native breeds of bulls, legalising the jallikattu events. The members of Alanganallur Jallikattu Oorganising Committee burst fireworks and distributed sweets at vaadivaasal. Committee president J Sundarajan said the announcement brought immense relief to bull owners and tamers. “We will start the preparatory work shortly. We will also hold talks with the district collector and elected representatives for a safe jallikattu,” he said. The organisers say the Covid restrictions would mean lesser crowd but would not hamper festivities. Prizes such as cars and motorbikes will continue to be given away. Major events would take place in Avaniyapuram, Palamedu and Alanganallur. “We are eagerly looking forward to the events. We can’t wait to play with the bulls in the arena. Pongal celebration will not be complete without jallikattu,” S Rajesh, a bull tamer from Kodimangalam village said. Jallikattu organisers in the central region were sceptical about the permission, since major temple festivals were cancelled due to Covid-19. Veera Vilayattu Meetpu Kazhagam president T Rajesh said jallikattu was different from any temple festival, where the crowd could be made to follow certain regulations and restrictions. “The crowd turning up for jallikattu events are completely unpredictable. We cannot expect them to pay heed to the instructions. Therefore, maintaining 50% crowd or thermal scanning of each spectator is technically not possible,” he said. When back-to-back jallikattu events are planned after the Pongal festival, especially in southern and central districts, bull tamers may not be able to give fresh test certificates for each event, organisers say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-govt-permits-jallikattu-in-2021/articleshow/79932844.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Four friends going to Udaipur die in road mishap near Kishangarh||AJMER: Four friends from Jaipur who were on their way to Udaipur died when their car rammed into a truck near Ramner Puliya of Kishangarh early on Wednesday morning. According to police, the accident occurred at 3.10am. The car hit the truck from the rear. The accident had thrown traffic out of gear on the highway, however, police managed to clear the car’s debris and pave way for smooth flow of traffic. Rishikesh Meena, a resident of Mahua town of Dausa, Dalpat Singh, a resident of Sumerpur in Pali and Sanjay Sharma, a resident of Toda Bheem died on the spot while Pawan Meena, a resident of Mandal, died in the hospital. Three of them were single sons of their parents. All four were either studying or working in Jaipur. The parents and relatives were informed about the accident and when they reached Kishangarh, a pall of gloom descended on Government Yagnarayan Hospital. The bodies were handed over to the kin of the deceased after post-mortem, said a police official. The truck driver fled from the spot after the accident and police is trying to locate him. Police confirmed that there was no fog and therefore speeding can be a reason for collision. Madan Singh, father of deceased Dalpat, told police that his son was studying in a veterinary college in Bikaner. He reached his village on Tuesday night and went to Jaipur to meet his friends. “We did not know about the trip with his friends,” said a relative of Dalpat. Ram Bharose Meena, father of deceased Rishikesh, said he was pursuing a course of air cabin crew while working as part time in a private hospital of Jaipur. Rishikesh went to his village about 10 days ago and returned to Jaipur. Pawan was also studying in Jaipur. His father Bholaram said he left for Jaipur at about 4pm on Tuesday. A similar accident occurred in Jaipur on Tuesday night where three friends died when their car collided with a truck at about 1am on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-friends-going-to-udaipur-die-in-road-mishap-near-kishangarh/articleshow/79930429.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Transporter accused of raping, thrashing, robbing 43-year-old||LUDHIANA: The police on Tuesday booked a man for raping, thrashing and robbing a 43-year-old woman. The survivor said the accused raped her at gun-point, captured a video and threatened to make it viral if she complained against him. The accused has been identified as Piyush Rai, 27, of Basant Avenue. He works as a transporter. The woman said in her police complaint, “I met Piyush at a gym in Ludhiana about two-and-a-half years ago and he befriended me. One day, when I was at the gym, I received a call from my son who studies abroad. On hearing our conversation, Piyush said he could help my son get a job abroad. Thereafter, he started visiting my house on the pretext of helping my son and developed physical relations with me.” Days later, Piyush went to her house and again said he wanted to develop physical relations with her. “When I refused, he pointed a pistol at me. He raped me at gunpoint and made a video. He threatened to make the video viral if I spoke about the incident,” she added. After that, Piyush visited her house several times, thrashed and raped her. “He blackmailed me and took Rs 25 lakh in cash and Rs 8-lakh gold jewellery from me. At the gym on December 21, he asked me to meet him alone. I refused and told him that I want no contact with him,” she said. On the evening of December 21, the survivor was going to a bank to deposit Rs 1.50 lakh in the account of her daughter when the accused intercepted her car near Phullanwal Chowk. “He forcefully sat in my car and started thrashing me with a baseball bat. He then vandalised my car and escaped with Rs 1.50 lakh. I then called up my friend, who took me to a hospital,” she added. On Tuesday, she lodged a complaint with the police. Investigating officer sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh said a case has been registered against the accused under sections 376 (rape), 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt, restraint in order to the committing of theft), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 506 (criminal intimidation). “The accused will be arrested soon,” he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/transporter-accused-of-raping-thrashing-robbing-43-year-old/articleshow/79928379.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Accidents rise on pothole-ridden road||VIJAYAWADA: A four kilometre stretch on the Inner Ring Road from Ajith Singh Nagar to Ramavarappadu junction has developed large potholes, making travel a nightmare for motorists and a risk for heavy vehicles. Neither the Amaravati Metropolitan Development Authority (AMRDA) nor the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has come forward in three months to carry out repairs. The Inner Ring Road from Gollapudi Y Junction to Ramavarappadu is an important stretch with heavy vehicles travelling between Hyderabad and Kolkata diverted to this road. After the road sustained damages following heavy monsoon rains, opposition parties staged protests, demanding repair works on the road and Chanumolu Venkata Rao flyover. Minister Vellampalli Srinivas and district collector A Md Imtiaz inspected the roads in October and directed authorities to take up repairs. Officials of the roads and buildings department took up repair work on Chanumolu flyover but work on the Inner Ring Road was overlooked. Meanwhile, road accidents on the stretch have become frequent and potholes as deep as one feet have formed, damaging vehicles. “Vehicle tyres are getting damaged and even suspension system of heavy vehicles is getting damaged. District administration and VMC are ignoring repair works. There is a chance of major accidents if officials ignore this,” said K Mahesh, a resident of Kandrika. The AMRDA, which handles maintenance of the road, recently handed it over to the VMC. Authorities of VMC, however, said they are ready to take the responsibility only if the AMRDA hands it over in perfect condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/accidents-rise-on-pothole-ridden-rd/articleshow/79929209.cms||Venu Lanka
December 24, 2020||India||Protests force Centre to contribute more for SC scholarships||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Wednesday revised the crisis-ridden post-matric scholarship for scheduled castes by clearing a 60:40 funding pattern with states and pegging it at around Rs 59,000 crore for the next five years. The decision of the Union Cabinet follows states protesting that they have come to bear an overwhelming portion of the scheme’s financial liability following changes in the fund-sharing formula in 2017. “Today’s Cabinet decision on post-matric scholarship will ensure greater educational access to youngsters belonging to SC communities. Ensuring top quality and affordable education to our youth is an important focus area for our government,” said PM Narendra Modi. The new scheme lays down that the Centre will provide Rs 35,534 crore over next five years while the remaining of the Rs 59,048 crore will be borne by states, Union social justice and empowerment minister Thaawarchand Gehlot and MSJE secretary R Subrahmanyam said. As a result of the new pattern, the central assistance will go up from around Rs 1,100 crore annually to Rs 6,000 crore during 2020-21 to 2025-26. The new plan also focuses on reaching the poorest SC households with the idea of further increasing the enrolment ratio of the community in higher education. A senior official said the PMS funding will be tied to efforts that states should make to intensify outreach to the most deprived among SC families where students have cleared matriculation. According to estimates, around 1.4 crore poorest SC students are not enrolled in higher education because of financial problems. In a reform to buffer the scheme from fraud, the funds will be deposited directly into the bank accounts of students. Presently, the money is transferred from the Centre to states which then sends it to districts and then on to schools and students, Subrahmanyam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/protests-force-centre-to-contribute-more-for-sc-scholarships/articleshow/79932323.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Parents nix daughter’s greed, annul bequest||Visakhapatnam: A daughter’s greed to sell off the property willed to her by parents came to nought after the elderly couple from the port city revoked it after realising that she planned to abandon them. The couple, P Nagabhusan (name changed), 79, and Varalakshmi (name changed), 64, had registered the will transferring their movable and immovable property to one of their daughters as she used to take care of them. The women, a teacher, is second of the middle-class couple’s three children, all well-settled and married. The other two children — a son who works in a private company and a daughter who is a a housewife — barely kept in touch with the couple. “Once the property was transferred to her, she stopped taking care of us. Her mind changed and she wanted to sell off the house to get money. The house is worth over a Rs 1 crore. At this old age, without a house and money, we would have been left to fend for ourselves on the road,” Nagabhusan told his lawyer MGM Khan. Khan, who practises at Vizag district court, said: “We contacted the revenue divisional officer (RDO) and sought his intervention. Since the daughter was trying to sell off the house, the RDO ensured that the property (house) would not be registered in the name of any new person. Under Section 23 of the Senior Citizens Act 2007, on December 19 the will transferring property to the daughter was revoked and the will deed was cancelled.” Khan said he was moved when the elderly couple blessed him. Elderly citizens should not hand over their property to legal heirs, including children, when they are alive to avoid abandonment and legal complexities, cautioned lawyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-nix-daughters-greed-annul-bequest/articleshow/79931943.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Two die after being hit by locomotive||Vijayawada: Two women died on the spot when a train engine hit them from behind while they were crossing a railway bridge in Gudivada in Krishna district on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Punnamma (41) and Pasupuleti Lakshmi (38). According to Government Railway Police (GRP), the incident happened in the morning when the women were crossing the railway bridge above Pulleti Canal. Locals noticed informed the railway police who identified the victims. Cops said the deceased are farm labourers from Gautavaram village in Gudivada mandal. A case under section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death) was registered by the GRP police. Police said the bodies were sent to a local government hospital for postmortem. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-die-after-being-hit-by-locomotive/articleshow/79929216.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Old bridge on Sidhwan Canal also closed to traffic||LUDHIANA: A day after the municipal corporation closed Pakhowal Road for the construction of a railway overbridge and an under-bridge at the railway crossing, the old bridge on Sidhwan canal near MC zone D office was also closed on Wednesday as a new bridge would replace the old one. The new bridge will be wider than the old one. This bridge allows traffic from BRS Nagar to Sarabha Nagar and other parts of the city. Due to closure of the bridge the entire pressure of the traffic got shifted to the other side of the bridge and long queues of vehicles were also seen on both side of the roads. The existing bridge was narrow and weak, so residents had been demanding a new bridge at this location. The new bridge will be 9m wide while earlier it was 4m in width. The irrigation department is carrying out this project and funding will come through the Smart City Mission. The cost of bridge is Rs 1.40 crore. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu inaugurated the construction work on Wednesday. In March, 2019, four youths, including a brother-sister duo, were killed when their car plunged into the Sidhwan canal after crashing into the railings of this bridge at BRS Nagar. A hue and cry was raised by the residents at that time by saying that the bridge was old and congested and its walls were also weak now. The residents had demanded that the civic body should construct a new bridge by replacing the old one and it should be widened enough for the movement of traffic. However, commuters had a tough time as they had to wait for a while for crossing the bridge as traffic from both sides came on to the bridge at the same time. A resident of BRS Nagar, Manjit Singh, said, “Already, there is chaos on Malhar Road and Pakhowal Road and now even this flyover is closed to traffic movement. What was the need to start too many works at one time. The authorities should have taken these projects one by one, then it would have become a little easy for us.” Meanwhile, another resident from Sarabha Nagar Sarabjit Kaur said these projects where road closure was required should have been taken up during lockdown when people were sitting inside their houses. She said it was partial relief that schools had not started yet, otherwise the situation would have been really bad. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We were pushing for this project for almost one year and now, finally the irrigation department has started the work. They have taken 40-50 days to complete the project.” He said no doubt, people will face little bit inconvenience at this time, but once these projects will be completed they will have the benefits. Food, supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said that the Sidhwan Canal bridge would be widened from existing 4m to 9m and would benefit the area residents to a large extent. He urged the residents to take alternate routes while coming towards this side as due to the ongoing construction work, the traffic (to and fro) would be diverted onto the adjoining bridge. He assured the residents that this widening work would be completed by February 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/old-bridge-on-sidhwan-canal-also-closed-to-traffic/articleshow/79929219.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jaipur||Alert in state on new Covid strain||JAIPUR: Following the new set of SOPs issued by the Centre for passengers who reached the country from the UK between November 25 and December 23, the state health department has alerted all the chief medical health officers to identify such passengers and conduct their RT-PCR tests. Besides, the health department has strengthened screening for Covid of passengers landing at airports in the state especially those travelling by international flights. “We have been hearing about the new strain of Covid in the UK, which is more infectious. We are alert. Our government and health department is working hard for ensuring the safety of people,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. Acting on the SOPs issued by the Centre, the health department has started reaching to people who have travelled from UK and reached the state recently. “All CMHOs have been alerted. Our teams are identifying all people who travelled from UK and reached the state from Nomember 25 to December 23. We are following all the guidelines,” said a senior health department official. “We have strengthened surveillance at airport. We have been conducting screening of passengers travelling by international flights. We have been doing it for a long time. We are keeping an eye on passengers travelling from the UK through different routes as direct flights from the UK have been banned due to safety reasons,” said the official. In Jaipur, health department officials have started collecting the details. “We are putting efforts to find out if anyone reached the city from the UK recently,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. Health department officials said they were yet to get the reports from the districts on UK travelers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alert-in-state-on-new-covid-strain/articleshow/79930505.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Dehradun||Absconding for 12 years, jeweller couple accused of duping nearly 600 people arrested||DEHRADUN: After nearly 12 years of chase, a Dehradun-based jeweller couple accused of amassing around Rs 60-70 lakh through a ponzi gold scheme was arrested from Nodia. The accused couple, identified as Sanjeev Bassi and Naveeta Bassi, was on a run since 2008 and kept changing their locations from Surat in Gujarat to Mumbai and finally to Noida, from where the duo was nabbed. A reward of Rs 10,000 each was also put on their head. Notably, the accused couple started a jewellery shop in 2006 and collected money to the tune of Rs 60-70lakh from nearly 600 people in the name of a ‘kitty scheme’ while promising high returns to people. “After collecting huge amounts of money, they did not return it to the investors despite repeated pleas. Anticipating high returns, almost 600 people had invested their hard-earned money in the fraud kitty scheme. Later, the couple fled Dehradun and escaped to Gujarat,” said senior superintendent of police Dehradun Yogendra Singh Rawat. Incidentally, one Sudha Patwal, who was also duped by the couple, filed a complaint in Dalanwala police station on April 7, 2008, against Sanjeev and Naveeta Bassi. Since then, police have been looking for the couple accused of committing fraud. A police team led by Superintendent of Police (SP) City Shweta Choubey tracked down the absconding couple on the basis of a clue which the cops got from the school in which the son of the accused couple was studying. “We found out a mobile number from the school. It was revealed that the number was used in Mumbai, Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Noida. Then, a team was sent to Delhi and Noida in search of the accused. Thereafter, the team, after gathering local intelligence, arrested the couple from Noida,” according to SP City Shweta Choubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/absconding-for-12-yrs-jeweller-couple-accused-of-duping-nearly-600-people-arrested/articleshow/79928421.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen threaten to gherao homes of ministers over non-introduction of OTS||LUDHIANA: Furious over the Punjab government for not conceding to their demand of bringing one time settlement (OTS) scheme for tax assessments related to VAT period, businessmen have now warned that if the OTS is not introduced in the next 10 days, then they will gherao the homes of ministers of Punjab and protest along with ‘dhol and nagadas’. The businessmen had also staged a similar demonstration in city’s old markets on Tuesday evening, where several prominent businessmen had gathered in large numbers and mocked the state government by trying to ‘wake it up’ to its responsibilities by playing the ‘dhol and nagadas’. Giving more information, Sunil Mehra, state general secretary of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) said, “Lakhs of businessmen of the state, including thousands in Ludhiana, have been slapped with VAT assessment notices by the state government through its state tax department. These notices are for the period which is more than six years old and moreover, GST system has been implemented in the country. How can the department expect that businessmen would even be having such old records with them. If this was not enough, then the state tax department has now declared thousands of businessmen as ex-parte and issued new notices, asking them to pay lakhs of rupees as they have not completed their assessments.” Mehra added that, “It has been almost two months now since we started requesting the state government to introduce the OTS policy, under which the assessment cases should be settled by charging a nominal fee. Some of the ministers had assured businessmen that it would be done, but even after four cabinet meetings taking place, no decision had been taken by the state government on the OTS. So, it is certain now that the government is sleeping like Kumbhkaran and therefore we are using ‘dhol and nagadas’ to wake up the government and make ourselves heard.” According to chairman of PPBM, Pawan Lahar, “It is very sad that the state government has failed to take any action on this serious issue of VAT assessments being faced by the businessmen of the state. What is even more disappointing that the portfolio of the excise and taxation is with the chief minister himself and he should be aware of this problem. Regardless of such a large number of representations sent by businessmen and tax experts, this problem remains unsolved. Therefore, the need of launching a protest with ‘dhol and nagadas’ was felt and we are soon organising the meeting of our state committee in which this issue of assessments would be discussed and some major decisions would be taken by us in this regard.” An industrialist and BJP industry cell chief, Punjab, Rakesh Kapoor, “This ‘dhol and nagada’ protest conducted by us on Tuesday was just a trailer for the state government and if within the next 10 days the government failed to take any decision on OTS, we would sharpen our agitation and one by one such an agitation would be organised outside the home of every minister and MLA of the Congress in Punjab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-threaten-to-gherao-homes-of-ministers-over-non-introduction-of-ots/articleshow/79929267.cms||Mohit Behl
December 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC to set up dry waste collection, processing units||Visakhapatnam: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is planning to embark on a dry waste processing initiative for which the civic body will enter into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a private organisation. The identified agency is already implementing a similar project in a metro city of the country. The initiative would be launched in Zone-III and Zone-V on a pilot basis. Recyclable dry waste such as plastic refuse, iron, glass, cardboard, wooden products, aerosol/aluminium cans, etc. will be processed into plastic pellets and other products, enabling reuse. As part of the initiative, dry waste collection points and processing units would be established in Poorna Market (Zone-III) and Gajuwaka (Zone-V). Apart from being an environment-friendly project, it will also generate employment in the processing units. GVMC additional commissioner Dr V Sanyasi Rao said the civic body is planning to launch the dry waste processing initiative in the run up to Swachh Survekshan-2021. “This would help repurpose the dry waste refuse into useable products and help in better solid waste management. About 50 metric tonnes of dry waste are expected to be generated from these two zones,” said Dr Sanyasi Rao. The GVMC is already processing wet waste into manure at eight processing units in parts of the city and at the biogas plant in Kapuluppada. The city generates about 1,100 tonnes waste. The civic body has also launched different initiatives over the last few years to promote waste segregation, garbage collection at source, and waste reduction, reuse and recycling. As per the Solid Waste Management (Amendment) Rules-2020, municipal authorities shall adopt suitable technology to make use of waste, so as to reduce the burden on landfill. As per these rules, biodegradable waste shall be processed by composting, vermicomposting or other appropriate biological processing. Mixed waste containing recoverable resources shall be recycled through technology such as incineration. Pelletisation can also be used for processing wastes in specific cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-to-set-up-dry-waste-collection-processing-units/articleshow/79929266.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: No doctor, baby dies as mom delivers in government hospital bathroom||HYDERABAD: With no doctors to perform a delivery, a woman delivered a baby in the bathroom of government district hospital at Tandur in Vikarabad district, but the new-born died within minutes on Wednesday. The woman, Manisha, a resident of Malreddypalli of Tandur town, was rushed to the hospital at 3.30am on Wednesday. However, she was informed that there were no doctors available for the delivery. While she was at the hospital, the pregnant woman, who was having labour pains, went to the bathroom and delivered the baby there. The family charged the hospital with having a negligent attitude as the only reply the family got from the staff was that there was no doctor. Locals who gathered at the hospital demanded stringent action against the hospital authorities. Officials told TOI there was no doctor on duty when the pregnant woman in labour pains was brought to the hospital for delivery. However, they said the pregnant woman was provided a bed. When she went to the toilet, she delivered the baby there, officials said. “The hospital staff immediately rushed to her help when they got to know about the woman having delivered the baby in the bathroom. They put the baby on oxygen, but the new-born did not survive,” a senior medical official said. The baby’s birth weight was low at 2 kg when it was born. District Coordinator of Hospital Services (DCHS) S Mallikarjun said doctors from other places were being deputed to the hospital as those who were recruited were on leave or away due to different reasons. One of the doctors was said to be away due to Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-doc-baby-dies-as-mom-delivers-in-govt-hosp-bathroom/articleshow/79931944.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 24, 2020||Ranchi||7 lakh Jharkhand farmers with loans up to Rs 50,000 to get waivers||Ranchi: Almost a year after coming to power in Jharkhand, the Hemant Soren-led mahagathbandhan government on Wednesday decided to waive off farm loans, a key promise the parties had made in the run up to last year’s assembly polls. The council of ministers has decided to write off loans of up to Rs 50,000 and make a provision of Rs 2,000 crore under for this under a scheme named ‘Jharkhand Krishi Rin Maafi Yojana’ for the current financial year. Sharing details of the scheme. secretary (cabinet coordination) Ajay Kumar Singh said the amount against loan sought till March 31, 2020, will be transferred to the bank accounts of loanee farmers through DBT. “We are considering one person from each family after charging them a token amount of Re 1,” he said. As per estimates, there are 12.98 lakh farmers in the state have bank accounts with dues worth Rs 5,800 crore is outstanding. Singh said of the total accounts, around nine lakh are active and the others are inoperative. “Of the active accounts, we expect that seven lakh will be benefited by the scheme,” he said. The council of ministers also gave approval to 63 other proposals of different departments. In another decision in favor of farmers, the government has decided to make a provision for payment of compensation to farmers against loss of crops directly, instead of paying it through insurance companies. For this scheme, a provision of Rs 100 crore has been made. Singh said it was observed that the farmers were not being paid adequate compensation by insurance companies whereas the government was paying hefty premiums to them. “The government paid Rs 153 crore to insurance companies in 2016 whereas the companies paid a compensation of just Rs 29 crore to the farmers. Similarly, in 2017, as against Rs.114 crore paid to the companies Rs 36 crore was given as compensation to the farmers. In 2018, Rs 13 crore was paid to farmers against the government’s expense of Rs 225 crores,” he said. To augment farmers associated with lac production, the department of forest, environment and climate change in association with the rural development department jointly decided to execute a lac production enhancement scheme under which efforts will be made to ensure additional annual income of Rs 5,200 per family for 12 lakh families associated with lac production. To support higher education of tribal children, the council of ministers approved a proposal to support higher education of ten selected students from the Scheduled Tribe Category who aspire to go to foreign countries for Masters degree in M Phil. The government will now sponsor their entire expenses, including tuition fee, accommodation and travel for pursuing studies in a foreign university or institution of their choice. For speedy trial of criminal cases pending against MPs and MLAs in the state, the cabinet approved the institution of special courts with one district judge and civil judge in Hazaribag, Dumka, Daltonganj and West Singhbhum. For Ranchi and Dhanbad, a nod has been given for special courts under civil judge (junior division) as special courts under district judge is already operational in these two districts. Dhurva police station in Ranchi was notified as the police station for National Investigation Agency. The cases investigated by NIA would now be registered locally. The cabinet also decided to buy the entire stake of ITDC and Bihar Tourism Development Corporation from Ashok Bihar Hotel Corporation Limited and bring it under state tourism development corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/7-lakh-jharkhand-farmers-with-loans-up-to-rs-50000-to-get-waivers/articleshow/79929229.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Ranchi||Picked up from BSL gate, 300 agitators continue dharna at City police station||Bokaro: As many as 300 family members of deceased Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) employees sat on a dharna in front of City police station on Wednesday after the cops removed them from the steel giant’s front gate – following orders from the district administration – where they were protesting for jobs for the last nine days. Officer in-charge of City police station Ajay Prasad said that Chas circle officer is trying to calm them down and has asked them to go back home. Protesting under the Mrit Ashrit Karamchari Sangh, the agitators said they are not going back home until BSL provides them with jobs. “We are dependants of deceased BSL employees. At the time of our guardian's death, BSL had asked us to choose either a job or dearness allowance. We asked for jobs and now the steel giant is ignoring us. Besides not giving us a job, BSL has still kept my father’s DA and basic salary. We decided to sit on a peaceful dharna as we don’t have a choice,” protester Neeraj Singh said. Another protestor named Sunny Singh said, “We have now come to a point where we will be forced to beg for survival if we are provided with jobs. BSL had first promised us jobs but now they are ignoring us. Come what may, our agitation will continue until that promise is fulfilled.” BSL’s chief of communication Manikant Dhan said they are looking into the matter. According to sources, the BSL management was worried about the protesters since they were agitating in the biting cold as the temperature dipped below 7 degree Celsius in the last few days. Earlier, the agitators had knocked on the doors of several administrative officials in this regard and had even reached an agreement with them but it was all in vain, the protesters said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/picked-up-from-bsl-gate-300-agitators-continue-dharna-at-city-police-station/articleshow/79929288.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Rajkot||RMC asks 300 hospitals not to admit patients sans fire NOC||Rajot: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) asked nearly 300 hospitals not to admit new patients till they get fire no objection certificates (NOC). These hospitals were earlier served notices ordering them to fulfil necessary requirements and obtain NOC. The hospitals have been warned that if they fail to obtain NOC in the next 15 days, they will be sealed as per the rules. The fire department had examined all the hospitals, high-rise buildings and commercial buildings after the tragedy at Uday Shivanand Hospital where six people lost their lives.RMC said in a statement that legal action will be taken against hospitals if they failed to obtain NOC despite notices by the fire department. Admission of new patients is prohibited at these hospitals. The hospitals are required to obtain NOC till the time they discharge the existing patients, otherwise these hospitals will be sealed. According to a list made public by RMC they have issued notices to 287 hospitals so far to fulfil the requirement of fire safety. It has also put a list of hospitals without fire NOC on its website so that people can see it before choosing a hospital. Municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal said, “If the hospital has obtained fire NOC, but the staff is untrained or the fire system is inactive and any incident happens the hospital management will be held responsible.” RMC also asked all the hospitals to keep the staircase and other portions of hospital building ventilated as per the provision of fire act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-asks-300-hospitals-not-to-admit-patients-sans-fire-noc/articleshow/79928557.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ranchi||8 youths kill deer for feast, 1 held||CHATRA: One man has been arrested and search is on for seven others for killing and eating a deer in Huntergunj block in Chatra on Tuesday night. A team of forest officials raided Dalgoma village under Chakla panchayat and recovered the animal’s skin and horns. While they arrested one youth, seven others escaped. Forest range officer Surya Bhushan Kumar said they got information that a few youths identified as Bhola Baiga, Mahendra Mahto alias Gujjar, Kajru Baiga, Manoj Baiga, Ashok Baiga, Shankar Baiga, Sukan Baiga and Karu Baiga killed a deer in the forest and cooked and ate its meat. He said, “We raided the house of Bhola Baiga and recovered the deer skin and arrested him. We found the horns From Mahendra’s house, but he and the others escaped. Search going on to nab them.” Kumar said killing of deer is a crime and the department is leaving no stone unturned to educate villagers. Before the lockdown in March, some forest department employees were suspended for cooking and eating deer meat seized from poachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/8-youths-kill-deer-for-feast-1-held/articleshow/79930648.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Jamshedpur||Seraikela builds storage facilities, constitutes teams for vax campaign||JAMSHEDPUR: Following directives from the state government to make arrangements for storing the Covid-19 vaccine as and when it arrives, the Seraikela-Kharswan district is in the process of putting together storage facilities and constituting teams that will administer the vaccine. District surveillance officer Jhujhar Majhi said, “Currently, the district has nine cold chain points – 25 deep freezers and 20 ice land refrigerators. Besides, the health department has sanctioned six deep freezers and two ice land refrigerators for the district which should arrive in a few days. These facilities will be sufficient to store the vaccine and if required, we will arrange for more.” The district has already prepared teams that will administer the vaccine to the frontline workers in phase-I. “For phases II and III – as part of which common people residing in urban, suburban and rural areas across the nine blocks of Seraikela-Kharswan are slated to receive the vaccine shots – the teams need to be constituted,” Majhi said. He added, “We need a team of four persons each at each of the vaccination centres. By early January, we will be through with the team composition.” The district has identified 319 vaccinators as of now and the community health centres will be used as vaccination centres at the block-level. “Depending on the requirements, additional centres would be identified,” Majhi said. Meanwhile, the district has identified around 4,000 healthcare workers across all government-run centres and 1,032 across 66 private facilities, which are registered under the Clinical Establishment Act, for vaccination in the first phase. “We are nearly done with uploading their names on the Covid Vaccine Beneficiaries Management System website,” Majhi said. As of Wednesday morning, the district had a total of 3,651 cases, of which 50 were active and as many as 3,589 patients were cured while 12 succumbed to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/seraikela-builds-storage-facilities-constitutes-teams-for-vax-campaign/articleshow/79938937.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 24, 2020||Ranchi||Seraikela builds storage facilities, constitutes teams for vax campaign||JAMSHEDPUR: Following directives from the state government to make arrangements for storing the Covid-19 vaccine as and when it arrives, the Seraikela-Kharswan district is in the process of putting together storage facilities and constituting teams that will administer the vaccine. District surveillance officer Jhujhar Majhi said, “Currently, the district has nine cold chain points – 25 deep freezers and 20 ice land refrigerators. Besides, the health department has sanctioned six deep freezers and two ice land refrigerators for the district which should arrive in a few days. These facilities will be sufficient to store the vaccine and if required, we will arrange for more.” The district has already prepared teams that will administer the vaccine to the frontline workers in phase-I. “For phases II and III – as part of which common people residing in urban, suburban and rural areas across the nine blocks of Seraikela-Kharswan are slated to receive the vaccine shots – the teams need to be constituted,” Majhi said. He added, “We need a team of four persons each at each of the vaccination centres. By early January, we will be through with the team composition.” The district has identified 319 vaccinators as of now and the community health centres will be used as vaccination centres at the block-level. “Depending on the requirements, additional centres would be identified,” Majhi said. Meanwhile, the district has identified around 4,000 healthcare workers across all government-run centres and 1,032 across 66 private facilities, which are registered under the Clinical Establishment Act, for vaccination in the first phase. “We are nearly done with uploading their names on the Covid Vaccine Beneficiaries Management System website,” Majhi said. As of Wednesday morning, the district had a total of 3,651 cases, of which 50 were active and as many as 3,589 patients were cured while 12 succumbed to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/seraikela-builds-storage-facilities-constitutes-teams-for-vax-campaign/articleshow/79929172.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Vadodara||Which leopard is man-eater?||Vadodara: The forest department that was concerned till Tuesday evening as it was not able to trap a leopard attacking humans, was in for a surprise when two leopards landed in its cages by late in the night on the same day. It is now trying to identify which of the two leopards has the tendency to attack humans. Panic had gripped villagers in Ghoghamba taluka of Panchmahal district as a big cat had attacked six persons including two children who had died. It had even preyed on goats kept as bait in cages to trap it. A team of officials of the Vadodara circle of the forest department rushed to the Ghoghamba taluka on Tuesday in wake of the series of attacks on humans and domesticated animals reported there. Late on Tuesday evening, the leopard was trapped in one of the cages. An official said that the goat it had killed on the previous night was brought to the cage and kept in it. The leopard came to take its prey and was trapped. The official said that the big cat was prima facie the one that was involved in the attacks. But late in the night, another leopard was trapped in one of the cages set up by the forest department. While the first leopard was trapped at Goyasundal village, the second one was trapped near Kantaveda. One of the boys that was killed was from Goyasundal while another was from Kantaveda. The forest department officials are also caught in a quandary regarding the issue. “We are trying to confirm which leopard was involved in the attacks on humans. There are chances that one of them might be innocent and landed in a trap. Evidence like their pugmarks, movement in the area and other details will be matched to ascertain this,” said the official. The series of attacks by the leopard on humans or domesticated animals began on December 5 when a boy was attacked in the Palla village. Following this, two children were killed within hours at the Kantaveda and Goyakundal villages in the Ghoghamba taluka on December 8. The forest department swung into action and placed cages to rescue the leopard. But on December 10, the leopard managed to kill the goat kept as a bait in the cage and was still not trapped. After this, it attacked a calf on December 15 and two men on December 18. It again managed to kill a goat in a trap on Monday and leave safely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/which-leopard-is-man-eater/articleshow/79928532.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ranchi||After 6 months, Pakur becomes state’s first Covid-free district||RANCHI: Pakur became Jharkhand’s first Covid-free district since May 30, with the last of its 900 patients declared cured on Wednesday. While no new cases have been reported in the district along the Bengal border for more than a week, health experts said they expect the Covid-free status will not last long as some new cases are bound to be detected in the days to come. Sahebganj, which got its first Covid patient on May 30, was the last Covid free region in the state. Pakur is the best performing district in the state as far as the caseload and the toll (two) is concerned. It also has the highest recovery rate in the state. While happy over being Covid-free for the time being, Pakur civil surgeon Ramdev Paswan said the challenge now is to maintain this status. “Though the virus is not under our control, we must aim at keeping the district free of any fresh infection till the time vaccines arrive with precaution and good hygiene practices,” he said. Meanwhile, Jharkhand recorded 202 new Covid cases and 204 recoveries through the day, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 1,13,609. Of these, 1,10,962 (97.67%) have recovered. With no new casualties figure, the number of active cases remained at 1633. Of the 15,543 samples tested on Wednesday 1.29% returned a positive result. Ranchi continued to record the highest number of fresh cases with 82 new patients 760 active cases. It was followed by Dhanbad with 24, East Singhbhum with 20, Ramgarh 16 and Garhwa with 10. Apart from Pakur, Seraikela, Godda and Giridih did not report any new case while all other districts had fresh cases in single digits. The seven day growth rate remained unchanged at 0.16% while the seven-day doubling rate improved slightly to 429.23 days as against 425.44 days reported on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-6-mnths-pakur-becomes-states-first-covid-free-district/articleshow/79930613.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 24, 2020||Ranchi||After Jiden, Punai kill a blow for PLFI||RANCHI: Police on Wednesday confirmed that the extremist killed during an encounter in a forest near Ketari tola under Nagri police station of Ranchi district on Tuesday was PLFI area commander Punai Oroan. Ranchi rural SP Naushad Alam said the family members of Oraon identified the body on Wednesday. He said the body would be handed over to the relatives following due procedures. Alam said Ranchi Police received a tip-off on Tuesday that a PLFI group had entered the city with an intent to commit crime. He added that even as police were carrying out a checking drive in Nagri, four PLFI rebels fired at the police from two bikes and tried to flee. Alam said, “Oroan was killed in retaliatory fire and his body was found during a search operation later. The police carried out extensive search operation during the night but could not trace other members of the gang. A pistol possessed by Oraon and a carbine left by one of his accomplices were found in the area.” It may be stated here that over a dozen cases are registered against Punai with different police stations including Itki, Nagri, Ratu, Mandar and Khunti. At least half a dozen cases were related to murder. The state government had announced a sum of two lakh rupees on him. Notably, police have achieved major successes against PLFI in recent months. Oraon is the second top PLFI commander eliminated by the state police in the past two days. On Monday, zonal commander Jiden Gudia was killed in an encounter under Murhu police station in Khunti district. The state government had announced a bounty of 15 lakh rupees on him. The Khunti police alone have arrested 24 extremists, including 17 PLFI members and seven Maoists, in different operations carried out within the district and in neighbouring Chaibasa and Gumla districts since September. The Ranchi police had arrested five PLFI members in connection with extortion in November. Jharkhand police spokesperson Saket Singh said, “The police are carrying out continuous operations across the state. The chances of encounter with extremists increase when they increase their movement and activities. Locating them in their hideouts is always more challenging.” Meanwhile, Ranchi SSP has appealed to the extremists to surrender and join the mainstream.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-jiden-punai-kill-a-blow-for-plfi/articleshow/79930685.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi district administration to ensure strict adherence of norms during Christmas||RANCHI: The district administration has asked Ranchi Police to keep a vigil on revellers ahead of Christmas and the New Year in view of the pandemic. Notably, the Ranchi district has reported the bulk of the fresh cases in the state in the last few days. Ranchi had reported 104 of the 209 new Covid-19 cases in the state on Tuesday. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said: “Police teams would keep a close eye on popular picnic spots in and around Ranchi to ensure that social distancing and other Covid protocols are followed. They have been asked to strictly implement the norms.” The district authorities have intensified PCR patrolling in view of the festivities. The district administration said that churches have also been asked to follow the latest Covid guidelines issued by the state disaster management department. Sources in the disaster management department said that a fresh order with regard to Christmas was unlikely to be issued. The auxiliary bishop of Ranchi, Theodore Mascarenhas, said, “We would adhere to the state directive on public gathering and all other rules issued by the administration.” Jamadar Soren of All Churches Leaders Council of Jharkhand said, “We would allow a small group of devotees at the churches during the rituals, so that social distancing norms are followed.” Till Wednesday evening, Ranchi had reported 29,813 Covid cases, of which 760 were active. Apart from Ranchi, only East Singhbhum has active Covid cases in triple digits in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/administration-to-ensure-strict-adherence-of-norms-during-christmas/articleshow/79930625.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ranchi||Rims gives 2 bodies, dissection begins at new Palamu med college||Daltonganj: Students of the maiden session of Medinirai Medical College Palamu (MMC-P) at Pokhraha Khurd can finally begin their dissection classes after the college managed to get two dead bodies from Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), principal Jyoti Ranjan Prasad said. The students lost a year of learning from the vital practical class due to lack of dead bodies as the construction agency who built the medical college was delaying the construction of a formalin tank to preserve dead bodies. MMC-P was one among the three (Hazaribag and Dumka being the other two) medical colleges started in November 2019. Prasad said, “Our college has finally got two male bodies for students to dissect from Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), Ranchi. Medicos will now able to attend practical classes.” Prasad said, “It was not easy to get the bodies. The construction agency had not readied the formalin tank for months. Bodies can be preserved in formalin tanks only. Once the construction agency readied the tank, we made efforts to get bodies from Rims.” The two bodies were brought in an ambulance from Ranchi in a coordinated effort of Palamu DC, Ranchi DC and director of Rims. Prasad also explained the process of selecting bodies for dissection classes. “No part of a body should be mutilated or burnt as in the case of accidental deaths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-gives-2-bodies-dissection-begins-at-new-palamu-med-college/articleshow/79929196.cms||M F AHMED
December 24, 2020||Business||Four promoters of Hyderabad firm arrested for laundering 6k cr||NEW DELHI: In the Paradise Paper leak case, the Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday arrested four promoters of Hyderabad-based Agri Gold group of companies accusing them of laundering Rs 6,400 crore. The accused have been remanded to ED custody for 14 days by a PMLA court in Hyderabad. “Their names figured in the Paradise paper leak case as they had incorporated companies with the help of the infamous Mossack Fonsenca in Cayman Islands,” ED said. Avva Venkata Rama Rao, the main accused in the case, along with his seven brothers and other associates floated more than 150 companies and started collecting deposits from the public with a promise of providing developed plots/farm lands or withdrawal at a high rate of return on maturity/pre-term. The group collected deposits illegally from across the country, including Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. “Thousands of commission agents were engaged to lure people with various schemes for hefty commission and the accused managed to collect Rs 6,380 crore from over 32 lakh investors, the ED claimed in its remand plea. “Investigation revealed that the accused also set up companies abroad and diverted large amounts of funds to off-shore entities,” it said. Searches were conducted at the residences of Avva Venkata Rama Rao and others, including the residences of auditors, at Vijayawada and Hyderabad earlier when the agency had seized several property related documents and other transaction details. The three accused arrested are Avva Venkata Rama Rao, Avva Venkata Seshu Narayana Rao and Avva Hema Sundara Vara Prasad. All of them have been accused of money laundering. Further investigation is under progress, ED said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/four-promoters-of-hyderabad-firm-arrested-for-laundering-6k-cr/articleshow/79932324.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Business||Cabinet okays 100% FDI in DTH sector, licences for 20 years||NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved revisions in guidelines for providing direct to home services under which licences will be issued for 20 years, renewed automatically every 10 years, where licence fee will be reduced, and 100% FDI will be permitted in the DTH sector. I&B minister Prakash Javadekar said on Wednesday that DTH guidelines were earlier silent on how licences would be renewed after the expiry of the 10-year licence period. This had resulted in the issuance of a large number of temporary extensions to DTH service providers even after their original licences had expired. “In India, more than six crore houses get DTH services. The commerce ministry had earlier decided 100% FDI in DTH services but due to information and broadcasting ministry’s guidelines, the DTH services could not get that benefit. The new guidelines will be in sync with the commerce ministry's guidelines,“ Javadekar said at a press briefing. The government also revised the licence fee from 10% of gross revenues (GR), to 8% of adjusted gross revenues (AGR), which will be calculated after deduction of GST from GR. The licence fee will now be collected on a quarterly basis instead of an annual payment. tnn The revision of guidelines for the DTH sector had been pending since 2014. The amendments also included a cap on the platform services at 5% of the respective DTH operators’ total channel carrying capacity. For instance, for DTH operator with a carrying capacity of 300 channels, no more than 15 platform services may be offered. Additionally, the revised guidelines mandate a one-time, non-refundable registration fee of Rs 10,000 per platform service channel from a DTH operator. The amendments also said DTH operators can share infrastructure between themselves on a voluntary basis. “Distributors of TV channels will be permitted to share the common hardware for their Subscriber Management System (SMS) and Conditional Access System (CAS) applications,” a ministry statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cabinet-okays-100-fdi-in-dth-sector-licences-for-20-years/articleshow/79932327.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Mumbai||Palghar lynching: Oldest accused at 70, youngest aged 13 among 24 fresh arrests||MUMBAI: The state crime investigation department (CID) on Tuesday arrested 24 more people, including a 70-year-old tribal who is the oldest accused so far and a 13-year-old who is the youngest suspect, in connection with the lynching of three men by a mob in Palghar district in April this year. The 19 adult tribals and five minors were produced before the Dahanu court on Wednesday. The 19 adults, including the 70-year-old from Divshi village, have been sent to judicial custody till January 5. The total adult accused arrested in the case has gone up to 246, of which 115 are out on bail. Till date, 16 minors have been arrested of which nine are out on bail as no chargesheet was filed against them. Two minors, aged 17, are still in Bhiwandi remand home and the five arrested on Tuesday have been sent there too. Advocate Amrut Adhikari, representing some of the accused, said that most of those arrested had been called for questioning in May. They were interrogated for over four hours and let off for lack of evidence, he added. Adhikari said that the arrests have been made based on the cellphone location of the accused who hail from villages like Gadchinchale, Divshi, Udhana, Sukad, Ambad in Dahanu and Khanvel in the Union Territory of Dadra, Nagar Haveli. The lynching of seers Kalpavrishka Giri Maharaj (70) and Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30) took place at Gadchinchle village in Kasa on April 16. The CID had filed three chargesheets. Police officers handling the case have either been dismissed, suspended or transferred. The Supreme Court last week adjourned a plea seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe in the case till the third week of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/palghar-lynching-oldest-accused-at-70-youngest-aged-13-among-24-fresh-arrests/articleshow/79932328.cms||Sandhya Nair
December 24, 2020||India||Girl takes selfie with noose around neck, found dead||INDORE: A 12-year-old girl in Indore took a selfie with a noose around her neck, and was found hanging in her room half an hour later by her siblings in Indore on Tuesday. Both her parents are police personnel. Initially, when police saw the last picture taken on her phone, they thought it was a selfie that ended in an accident. On Wednesday, her family found a suicide note tucked in one of her notebooks and an examination revealed she had scratched ‘sorry G’ on her upper arm. Times ViewIndia unfortunately holds the record for the largest number of selfie deaths in the world. Several campaigns have been run in recent years highlighting the perils of this seemingly innocuous act. Prima facie, this sad incident underscores the need for a much more vigorous campaign to raise awareness on the subject, especially among school kids.Her parents are shattered and say they had no clue she was contemplating suicide. She was a bright student and seemed cheerful when they had left for duty on Tuesday morning. Investigating officer Manmohan Singh Thakur said police believe she was trying to send the selfie to someone, but couldn’t. They are checking her mobile phone to identify those she spoke or chatted with in the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/girl-takes-selfie-with-noose-around-neck-found-dead/articleshow/79932312.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sion hospital deputy dean held for duping student||MUMBAI: Rakesh Verma (54), deputy dean of Lokmanya Tilak General hospital at Sion, was arrested on Wednesday for duping a medical graduate of Rs 50 lakh under the pretext of helping her avail admission for post-graduation at Sion Medical College. After he was arrested under IPC sections for cheating and remanded to police custody, Verma said he felt giddy, complained of high blood pressure and was admitted to Sion hospital. He had been suspended a month ago after the authorities received complaints of irregularities and malpractices at the hospital. Admission was promised for Rs 1.5 crorePolice said Alisha Shaikh, a medical student from Madhya Pradesh, completed her graduation and was looking for admission for post-graduation in Mumbai. “Verma, through a tout, did a deal with her and promised admission if she paid Rs 1.5 crore. Alisha’s father transferred Rs 21 lakh to Verma’s bank account and paid Rs 29 lakh in cash,’’ said Vijay Patil, DCP (zone IV). Recently, when she went to Sion hospital to meet him, she learnt that he was suspended. Sion hospital dean Mohan Joshi said Verma was suspended following complaints last month and a departmental inquiry was on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sion-hospital-deputy-dean-held-for-duping-student/articleshow/79932333.cms||S Ahmed Ali
December 24, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Halves excise licence fee for bars this fiscal||MUMBAI: In a major relief for the liquor industry badly hit during the pandemic, the state government has reduced the excise licence charges for permit rooms and bars for this fiscal year by 50%. The proposal for a 15% increase in licence fees from the current fiscal has also been rolled back. For those who have already paid the excise licence fees for this year, the waiver will be adjusted during renewal of licence in the next financial year. These decisions were taken by the state cabinet on Wednesday amid a fresh setback for the hospitality industry in the form of the night curfew imposed from Tuesday. Reduction in licence fees a much-needed shot: AHARThe night curfew, which will continue till January 5, is set to have an impact on Christmas and new year’s eve parties. While bars, permit rooms, discotheques, clubs and those taking one-day temporary party licences will benefit largely as a result of the reduction in fees, other small beer-and-wine-serving outlets have also been offered a 30% waiver in licence fees. All bars and restaurants are currently operating at 50% capacity due to Covid restrictions. During the lockdown, they had survived on home deliveries. To make up for their losses, bars have also been allowed by the state to sell liquor across the counter. The government has also withdrawn the 6% rise in excise on toddy liquor that had been made effective for the current fiscal and will charge excise for only three months as against seven months, starting September 1 this year. Shivanand Shetty, president of AHAR, an association of bar and restaurant owners, said the state’s decision will help the beleaguered industry which employs 60 lakh people and has nearly 2 crore indirect employees. An average bar in Mumbai paid Rs 7 lakh as excise licence fees last year, so the state’s decision brings much-required relief, he added. Excise is a major source of revenue for the state government. In 2019-20, the state’s excise department earned Rs 15,429 crore, of which licence renewal alone contributed Rs 909.1 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-halves-excise-licence-fee-for-bars-this-fiscal/articleshow/79932341.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
December 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid negative report a must for international flyers: Karnataka government||BENGALURU: The state government on Wednesday made it mandatory for international passengers coming to Bengaluru and Mangaluru from any country to furnish a Covid-19 negative certificate or to undergo a RT-PCR test on arrival. The move follows reports about a new virus strain in the United Kingdom and some European countries. The government said passengers should have obtained the negative test report 72 hours prior to departure. Earlier, the government had announced this rule would apply only to those coming from or transited through airports in the UK, Denmark and the Netherlands. However, with reports of a few international passengers turning positive, the government did not want to take chances and decided to screen all passengers from any country. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, health commissioner, said international passengers who have given swabs for testing at the airports, are advised strict home quarantine till receipt of the lab report. The government has intensified tracing all those who have travelled to Karnataka from the UK or transited through its airports in the last four weeks, from November 25 to December 23. Preliminary reports suggest that at least 2,500 persons arrived in the state from the UK in the past month. All testing labs have been instructed to send positive swab samples of those who had either transited or travelled from the UK to InStem lab in National Centre for Biological Sciences or to Nimhans for genomic sequencing testing which will be done free of cost. The government has mandated that Covid positive cases with UK travel and transit history will have to be in institutional or hospital isolation. If the genomic sequencing report turns out to be positive for the new variant of the virus, the patient will continue to remain in a separate isolation unit. Such patients will have to be tested on Day 14 (from the time the first report came positive). If the patient is found positive on Day 14, she has to be hospitalised until her two consecutive samples taken 24 hours apart are tested negative. Besides, strict 14 days of home quarantine is a must for all those with UK travel, transit history, who have tested negative on RT-PCR test done on arrival at airports, seaports on December 21-23. Institutional quarantine for all contacts of positive flyersAll contacts of positive cases, who have travelled/ transited from the UK between December 21 and 23 will be subjected to institutional quarantine. Contacts include co-passengers seated in the same row, three rows in the front and three rows behind, with identified cabin crew. All contacts will be tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-negative-report-a-must-for-international-flyers-karnataka-government/articleshow/79938427.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid negative report a must for international flyers: Karnataka government||BENGALURU: The state government on Wednesday made it mandatory for international passengers coming to Bengaluru and Mangaluru from any country to furnish a Covid-19 negative certificate or to undergo a RT-PCR test on arrival. The move follows reports about a new virus strain in the United Kingdom and some European countries. The government said passengers should have obtained the negative test report 72 hours prior to departure. Earlier, the government had announced this rule would apply only to those coming from or transited through airports in the UK, Denmark and the Netherlands. However, with reports of a few international passengers turning positive, the government did not want to take chances and decided to screen all passengers from any country. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, health commissioner, said international passengers who have given swabs for testing at the airports, are advised strict home quarantine till receipt of the lab report. The government has intensified tracing all those who have travelled to Karnataka from the UK or transited through its airports in the last four weeks, from November 25 to December 23. Preliminary reports suggest that at least 2,500 persons arrived in the state from the UK in the past month. All testing labs have been instructed to send positive swab samples of those who had either transited or travelled from the UK to InStem lab in National Centre for Biological Sciences or to Nimhans for genomic sequencing testing which will be done free of cost. The government has mandated that Covid positive cases with UK travel and transit history will have to be in institutional or hospital isolation. If the genomic sequencing report turns out to be positive for the new variant of the virus, the patient will continue to remain in a separate isolation unit. Such patients will have to be tested on Day 14 (from the time the first report came positive). If the patient is found positive on Day 14, she has to be hospitalised until her two consecutive samples taken 24 hours apart are tested negative. Besides, strict 14 days of home quarantine is a must for all those with UK travel, transit history, who have tested negative on RT-PCR test done on arrival at airports, seaports on December 21-23. Institutional quarantine for all contacts of positive flyersAll contacts of positive cases, who have travelled/ transited from the UK between December 21 and 23 will be subjected to institutional quarantine. Contacts include co-passengers seated in the same row, three rows in the front and three rows behind, with identified cabin crew. All contacts will be tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-negative-report-a-must-for-international-flyers-karnataka-government/articleshow/79932337.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||BJP's 3 Valley winners: Biomedical engineer, female lawyer & double MA||NEW DELHI: As BJP made its first solo entry in the Jammu and Kashmir electoral battle by registering three wins in the District Development Council (DDC) polls, the spotlight has shifted to each of its winning candidates. Aijaz Hussain (35), who won from Srinagar's Khonmoh, is a biomedical engineer from Anna university in Chennai. For Hussain, the victory has come after a long association with the party where in the youth wing, he says, he honed his political communication skills. “During my hostel days in ChennaI, when I was all of 22, my friends showed me the culture in RSS shakhas and ABVP. I was quite impressed with the thrust on nationalism. I took my friends to my towns in Kashmir and our bond strengthened over the years. We never interfered in each other’s religion and the commitment to a political cause became stronger. I worked in Wipro for some time but politics was my first love. Here I am,” BJP Yuva Morcha national vice-president Hussain told TOI. Hussain will now hop between Kashmir and West Bengal, where he is in charge of BJYM BJP’s second winner is Minna Lateef (22), who won from Kakpura in Pulwama. Her goals meant following her father’s footsteps in politics. “My social activism in Pulwama and lack of development brought out the best of me as I took a course in BLLB four years ago. Since my father was already a BJP member, being the eldest of siblings that include two brothers, I said I would take the political plunge to support him to keep adverse forces at bay,” Lateef said. She says things are improving in Kakpora after it was in the news in 2019 when a suicide bomber from this place attacked a CRPF convoy in one of the biggest terror attacks in the Valley. She says she will complete her integrated law degree. The third winner, Aijaz Ahmad Khan (35), the bachelor son of Bandipora’s ex-Independent MLA, holds masters’ degrees in English and history. “Representing this picturesque region of Gurez, I always wanted to bring it onto the global map. Armed with degrees and political plunge now would ensure Gurez and Bandipora can take benefit out of my work (sic),” Khan told TOI. His focus would be on building new connectivity, such as the Razda pass to Drass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjps-3-valley-winners-biomedical-engineer-female-lawyer-double-ma/articleshow/79932336.cms||Rohan Dua
December 24, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet clears Rs 101 crore for restoration of temples||MUMBAI: A week after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a fund for the restoration and conservation of ancient temples in the state, the cabinet cleared Rs 101 crore for the project in the state budget for 2021-22. Thackeray had announced the restoration during the state assembly while hitting out at the Opposition and saying, "We have not given up Hindutva." The restoration will be undertaken in a phased manner and the process will be decided by a nine-member committee. These will include the secretaries for cultural affairs, finance, PWD and tourism. The dean of the JJ College of Architecture will also be part of the panel. Officials said five of the 12 'jyotirlingas' in the country are located in the state. It is also known for the pilgrimage spots of Alandi, Pandharpur and the Ashtavinayaka Ganpati trail. Also, the state has temples dedicated to the goddesses Tuljabhavani, Mahalakshmi, Renukamata and Saptashringi. Thackeray had announced in the state assembly that the project to give the ancient temples a facelift was being done with an aim to "promote ancient culture and traditions". He sought the cooperation of the Opposition in identifying temples for preservation. An acrimonious exchange had erupted in October between the chief minister and governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over reopening of places of worship in the state which had been shut down in the wake of the pandemic. After the governor, in a sarcasm-filled letter, questioned whether he had "turned secular", Uddhav had shot back that he did not need a Hindutva certificate from anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-cabinet-clears-rs-101-crore-for-restoration-of-temples/articleshow/79932344.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
December 24, 2020||India||BJP credits PM Modi’s leadership for emerging as single largest party in Jammu and Kashmir DDC polls||NEW DELHI: Jubilant over BJP emerging as the single largest party in the J&K DDC polls, home minister Amit Shah and other senior party leaders on Wednesday attributed the party’s performance as a vote for the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shah said the Modi government is working hard to restore grassroot democracy in the state and DDC polls for the first time in the history of J&K is testimony to the same. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the election results are the victory of hope, democracy and the people of J&K. “I heartily thank our sisters and brothers of J&K for voting BJP as the single largest party in the District Development Council elections. BJP under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi ji will continue to work relentlessly towards the prosperity and development of the J&K region,” Shah tweeted, joining several leaders, who shared their satisfaction over completion of the DDC polls in the UT. Congratulating people of the state for a great turnout in the polls, Shah further said, “I applaud the efforts of our security forces and local administration for successfully conducting these multi-phased elections. This will further boost the morale and trust of people of J&K in democracy.” At a press conference, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said DDC poll results are a victory for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "larger narrative" for the Union Territory and claimed that the verdict is a "resounding slap" by people on the face of extremists, separatists, terrorists and their patrons. Prasad also rejected the contention that the poll results are a win for the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), saying that the BJP has emerged as the single largest party and that it has got more votes than the total votes of the National Conference, the PDP and the Congress put together. “The Gupkar alliance was formed because its constituents knew that they could not fight the BJP on their own,” he said. "This is a victory for India, democracy, hope, development and people of Jammu and Kashmir. This is a victory for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's larger narrative for Jammu and Kashmir," Prasad said. The Union minister said the faith in democracy of the people of the Valley has been strengthened as many militancy hotbeds like Pulwama, Kulgam, Shopian and Sopore in Kashmir saw much more polling in the DDC polls than the Lok Sabha elections. “PAGD also lost from the area of Burhan Wani, a Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist whose social media posts and subsequent killing in an encounter in 2016 had gained a lot of publicity. This is important as Wani's killing was made an issue of international campaign by these elements with Pakistan also raising the matter,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-credits-pm-modis-leadership-for-emerging-as-single-largest-party-in-jammu-and-kashmir-ddc-polls/articleshow/79932347.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Mumbai||Night curfew in Mumbai: Can go out past 11pm, but not in 4+ groups||MUMBAI: On the night curfew imposed in Mumbai between 11 pm and 6 am till January 5, joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil said on Wednesday that people are still allowed to travel on two- and four-wheelers, but not more than four people at a time. "You may even go for a walk or drive out during the curfew hours, but not in a group of five persons," he said in an important clarification about the rules. He added, "All essential services and business activities of night shifts will be allowed except the establishments used for entertainment/recreational activities (for example, pubs, restaurants, theatres etc). These must close at 11 pm." 2,000 challans on Tue during night curfewThe state government issued a revised notification about the night curfew on Wednesday, noting that more than four people would not be allowed to assemble up to January 5 within all municipal corporation limits between 11 pm and 6 am. Over 2,000 challans were issued for traffic violations and against individuals who were not wearing masks during the night curfew on Tuesday, police said. The Mumbai traffic police said the violations included instances of not wearing helmets/seatbelts, driving without licence etc. Police added the number of challans seemed high compared to action taken during the night otherwise. The reason could be heightened checks. To prevent New Year’s gatherings that could cause a spread of Covid, the state had on Tuesday issued an order imposing a night curfew in all major cities of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/night-curfew-in-mumbai-can-go-out-past-11pm-but-not-in-4-groups/articleshow/79932355.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Six flyers from UK test Covid-19 positive at Delhi airport||NEW DELHI: Six people who had arrived from the United Kingdom tested positive for the novel coronavirus at Indira Gandhi International Airport on Wednesday. The total count is now 11 passengers and crew members, including five who had tested positive on Tuesday. The swab samples were sent to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for further research using genome sequencing to determine if the infection was of the new strain of the virus, which is considered more infectious. Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder and director of Genestrings Lab, said, “Since the directive from the civil aviation ministry, four flights have landed at IGI Airport. Testing was done as directed, irrespective of any existing reports or exemptions. Over 950 inbound passengers from London were tested at our lab at T3 and 11 of them tested positive. These 11 samples have been sent to NCDC. We do not know yet if any of these are of the new UK strain.” On Wednesday, about 500 passengers arrived on two flights from the UK. “In all, 50 passengers were quarantined. The health ministry has asked for proper contact tracing, so passengers sitting in the same row or nearby rows on the flight might have been quarantined,” said an official. The SOP for surveillance by state governments mentions that all contacts (without any exception) of those travellers who arrived at airports on December 21-23 and tested positive would be subjected to institutional quarantine and tested according to ICMR guidelines. A senior official said that given the uncertainty and fear around the new strain, “both DIAL and Genestrings were fully equipped to brace themselves and be on the forefront to ensure that the country did not face another wave of this deadly virus”. All passengers and crew would be tested on arrival, irrespective of exemptions and existing negative reports. “All those who have tested positive have been shifted to Vallabh Bhai Patel Quarantine Facility and will be kept there till they test negative,” said an airport official. The airport authorities have ensured separate arrangements in the waiting lounge, so that passengers do not share space with those from other countries. The manpower was also doubled overnight to ensure both locations run smoothly and RT-PCR results were given in less than four hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/six-flyers-from-uk-test-covid-19-positive-at-delhi-airport/articleshow/79932356.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Tests under way to identify strain of positive case from UK: Officials||BENGALURU: A person who returned to Bengaluru from the UK this week has tested positive for Covid-19, officials said, and genomic sequencing is being conducted to determine if the flyer contracted the new virus strain that spreads faster. The person was among 197 passengers who took the last flight from the UK to the tech capital early on Monday. According to BBMP officials, 188 of them have been swabbed and the results of 25 are awaited. British health experts have linked the new coronavirus variant to a surge in infections in that country. A number of countries, including India, have temporarily banned flights from the UK. “We are not sure of the virus strain in the positive case that has been detected among 197 passengers. Genomic testing is under way,” a senior civic official said. BBMP is tracking all those who arrived from Britain in recent weeks. More than 200 passengers were supposed to travel on the last flight from there to Bengaluru, but finally, 197 flew, said a civic official, citing data provided by the Kempegowda International Airport. Of these, 188 entered the city, while the rest left for other states. BBMP collected samples of 163 passengers on Tuesday and 25 others on Wednesday. The results of the first batch arrived on Wednesday with one positive case. “Lack of cooperation from people who have returned to the city is the biggest challenge for us,” a health official said. Rajendra Cholan, special commissioner of health and IT, told TOI that BBMP was late in taking precautionary steps, but things were under control now. “When the passengers entered the city, they were asked to undergo rapid antigen tests, which did not benefit us. Now, we are doing the RT-PCR test to rule out infection,” Cholan said. “Contact tracing of the lone positive case has been done. The contacts were family members, who are negative.” Health teams faced some difficulty in tracking 25 flyers as they didn’t answer calls. “We coordinated with airport officials and obtained their addresses. Teams visited their homes and took samples for RT-PCR tests,” Cholan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tests-under-way-to-identify-strain-of-positive-case-from-uk-officials/articleshow/79932338.cms||Nithya Mandyam
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: SHO to clean road outside police station for a week||BENGALURU: “I will clean the road in front of my police station for a week,” a police station house officer has undertaken before the high court’s Kalaburagi bench. This was after the court took the SHO of Station Bazaar police station in Kalaburagi city to task for his failure to register a complaint by a woman whose son had been abducted. A division bench comprising justices S Sunil Dutt Yadav and P Krishna Bhat recorded his undertaking and disposed of the December 17 habeas corpus petition filed by Tarabai after her son Suresh was produced before the court. A resident of Minajgi tanda in the district, Tarabai had earlier approached police with a complaint of abduction, stating that Suresh has been missing since October 20. “The entire development in the case after Suresh went missing discloses a very disturbing facet of the functioning of police stations in this area of the state. The problem, primarily, is one of police officers not complying with the provisions prescribed under the Code of Criminal Procedure, which places a high premium on the guarantee of liberty of individuals,” the bench observed. The judges noted that when Tarabai approached the SHO, he was quite conscious that what was conveyed to him constituted a cognisable offence and therefore, he was obliged to make an entry in the station house diary and register an FIR.  “If the facts disclosed to him amounted to an offence taking place within the limits of his police station, then he should have proceeded with investigation of the case, and if the offence disclosed took place outside his jurisdiction, then he was obliged to transfer the FIR to the jurisdictional police station for further investigation. In spite of the same, he has overlooked the mandate of law in as much as he has not made an entry in the station house diary nor has he registered an FIR, which has resulted in stultifying the precious right of the petitioner and her son Suresh,” the bench noted. Considering these lapses, the government advocate submitted that the officer would submit an undertaking to do community service for atoning his conduct and the court should take a lenient view. Accepting the same, the bench permitted the officer to file an undertaking in which he not only tendered unconditional apology, but also said he would be cleaning the road in front of his police station for one week. The court directed the Kalaburagi superintendent of police to hold a workshop/ orientation course for all officers in the district on the subject of “zero FIR” .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sho-to-clean-road-outside-police-station-for-a-week/articleshow/79929816.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Man seeks divorce from wife menstruating on wedding day||VADODARA: At a time when women and activists across the world are trying to break the taboo around menstruation, a city-based professional has sought a divorce from his wife on the grounds that she did not reveal about her periods on the day of their wedding. Living in the eastern part of the city, the man claimed that he and his mother were shocked and their ‘faith was violated’ when his wife revealed that she had periods on the marriage day. In his divorce petition, the man claimed that she told her about her menstrual condition moments before they went to a temple for prayers after completing their ceremony. The couple got married in the last week of January. He works in a private company while his wife is a teacher. The man alleged that after the wedding, she said that he need not contribute to the monthly expenses of the house as his elder brother is already spending. Instead, he should give her Rs 5,000 every month and insist on installing an air-conditioner in their house. When he said that he cannot afford an AC, she fought with him and went to live at her parents’ house, the petitioner claimed. Even after she was persuaded and brought back, she would keep going to her parents’ house and not return for days. He has also argued that during the lockdown, he got a shocker of his life when he was taking a walk on the terrace of his house. The woman came and asked him to give her money. When he tried to reason with her saying that as he has not received the salary, she said that she would have slept with 10 other men on the first night had she known that he could not afford the luxuries, he alleged. The man has claimed that he could not believe his ears but still tried talking to his wife who then allegedly threatened to commit suicide by jumping off the terrace. The man has claimed that he was forced to file for divorce as, after moving to her parents’ home in May, she gave false complaints against him and his family at Bapod police station. “The petition has been registered at the family court and the court will take it up for hearing,” said his lawyer Alpesh Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-seeks-divorce-from-wife-menstruating-on-wedding-day/articleshow/79928541.cms||Jay Pachchigar
December 24, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Truckers up in arms over damaged road linking ports||RAJKOT: Trucker’s associations and those associated with transport business are up in arms over the pathetic condition of the national highway stretch between Maliya and Surajbari which is the gateway to two key ports— Kandla and Mundra in Kutch. They said that the 20km stretch between Maliya and Surajbari had got damaged during the monsoon season and despite representations to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) over the last two months, the situation continues. The Kutch-based truckers’ associations have warned NHAI that they will stop paying toll tax at Surajbari and Samakhiyali if the damaged roads are not repaired by December 31. They claimed that the damaged road has resulted in daily traffic jams for 3-6 hours for the trucks coming from Ahmedabad, Morbi, Rajkot and Jamnagar. It has also impacted the export and import trade at the Deendayal Port (in Kandla) and Mundra Port. According to transporters, at least 20,000 trucks ply on the 20km stretch between Maliya and Surajbari every day. Also, because of the unfinished Mundra-Garpadar and Mundra-Khedoi road that connect Gandhidham from Mundra, the delivery of goods to the ports was getting delayed. Jayesh Rajde, president of Kandla Mundra Transport Welfare Association said, “The traffic jams for 3-6 hours has become a daily affair on Surajbari-Samakhiali road. The repairing work is on but at a snail’s pace that too without diversions.” Transporters pay total Rs 750 as toll tax at Samakhiali and Surajbari. The NHAI project coordinator in Kutch Krishnapal Chauhan could not be contacted for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/truckers-up-in-arms-over-damaged-road-linking-ports/articleshow/79928580.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||Puri’s Jagannath temple reopens||Tears of joy streamed down devotees’ eyes as they stepped into Puri’s Jagannath temple, which reopened on Wednesday after remaining shut since March 20 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, reports Debabrata Mohapatra. “As soon as I stepped inside, I got goosebumps. The moment I saw the deities outside the sanctum sanctorum at 5.30am, I couldn’t hold back tears,” said Sandhyarani Dasmohapatra, wife of a servitor at the shrine. Like her, several other devotees — all family members of servitors — were overjoyed at being able to offer prayers at the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/puris-jagannath-temple-reopens/articleshow/79932349.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Faculty cries foul at new Delhi University discretionary quota||NEW DELHI: The Delhi University administration has stirred a controversy by introducing “college-university seats” above the sanctioned strength just a few days before the admission process is to end. Principals, teachers and students are calling it an introduction of the “management quota”. While principals are concerned that the order will result in undue pressure on them, teachers fear it will lead to unethical practices. ‘New DU rule akin to management quota’The academic and executive council members have written to acting vice-chancellor P C Joshi opposing the DU order. A circular issued by university registrar Vikas Gupta said, “On the request of principals of constituent colleges of the University of Delhi and elected executive council members, a committee was constituted to explore the possibility to provide a few seats to colleges in view of Covid-19 pandemic for admission in UG courses merit-based. The competent authority of the university has approved the recommendation of the committee for five admissions under college university seat in the current academic session 2020-21.” DU has also approved ward quota for teaching and non-teaching staff in postgraduate admissions. An elected teachers’ representative said this had come as a big surprise. Out of the five, three names will be given by the college and two from the university. The only criterion for selection is that the merit of the shortlisted candidates shall “ordinarily” be up to 5% and in no case beyond 10% of the last cutoff issued by the college. These names will have to be sent to a committee set up by DU. A principal told TOI, “When you are in a position of power, there is a lot of pressure. From the point of view of the public, it is not equality.” Another principal said, “The discretionary thing is disturbing. This will be transferred into a management quota, which never existed in the university.” A letter by four academic council members from Left organisations said, “This policy compromises the transparency and probity in the admission process. Candidates with lower cutoffs will be allowed admission by the administrators at different levels. The honourable high court of Delhi had categorically ruled against such discretionary admissions by the governing bodies of colleges and, thus, had put an end to the socalled management quota.” However, dean of colleges Balram Pani said it was not a management quota. “In the pandemic situation, some students have missed the opportunity by 0.5%. No matter what the enrolment, it is just five seats in each college. This will also be done transparently.” Academic and executive council members say they have not been taken into confidence on the issue. “We oppose any type of discretionary quota in DU’s admission process, which is in gross violation of the principles of merit,” said Rajesh Jha, an executive council member. However, there are some like Aryabhatta College principal Manoj Sinha who say “discretion” should be allowed” in certain circumstances. ABVP and AISA have demanded scrapping of the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/faculty-cries-foul-at-new-delhi-university-discretionary-quota/articleshow/79932367.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 24, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashrta tracks flyers from UK who landed after November 25||MUMBAI: Following the emergence of the highly contagious mutant Covid-19 strain in the UK, a massive surveillance drive has been launched across Maharashtra, including Mumbai, to check for the infection among travellers from the western country who landed in the state between November 25 and December 23. The BMC health department has appealed to people to reach out to the respective local civic war room and undergo a health checkup with their family doctor. The state's month-long surveillance exercise will include sending positive samples to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV), which will conduct genomic sequencing to establish whether the patient has been infected by the new mutant strain. "Roughly, 4,500 people travelled from the UK during this period. Of these, 3,000 are from Maharashtra and the rest from outside the state," said Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state public health department. It is learnt the Airport Health Organisation (APHO) Mumbai had received a communication from the Centre seeking details of passengers who landed at Mumbai airport from London in the past 21 days, said an official. "The information and addresses of these passengers have already been sent," the official added. APHO is a unit of the international health division under the directorate general of health services, ministry of health and family welfare. "We have segregated this line list we received from airport authorities and shared it among various districts and municipal corporations," said Dr Awate. A BMC public health department official said, "The surveillance exercise has already started in Mumbai." It will continue at least till January 20 as people will have to be followed up till 28 days after taking the RT-PCR test, the official added. Once the RT-PCR reports are available, the positive samples will be sent to the NIV, Pune, for genomic sequencing. "The sequencing will verify whether the sample contains the new variant or not," said Dr Awate. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said according to the central guidelines, all contacts of positive cases will be quarantined at identified institutions. All these contacts will be tested on Day 5 to 10 from their day of contact with a positive case. "I appeal to all travellers who have come from England after November 25 to India to proactively come forward and contact the local public health department to help and support this special surveillance drive," said Tope. BMC public health department officials said proper use of masks, regular hand hygiene and maintaining a safe distance should be followed carefully to ensure that the passengers don't infect others at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashrta-tracks-flyers-from-uk-who-landed-after-november-25/articleshow/79932386.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
December 24, 2020||India||Sown first seeds of BJP in Valley; PDP, Congress behind Independents: Thakur||A day after BJP emerging the single largest party in the DDC polls, Union minister of state for finance and BJP's poll in-charge for J&K, Anurag Thakur, who oversaw the recently-held DDC polls for his party in the UT, tells TOI’s Rohan Dua that the large number of contestants, high voter turnout and BJP’s are a referendum on PM Narendra Modi.BJP has emerged as the single largest party in the first local body polls in UT after August 5, 2019 re-organisation of Jammu and Kashmir. How satisfied are you? There were 57 lakh voters and 51% voted in the first ever DDC polls. As many as 2,178 candidates, of which 450 were women, contested. This shows that a large number of people were interested to contest and come out to vote despite our opponents creating anti-national sentiments over Article 370 annulment. This shows people were happy with the Modi government’s policies. BJP got 38.7% votes, 4.8 lakh votes and 75 seats -- the highest on all metrics. All of these are a referendum on Narendra Modi. The Gupkar gang’s votes are behind us even if NC and PDP are counted together. That vote share of PDP (4.4 %) and Congress(11.1 %)individually is behind that of Independents (13.6 %)shows that people do not want to see militancy or separatism anymore. Even a new party like Apni Party got more than 3% vote share. Revelations of Roshni Act violators have shown what NC and PDP politicians did by grabbing Rs 25,000 crore land. Ab yeh PDP and NC zamini neta nahi, zamino par kabza karne wala neta hai. (Their leaders are no longer leaders on ground but will be known as land grabbers on ground) BJP has seen three wins in Kashmir. This includes a woman -- Minha Lateef -- from Kakpora, which was in the news after Pulwama attack in 2019 …We have sowed the first seeds of BJP in the Valley. Our young contestant Engineer Aijaz Hussain has won his seat by the biggest margin in Srinagar. This is just the beginning. In 1984, we had two seats in the Parliament. In 2014, we crossed 280. Win by the Kakpora woman has shown people are fed up with politics of separatism and terrorist appeasement and want to support BJP for development in the Valley and Jammu. Modi ji is building new leadership and grooming the young talent. How do you size up People’s Alliance for Gupkar declaration (PAGD) performance?PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti announcing just after the declaration of results that she would not contest assembly polls, clearly shows her fear of losing following her party’s dismal tally of 27 seats and a four percent vote share. There are chinks already in their alliance showing up now with difference in their seats, vote percentage and ideologies. It was an alliance out of compulsion. Even Omar Abdullah knows it and would be regretting her remarks on not hoisting the national flag. Also, voters in Kashmir have rejected and ejected the Gupkar gang. Their family fiefdom is over. Which is why neither Mehbooba nor Omar campaigned in these polls, for fear of facing the same sentiments from people. This is similar to Rahul Gandhi, who in the middle of Bihar and J&K polls, went to Goa and Shimla on a holiday. BJP is known for serious politics. That's why neither PDP, Congress nor NC allowed DDC polls to take place in 70 years of J&K’s existence.  With about 49 Independents, how do you look at their role now in the DDC body?They won’t join hands with NC or PDP. We are in touch with them. Some of them were supported by us. I, along with other leaders, would be staying put here How do you look at future of BJP in the Valley?Considering the love and affection people showed when some of us party's senior leaders like Shahnawaz ji, me and Tarun Chugh went into Valley, from shikara rides to joining them for kahwa in phirans, sharing meals & munching apples together, a new era of bonding dawns in the region!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/have-sown-first-seeds-of-bjp-in-valley-anurag-thakur/articleshow/79932368.cms||Rohan Dua
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi’s illegal colonies given cover from punitive action||NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved an ordinance extending protection from punitive action to unauthorised colonies, JJ clusters and constructions in Delhi’s rural areas built on agriculture land for another three years, Union minster Prakash Javadekar said. The move will extend the legal protection for scores of illegal constructions and unauthorised colonies in Delhi from demolition or sealing till December 2023. There are around 1,700 unauthorised colonies in Delhi. The NCT of Delhi (Special Provisions) Amendment Ordinance, 2020 is an extension of a similar law first passed in 2011. When the 2011 law had expired, the government had in 2014 enacted the law again to grant a fresh extension. Since the law re-enacted in 2017 was ending soon, and there was no winter session of Parliament, an ordinance was approved to extend the protection for another three years (till December 2023), Javadekar said after the Cabinet meeting. He said Delhi’s unauthorised colonies, JJ (Jhuggi Jhopri) clusters and structures in rural areas built on agriculture land would get protection. The ordinance has to be signed by the President before it comes into force, the minister pointed out. In December 2017, Parliament had passed a bill to protect slums and unauthorised colonies in Delhi from punitive action till a framework for orderly arrangements was in place. Last year, the Union cabinet had approved a proposal to grant ownership rights to people living in unauthorised colonies in Delhi and said it would benefit 40 lakh people. On December 19 this year, Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh had said 3,62,712 people had so far registered on the Pradhan Mantri- Unauthorised Colony in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojna (PM-UDAY) portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-illegal-colonies-given-cover-from-punitive-action/articleshow/79932387.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||No public new year celebrations in Karnataka||BENGALURU: After Maharashtra, Karnataka on Wednesday announced night curfew between 11pm and 5am from December 24 to January 1 (extending to January 2 morning) across the state as a precautionary measure amid concerns over a new Covid-19 variant spreading in the UK. After a high-level meeting, CM BS Yediyurappa tweeted that night restrictions will be imposed across the state , with stringent restrictions. “Midnight mass on December 24 on account of Christmas can be held without any obstruction as per norms issued earlier,” he clarified in another tweet. In guidelines issued on December 17, the government had said organisers and supervisors at churches must ensure that a large number of people do not gather at a time and distancing is maintained. Parties, special DJ dance programmes and special events at clubs, pubs, restaurants and other places that attract people in large numbers without social distancing have been prohibited from December 30 to January 2. “All this will be applicable for the entire state. I request all public to cooperate in view of the new Covid-19 strain that has emerged,” Yediyurappa said. The CM said all those travelling to the state and arriving at Bengaluru or Mangaluru airports from foreign countries must have a Covid-negative certificate through an RT-PCR test. The certificate must be obtained 72 hours before their departure time. All arrangements have been made at the airport to conduct tests. Health staff have been deployed there to ensure no one enters the city without getting tested, he said. Earlier in the day, the CM said the curbs would in place from 10pm to 6am. He modified the timings in a tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-orders-night-curfew-no-public-ny-celebrations/articleshow/79931669.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||9 more UK fliers test positive for Covid, number reaches 29||At least nine more passengers arriving from Britain tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of UK-returned travellers who are found to have contracted the virus since Sunday to 29. It is unclear whether those testing positive have the old strain or the new variant. Meanwhile, states including Maharashtra, Karnataka and Bengal have undertaken an exercise to track fliers arriving from Britain in the last few weeks. Among those whose reports came positive on Wednesday were six fliers who landed at Indira Gandhi Airport in the national capital, a Bhubaneswar resident , a person from Bengaluru and a woman from Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh who disappeared from Delhi airport without informing anyone after testing positive. The swab samples of six fliers who landed at IGIA have been sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for another test using genome sequencing to determine the virus strain. All the six fliers have been quarantined. In Maharashtra, after the emergence of the highly contagious mutant virus strain, a massive surveillance drive has been launched across the state to check for the infection among travellers who came in from UK between November 25 and December 23. It is learnt the Airport Health Organisation (APHO) Mumbai received a communication from the centre seeking details of passengers who landed at Mumbai airport from London in the past 21 days, said a source. “The information and addresses of these passengers has already been sent,” the official added. APHO is a unit of the international health division under the directorate general of health services, ministry of health and family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/9-more-uk-fliers-test-positive-for-covid-number-reaches-29/articleshow/79932381.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||India records over 25k fresh cases, 310 Covid-19 deaths||NEW DELHI: India recorded 25,049 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, up by nearly 1100 from Tuesday’s tally, but significantly lower than last Wednesday when 28,465 infections were recorded. While fresh cases dip on Sundays and Mondays due to lower testing during the weekend, they tend to peak on Wednesdays. The drop in fresh cases by nearly 3,400 compared to last Wednesday goes with the trend of decreased intensity of the pandemic which the country has been witnessing since mid-September. Fresh deaths from the virus recorded on Wednesday, at 310, were lower than the previous day’s 334 casualties. India’s cumulative toll rose to 1,46,737 while the Covid caseload reached 10,124,388. Active cases continued to slide, dropping by nearly 5,000 on Wednesday to reach 2,85,461. At 6,169, Kerala recorded maximum infections, followed by Maharashtra (3,913 new cases), Bengal (1,628), Chhattisgarh (1,337), UP (1,233) and Tamil Nadu (1,066). However, Maharashtra recorded maximum deaths at 93, followed by Bengal (34 casualties), Uttar Pradesh (22), Kerala (22) and Delhi (18). Fresh cases in Maharashtra rose by nearly 25% compared to Tuesday. However, discharge of 7,620 patients on Wednesday have taken the number of people cured of Covid past the 18-lakh mark to 18,01,700.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-records-over-25k-fresh-cases-310-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/79932396.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Only few ryots register to sell crops at MSP in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The main demand of ryots protesting the farm bills is that the government should ensure continuation of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) scheme. But in reality, the response for the same scheme has been lukewarm in Karnataka. The government has opened the registration process for MSP scheme as the first step towards procuring kharif crops. Farmers are required to register themselves online on or before December 31 to sell their produce. But registrations so far have been abysmally low for all produce except paddy, which has seen moderate response. For instance, only 10 farmers have enrolled to sell jowar at an MSP of Rs 2,640 per quintal. This compared to 2,727 farmers, who had registered before December 31 last year. The subdued response is despite the Centre hiking MSP for jowar by Rs 70. The government has promised 1 lakh tonnes of jowar, the same as last year’s target. While it could procure only 9,256 tonnes in 2019, it is expected to be much lower this time. For ragi, whose production is expected to touch 11 lakh tonnes, only 900 farmers have enrolled so far. Last year, 93,026 of them had signed up. The government has set a target of procuring 4 lakh tonnes of ragi at an MSP of Rs 3,295 per quintal, but it is unlikely to meet the same given the low registration. Last year, it had procured 1.9 lakh tonnes against the target of 3 lakh tonnes. The government wants to procure 20 quintals of tur dal from each farmer at the rate of Rs 6,100 per quintal as it set a target of 3 lakh quintals for total procurement. However, only 6,095 farmers have registered so far. Paddy, on the other hand, has seen a decent registration with 20,782 farmers stepping up. Last year, 27,124 farmers had registered and the government had procured 65,000 tonnes as against the target of 3 lakh tonnes. This year, it has set an ambitious target of 10 lakh tonnes at the rate of Rs 1,868 per quintal. “Registration so far hasn’t been as expected. But we are determined to procure and if needed, we will also extend the registration deadline with the Centre’s permission,” said food and civil supplies minister K Gopalaiah. Experts underline multiple reasons for the cold response. For instance, harvest of tur dal starts only in January-end and farmers are waiting to know the quantity of the produce. On the other hand, green gram producers harvested their crop in October and sold the same in the open market. While the government procures only a fraction what a farmer grows, he still has to depend on the open market to sell the larger portion of his produce. Also, if he sells the crop to the government, he has to wait for about six months to get the money, while he gets the same immediately if he auctions it in the open market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/only-few-ryots-register-to-sell-crops-at-msp/articleshow/79929814.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Air emergency again: Two back-to-back ‘severe’ days in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality remained in ‘severe’ category for the second consecutive day due to light wind, low minimum temperature, high moisture level and poor ventilation. Air Quality Index (AQI) of the national capital was 433 on Wednesday, according to Central Pollution Control Board. On Tuesday, it was 418. Track the pollution level in your cityCPCB’s central control room data showed that the 24-hour average PM2.5 concentration for Delhi-NCR was in ‘emergency’ range of Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) as it remained above 300 micrograms per cubic metre for over 16 hours. The 24-hour average PM2.5 concentration for Delhi-NCR crossed 300-mark at 3 am on Wednesday and was 312.2 micrograms per cubic metre at 6 pm. The standard for PM 2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre. The 24-hour average PM10 concentration for Delhi-NCR was 476.2 micrograms per cubic metre at 6 pm on Wednesday, as against standard 100 micrograms per cubic metre. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Calm winds prevailed over Delhi from Tuesday night to Wednesday afternoon and led to accumulation of pollutants. The average wind speed of 5 kmph was recorded later in the day, which impacted dispersion process. The low minimum temperature and high moisture level due to fog slowed the dispersion of pollutants.” On Wednesday, the minimum temperature was recorded at 4 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal. Moderate fog was observed during the morning hours as the visibility dropped to 200 metres. Met officials said cold wave conditions were reported in parts of Delhi. VK Soni, head, Environment Monitoring and Research Centre, IMD, said, “The air quality deteriorated mainly due to calm winds during daytime and poor ventilation. However, it is predicted that the air quality may improve marginally on Thursday. The air quality is likely to see improvement after December 25 after the wind speed may pick up.” System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said on Wednesday: “Under the high humidity and cold temperature, night-time inversion layer height is becoming too low, keeping pollutants near the surface, which is forecast to continue until tomorrow. These conditions will continue to put a brake on the dispersion of accumulated pollutants.” “AQI is forecast to stay in the ‘severe’ category by December 24 but thereafter, it may marginally improve to the higher end of ‘very poor’ on December 25 due to slightly better ventilation conditions,” it added. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature on Wednesday was 23.3 degrees Celsius. The minimum and maximum are likely to be around 4 and 23 degrees, respectively, on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-emergency-again-two-back-to-back-severe-days-in-delhi/articleshow/79932401.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 24, 2020||India||Protests against big businesses too from Dec 26: Kisan leader||NEW DELHI: As fresh batches of farmers from Maharashtra and Punjab joined the protesting farmers at Delhi’s borders where the sit-in blockade will complete a month on December 26, farmer leaders appeared to be preparing for a long haul without any ‘deadline’ in mind until the government accepts their demands over the farm laws. “The government wants to tire us, but the farmers have no deadline. They (Centre) are misjudging the mood of the moment… the farmers say we will sit here for six months but will not return empty-handed. This is a unique movement where 500 groups from across the country have come together and they don’t have a single point of difference. They have one demand… repeal the three farm laws,” Hannan Mollah, general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), told TOI. He said that from December 26, farmers’ groups will start picketing in front of business establishments of big corporates, calling for boycott of their products. AIKSCC has roped in teachers, students and workers for this protest. “This is a movement for turning agriculture pro-corporate,” he said. Mollah explained that a meeting is held daily at 2pm at the Singhu border where most of the farmers’ groups from Punjab and Haryana have congregated, and it is followed by a meeting in Delhi at 8pm after which the two sections decide on joint decisions. “It is such a huge movement but not a single leaf of a tree has been disturbed… it is the most peaceful movement… even Gandhiji (Mahatma Gandhi) must be watching over us,” he said. “We are ready for talks when there is an agenda but the government has no agenda yet,” Mollah said, adding that the Centre “has been repeating the same points at every meeting held so far”. He denied any section of farmers approaching the Supreme Court. “The person who has approached the SC is a Delhi-based person, not a farmer, who is an agent of BJP and is being represented by Harish Salve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/protests-against-big-businesses-too-from-dec-26-kisan-leader/articleshow/79932411.cms||Mohua Chatterjee
December 24, 2020||India||Left’s stand on farm laws hypocritical, says BJP||NEW DELHI: On a day Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan expressed solidarity with protesting farmers, BJP questioned the Left parties' on the three farm laws and said their stand was hypocritical, claiming they “exploited” farmers while in power in Tripura, Kerala and West Bengal. “For 25 years, till 2018, there was a Left government in Tripura. I feel sad in saying that there was no MSP in the state for 25 years. Today, Left leaders are acting as well wishers of farmers, but all they did was exploit them,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said at a press conference on Wednesday. Patra said the first thing BJP did after coming to power in Tripura in 2018 was procurement of paddy. As much as 48,716 tonnes of paddy was procured from 27,735 farmers at a cost of Rs 86.65 crore, he said. Citing that agricultural growth rate was 6.4% when the Left was in power in Tripura in 2017-2018, the BJP leader said, “In two consecutive years, 2018-19 and 2020-2021, it rose to 13.5%.” On Kerala, Patra alleged that Left cadre ran mandis in the state where private entities bought and sold produce. In Bengal, he said the Left government had amended the APMC Act and then “misused" it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lefts-stand-on-farm-laws-hypocritical-says-bjp/articleshow/79932406.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee may address rally in Nandigram in January||KANTHI: Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee is expected to address a public gathering at Nandigram’s Tekhali on January 7 from where she might take on former Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari. As a precursor to the event, the Adhikari fort at East Midnapore’s Kanthi saw for the first time a gathering of Trinamool supporters without Suvendu on Wednesday, the day before the newly-minted BJP leader hits Kanthi streets minus Trinamool. The political shake-up sparked scuffles between Trinamool and BJP supporters in this district town where the Adhikaris held sway for over two decades. Trinamool seniors Saugata Roy and Firhad Hakim helped party supporters to walk without Adhikari crutches over a 1.5km stretch from Canal More to Dormitory Grounds, sending out signals that they were still with Banerjee. Enthused with the turnout, Trinamool leaders targeted Suvendu and hit out at Union home minister Amit Shah for trying to make inroads in Bengal. State urban development minister Hakim said: “It was Trinamool’s Sheikh Sufian who began the stir along with others. We gave him support from outside. Mamata Banerjee went to Nandigram on the day of the violence. Nandigram wouldn’t have been a national issue had she not gone there.” Rally participants raised the “traitor” slogan while they passed by Santi Kunj, the Adhikari home at Kanthi. Suvendu’s father Sisir Adhikari and two brothers, Dibyendu and Soumendu, who are still with Trinamool, chose to stay away from the rally. Calling Suvendu the new Mirjafar, Roy said: “Siraj-ud-Daulah lost the battle but people didn’t forget him. A person from Kanthi has joined the betrayers. People will remember this.” Roy also took on Shah and BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, calling them “outsiders” trying to take control of Bengal when there was no credible face in Bengal BJP. “His visit won’t make any difference to people. BJP has no place in Bengal,” Roy said. Trinamool and BJP supporters clashed on Trinamool leader Akhil Giri’s turf at Ramnagar, followed by Depal and Henria. Giri complained that BJP supporters armed with lathis ransacked Trinamool offices at Kanthi. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said: “I don’t think our party has become so powerful in East Midnapore that it can attack Trinamool offices.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-may-address-rally-in-nandigram-in-jan/articleshow/79931633.cms||Suman Mandal
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||TMC help for Basudeb Das Baul singer who hosted Amit Shah for lunch||SANTINIKETAN: Basudeb Das Baul of Subhas Pally had a windfall three days after Union home minister Amit Shah listened to his song after having lunch at his place on Sunday. Trinamool’s Birbhum president Anubrata Mondal promised Basudeb the money his daughter needed for taking admission to a teachers’ training course. With Basudeb sitting by his side at the party office, Mondal asked Trinamool teachers’ cell leader Pralay Nayek to arrange for the admission. The Trinamool Birbhum chief mentioned that the baul had been getting the monthly financial assistance from the Bengal government under Lokprashar Prakalpa. Mondal also said Basudeb would be among the 1,500 bauls taking part in Mamata Banerjee’s Bolpur rally on December 29. The Trinamool gift prompted a Facebook comment from BJP national secretary and former MP Anupam Hazra. “The baul’s plight went unnoticed during the last 10 years of Trinamool rule. The baul came under focus only after the Union home minister had lunch at his place. It proves that BJP is well ahead in identifying the have-nots in society. If the poor gets such assistance from the state government after the Union home minister pays a visit to his place, then more such lunches will be arranged in future. The baul family will bring to light after 2021 who all took away the entire family after Shah’s visit,” Hazra posted. Sitting next to Mondal, Basudeb said: “I was happy when the Union home minister came to my place for lunch. But I didn’t get the scope of talking to him. I have a daughter who is a postgraduate. But I don’t have the money to get her admitted to a teachers’ training course. I wanted to tell the Union home minister about it. No BJP worker who had approached me came to my house after Amit Shah left.” Mondal did the talking after that. “Amit Shah came to the baul’s place, had lunch. But he didn’t care to talk to the host. His coming to the baul’s place was a drama. We’ll make arrangements for his (Basudeb) daughter’s studies,” Mondal said. Basudeb later participated in a cultural programme on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-help-for-baul-singer-who-hosted-shah-for-lunch/articleshow/79931562.cms||Someswar Boral
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||India’s creative economy battered by Covid: Survey||KOLKATA: India’s rich creative economy developed around sectors like advertising, architecture, arts and culture festivals, crafts, design and fashion, literature and publishing, museums, heritage and public monuments has taken one of the worst hits during the Covid pandemic. Responses from professionals, artists and artisans to a survey carried out to understand the economic state and sentiment of the creative sector workforce highlights how vulnerable they have become following the lockdown. The survey was the second to be conducted by British Council, business chamber Ficci and Art X Company since the lockdown. More than two-third of the respondents said they were uncertain on whether they would be able to survive beyond a year with current resources and funding. Individuals professionals and artisans are facing short-term hand-to-mouth existence though sectors are adapting to digital and live business models to stay afloat. Nine out of 10 respondents said they feared long-term impact of social distancing in the creative sector, resulting in a decline in audiences and earnings. The contraction is such that respondents felt nearly a sixth of the creative sectors were facing permanent closure to avoid bankruptcy. Queries for the survey were sent to 4,500 individuals and organisations on the British Council database, and through outreach partners. The link was live from September 1 to October 15, 2020 and 456 responses were received. In view of the findings and the feedback from creative industry, the report has recommended collaborative emergency action through investments by governments and corporates and strengthening of the creative economy by recognizing the cultural and creative sector as an integral part of the social and economic recovery plan, among other things. “While the first report helped to understand the immediate impact of Covid-19 on the creative economy; the second report reveals the diminished economic conditions that creative organisations and artists are now faced with,” said British Council director (Arts India) Jonathan Kennedy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/indias-creative-economy-battered-by-covid-survey/articleshow/79931536.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Pandemic push to domestic tourism as Bengal gives in to intra-state wanderlust||KOLKATA: Hotels and guest houses at most popular destinations across Bengal have been witnessing more than 80% occupancy in the last two-three months, higher than the average occupancy of 60%-70% seen in the last couple of years. And this unexpected boom is thanks to the pandemic, specifically the curbs on foreign travel and a preference for nearby places, both for holidaying and staycations. The current occupancy at some of the 30 operational properties of West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation (WBTDCL) is 100%, state tourism secretary Nandini Chakraborty told TOI. “We have done extensive promotion on social and other media about our properties and the state as a whole, and the response has been phenomenal,” she added. The top-draw tourist destinations in the state for the last two-three months include Darjeeling, Digha, Mandarmani, Bolpur-Santiniketan, Mukutmanipur, Jhargram, Mayapur, Gar Panchakot, Murshidabad, Tajpur, Bakkhali, Raichak, Mirik, Kurseong, Diamond Harbour, Lataguri and Taki, among others. Kaushik Bhattacharya, the managing director of WBTDCL, said the corporation had made an operational profit of Rs 2 crore in the second quarter (July-September) of this fiscal after almost zero revenue in the first quarter (April-June) due to the lockdown. The corporation started opening properties in a phased manner from June. As tourists were avoiding long travel, this was an ideal opportunity for local stakeholders to enhance business, said Debjit Dutta, state chairman, India Association of Tour Operators (IATO) and Association of Domestic Tour Operators. Even some leading foreign tour operators have shown interest in the state’s domestic travel, as foreign tours are now out of bounds and may remain so for some more time. Around 20 of them are now visiting the state to assess the possibilities. Loveleen M Arun, head of the Bengaluru-based Panache World, an outbound tour operator, was in the Sunderbans on Wednesday. “We are looking for fresh locations in India, as most tourists have already visited Rajasthan, Goa, Agra and the south Indian circuits, and are looking for fresh domestic locations,” she said. Darjeeling hoteliers said most of their guests were arriving in their own cars to avoid unnecessary contact. “Our occupancy rate is high, despite the pandemic,” said Rajesh Rajak, general manager of Pinetree Resort. Badal Majumdar, who manages the Elgin Resort, said all 35 rooms were occupied till January 2. “We are getting tourists mostly from Kolkata who have chosen to bring their own vehicles, even though we have pick-up and drop facilities,” he said. Government bungalows, WBTDC and WBFDC resorts, private resorts along Gorumara National Park, Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary and homestays at Jayanti in Buxa Tiger Reserve forest are fully booked till the first week of January. The iconic Hollong bungalow has no room empty. Purulia’s tourist hotspots in and around the famous Ayodhya Hills are booked, too. All government and private hotels, lodges and resorts in Bagmundi, Matha, Ayodhya, Kumatikanon and Murguma are going to be packed with guests this entire winter, owners and managers said. The coastal hubs of Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur, too, are looking forward to a revenue boom this winter, particularly from Christmas through January, after an almost nine-month lull. (With inputs from Pinak Priya Bhattacharya, Deep Gazmer, Suman Mandal and Amit Singh Deo)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-push-to-domestic-tourism-as-bengal-gives-in-to-intra-state-wanderlust/articleshow/79931436.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||TMC team at stir site, Mamata Banerjee talks to farmers on phone||KOLKATA: Farmers on a relay hunger strike at the Singhu border near Delhi interacted with chief minister Mamata Banerjee over the telephone on Wednesday, with some urging her to visit their protest site to “give them strength”. The CM’s second interaction with farmers in three weeks came as a delegation of five Trinamool Congress MPs met agitating farmers and assured them of Banerjee’s and the party’s “complete support” till three controversial farm laws are repealed. “Please come and join our dharna, it will give us more strength,” a farmer said to the CM. “We know how you have spoken up for farmers in the past. We want your support till the farm laws are repealed,” said another over phone. “If you can come and be with us here, it will send a message to everybody,” yet another said. Banerjee said she had some commitments in Bengal and would speak to them on this after a week. She spoke to farmers several times in small groups, saying she, her party and Bengal were with them in their protest. Trinamool MPs Derek O’Brien, Satabdi Roy, Prasun Banerjee, Pratima Mondal and Md Nadimul Haque met the farmers to express their solidarity. The farmers shared with them their only demand — that the Centre must repeal the farm laws. Derek said: “From December 4, when I first interacted with them, and today, we noticed that the numbers of protesters are swelling and their resolve is stronger to get the laws repealed. The CM spoke to the farmers at length.” He added that “it is unfortunate that farmers, who feed the entire country, are being forced to go hungry”. The CM tweeted: “We’re constantly striving to guarantee the well-being of the farmer community and we stand by our farmer brothers and sisters in their agitation against the Centre’s anti-farm Bills.” She also greeted them on Kisan Diwas on Wednesday. Referring to the steps taken in Bengal, Banerjee said: “Through our novel Krishak Bandhu scheme, we provide cash assistance of Rs 5,000 per acre per year to farmers along with death benefit assistance of Rs 2 lakh. Nearly 73 lakh farmers and sharecroppers will be benefited under the scheme. To ensure they get fair price for their produce, we directly buy these from specially organised camps and pay them directly into their bank accounts at prices higher than MSP. We have also waived tax and mutation fees on agricultural land.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-team-at-stir-site-didi-talks-to-farmers-on-phone/articleshow/79931553.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Vadodara||Women aides of virtual sex racket accused denied bail||Vadodara: Two young women who helped an architect in running an online sex racket were denied bail by a sessions court.The accused Ami Parmar (25) and 23-year-old Neha Monpara were arrested on December 12 for hiring and training young women for adult video chats through a European adult website ‘Chaturbate’. The scandal was operated by an architect named Nilesh Gupta. Opposing their bail pleas through affidavit police informed the court that they are equally responsible for the scandal as they trained and hired the women for a designing firm and instead pushed them into virtual sex. “They were involved in anti-social activities for their economic benefit and if they would be released on bail, they would again start such activities,” said district government pleader Anil Desai. It was also argued that they may tamper with the evidence and influence the witnesses if released on bail or may also flee and not appear before the court during the trial. Upholding the arguments, the court of principal district judge M R Mengdey rejected the bail applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/women-aides-of-virtual-sex-racket-accused-denied-bail/articleshow/79928707.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Rajkot||Man gets to life in jail for raping minor||Rajkot: A court in Vervaval sentenced a 25-year-old man to life imprisonment for raping a minor girl in 2018. On Wednesday, the court of additional sessions judge BL Choithani, awarded the punishment to Ajit alias Bhana alias Ramesh Babariya, a resident of Jashapur village of Gir-Somnath’s Talala taluka. On January 25, 2018, Babariya had lured the 13-year-old girl to his house and raped her. Later, he had also barged into her house when she was alone and again raped her. KP Pandya, additional public prosecutor, said, “The court has also ordered the state government to pay Rs four lakh as compensation to the rape survivor under POCSO Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-gets-to-life-in-jail-for-raping-minor/articleshow/79928610.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal BJP leader Agnimitra Paul showcaused||KOLKATA/ASANSOL: The BJP on Wednesday issued a showcause notice to Bengal BJP Mahila Morcha president Agnimitra Paul for speaking out against former Asansol civic chief Jitendra Tiwari’s induction in the party. The notice reached her a day after the party showcaused Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu. Paul had said she was receiving phonecalls from citizens from her home town Asansol who were opposed to Tiwari’s inclusion. On Wednesday, Paul said: “It is an internal issue and I do not have anything to say on that. I cannot comment on the showcause.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-bjp-leader-showcaused/articleshow/79931678.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal will never be a Gujarat: Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: Emphasising Bengal’s rich cultural heritage and national contributions, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the state would not turn into a Gujarat. She said Bengal, which provided the country its ‘Jai Hind’ slogan, national anthem and national song, and its Nobel laureates, could not be divided. Inaugurating Bangla Sangeet Mela at Uttirna, Banerjee said: “Like music cannot divide, it binds, one cannot divide humanity. When one composes a song, one needs different instruments — harmonium, tabla, sitar, flute. Likewise, humanity is above the difference in surnames, look and colour. Bengal has always spoken for humanity. It cannot be divided. We need to fight for this boldly.” The state, she added, planned to organise 630 melas state-wide to help folk artistes and singers who had suffered due to the Covid pandemic. “You need to step out and tell people about the state’s successes,” she said. “None has come close to Bengal in the past; none can come close to Bengal now,” Banerjee further said. “If we take proper care of ourselves and look after our family, we can also defeat corona. Bengal has a discharge rate of over 95%. Europe is going under a fresh lockdown. Corona, we are told, is changing its character. We are also treating two patients who arrived from the UK on Sunday. It is important that we continue maintaining hygiene,” she added. Trinamool Congress on Wednesday said it was lining up several events from January 1-7. The party will celebrate Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary on January 12 in all blocks and districts. “Netaji’s birth anniversary is on January 23. Since this is the 125th anniversary, the state government has taken special initiatives to celebrate the occasion. Subhas Utsav will be celebrated in each block,” a statement said. Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary on January 30 would be observed as Martyrs’ Day in all blocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-will-never-be-a-guj-mamata/articleshow/79931560.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Hyderabad||4 crew members of Rajinikanth's film test Covid positive||HYDERABAD: Four crew members of actor Rajinikanth’s new film ‘Annaatthe’ tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Shooting of the Tamil film, which has been going on in Hyderabad for the last 10 days, has been suspended. Announcing this, a representative of Sun Pictures said: “During routine testing at ‘Annaatthe’ shooting, four crew members tested positive for Covid-19. Superstar Rajinikanth and other crew members have tested negative. To ensure utmost safety, the film shooting has been postponed.” Rajinikanth plans to return to Chennai immediately on account of the shooting being postponed. After Rajinikanth’s birthday on December 12, shooting of the film had resumed. Rajinikanth flew to Hyderabad to join the shooting on Dec 13. Sun Pictures would decided as to when the shooting would resume, sources said. Actress Nayanthara also stars in the movie. It is not known immediately if she was on the sets in Hyderabad. Rajini’s much-awaited movie was slated for release this year itself but because of the lockdown and pandemic, the shooting got delayed. It is learnt that after the shooting schedule in Hyderabad, the crew members were supposed to travel to Kolkata and another city for the shooting. The title poster for Rajinikanth’s 168th film was released in February this year, but the shooting took a back seat because of the pandemic. The release of the film was put off to Sankranti. The film is being directed by Siva. The announcement about the new film starring Rajinikanth was made in 2019 itself. Meanwhile, Rajinikanth’s fans have expressed concern over the ongoing shooting. “Thalaivaa, please abandon the movie or at least put a temporary stop. Your Health is the most important. Only priority after health is politics and Elections and not film completion (sic),” Rajini’s fan China Naina tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-crew-members-of-rajini-film-test-covid-positive/articleshow/79932434.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||Amid stir, Modi to release Rs 18,000 crore to over 9 crore farmers under PM-Kisan||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi will release more than Rs 18,000 crore to over nine crore farmers under the ‘income support’ scheme (PM-Kisan) on Friday, the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, with the transfers coming at a time when the Centre is trying to resolve protests by farmers against the new agri laws. Modi is also expected to speak on the legislations as he did a few days ago when he addressed farmers in Madhya Pradesh. “Prime minister will also have a conversation with farmers from six states during the event. The farmers will share their experiences with PM-Kisan and also on various other initiatives taken by the government for the welfare of farmers,” a government statement said. Over two crore farmers from across the country have already registered online to take part in the programme on digital platforms. The effort is to show that the Modi government has been sensitive to the needs of farmers, contrary to the attacks by the opposition that the new laws are "anti-farmer" and were passed by Parliament in a rush. Over two crore farmers from across the country have already registered online to take part in the programme on digital platforms. A select group of participants from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and other states are expected to share their views on the benefits of the farm laws during their interaction with the PM. Meanwhile, representatives of the confederation of NGOs of rural India on Wednesday met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and submitted over 3.13 lakh signatures, taken from across one lakh villages, in support of the central farm laws. Under the PM-Kisan scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is given to eligible farmers in three equal instalments of Rs 2000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-stir-modi-to-release-rs-18000-crore-to-over-9-crore-farmers-under-pm-kisan/articleshow/79932424.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||‘Love jihad’: UP Police find ‘missing’ woman in Delhi, accused on run||A team of Uttar Pradesh police found a 21-year-old woman from a house near Delhi’s Karkardooma metro station on Wednesday, 35 days after she went “missing” from Etah district, reports Deepak Lavania. Meanwhile, Mohammad Javed, the main accused of “abduction and unlawful conversion” of the Hindu woman to Islam along with four of his close relatives remained elusive. Etah police approached a local court to issue non-bailable warrants against the five men who are booked under the new anti-conversion law of the state. The court issued the warrants in the afternoon. DSP Ram Niwas Singh said, “After six days, we managed to recover the woman from a house in Delhi. The main accused had kept her at his friend’s place. She is not willing to share any information about allegations of her abduction and unlawful conversion, as made by her father.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/love-jihad-up-police-find-missing-woman-in-delhi-accused-on-run/articleshow/79932469.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 24, 2020||India||Talks called off due to Covid: India, Russia||India and Russia on Wednesday said their annual summit did not take place this year only because of the Covid-19 pandemic, and that any imputation otherwise is “false” and “misleading”. The assertion by the two countries came following a media report that said they have not been able to hold their annual summit as Moscow has reservations over India joining the four-nation Quad coalition. “The India-Russia Annual summit did not take place in 2020 because of the pandemic. This was a mutually agreed decision between the two governments. Any imputation otherwise is false and misleading,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. In a statement, Russian Ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev called the report far from reality. “Special and privileged strategic partnership between Russia and India is progressing well despite the Covid-19,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/talks-called-off-due-to-covid-india-russia/articleshow/79932473.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Lucknow||New farm laws to do away with middlemen: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: Paying his respects to former UP chief minister and farmer leader Chaudhary Charan Singh on his 118th birth anniversary on Wednesday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath sought to allay fears about the new farm laws, detailing the major works done by his government and the Centre for farmers. As farmers’ protest against the new farm laws on Delhi’s borders continued, Yogi Adityanath said that the new laws were for the benefit of farmers which would help to do away with middlemen and ensure that farmers earned more for their produce. Mandis won’t be shut, MSP to continue: YogiThe new farm laws were made to ensure that farmers were no longer exploited. Without paying additional tax, farmers are free to sell their produce in any mandi in the country. No mandi will be closed down and the practice of MSP will continue,” he said. On the occasion, the CM launched the Kisan Credit Card App and felicitated farmers. He gave out Rs 1 lakh as award to farmers who have produced the maximum wheat, chana, peas, masoor, mustard, paddy, corn and urad in the state, Rs 75,000 to the second place holder and Rs 50,000 to the farmer in third position. The CM also honoured nine women farmers who have proved their mettle in fisheries, banana tissue culture and production of vegetables. Farmers involved with organic farming, farmer producer organisations and in-situ schemes were also felicitated. Tractors were also given to 11farmers. The CM said Chaudhary Charan Singh worked for the welfare of farmers all his life and the current state and central governments are also working for farmers. “It is due to the hard work of our farmers that UP produces the maximum food grains in the country. The state government is promoting animal husbandry, horticulture and fishery which has resulted in an increase in farmers’ incomes. The state contributes 21-22% to the country’s food production,” the CM said. He added that PM Narendra Modi was working towards doubling farmers’ incomes and believed that local production was the basis for the country’s progress. Farming is closely linked with local production, he said, adding that the government had provided farmers with facilities like soil testing, insurance and irrigation schemes.“To free farmers from middlemen, the PM had started the Kisan Samman Nidhi under which farmers are getting Rs 6,000 annually with which they can buy seeds, fertilisers, etc,. Through MSP, farmers are getting 1.5 times their investment. UP government is working for farmers. Loan waiver of Rs 36,000 crore was given to them while pending irrigation schemes were completed and closed sugar mills were restarted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-farm-laws-to-do-away-with-middlemen-uttar-pradesh-cm/articleshow/79932494.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Two dead, 16 ill as ammonia leaks at Iffco plant||PRAYAGRAJ: Two officers of the Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) plant in Phulpur died while 16 other employees fell ill following an ammonia gas leak on Tuesday night. The situation is said to be under control while Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has announced an ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh each for the bereaved families, reports Rajeev Mani. The two technical officers who died in the accident are 47 year-old VP Singh and 57-year-old Abhai Nandan. Ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the next of kin of deceasedThe two were holding the posts of assistant manager and deputy manager, respectively. Reports said they were among the first to rush to the site of the gas leak to control the leakage. Among the labourers and employees, who fell ill after inhaling ammonia, six are undergoing treatment at two different private hospitals of Prayagraj while the remaining 10 have been admitted at the hospital at the IFFCO plant, eight of them were discharged after first-aid. Another officer, Rakesh Kumar, who was being treated at a local hospital, has been shifted to Lucknow. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has deeply mourned the deaths in the mishap and instructed the officials to investigate the cause of the accident. Extending his condolences, Yogi announced an ex gratia of Rs 4 lakhs to the next of kin of the deceased and instructed the officials to provide proper treatment to those injured in the accident. Meanwhile, managing director of IFFCO, US Awasthi, tweeted that an inquiry has been set up into the matter. “Because of a technical fault, ammonia gas started leaking from a pipe. Two officers have died and 13 other employees have taken ill. Those undergoing treatment are out of danger,” said IFFCO PRO Vishwajeet Srivastava. This is the third time when ammonia gas has leaked at IFFCO. In April 2019, four employees had fallen ill and similarly in May 2018, nine persons fell ill. However, there was no causality in the earlier two incidents. SP trans-Ganga, Dhawal Jaiswal said, “We received the report of the gas leak on Tuesday night and rushed to the spot. Things are under control now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/uttar-pradesh-two-dead-16-ill-as-ammonia-leaks-at-iffco-plant/articleshow/79932497.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||TMC tries to be benefactor of baul who sang for Shah||KOLKATA: Baul singer Basudeb Das, who was promised financial help from the West Bengal government, on Wednesday rued he could not have a word with Union Home Minister Amit Shah as he left the poor folk artiste's Santiniketan home shortly after having lunch there on Sunday. The BJP, on the other hand, said the TMC "woke up" to the baul singer's plight only after Shah visited his house. Das, whom TMC Birbhum district chief Anubrata Mondal promised monetary assistance from the state government, said he will attend Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's rally in the district on December 29. "I had a few things to tell to Amit Shah Ji, who is such a big person. I wanted to tell him about the condition of baul artistes and whether something could be done (to improve it). "The state is already offering us help but whether there could be some central initiative. But most importantly, I wished to tell him about the financial difficulties I am facing to fund my daughter's higher education, who has recently passed MA," Das told reporters at the TMC office, with Mondal sitting beside him. Das said he was happy to have Shah at his residence and savour the delicacies and listen to his baul song but was upset as he did not get a chance to speak to the Union home minister. "Neither did any BJP leader get in touch with me after Amit Shah Ji left," he said. Mondal said, "BJP may have forgotten Basudeb Baul after that day but we are by their side 365 days. He will get financial support from the state government." Das said he had been regularly getting rice and wheat under the state government's free ration distribution for the poor during the lockdown period. BJP national secretary Anupam Hazra, who had overseen the Shah's lunch programme at Das's residence, said in a Facebook post, "The TMC woke up to the plight of Basudeb only after Amit Shah Ji had lunch and not in all these years. This shows the BJP takes the lead in spotting the poor people in society." "If any poor family gets state government help after Amit Shah Ji has lunch at their home, there will be more such lunch programmes. Also, we know after 2021 assembly polls, the same Basudeb Baul will share his experience of being lifted from his home by TMC," Hazra added. In a similar incident in November, local TMC leaders had met the members of a tribal family in Bankura district and offered them help after Shah had lunch at their residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tmc-tries-to-be-benefactor-of-baul-who-sang-for-shah/articleshow/79932488.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Lucknow||Dacoits storm into engineer’s house in Lucknow, decamp with Rs 6 lakh||LUCKNOW: In a daring dacoity, a group of eight masked dacoits entered the house of an engineer, held his wife and daughter hostage and looted cash and jewellery worth Rs 6 lakh in posh Gomtinagar area of the city on Wednesday. Police have registered a case of dacoity and made five teams to work out the case. Police said that the engineer Yogendra Kumar Srivastava, is posted in Meerut district and was in Lucknow on twoday leave but had left for Meerut on Tuesday night. At his residence in Lucknow, his wife Nisha Srivastava (57) was with their daughter Jiniya Srivastava (30). “Around 2 am on Wednesday, masked men holding knives and sharp-edged weapons first scaled the boundary of the house. Later, they broke open the window grill and entered the house from the drawing room. The group distributed itself and one forcibly entered into my room and asked me to give all the cash and jewellery,” said Nisha in her complaint to the police. “I tried to confront them but three of the miscreants tied me up with bedsheets and pasted a tape over my mouth,” said Nisha in her statement to the police. Another group entered Jiniya’s room and hit her with sticks after she started shouting for help, the victim told police. They also locked her in the room. Later, they searched the house and took away jewellery and cash worth about Rs 6 lakh. While fleeing, the dacoits also took away the digital video recorder (DVR) of the CCTV installed in the house. The miscreants escaped from the rear door of the house which shows they were acquainted with the layout, said the police. Ironically, the siren of a police patrol vehicle passing by could be heard while the dacoits were inside the house. On October 6, a group of about seven burglars had attacked a retired food inspector with a knife and decamped with Rs 1.25 lakh in cash, a motorcycle, a phone and some ornaments in Vikalp Khand under Chinhat police station. When TOI questioned Lucknow police commissioner, DK Thakur, he admitted that both the cases were similar. “We have registered an FIR under the charges of dacoity,” he said. Teams have been made to trace the miscreants. In 2016, in the same area, a group of seven men carrying firearms, a chopper and sledgehammer, crowbar and iron rods had attacked the family of a retired DFO and held the family hostage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dacoits-storm-into-engineers-house-in-lucknow-decamp-with-rs-6-lakh/articleshow/79932516.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Delhi||Farmers' protests: Prove Khalistani hand or apologise, says BJP leader Birender Singh||Last week, Chaudhary Birender Singh, one of BJP’s seniormost leaders in Haryana and a minister in the Modi 1.0 regime, broke his silence and came out in support of farmers. Singh, who had played a crucial role in brokering peace between protesters and the Centre during the 2016 Jat agitation, spoke to TOI’s Joel Joseph. Excerpts:Q. You sat on a dharna with farmers, but they expected you to take a stand earlier.Initially, I was quite hopeful that talks between the government and the farmers will resolve the issue. However, despite six rounds of talks, the impasse is continuing, which is why I decided to come out in support of them. Q. Have you spoken to senior BJP leaders to help end this impasse?A couple of days ago, I did speak to (agriculture minister) Narendra Tomar, and I hope better sense prevails. This ongoing agitation is not in the interest of farmers, the government or the country. Q. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar had earlier said protesters were mostly farmers from Punjab and thanked Haryana farmers for not participating. Do you agree?This is an-all India protest by farmers. The laws will benefit only 6% farmers and that is why the entire community is agitating. Q. Farmers are saying they have been targeted in a bid to discredit their protest. During the march through Haryana, the CM had mentioned inputs about “some unwanted elements” raising pro-Khalistan slogans.Those who are saying such things need to prove the allegations. Else, they should apologise to the farmers and take back their words. Q. The source of funding of some farmer outfits has been questioned too.All this foreign funding talk is to divert the attention from the main issue at hand. Q. What will it take to find a resolution to this standoff ?There is a huge trust deficit and the Modi government should do all that is needed to remove this deficit before any meaningful negotiations can take place. It needs to understand the psyche of these protesters. The government just cannot afford to take a tough stance any longer. The farmers need to be part of decision-making and laws cannot be imposed on them by anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/prove-khalistani-hand-or-apologise-bjp-leader-birender-singh/articleshow/79932520.cms||Joel Joseph
December 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to post special officers for migrants in metros||LUCKNOW: In the aftermath of lakhs of migrant workers returning to Uttar Pradesh during the Covid-19 lockdown, faced with uncertainty in places where they were working, the UP government has decided to appoint special officers in cities like Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata. Their task would be to ensure the welfare of migrant workers from UP in these states. A government spokesperson said that as per directions issued by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the officers will oversee the security and welfare of migrant workers from UP and, if required, coordinate between them and the two state governments for assistance. ‘UP 1st state to have such arrangement’UP, he said, would be the first state to have such an arrangement. The decision, he added, was also based on information from West Bengal, where labourers from UP were facing difficult times. UP, along with Bihar, has the largest migrant labour force working in other states. During the lockdown, around 40 lakh UP workers had returned home. “Workers from UP have become the backbone of economic activity in states like Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, etc. After the Covid lockdown, many were left without jobs, money or place to stay and were forced to return home. The government wants to ensure that something like this does not happen again,” he said. The appointments will start from Mumbai, said an official, where two officers would be posted immediately. They will keep a check on the facilities, security, etc, being provided to migrant workers from UP. If the workers face any difficulties, the officers will intervene with local administration and try to find a solution. A report on this will also be sent to the UP government. The officers will also reach out to workers and inform them about the various welfare schemes being run by the state government so that they can enrol themselves as beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-to-post-special-officers-for-migrants-in-metros/articleshow/79932532.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 24, 2020||Delhi||UP to create 20 lakh additional jobs under centre’s scheme||LUCKNOW: The UP government has planned to chart out 20 lakh additional jobs under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) in the New Year to become the largest provider of jobs under the Centre’s flagship scheme in the country. The scheme had turned out to be the mainstay in provisioning jobs to a large number of migrants who came back to the state after being hit by the corona induced lockdown earlier this year. The rural development department has planned to enrol 20 lakh labourers in the labour department and get them 100 days employment under MNREGS by March 31 next year. This will be in addition to the existing 1.70 crore MNREGS jobs which the state government managed to create in the current year since April. The applicants getting enrolled in the scheme would also make them eligible to get benefits under 17 programmes, including labourer scholarship student award, infant welfare scheme, construction workers’ girl support scheme, food help scheme, medical treatment scheme, girls marriage scheme and housing support scheme. Additional commissioner, MNREGS, Yogesh Kumar said that of the 1.70 crore labourers the department has sorted out 20 lakh labourers who completed 100 days of employment. “The department would get these workers enrolled with the labour department till March 31next year,” he said. Kumar said that the department managed to create a record by provisioning MNREGS jobs for people of 85 lakh families in the state. This was 60% more than in 2019-20 when 53 lakh families were covered under the scheme. Before that in 2016-17 around 50 lakh families were provided MNREGS jobs. Significantly, the wages under the scheme in case of UP increased from Rs 189 per day to Rs 202 per day this year only. Kumar said that the large scale reverse migration at the peak of Corona triggered lock down essentially contributed to the increase in the number of people getting jobs under MNREGS. Except for Ghaziabad, the scheme is applicable in 74 districts of Uttar Pradesh. “The state government was able to provide MNREGS jobs in 826 blocks and 59,000 gram panchayats. This way people got employment close to their house itself,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/up-to-create-20-lakh-additional-jobs-under-centres-scheme/articleshow/79932543.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC sets aside BCI moratorium: Colleges||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has set aside the three-year moratorium imposed by the Bar Council of India (BCI) on opening new legal institutions or law colleges. The HC has also advised the BCI, the apex body of lawyers in the country, “to focus on improving the standard of legal education in existing colleges, as entrants of legal profession are not up to mark in drafting cases and speaking the court’s language.” “No doubt, the BCI can issue guidelines/circulars etc and press for compliance thereof as well as 2008 Rules either at the grant of approval to a new college or adherence thereof by the colleges/institutes for legal education already existing throughout the country but under that pretext it cannot impose a complete ban on opening of new institutes,” Justice Rekha Mittal observed. BCI MORATORIUMExamine creation of nodal agency: HCThe high court also asked the BCI to examine the creation of a portal or nodal agency to ensure compliance of the BCI instructions, guidelines, 2008 Rules etc by the centers of legal education. The HC passed the order while hearing a petition filed by Chandigarh Education Society, which wanted to open a law college at Jhanjheri in Punjab’s Mohali district. The petitioner society had sought directions to set aside the resolution dated August 11, 2019 passed by the BCI vide which moratorium was imposed for three years for grant of approval to new law institutes. It also sought to establish a new law college at Jhanjheri for which it has already received a noobjection certificate and permission from the concerned university as well as the state government. The petitioner society contended that the council had no power under Section 7(1)(h) of the Advocates Act, 1961 to ban new law colleges from being established. The council can only lay down the standard of education that the new law colleges have to follow but cannot impose a ban on opening of new law colleges. Strongly contesting the plea, the BCI argued that the moratorium was only imposed in the interest of improving the standards of the existing legal educatio1n institutes and the council is within its rights to impose such conditions. “Before parting with this order, I would like to express that the BCI should seriously dilate on the issue of maintaining the standard of legal education. Many new entrants in the legal profession are not up to the mark in drafting petitions or assisting the court. Some of them are not confident enough to speak court language. The BCI may take steps to ensure practical training to law students in its real meaning and sense,” said Justice Rekha Mittal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-sets-aside-bci-moratorium-colleges/articleshow/79932545.cms||Ajay Sura
December 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow to get 10,000 flats under centre’s programme: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the Centre’s housing scheme next month under which houses using alternate techniques will be constructed for the urban poor. During a review meeting of various departments on Wednesday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that in Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow had been selected and 10,054 flats were proposed to be constructed under the programme. Reviewing paddy purchase in the state, the CM asked the agriculture department to appoint a nodal officer for all 4,000-plus paddy purchase centres. He said the nodal officer should ensure that farmers did not face any inconvenience when they visit centres to sell their produce. He said the number of weigh bridges should be increased to ensure that farmers do not have to spend long duration at the centres. More purchase centres should be opened if necessary, he added. The CM said the government had zero tolerance policy towards corruption and would take strict action against any official against whom charges of corruption were proved. “While getting international recognition for Ayodhya, the government is also ensuring that the city has modern facilities and all round development. Consultants for various projects should be appointed as soon as possible and all development work should be fast-tracked,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-to-get-10000-flats-under-centres-programme-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/79932590.cms||---
December 24, 2020||World||Oli vs Prachanda: China weighing in as political crisis in Nepal intensifies?||As the political crisis in Nepal intensifies, the Chinese ambassador in Kathmandu, Hou Yanqi, has set tongues wagging that China could be making one final attempt to keep the flock of warring Communist leaders together. The ambassador met Nepal president B D Bhandari, who had lost no time in approving PM K P Oli's recommendation to dissolve Parliament, Tuesday. While ToI was unable to independently confirm it from any official authority, the ambassador, according to a source in Kathmandu, also met P K Dahal Prachanda, the co-chair of the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) and one of the chief protagonists in the political drama playing out in Nepal. Hou's meeting with Bhandari was said to be pre-scheduled but it's well known that the ambassador has worked overtime to prevent a split in the ruling party. She had met Oli last month in the middle of his standoff with rival Dahal after the latter listed Oli's alleged failures both as PM and party co-chair in a document he presented before the party and sought his resignation. Dahal was elected parliamentary leader of the party Wednesday. Hou had also courted controversy after she held a series of meetings with NCP leaders in July at a time as many as 30 of the 44 members of the party standing committee were demanding his resignation. The NCP was formed in 2018 with the merger of Dahal's CPN (Maoist Center) and Oli's CPN-Unified Marxist-Leninist (CPN-UML). It's no secret that China has worked to keep the alliance of "ideologically like-minded" forces intact. Beijing is faced with a tough choice though as its favoured Oli's position gets increasingly shaky. Claiming two-third majority in NCP, Dahal has relieved Oli of his post of party co-chair and demanded that the election commission recognise his faction as the legitimate NCP. If the party is split, China will still want the Communist parties to contest elections together, even if it means giving up on Oli. Hou's meeting with Dahal, who finally pulled the plug on Oli, is significant in that context. Apart from the focus on trade and connectivity, China has also worked to build defence ties with Nepal as evident again from defence minister Wei Fenghe's visit to Kathmandu last month. India can perhaps afford to be a lot less edgy about the situation despite signs of a rapprochement with the Oli government in the past couple of months, including a visit by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to Kathmandu. Oli is still seen here as having dealt perhaps the most serious blow to ties with India in recent times with his decision to unilaterally issue a new political map of Nepal showing territories held by India in it. After the resumption of bilateral engagements with India, the Oli government has continued to describe the map as one of its foreign policy highlights. Nepal though has justified its decision citing India's reluctance to hold dialogue on the Kalapani border dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/oli-vs-prachanda-china-weighing-in-as-political-crisis-in-nepal-intensifies/articleshow/79932573.cms||Sachin Parashar
December 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Delhi-Panipat RRTS plan gets Haryana cabinet nod||CHANDIGARH: To increase connectivity between Panipat and New Delhi, the Haryana Cabinet on Wednesday approved implementation of Delhi-Panipat Corridor of Regional Rapid Transport System (RRTS). The length of the corridor will be 103.02 km and it will have 17 stations, including 11 in Haryana. Cabinet nod for gross contribution of ₹4,699crThe construction and commissioning of the RRTS will be undertaken in two stages – from Sarai Kale Khan to Murthal, including Murthal Depot (58.28 km), and between Murthal and Panipat, including Panipat Depot (44.74 km). The project will enable efficient and effective movement of a large number of people into vastly congested places and provide important links for residents of urban/sub-urban areas in Haryana to access services and facilities in towns and cities of the region and will bring and accelerate economic development. The RRTS projects are being implemented by National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), a joint venture of the Government of India and participating state governments of Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. The Haryana government and National Capital Territory of Delhi will jointly participate in building the Delhi-Panipat RRTS corridor. The Haryana cabinet also approved permit purchasable FAR of up to 1.25 within the project influence zone in Haryana. Since the sale of purchasable FAR is directly attributed to development of the RRTS, it has been decided that 80 per cent of the revenue to be realized from the sale of additional FAR for the designated mixed-use areas will be shared with the RRTS project. The cabinet also approved gross contribution of Rs 4,699 crore as the state’s share towards the project cost. It also nominated administrative secretary, town and country planning department as nodal officer for signing of agreements with NCRTC for the implementation of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/delhi-panipat-rrts-plan-gets-haryana-cabinet-nod/articleshow/79932560.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Lucknow||773 startups begin operations in UP despite lockdown||LUCKNOW: Despite the prolonged lockdown in the wake of Covid-19, 773 startups began their operations in the state in the past one year. The total number of start-ups which have come up in the state in the past three years is now 3,406. Additional chief secretary (IT and Electronics) Alok Kumar said that the development took place despite the Covid-19 pandemic, adding that seven proposals for establishment of incubators had been approved in the current month under new Startup Policy-2020. These include first incubator in Bundelkhand, in Rajkiya Engineering College in Banda, Atal Incubation Center in BHU Varanasi, NASSCOM 10,000 Startup Warehouse in Noida, Jaipuria Incubator and Maharshi Center for Entrepreneur Development in Lucknow, Startup Launchpad in GLA University Mathura and in Krishna Engineering College, Ghaziabad. 17 incubators set up in UP in past 2 yearsOther than these, 17 incubators have been set up in UP in the past two years. Minister for IT and Electronics Dinesh Sharma said that the development of a star-up ecosystem in UP was a result of the IT and Startup Policy-2017 and the New Startup Policy-2020. “The government is developing a world class start-up ecosystem in the state through strong infrastructure and favorable policy environment,” he said. Kumar said that under the new Startup Policy-2020, three state-of-the-art Centers of Excellence were proposed to be set up in UP. Out of these, the first is being established at the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow in the medical electronics sector. The second one is being developed in Noida in collaboration with IIT Kanpur and FICCI in the sphere of artificial intelligence. For approval of applications, the government has constituted an evaluation committee with experts from IIT Kanpur, Abdul Kalam University of Technology in Lucknow, IIM Lucknow, STPI-Lucknow, IIT BHU and SIDBI among others as its members. A portal has been developed for registration of start-ups which allows for online submission of applications, financial incentives and issuance of clearances. In 2020-21, the state government gave Rs 41.6 lakh as incentive to incubators under the IT and Start-up Policy-2017. An additional sum of Rs 41.4 lakh will be disbursed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/773-startups-begin-operations-in-up-despite-lockdown/articleshow/79932584.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Varanasi||773 startups begin operations in UP despite lockdown||LUCKNOW: Despite the prolonged lockdown in the wake of Covid-19, 773 startups began their operations in the state in the past one year. The total number of start-ups which have come up in the state in the past three years is now 3,406. Additional chief secretary (IT and Electronics) Alok Kumar said that the development took place despite the Covid-19 pandemic, adding that seven proposals for establishment of incubators had been approved in the current month under new Startup Policy-2020. These include first incubator in Bundelkhand, in Rajkiya Engineering College in Banda, Atal Incubation Center in BHU Varanasi, NASSCOM 10,000 Startup Warehouse in Noida, Jaipuria Incubator and Maharshi Center for Entrepreneur Development in Lucknow, Startup Launchpad in GLA University Mathura and in Krishna Engineering College, Ghaziabad. 17 incubators set up in UP in past 2 yearsOther than these, 17 incubators have been set up in UP in the past two years. Minister for IT and Electronics Dinesh Sharma said that the development of a star-up ecosystem in UP was a result of the IT and Startup Policy-2017 and the New Startup Policy-2020. “The government is developing a world class start-up ecosystem in the state through strong infrastructure and favorable policy environment,” he said. Kumar said that under the new Startup Policy-2020, three state-of-the-art Centers of Excellence were proposed to be set up in UP. Out of these, the first is being established at the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow in the medical electronics sector. The second one is being developed in Noida in collaboration with IIT Kanpur and FICCI in the sphere of artificial intelligence. For approval of applications, the government has constituted an evaluation committee with experts from IIT Kanpur, Abdul Kalam University of Technology in Lucknow, IIM Lucknow, STPI-Lucknow, IIT BHU and SIDBI among others as its members. A portal has been developed for registration of start-ups which allows for online submission of applications, financial incentives and issuance of clearances. In 2020-21, the state government gave Rs 41.6 lakh as incentive to incubators under the IT and Start-up Policy-2017. An additional sum of Rs 41.4 lakh will be disbursed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/773-startups-begin-operations-in-up-despite-lockdown/articleshow/79936863.cms||---
December 24, 2020||India||Congress seeks BSY ouster as HC refuses to quash corruption case||NEW DELHI: Congress on Wednesday alleged a “dastardly and inexplicable” nexus “between BJP, BS Yeddyurappa and corruption”, and demanded that the Karnataka CM step down immediately if he had any “shame”. The Karnataka high court had on Tuesday dismissed a petition seeking to quash criminal proceedings against the CM in the illegal land denotification case while coming down heavily on the Lokayukta police for not completing the probe in the past five years, PTI reported. The HC also directed the Lokayukta special court to monitor the probe ordered by the courts with regard to the misconduct of MPs, MLAs involved in criminal offences. Congress spokesperson and Supreme Court advocate Abhishek Singhvi referred to the HC order and demanded that Yeddyurappa step down. He also slammed PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda for their “culpable and conspiratorial silence” on the “arc of immunity” accorded to Yeddyurappa by the party and the Centre. “They give homilies on corruption to the whole world, but lack in shame when it comes to themselves. We are waiting for the PM to do his ‘Raj Dharma’ and his ‘constitutional dharma’ by removing Yeddyurappa,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-seeks-bsy-ouster-as-hc-refuses-to-quash-corruption-case/articleshow/79932574.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tatas to upgrade 225 Gujarat Industrial Training Institutes||GANDHINAGAR: Almost a decade after setting up its Nano project in Gujarat, Tata Group has proposed a fresh big-ticket investment in the state — of over Rs 7,000 crore to upgrade Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs). The move is expected to bridge the demand-supply gap in terms of trained blue-collar workers in diverse and emerging industries of Gujarat. Tata Group has proposed the PPP (public-private partnership) model to upgrade the 225 ITIs in the state. The group has already tied up with the Gujarat government for setting up and operating Indian Institute of Skills (IIS). The project to upgrade ITIs is being seen as a natural progression of the IIS proposal. Except for the admission process, Tata Group will manage all aspects of the functioning of the ITIs in the state for five years. Ownership rights of the institutes will, however, remain with the state government. Tata Group has proposed an investment of Rs 34 crore for each ITI and the total upgrade cost will be about Rs 7,650 crore. Tata Group will bear 88% of the cost, while the government will take care of the remainder. In its proposal to the state government, Tata Group said, “Towards PM Modi’s Skill India programme, we have already contributed for developing IIS in Gujarat.” The proposal went on to say: “During the inaugural address of IIS, Union home minister Amit Shah had suggested that our group examines the possibility for upgradation of the ITIs and it really motivated us to help the ITIs in the state.” The company added: “Tata Technologies, along with the Gujarat government, would like to upgrade 225 government ITIs in the state of Gujarat with latest industrial technology tools, hardware, machinery, course and integration. The ITI facility upgradation will be majorly funded by the industries led by Tata Technologies.” Manoj Das, additional chief secretary at the chief minister’s office and the industries and mines department, confirmed the development. “The proposal of Tata Technologies for upgrading the ITIs is under active consideration,” Das said. “The state government, under the Skill India mission, has made a series of reforms. Tata Group has significant presence in the state in various sectors and its technical expertise will help the state enhance skills of youth and workforce.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tatas-to-upgrade-225-gujarat-industrial-training-institutes/articleshow/79932602.cms||Kapil Dave
December 24, 2020||Lucknow||252 new Covid cases; Lucknow still worst hit in UP||LUCKNOW: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases and casualties increased in the city on Wednesday as compared to Tuesday. There were no recoveries as well in the last 24 hours. As per state Covid-19 bulletin, 252 fresh cases were reported which four patients lost their lives. On Tuesday, new infections and deaths were 197 and one, respectively. The number of cases and casualties in Lucknow on Wednesday were the highest in the state, accounting for 20% and 18% of overall tally and fatalities, respectively. This means that every fifth infection and death in UP took place in Lucknow. New cases in all other districts of the state were below 76. Lucknow has been witnessing relatively high transmission and death rate in the state for last five months. Areawise, Indiranagar recorded the highest of 29 new cases, followed by Gomtinagar (22), Talkatora (15), Vikasnagar, Jankipuram and Chinhat (13 each), Rae Bareli Road (12) and Aashiana (11). Nearly 95% of the total patients have recovered so far while 1.4% could not survive. As on date, the city has 2,822 patients with active infection. Of these, 1,623 have mild or no symptoms and are in home isolation, while patients in vulnerable group, like elderly and with comorbidity, are in Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/252-new-covid-cases-lucknow-still-worst-hit-in-up/articleshow/79932609.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 52 with travel history to be tested for new Covid strain||LUCKNOW: Amid concerns over a new variant of the novel coronavirus detected in the United Kingdom, the district health authorities have identified 52 people who have come from various countries since December 9. These travellers will be tested for the new strain and asked to stay in home isolation for next 28 days. “Samples of all the travellers identified by us so far will be collected on Thursday for Covid-19 tests through RT-PCR method. If found positive, samples will be sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune for genomic sequencing to determine whether it has the strain found in the UK,” additional chief medical officer Dr MK Singh told TOI. Singh, who is also the district immunisation officer, said the travellers had been identified on the basis of the list handed over to the authorities by the Union aviation ministry. Singh said the action was being taken following the government’s direction. “The process will continue in the coming days and every person who has arrived from any country will be tested. These people will have to isolate themselves at home for 28 days after arrival under the supervision of the epartment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-52-with-travel-history-to-be-tested-for-new-covid-strain/articleshow/79932612.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Business||All eyes on govt stance on Voda appeal||NEW DELHI: All eyes are on how the government deals with the Vodafone tax award by the international tribunal amid a very aggressive posture taken by the revenue department, which had pushed the amendments and is now seeking an appeal in Supreme Court. While the government just has a few hours to move in the case since the three month deadline is set to expire, several government agencies are not keen on a fresh challenge on the grounds that it may impact investor sentiment. Even the finance ministry recognises that the government needs to tread carefully and wants to reassure investors that retrospective taxation is not a preferred governance tool. At the same time, it also wants to ensure that companies and individuals do not take advantage of the overall architecture to avoid paying taxes anywhere in the globe. The issue is being watched closely after a fresh disappointment for the income tax department in the Cairn case, which has also ruled that the government’s retrospective action – piloted by the foreign tax division of the income tax department – violated its commitment to “fair and equitable treatment” under the bilateral investment protection treaties. On their part revenue officials have argued that rulings by international tribunals cannot over-ride the sovereign powers of the legislature in framing tax policies. It is pushing this argument to seek a review of the Vodafone ruling in Sinagpore, pointing to a case involving an African country’s battle with global mining giants. Companies that have been affected by the retrospective tax, however, have argued that they are not questioning the government or the legislature’s powers but are instead seeking redressal given that India has not honoured its commitment under bilateral treaties. In fact, the British prime ministers have repeatedly raised the issue with their Indian counterparts and a similar reference was also made when Narendra Modi had visited the UK in 2018, sources said. The issue has been deliberated at length in the government with Modi himself holding consultations with ministers and revenue officials to decide the future course of action. With the deadline for appeal coming to an end, Vodafone Idea shares soared nearly 11% to close at Rs 10.56 on the BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/all-eyes-on-govt-stance-on-voda-appeal/articleshow/79932676.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Lucknow||Turned down by woman, man sets her house on fire in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A man allegedly interested in a relationship with a woman set fire to her house after she apparently turned him down on Wednesday in Bazaarkhala police station area. A constable of UP-112 unit doused the fire before it spread further. Police detained the man for investigation. The accused was identified as Chetram of Karheta in Aishbagh locality of the area. The woman suffered loss of articles in the fire. Police said that Chetram, who works as a painter, got interested in the woman when he was hired for work in 2006. The woman is a divorcee and lives with her mother. “He reached the house of the woman and got into a verbal spat with her. He later sprinkled kerosene in a room near the kitchen and set it on fire. The residents called police and a team comprising sub-inspector Rakesh Chaurasiya and constable Atiq Ahmad reached the scene. They pulled Chetram out and removed a gas cylinder from the kitchen to prevent the spread of fire,” said station house officer (Bazarkhala) Vijendra Singh. Chetram, who is married with children, claimed before police that he was in a relationship with the woman. He added that he loved the woman but found that she had developed a friendship with another man who is from Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/turned-down-by-woman-man-sets-her-house-on-fire-in-lucknow/articleshow/79932681.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: WFH invites commercial property tax!||AHMEDABAD: At a time when a large number of offices has switched to work from home (WFH) mode to tide over the Covid-19 pandemic, it has proved costly for a local ceramic trader. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has imposed commercial property tax on the trader for ‘commercial use’ of his residence after the officers found display of ceramic articles in his home. The AMC has also directed Suresh Tahiliani, owner of the ceramic business in Naroda, to stop using a portion of his residence as workplace as he had earmarked a small space of the property as his office following the lockdown period. Though Tahiliani stopped using the space as office, he was forced to move the city civil court against the AMC’s notice which also directed him to restore the property to its original status of “residential” . Last week, the court stayed any action on AMC notice at least till the civic body explained its position before the court. Tahiliani had purchased a residential property, demolished the structure and rebuilt it in 2016. A year later, he obtained the building use permission for residential purpose. He has been paying property tax to the civic body under the category of residential property for two years. In July this year, he was asked to pay commercial tax for the property for 2019-20 after civic officials found an office being run from the premises. Tahilani had no issue with paying commercial tax, but AMC issued him a notice asking to stop using the property for commercial purposes and restore the building to its original position. Tahilani wrote back to AMC in October explaining how he obtained BU permission after reconstruction three years ago. It was only for a short time after the lockdown that the small portion of the premises was used as an office where ceramic articles were also showcased. ‘WFH doesn’t mean setting up shop at home’Ahmedabad Municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar said the merits of the case would have to be examined. “Usually, WFH does not mean that you can set up a shop at in your house. WFH means having a personal workstation, a few files and a corner room to yourself. AMC does entertain applications for converting part of residential properties for commercial use, but then there is a procedure.” “We receive applications from citizens for converting part of the residence for commercial use for requirements under Shops and Establishment Act or for obtaining professional tax certificates. But when people don’t reveal that part of their properties are used for commercial purpose we have to go by the book. At present AMC does not have any tax exemption policy WFH policies,” says a senior AMC tax official. AMC did not respond to Tahilani’s representation, and he went to civil court. The AMC has not responded to the court's notice and the court thus stayed any AMC action pending reply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-wfh-invites-commercial-property-tax/articleshow/79932695.cms||Saeed Khan
December 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Congress MPs to meet President today||PATIALA: Patiala MP Preneet Kaur said all the Congress MPs, led by Rahul Gandhi, would meet the President at Rashtrapati Bhawan on Thursday to impress upon him for repealing of the “anti-farmers” laws. Preneet, former Union minister of state for external affairs, said this after attending the ‘antim ardas’ of 22-yearold farmer Gurpreet Singh at Sapherra village of Patiala. Gurpreet Singh and Labh Singh, 68, had passed away while six other villagers of Sapherra village were injured a few days back in a road accident in Haryana while returning home from agitation at Delhi borders. Making a strong appeal to PM Narendra Modi, Patiala MP Preneet Kaur said the PM should take the call of agitating farmers seriously. As they have apprehensions regarding the new farm laws, the central government should come forward to repeal these “anti-farmer” laws without any condition.She said as Punjab farmers have made the country self-reliant in production of foodgrains so in return the Union Government should accede to their demands of repealing of laws. Preneet said as a mark of respect and solidarity with the families of the deceased farmers, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh has already sanctioned an ex gratia grant of Rs 5 lakh each besides Rs 50,000 to injured farmers. She said Punjab Government and all the Punjabis stood firmly with the farmers as their demands were legitimate and in the interest of larger interests of the farming community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/congress-mps-to-meet-president-today/articleshow/79932592.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow’s Santas mask up to spread Christmas cheer in Covid times||LUCKNOW: Lacing his black boots and putting on his red suit, Anurag B Manorath grabs his cap and starts filling his sack with toffees for the children waiting for him in the compound of Assembly of Believers Church. Dressing up as Santa Claus for 26 years, Manorath has perfected the routine. Except this year, there are two new accessories in his ensemble — a mask and a hand sanitizer. “One cannot leave without a mask. If there are no children, there is no Santa Claus. I need to wear a mask and maintain social distancing to keep the children safe,” said the 45-year-old. A teacher, Manorath started dressing up as Santa in college. As Covid-19 casts its shadow over Christmas celebrations, people dressing up as Santa for various events are not letting the pandemic dampen their spirit. Following guidelines, these Santas are determined to spread some cheer in gloomy times. Manorath said this is the first time in several years that he has seen only a handful of kids waiting for him. “The church has only a few visitors due to the pandemic. Several places have cancelled celebrations this year. However, I feel special and grateful that even in such tough times I can spread some happiness. We asked each kid to come one by one to receive gifts and sweets. I even made them understand the importance of following the Covid-19 safety protocol” he added. Shobhit Pawar, who has been dressing up as Santa for the past three years, said he missed the crowds during Christmas and children singing ‘Jingle Bells’ with him. “Just like any other festival or occasion, Christmas is also different for us. Dressed as Santa, I was not surrounded by children this time. I could also not sit with any of them for an interaction,” said Pawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknows-santas-mask-up-to-spread-christmas-cheer-in-covid-times/articleshow/79932710.cms||Aditi Singh
December 24, 2020||Lucknow||Pahlaj Nihalani discusses Film City, movie on Ayodhya with CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath met director/producer Pahlaj Nihalani and dialogue writer Sanjay Masoom on Wednesday to discuss the Film City project. Along with the Film City, they also discussed the production of a film based on Ayodhya. Nihalani said that the new Film City will give local artists a chance to work and a platform for their talent. It will also promote tourism. They discussed the film ‘Ayodhya ki Katha’ based on Lord Ram which, Nihalani said would not just showcase Ayodhya but also give people a glimpse into various aspects of Ram’s life and explain what Ram Rajya was about. Nihalani is set to start the shooting of his next film in Lucknow and nearby areas from January 21. Nihalani said that artists have no religion or caste and should only focus on their work. He specially targeted those active on social media, saying that if one does not know enough about an issue, they need not speak about it. He said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, several artists faced troubles but if one had talent, nothing could stop them from achieving success. Masoom said that having made UP the Centre for his next work, he was searching for stories from various districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pahlaj-nihalani-discusses-film-city-movie-on-ayodhya-with-cm-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/79932723.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC quashes appointment of chief engineer||CHENNAI: Asserting that it is not open to the Tamil Nadu government to use 'pleasure doctrine' to make illegal appointments, the Madras high court set aside the appointment of a retired officer, whose service as chief engineer of municipal administration was extended a third time. This court is constrained to hold that the extraordinary favour shown to the officer, who got extension of service continuously for the fifth year, appears to be on an extraneous consideration, Justice V Parthiban said. The issue pertains to a plea moved by N Natarajan, chief engineer, commissionerate of municipal administration, challenging his transfer to chief engineer in the office of the commissioner, Chennai corporation. As his replacement, retired officer Pugazhendi, who was principal chief engineer in the Chennai corporation on extension of service, was posted named chief engineer, municipal administration. When the plea came up for hearing, senior advocate P Wilson representing the petitioner submitted that Natarajan who joined the Tamil Nadu municipal engineering service in 1983 has rendered 35 years of unblemished service. Pugazhendi, who was chief engineer at Chennai corporation, retired on June 30, 2016. But his service has been extended three times on the ground that his service was required to oversee projects undertaken by the corporation worth 12,000 crore, Wilson said. "Strangely, during the period of extension, Pugazhendi has been shifted and posted in the petitioner's place in the middle of his extended appointment. Therefore, the action of the government again extending the service of Pugazhendi was not on the basis of a bona fide consideration of public interest as it was intended to illegitimately continue his service under one form or the other for extraneous reason," counsel said. Opposing the same, advocate-general Vijay Narayan contended that there was nothing amiss in granting extension of service to Pugazhendi as the government was well within its power to grant such extensions. "It was a normal practice for the government to extend the service of its officers in public interest, particularly, when an officer-in-charge was in the midst of overseeing large projects and its execution. Such work should not be affected by the retirement of such officers," he added. Refusing to concur, the court set aside the transfer of the petitioner and appointment of Pugazhendi in municipal administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-hc-quashes-appointment-of-chief-engineer/articleshow/79932768.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Business||Honda discontinues Civic sedan, CRV SUV||NEW DELHI: Honda is phasing out the premium sedan Civic and luxury SUV, the CRV, from India as the company works out a fresh revival strategy that includes closure of production at its Greater Noida plant. The company has decided to move the Civic out of India, nearly a year-and-a-half after the new-gen version of the stylish sedan had made its debut at the end of the first quarter of last year. The model, which was re-launched in India after a period of around six years amid much fanfare with an entry price of Rs 17.5 lakh (ex-showroom), had, however, been struggling to gain strong volumes, making a weak case for additional investments to set up its production at the Tapukara plant in Rajasthan. It’s the same case for the CRV which, priced at Rs 28 lakh (ex-showroom), never really made any credible dent in the market and had been a fringe player at most of the times when it came to volumes and market share. “It’s a tough call, forced upon us due to the decision to stop production at the Greater Noida plant… Production of the models at Tapukara would have meant that we recover the additional investment costs through higher retail prices, something which would be unfair to the customers. Thus, we have decided to stop the production of the two models,” Rajesh Goyal, director (sales & marketing) at Honda Cars India, said. All spare and service support for the models will be available for customers. Goyal said that the new strategy of Honda will help increase operational efficiencies, while making the company nimble to handle future challenges, including heightened competition. “We are here to stay and want to participate in the growth story of the economy and the car market. However, it is time to de-risk the business and make it sustainable. This sounds tough, but these changes are being made to survive, sustain and be here for the long haul.” The company said that its mid- to long-term product investment plans remain unchanged. “There is no change in new product launch plans. We are not curtailing and changing plans and remain committed to India growth story.” The company, which gets the majority of its sales from Amaze and City sedans, is understood to be working on a mass-priced SUV, which is likely to be priced under Rs 10 lakh. However, the model is around a year away even as rivals are introducing new models. “We don’t have a full line-up of SUVs, like we have for sedans,” Goyal conceded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/honda-discontinues-civic-sedan-crv-suv/articleshow/79932778.cms||Pankaj Doval
December 24, 2020||Rajkot||1.8L citizens in RMC’s priority list for Covid-19 vaccination||Rajkot: The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) completed the survey of people who are required to be vaccinated on priority and prepared a list of over 1.80 lakh citizens from 18 wards of the city. The civic body was given the task of identifying citizens above the age of 50 years old, those suffering from comorbid conditions and those considered to be high-risk group with regard to Covid-19 infection. The RMC had formed 958 teams that conducted door-to-door survey and prepare the list of high-risk citizens. According to RMC, there are 1.77 lakh people above 50 years of age, while 2,251 people with age less than 50 years but having comorbid conditions have been added to the priority list for mass vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/1-8l-citizens-in-rmcs-priority-list-for-covid-19-vaccination/articleshow/79928633.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Jumping signal? You’re being tracked||GURUGRAM: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is installing over 300 cameras to detect commuters jumping traffic signals. As many as 60 cameras have already been installed at several locations, including Bakhtawar Chowk, Wazirabad, Galleria Market, IFFCO Chowk metro station, Jharsa and Captain Rajesh Pilot Marg. According to GMDA officials, the project is being executed by the metropolitan authority along with a Noida-based technology firm as a part of the Smart City project. “Many of these cameras are installed with artificial intelligence software for to detect jumping of traffic signals and these are being monitored in the GMDA’s Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC),” said a senior official from the authority’s Smart City wing. The system is entirely camera-based, as opposed to the radar-based systems used in other countries. Kapil Bardeja, chief executive officer and co-founder of Vehant Technologies, the private firm involved in the project, told TOI that four cameras have been set up at every junction — three lane cameras and an overview camera.  He added that once the traffic signal has turned red, the sensors placed at the junction will activate the camera for capturing images of the vehicles jumping the signal. The automatic numberplate recognition software installed in the camera will read the numberplate of the offending vehicle. The feed will be sent to the ICCC, where it will be matched with the government’s Vahan database, and the system will automatically encrypt and transfer the data of violation to the centralised server at the traffic police headquarters. The system also facilitates e-challan generation along with photo/video evidence, which will then be sent to the violators’ mobile phone via SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/jumping-signal-youre-being-tracked/articleshow/79931551.cms||Shubhra Pant
December 24, 2020||Gurgaon||Overloaded trucks: Driver’s licence to be suspended for three months||GURUGRAM: In a bid to curb overloading of trucks, the regional transport authority (RTA) will now offload the items that are over the sanctioned load and suspend the license of the drivers for three months, along with levying the penalty for overloading. Earlier, a truck was let off after issuance of a challan of Rs 80,000 for overloading. Overloading is often considered as one of the reasons behind accidents in the city. Overloaded trucks enter the city from Mahendergarh, Mewat and Faridabad, most of them laden with illegally-mined stones and stone chips from stone crushers. Satrujeet Kapur, principal secretary of transport department of Haryana, had recently conducted a meeting of all RTAs in the NCR and directed them to check the menace of overloading. In the last two months, Gurgaon RTA has collected fines amounting to around Rs 2.75 crore for overloading, the highest for any district in Haryana. In November, RTA Gurgaon issued around 133 challans for overloading and collected a fine of Rs 96.16 lakh, while 289 other challans were issued in the same month and the department collected Rs 53.33 lakh. In December, it has so far issued 136 challans and collected Rs 72.62 lakh for overloading. “For last two months we have been acting against overloading aggressively and fines of around Rs 2.75 crore has been collected, which is highest for any district in the state,” said Dhaarna Yadav, secretary of RTA Gurgaon. She said now along with issuing challans, they have also started taking action against the drivers and vehicles. In most of the cases, the challan amount has not been a deterrent, the official said. “Now onwards, along with the challan we also suspend the driving license of driver for three months and offload the excess items at the spot. The transporter also has to bring in another truck to carry those items, and the modifications made in the truck to carry overload are also cut off with the help of gas cutters cut in accordance with the specifications,” Yadav said. Haryana Police have already formed a special team to crack down on illegal mining operations in the Aravalis. An officer said there are five villages in the Tauru belt which are under the scanner for the last two decades. They have deployed 25 teams in 14 districts that are monitoring illegal mining activities in southern Haryana. According to police, the special team has collected fines amounting to Rs 60 crore and seized around 3,500 vehicles between December 2019 and December 23, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/overloaded-trucks-drivers-licence-to-be-suspended-for-three-months/articleshow/79931557.cms||Bagish Jha
December 24, 2020||Business||China launches probe into Alibaba for suspected monopolistic behaviour||BEIJING/SHANGHAI: China has launched an investigation into Alibaba Group for suspected monopolistic behaviour, regulators said on Thursday. Regulators had previously warned the e-commerce giant about the so-called "choosing one from two" practice under which merchants are required to sign exclusive cooperation pacts preventing them from offering products on rival platforms. A probe has been launched into Alibaba's "choosing one from two" practice, the State Administration for Market Regulation (SAMR) said in an online statement. Financial regulators will also meet with Alibaba's Ant Group in the coming days, according to a separate online statement by the People's Bank of China on Thursday. The meeting is to "guide Ant Group to implement financial supervision, fair competition and protect the legitimate rights and interests of consumers," the statement said. Ant said it has received a notice from regulators, and that it will "seriously study and strictly comply with all regulatory requirements and commit full efforts to fulfil all related work." Regulators have become increasingly uncomfortable with parts of Ant's sprawling empire, chiefly its most lucrative credit business that contributed close to 40% of Ant's revenue in the first half of the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/china-launches-probe-into-alibaba-for-suspected-monopolistic-behaviour/articleshow/79932793.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC lets Ilaiyaraaja enter Prasad Studios to collect belongings||CHENNAI: After months of legal battle, music director Ilaiyaraaja has finally got the approval of the Madras high court to enter Prasad Studios to collect his belongings. Justice N Sathish Kumar permitted one-day access to the musician into the premises of the studio as he agreed to the conditions imposed by the owners of the studio to withdraw cases filed against them and not to interfere with their affairs. The issue pertains to a plea moved by Ilaiyaraaja seeking to restrain the owners of the studio from interfering with his possession of a recording theatre in the studio premises. He further sought ₹50 lakh as compensation for mental agony caused due to forcible eviction. Besides entry, the musician has also been allowed to meditate in the recording theatre before taking back his belongings. On Wednesday, when the plea came up for hearing, counsel for the music composer filed a memo and submitted his willingness to vacate the premises with three assistants. Recording the same, the court said, “Two music assistants and one personal assistant of the composer can accompany the music director when he will be collecting his belongings from the music studio." The court added that the musician can mediate in the theatre in the presence of court-appointed advocate commissioner V Lakshminarayanan and the counsels. Making it clear that the entire exercise shall be completed from 9 am to 4 pm, the court also directed the Chennai police commissioner to provide police protection. The court left it open for the parties to decide the date convenient to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-hc-lets-ilaiyaraaja-enter-prasad-studios-to-collect-belongings/articleshow/79932800.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation’s garbage tax move draws flak from residents||CHENNAI: The city corporation’s announcement that a user fee for garbage collection would be levied from residential and commercial spaces from January 1 has come under sharp criticism from all quarters. Some termed it undemocratic, while others alleged it was a ploy to collect more property tax. Residential buildings will have to shell out a fee ranging from ₹10 a month to ₹100 a month depending on the built-up area, while commercial establishments, schools and places of worship would be charged depending on the waste generated. The charges will be calculated on a monthly basis but can be paid once in six months along with property tax. This fee, officials estimate, can earn the civic body ₹60 crore-₹70 crore a year. Apart from user charges, the civic body will also collect penalties for littering in public, non-segregation of waste, burning of solid waste and littering in water bodies. The penalties would range from ₹100 to ₹5,000. Most residents are incensed. V Rama Rao of Nanganallur said the decision to levy garbage tax, made when there is no elected council to represent public opinion, was undemocratic. The state government and the authorities concerned should consider public opinion and find a solution for scientific disposal rather than burdening the citizens further with taxes, Rama Rao said, and demanded that the proposal be kept in abeyance until an elected council was in place. Some residents also wondered if this was an indirect way of collecting higher property tax. “It is not clear why the authorities will levy such amounts for garbage collection. The property tax we pay is for the civic amenities, which has been lacking for several years,” said V Sandhya, a lawyer and resident of Anna Nagar. Political parties too joined the protest bandwagon. In a statement on Wednesday, DMK president M K Stalin condemned the ‘user fee’ decision and demanded that the government roll it back. “When [members of] the general public are still reeling under the pandemic, the ruling government’s announcement to levy user fee for garbage collection only shows their administration capabilities,” he said and cited the rise in electricity bills during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-corporations-garbage-tax-move-draws-flak-from-residents/articleshow/79932814.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Business||'Home sales up 51% in October-December from September quarter'||NEW DELHI: India’s residential real estate sector is witnessing a fast-paced recovery in sales from the pandemic’s impact. According to real estate consultancy firm JLL, residential sales surged 51% in the October-December quarter (Q4) of 2020 to 21,832 units from 14,415 units in the July-September quarter. Delhi-NCR and Mumbai also witnessed strong sequential growth. While Mumbai accounted for 23% of the overall sales, Delhi-NCR markets cornered 20%. In October-December, Mumbai’s housing sales grew 22% to 5,026 units from 4,135 units in the previous quarter. Read AlsoHome loan ticket size up to over Rs 26 lakh in 2020 on incentives, non-metro demand growth: ReportThe average home loan ticket size increased to over Rs 26 lakh in 2020 despite the pandemic as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), fall in interest rates as well as lower registration costs in some circles evinced customers' interest in buying properties, according to a study by BankBazaar.com. ​​DueDelhi-NCR also saw good demand as sales in Q4 increased by 43% to 4,440 units from 3,112 units in Q3. With sales of 3,323 units in Q4 of 2020, Pune witnessed a strong sequential growth of 147% from Q3 2020. The housing sales in Q4 in Pune are only 1.7% lower than the fourth quarter of 2019. Chennai (2,500) and Hyderabad (3,570) witnessed strong sequential growth of 59% and 68%, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/home-sales-up-51-in-oct-dec-from-september-qtr/articleshow/79932833.cms||Prabhakar Sinha
December 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Link Byappanahalli terminal, Metro station with travelator: Experts||BENGALURU: While the Third Coaching Terminal Byappanahalli (TCTB) is expected to be ready by February 2021, poor connectivity to and from it is likely to cause severe inconvenience to rail passengers. Experts say the government should connect the Rs 240-crore TCTB, which was recently renamed Sir M Visvesvaraya terminal, and Byappanahalli Metro station with a travelator. TCTB is around 2km from the Metro station on Old Madras Road, but passengers have to take a detour of more than 5km. “This is a classic example of poor planning. Railways had huge parcels of land so they built a railway terminal, but without considering accessibility. Now, it is the responsibility of other civic agencies and experts to come up with a solution to this mess. Citizens will be at the receiving end of poor planning,” said Ashish Verma, associate professor, transportation systems engineering at Indian Institute of Science. “A travelator could be a more cost-effective solution than monorail. A scientific study on the estimated number of passengers and land availability will reveal effective feeder solutions like travelator, midi buses and erickshaws for feeder connectivity,” added Verma. Rail enthusiast Abhishek said: “Connectivity is still a major concern for this new terminal. It’s better to have a travelator from TCTB to the Metro station. Widening roads and adding more cars will add to more traffic on Old Madras Road and Banaswadi.” South Western Railway (SWR) is planning to operate long-distance trains from TCTB. An official said: “The state government may have to take a call as per feasibility.” A government official said the railways could build a travelator since a majority of the land is owned by it, and link it to the Byappanahalli station. “Government agencies have little role to play. Railways cannot wash its hands of after constructing this terminal,” said an official. Rakesh Singh, additional chief secretary, urban development department, was unavailable for comments. SWR is planning to complete the under-construction rail over bridge (ROB), that is to connect the TCTB and Swami Vivekananda station, only by June 2021. However, the narrow ROB won’t be able to handle the additional traffic. Meanwhile, BBMP wants to acquire 40 properties to build a four-lane access road between Maruthi Sevanagar and TCTB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/link-byappanahalli-terminal-metro-station-with-travelator-experts/articleshow/79929645.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 24, 2020||Gurgaon||Roads in a shambles: White Town House residents write to DLF||GURUGRAM: Residents of White Town House in DLF-3 have written to the developer over the poor condition of the colony’s internal roads and sought repairs. They pointed out that the entrance road of the society near lane U26, adjacent to the Hanuman temple, has several potholes and urgently needs resurfacing to prevent mishaps. They also wrote that no repair work had been initiated by the developer, despite several requests by them over the years. The residents said the developer had cited reasons like not having enough budget or conducive weather conditions to carry out the re-carpeting work. “But it resurfaced the approach road from Pink Town Houses in the same weather conditions a few days ago,” a resident said. PN Narayanaswamy, secretary of White Town Houses United RWA, said: “We have been complaining about the poor condition of the road for a very long time to no avail. Resurfacing of roads is being carried out in a selective manner and the developer seems unconcerned about residents’ problems.” Pedestrians are finding it difficult to walk on the road in the absence of footpaths. “It is imperative to have quality infrastructure for the smooth movement of vehicles to ensure the safety of residents and commuters. During the monsoon season,drivers find it difficult to gauge potholes, resulting in mishaps,” Arjun Mangotra, executive member of the RWA, said. The developer said the present weather conditions are not suitable for road repairs. “We can’t carry out re-carpeting work in winter as it is not conducive to lay the road during foggy weather conditions. We will initiate the work in March,” Shivendra Singh, manager (civil), DLF Estate Developers Ltd, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/roads-in-a-shambles-white-town-house-residents-write-to-dlf/articleshow/79930986.cms||---
December 24, 2020||Bhopal||24 UK returnees quarantined in Bhopal||BHOPAL: About two dozen people with travel history to the United Kingdom have been placed in quarantine in Bhopal, awaiting their RT–PCR reports for Covid-19. Amid worldwide concern over a new ‘super-spreader strain’ of the virus in UK, the administration here is racing to identify those who have returned from there in the past two months. “The rapid antigen test of 20 such travelers has turned out to be negative. We have conducted RT-PCR tests as well and the reports are expected on Thursday,” said a senior health department official. It is believed that the mutant strain of Covid-19, tagged VUI–202012/011, has been around since October. It is thought to infect children more easily. AIIMS-Bhopal had warned of mutationTOI had reported about a mutation in the Covid-19 virus on September 2, quoting an AIIMS-Bhopal research on ‘Mutations in SARS-CoV-2 Leading to Antigenic Variations in Spike Protein: A Challenge in Vaccine Development’, authored by Dr Praveen Kumar Singh, Dr Umay Kulsum, Dr Syed Beenish Rufai, Dr S Rashmi Mudliar and Dr Sarman Singh. AIIMS-Bhopal director Dr Sarman Singh had cautioned then that research into the protein attached to the Covid-19 virus suggested antigenic component of the virus showed mutation’. It was published in Journal of Laboratory Physicians (JLP), the official journal of The Indian Association of Laboratory Physicians (IALP). Two ‘untraceable’ in JabalpurThe Jabalpur administration is scrambling to trace two persons who returned from the United Kingdom in the past fortnight and are now ‘untraceable’. Officials say the addresses they gave are wrong. The administration has identified 12 UK-returnees, six of who have been tested for Covid-19. Five are negative. The report of the sixth is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/24-uk-returnees-quarantined-in-bhopal/articleshow/79932872.cms||Jamal Ayub
December 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Attack on Haryana CM’s convoy: 13 farmers accused of murder bid||AMBALA: Since Tuesday night’s protest against Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, police have booked 13 farmers of this district associated with BKU (Charuni) for attempt to murder, rioting, and damaging public property. In his complaint lodged at 11.40pm in the city police station, head constable Gurjant Singh named Bagga of Jalbera village, Dara Singh of Dhurala, Chahat Chauhan ‘Nanu’ of Ambala, Bhura of Kurbanpur, Jasmeet Hundal of Badola, Bai Ji of Dhurkada, Jasbir of Balana, Kaka, Jitender, Montu, and Ajay of Kaulan, Roni of Jandali, Jaspal Singh of Bara, and a few others. The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act was also applied. The police complaint states: “On December 22, the Haryana CM was to address public meetings in Ambala. The first was at Shagun Palace near Aggarsain Chowk. The unions protesting against central farm laws gathered in the city and we received a secret input that they could harm the CM and other dignitaries. We warned the protesters repeatedly to stay peaceful.” The head constable reported that: “The farmers marched from New Grain Market to Aggarsain Chowk with black flags and police tried to pacify them. The 13 rioters were in the forefront, raising slogans. They scuffled with the cops and obstructed the government servants. When the CM’s convoy passed the intersection, they blocked the pilot car and damaged its bonnet. Police diverted the convoy to a bridge but the protesters intercepted the cops and tried to kill them. We got the CM’s convoy out with difficulty. Three of its other vehicles were damaged.” Ambala City station house officer (SHO) inspector Ram Kumar said: “Miscreants had infiltrated the farmers and we identified them from the available evidence. These unrest makers have nothing to do with any farm union. We’ll arrest them after further verification.” Harkesh Singh Mohri of the BKU Haryana (Charuni), who was leading the protesters, said: “Among the 13 accused farmers, Bhura, Jasmeet Hundal and Chahat Chauhan are our old party workers, who were 150 feet from the CM’s convoy. The rest are their relatives. This is yet another false case to suppress the agitation. Instead of listening to the farmers and reasoning with the Prime Minister, the CM is campaigning for the elections—this when 40 farmers have died in the agitation, while some have committed suicide.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/attack-on-hry-cms-convoy-13-farmers-accused-of-murder-bid/articleshow/79931051.cms||---
