December 25, 2020||Business||Consumers' focus on local products to help create job opportunities: Piyush Goyal||MUMBAI: Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday said the focus on 'Vocal for Local' and manufacturing of value-added products in India can create job opportunities for the youth and boost the country's economic growth. As consumers emphasise more on quality products and services at the right price manufactured in the country, it will create more jobs for the youth and help in accelerating the growth of the country's economy, Goyal said while addressing a virtual event on the occasion of the National Consumer Day. "The economy is consumer-driven and 130 crore consumers in the country have the power to decide how fast the economy of the country can grow. The more value-added products are manufactured in the country, the more jobs opportunities it will create in the country," he added. He said it is a collective responsibility of both the consumers and the manufacturers to become vocal for local, which will help in providing jobs for everyone in the country and also help in growing the country's export share in the global markets. The minister further said that if the youth demand the best-quality products at the right price and not get attracted to the low-quality or low-priced product, this will force the manufacturers to produce and sell quality products across the country at the right price. "This will also help the industry to take up this as a challenge to only sell good-quality products or the consumers will reject them," he added. Goyal further stated that the government is committed to protection of rights of consumers. He said start-ups need to be encouraged so that people in India get an opportunity to showcase their talent and boost the economy. In his keynote address, Minister of State for Consumer Affairs Raosaheb Patil Danve, who was also present on the occasion, stressed the need to regulate e-commerce and direct selling as online purchases are increasing every day. He said increasing number of consumers are using consumer apps for registering complaints and this app is also being monitored in the ministry regularly. "We should all work towards empowerment and awareness of consumers," he added. Consumer affairs secretary Leena Nandan said several unique features of the new Consumer Protection Act are advantageous to the consumer. In order to spread awareness and educate, particularly in rural areas where consumers are more susceptible to exploitation, the department of consumer affairs is associating with state governments to implement the programmes through common service centres, panchayats and krishi vigyan kendras, she added. The department of consumer affairs virtually celebrated the National Consumer Day 2020 with the theme 'New Features of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/consumers-focus-on-local-products-to-help-create-job-opportunities-piyush-goyal/articleshow/79946460.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Business||Covid Yuletide twist: Hotels seeing good biz from locals; domestic tourists flocking desi destinations||NEW DELHI: The Christmas-New Year holiday season has brought much-needed relief to the pandemic-struck hotel industry, albeit with a twist. Scheduled international flight suspension has led Indian hotels witnessing a new trend for the first time. Leisure destinations are brimming with Indian holidayers instead of foreigners like past years. And big city hotels are seeing good business from locals who are still not preferring to venture out of town. In past years, this used to be a lean period for metro hotels due to low business travel and locals going out for holidays. Tata Group’s Indian Hotels Company Ltd (IHCL), which runs the Taj brand, confirmed the new trend of city hotels doing well this Yuletide. “So far, room occupancies in our city hotels remain positive. This is due to Staycations which have been popular during weekends at our hotels in key cities for the last few months and continue to be for the festive season. People are keen to celebrate the festivities in intimate groups within the safety of trusted brands. IHCL’s curated offers such as ‘The Floor Is Yours’ allows guests to book an entire floor in our hotels with their loved ones,” IHCL said in a statement. Leisure destinations are much better and “currently being driven by domestic tourism completely.” “Goa is the most popular followed by Rajasthan and Kerala. Other destinations that are doing well for us are Rishikesh, Corbett, Shimla, Coorg to name a few,” Taj statement said. What’s more, most hotels have lowered tariffs by about 20-40% and some big players are even offering 100% money back by allowing money spent on stay to be earned as point for redemption on food and beverage to “get people back”. This is clearly working. Properties in leisure destinations like Goa, Rajasthan and Kerala are seeing at least 70% occupancy. Though nowhere close to earlier years, this is clearly the best hospitality is seeing since Covid outbreak. Vikram Oberoi, Oberoi Group CEO, said: “We expect all our hotels to be very busy during Christmas and New Year and we have planned a number of special events and dining experiences for our guests during this festive period. We expect all our leisure hotels to be full and our city hotels too will be busy both at our restaurants as well as with guests who decide to stay at the hotel and enjoy our luxurious accommodation and to celebrate with family and friends. The booking window has shortened this year but for New Year we have already received a large number of reservations. This is an encouraging sign.” While the pandemic’s end is not in sight, many want to celebrate that at least 2020 is on its way out. ITC Hotels COO Anil Chadha said: “Travellers are looking to unwind and welcome the new-year in high spirits, boosting the overall sentiment to head out…. some opt for more exclusive ‘destination celebration’ at some opt for ‘destination celebration’ at Welcomhotel Shimla, Welcomhotel Khimsar, Welcomhotel Jodhpur, Welcomhotel Amritsar, Leisure properties ITC Grand Goa, ITC Grand Bharat in Manesar, ITC Rajputana, ITC Mughal.… are the other big favourites with guests…. there has been a surge in December travel. The positive sentiment has had a cascading effect all around, bringing back the zest for celebration.” “We are already witnessing a steady rise in bookings at ITC Hotels in Goa, Jaipur and Agra as the most unprecedented year comes to an end… People are choosing destinations pan-India from Manesar to Goa,, Agra, Jaipur and the quaint charm of Mussorrie. A lot of people have plans to travel to motorable distances and check in at our properties owing to the high safety and hygiene protocol we follow. This is where Staycations come in.. the reason why in addition to ITC Hotels, Welcomhotel Shimla, Welcomhotel Mussorrie, Welcomhotel Khimsar and Welcomhotel Amritsar are nearly sold out for this period,” Anil Chadha added. Hotels are sweetening the deals to get back customers with offers like cash back in terms of redeeming points earned by spending on stay on food and beverages and other services. According to Rajiv Kapoor, GM of Accor Group’s Fairmont Jaipur, there has been a “great response for our stay packages from Delhi NCR, Chandigarh, and other drivable locations since our re-opening post COVID in June and it continues in the current winter season. Going forward, we do expect the trend to endure and this segment to be our primary focus in Q1.” Vikram Oberoi added: “Staycations are popular this year at our city hotels. Guests are staying at our hotel with their families and use the hotel and its facilities to work, to relax and to dine. High speed internet ensures our guests can work for few hours and then enjoy our luxurious accommodation and facilities. Even our younger guests are able to attend to school online with parental supervision if required. Guests choose Oberoi and Trident hotels because of our exacting standards of cleanliness, hygiene and safety as well as our personalised, attentive and intuitive service.” ITC Hotels COO Anil Chadha added the group’s offers include a 100% Back. “(This) allows guests to book at any of the participating ITC Hotels and Welcomhotel, and receive the full amount as hotel credits that can be instantly redeemed towards exquisite experiences including delectable Food and Beverage, relaxing spa treatments and more. The offer is available across over 15 ITC Hotels and Welcomhotels at over 10 destinations including ITC Grand Goa, ITC Rajputana, ITC Mughal, Welcomhotel Amritsar and ITC Royal Bengal, and is valid till March 31, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-yuletide-twist-big-city-hotels-seeing-good-business-from-locals-domestic-tourists-flocking-desi-leisure-destinations/articleshow/79946496.cms||Saurabh Sinha
December 25, 2020||Business||RBI to conduct simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities next week||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank on Thursday said it will conduct simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities under open market operations (OMOs) for an aggregate amount of Rs 10,000 crore each next week. The decision was taken after a review of the current liquidity and financial conditions, RBI said in a statement. Simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities under OMOs, popularly known as Operation Twist, involves purchasing G-Sec (government securities) of longer maturities and selling equal amount of G-Sec of shorter maturities. On December 30, RBI will purchase three government securities of different maturity dates aggregating to Rs 10,000 crore and sell two securities aggregating to the same amount using the multiple price auction method. RBI further said it reserves the right to decide on the quantum of purchase/sale of individual securities. The result of the auctions will be announced on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-to-conduct-simultaneous-purchase-and-sale-of-government-securities-next-week/articleshow/79946502.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Business||Amazon India's e-commerce unit loss widens to Rs 5,849.2 crore in FY20, revenue up 43%||NEW DELHI: Amazon Seller Services, the India online marketplace unit of e-tail giant Amazon, saw its losses widening to Rs 5,849.2 crore for 2019-20 fiscal from the previous year as expenses grew over 25 per cent, as per regulatory documents. Amazon Seller Services had recorded a net loss of Rs 5,685.4 crore in FY19. Its revenue, however, grew 43 per cent to Rs 10,847.6 crore in FY20 from Rs 7,593.5 crore in FY19. "The company revenue grew by 43 per cent compared to the last financial year. The company continues to invest in opening new fulfillment centres, and technology advancement," according to Registrar of Companies filing shared by market intelligence firm Tofler. Emails sent to the company did not elicit a response. As per the filing, Amazon Seller Services saw its total expenses rising over 25 per cent from Rs 13,463.1 crore in FY19 to Rs 16,877.1 crore in FY20. Employee benefit expense increased to Rs 1,382.9 crore (from Rs 1,183.3 crore), while finance cost rose to Rs 108.2 crore in FY20 (from Rs 15.5 crore in FY19). The 'other expenses' component was at Rs 13,296.3 crore in FY20 as against Rs 10,802.5 crore in FY19. Within this, the company spent Rs 2,640.3 crore in FY20 under 'advertising promotional expenses' as against Rs 2,330.7 crore in FY19. Amazon Seller Services said it continues to invest on launching new products and services for its customers and sellers. "The company is confident on its future growth," it said. Amazon competes against Walmart-backed Flipkart and smaller players like Snapdeal and Paytm Mall. The US-based e-commerce giant is also locked in a legal battle with Future Group over the latter's Rs 24,713-crore asset sale deal with Reliance. The regulatory filing noted that Amazon Seller Services has received over Rs 8,400 crore in fund infusion during FY20 in three tranches. Amazon Corporate Holdings Private Limited and Amazon.com.incs Limited were issued shares of Amazon Seller Services worth Rs 2,800 crore in May and Rs 3,400 crore in October last year, and Rs 2,208.01 crore in January this year, as per the document. The two entities were issued shares worth about Rs 2,310 crore in June this year and Rs 1,125 crore on September 17, 2020, it added. "Your Board of Directors approved issuance of 92.5 crore equity shares of Rs 10 in its meeting held on September 30, 2020. Your Board of Directors will proceed with allotment of shares post receipt of inward remittance from shareholders," it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-indias-e-commerce-unit-loss-widens-to-rs-5849-2-crore-in-fy20-revenue-up-43/articleshow/79946547.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Business||How does Britain's Parliament approve the Brexit trade deal?||LONDON: Britain and the European Union agreed terms of a trade deal on Thursday after months of knife-edge negotiations and seven days before transitional arrangements come to an end. That gives Britain's Parliament just days to scrutinise and pass the laws needed to implement the deal before a December 31 deadline. Is there enough time?Yes, just. Parliament has been recalled to sit on December 30 from 0930 GMT. It will debate and vote upon the legislation needed to put the bill into law. Will Parliament approve the deal?Yes, based on current positions. The opposition Labour Party has confirmed it will back the deal, meaning there will be a majority in the elected lower house of Parliament. Labour leader Keir Starmer said that, although the deal was thin, it was better than no deal at all. Whilst there could be a core of pro-Brexit lawmakers in Johnson's party who vote against the deal on the grounds that it doesn't deliver the kind of clean break they wanted, they will not have sufficient numbers to defeat the government. The upper house of Parliament is not expected to block the legislation. What are they being asked to approve?The bill has not yet been published. Lawmakers are likely to be deeply unhappy about the speed at which they're being asked to pass the legislation. Typically significant laws take months to pass through parliament and involve line-by-line scrutiny and revision. Parliament has been asked to approve Brexit legislation in a hurry before, with some of the consequences of the laws only coming to light afterwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/how-does-britains-parliament-approve-the-brexit-trade-deal/articleshow/79946707.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||Indian vaccine Covaxin has drawn global attention: ICMR||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that the Indian vaccine against Covid-19, Covaxin, has drawn global attention. In a tweet, the ICMR said, "India's indigenous vaccine against #Covid19 Covaxin-a product of ICMR-Bharat Biotech collaboration, achieves remarkable feat. Data generated from within India underlines impressive safety and immunogenicity profile of Covaxin and sparks Lancet's interest in publishing them." The ICMR said, "Encouraging Phase I and Phase II Covaxin trial results have paved the path for Phase III Clinical Trial in India, which is currently ongoing at 22 sites." Read AlsoDrugmakers rush to test whether vaccines stop coronavirus variantZURICH/FRANKFURT: Drug makers including BioNTech and Moderna are scrambling to test their COVID-19 vaccines against the new fast-spreading variant of the virus that is raging in Britain, the latest challenge in the breakneck race to curb the pandemic. Ugur Sahin, chief executive of Germany'sThe All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) based in New Delhi on Thursday invited volunteers for the Phase III clinical trial of the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine candidate 'Covaxin' for which it is one of the sites. "AIIMS, New Delhi is a site for Covaxin Phase III clinical trial. This is a whole-virion inactivated vaccine co-sponsored by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech," AIIMS said in an advertisement. AIIMS Centre for Community Medicine, Dr Sanjay K Rai informed through the advertisement that Phase I/II trials (safety and immunogenicity) have already been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-vaccine-covaxin-has-drawn-global-attention-icmr/articleshow/79947389.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||NCR residents buying air purifying plants for Christmas||For Christmas, many residents of NCR are going green. Instead of buying an artificial tree that is useless after the day is done, many people are looking for options that will help them in the long run to combat the poor air quality in the region. From gifting air purifying plants to investing in real plants for the festival, buying a tree for Christmas is more than just decorating the home for many. Nursery owners share that they see a definite 50 % increase in sale of air purifying plants during this season. “Most of our customers have taken minimum 10 plants from us ahead of Christmas. The plants that are sold the most during this season include snake plant, areca palm, araucaria, money plant, golden cypress among others,” shares Sumit Chauhan from Nisha Nursery in Sector 57, Gurgaon. Anuj from Haryali Nursery in Delhi, adds, “Since most of these are air purifying plants, people prefer them over artificial ones for Christmas. The price starts from `100 so it is not very expensive to buy in bulk for gifting.” Areca Palm, Snake plants in demand this seasonSangita Wahi from Green Street in Gurgaon shares that she has seen a positive shift in people’s choices to pick up real plants for Christmas. “More people are now enthusiastic about green gifting. And I think if you can add glamour to these plants, then they can make it to people’s centre tables. Not just for gifting, people prefer these for their homes as well. We all know about the problem of air pollution in NCR, so people prefer plants that are air purifiers. Plants like juniper and cypress are traditional Christmas choices, but plants like areca palm and snake plants, also called Sansevieria, are also in demand,” she mentions. Sonia Puri Dhillon from Roots 2 Blooms, Gurgaon, adds, “I have seen a lot of people who are investing in buying real plants rather than artificial ones for Christmas. With the focus on purifying the air, these plants are also cheaper than the trees that can only be put up for some time. A small table plant can be in the range of `150-300.” Manish Saini, COO, Ferns N Petals, E-commerce, shares, “For Christmas gifting, we have received 500 orders of poinsettia, cypress, araucaria and Christmas trees. Overall we get 1500 order of plants per day.” Snake plant, areca palm, araucaria, money plant and golden cypress are popular choicesSnake plant, areca palm, araucaria, money plant and golden cypress are popular choices‘With poor air quality in NCR, an indoor plant is a sensible choice’Residents have different reasons for preferring real plants. While some are just fond of greenery, others think that with the bad air quality, choosing an air purifying plant is the sensible choice. Rashmi Singh, a resident of Subhash Nagar, shares, “My kids wanted to get a Christmas tree at home and this time, I didn’t want to spend any money on artificial trees. So we are got two areca palms for Christmas.” Indrani Mazumdar, a resident of Sector 56, Gurgaon, says she has been always fond of plants so when it came to buying a tree for Christmas, she wanted to buy real plants. “We got air purifying plants and my twins are absolutely thrilled to have real plants for this Christmas and have already decorated them,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ncr-residents-buying-air-purifying-plants-for-christmas/articleshow/79943240.cms||Riya Sharma
December 25, 2020||Varanasi||A perfect beginning at this do in Varanasi||Casino was the theme of a party organised by a newly formed ladies club. The ladies, in an upbeat mood came dressed up for the occasion. Even the décor matched up with the theme of the evening, as placards of playing cards were amply used. (L) Anupama and Priya (R) Neetu Singh (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Anupama and Priya (R) Neetu Singh (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) The members were welcomed by the Rashmi Roy along with Priya Agarwal and Albina Sardar, who were the convenors of the event. (L) Chrestina and Geeta (R) Farhat Mehboob and Varsha (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Chrestina and Geeta (R) Farhat Mehboob and Varsha (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) Some delightful performances spiced up the evening. Hema Rastogi danced on the number Laila Main Laila, leading to a loud round of applause. Next to go on the stage was Anupama who performed on the popular number, Aaj Ki Raat while Varsha danced on the peppy song Chunari Jaipur Se Mangvai. Maintaining the safety protocols, the ladies came with masks and hand sanitizers. (L) Priya (R) Ruchi Agrawal (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Priya (R) Ruchi Agrawal (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) (L) Sangeeta (R) Varsha (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Sangeeta (R) Varsha (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/a-perfect-beginning-at-this-do-in-varanasi/articleshow/79945444.cms||Meera Vohra
December 25, 2020||India||China wades in but India stays off Nepal political flux||NEW DELHI: Even as China seemed to be wading into Nepal’s latest political crisis, India sought to maintain a safe distance from it saying Thursday that the developments this week in Kathmandu, triggered by PM K P Oli’s decision to dissolve Parliament, were Nepal’s internal affairs. In what was its first reaction to the turmoil in Nepal, the foreign ministry also said that as a neighbour and well-wisher, India will continue to support Nepal and its people in moving forward on the path of peace, prosperity and development. “We have noted the recent political developments in Nepal. These are internal matters for Nepal to decide as per its democratic process,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. Official sources also said the crisis which has already seen the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) effectively split into two is unlikely to come in the way of India’s development work in Nepal. After Covid-19, and the recent thaw in ties that saw resumption of bilateral meetings even as differences over the Kalapani border issue remained, India had been looking to provide a fillip to its economic and trade ties with Nepal. After the visit by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, the commerce and energy secretaries too had met in quick succession virtually to expedite work on Indian projects in Nepal. Official sources said bilateral engagements will continue with Nepal even if not at the high level. India’s official reaction was in stark contrast to China’s efforts to apparently broker a truce between the Oli and P K Dahal Prachanda factions. Chinese ambassador Hou Yanqi has so far met Nepal President B D Bhandari and Dahal since Oli dissolved Parliament on Sunday. A leader considered close to Dahal said Thursday that the NCP co-chair had discussed “bilateral concerns” with Hou who has worked relentlessly to prevent a split in the party. The Kathmandu Post quoted a member of the Prachanda’s secretariat as saying that “discussions must have revolved around contemporary political developments.” In May this year and again in July, Hou held a series of meetings with Bhandari, Oli, Dahal and other NCP leaders as Oli faced pressure to step down. While China had so far worked to garner support for Oli, it's main goal now seems to be to ensure that the Communist alliance remain intact going into the elections next year. Several leaders, as reports from Kathmandu said, had termed the Chinese envoy’s series of meetings with the ruling party leaders as interference in Nepal’s internal political affairs. Oli was earlier removed from the post of party’s chairman on Tuesday by a central committee meeting of the Prachanda-led faction, which also decided to take disciplinary action against him for dissolving the House of Representatives “unconstitutionally”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/olis-move-to-dissolve-house-nepals-internal-affair-india/articleshow/79947936.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||Centre tells protesting farmers that it is ready to discuss ‘all issues’||NEW DELHI/BATHINDA: A day after farm unions opposed to the new laws sought inclusion of repeal of the laws and a legal guarantee to a higher minimum support price (MSP) in the talks agenda, the Centre on Thursday wrote back saying it is ready to take up whatever issues the unions want to discuss in addition to those dealt with in previous rounds. The agriculture ministry letter to the group of 40 farm unions said that though clubbing the MSP issue with farm laws for specific discussion did not appear logical as the legislations had nothing to do with the support price mechanism, the government would still like to discuss them along with all other issues. The Centre told the unions that it is ready to discuss "all issues raised by you", a stance that accommodates the additional conditions the farm unions set out in their letter to the government. Emphasising that the government is ready for talks when the unions take a call, the Centre urged them to send details so that discussion on them could take place. It was the third letter from the ministry to farmers' unions with the first one being written on December 9 when the government listed the amendments which could be made to strengthen the farm laws. It said it is "duty bound" to listen to farm unions and keep the doors open for talks. It said it has been engaging the unions respectfully and with an open mind. Read AlsoCentre sends fresh invite to protesting farmers, says not logical to discuss new MSP-related demandNEW DELHI: The Narendra Modi government on Thursday sent a fresh letter to the protesting farmers’ unions inviting them for talks. Congress leaders including Rahul Gandhi met President Ram Nath Kovind and demanded a joint session of Parliament to repeal the three farm laws. The BJP retorted byThough the ministry’s third letter to the unions appears to be a step forward from its December 20 response when it sought a date for resuming talks without mentioning anything beyond the proposed amendments, farm leaders felt that if the government is serious about talks it must first keep the laws in abeyance. Though a formal response will be firmed up after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses farmers from six states on Friday, the stance could indicate another shift in position by the unions. Read AlsoInclude repeal of new farm laws in agenda for fresh talks: Farmer unions on govt's fresh letterNEW DELHI: Protesting farmer unions alleged on Thursday that the government's latest letter for talks is nothing but a propaganda against the peasants to create an impression that they are not interested in dialogue and asked it to put the scrapping of the three recent farm laws in the agenda to"These laws must at least be kept in abeyance while discussions are taking place. It’s like ceasefire… If you set an agenda for a meeting where repeal is on the table then we will have a good discussion," said Avik Saha, national convener of Jai Kisan Andolan and general secretary of the umbrella body AIKSCC. Some farm leaders said the letter gave a very confusing message. On the one hand the ministry expressed its intention to talk to farm unions on all issues with an open mind while on the other hand the government has publicly taken a position that the farm laws are good and it will carry through these acts. Officials pointed out that the Centre was simply responding to the unions' demand that the issues they are raising be discussed. Read AlsoGovt ready to make changes to proposal; farmers demand concrete solutionNEW DELHI: Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said that the government is ready to make any necessary changes to the draft proposal on the new farm laws and hoped to resume dialogue with the farmers. Meanwhile, the farmer unions also expressed their willingness to resumeResponding to the charge that the government is trying to be divisive by holding parallel talks with "so-called farmer leaders and organisations that exist only on paper and those who have no connection with the ongoing struggle", the ministry said it is the government’s responsibility to hear the concerns of all farm unions or groups and it cannot deny engagements with others (those who are not protesting against the farm laws). Officials in the ministry believe that the addition of the new demand about MSP on the comprehensive cost formula appeared to be an attempt by a few farmers’ unions to make the ongoing protests a pan-India issue as the "support price" matter will concern everyone unlike the protests on farm laws issues which are primarily restricted to Punjab, Haryana and western UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-tells-protesting-farmers-that-it-is-ready-to-discuss-all-issues/articleshow/79948231.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 25, 2020||India||Congress, Left clinch tie-up for next year’s Bengal polls||NEW DELHI: Congress on Thursday threw its hat in Bengal’s poll ring with the once mighty Left Front as its electoral ally — opening a second war front for Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool even as she fights an aggressive bid by BJP to wrest power in the state for the first time. The low-key announcement of the alliance — it will look to consolidate the anti-TMC, anti-BJP votes — flows from the political contradiction that Congress and Left are principal rivals in Kerala, which goes to polls alongside Bengal. Any hype on the issue could be a red flag for the Kerala units of the two parties, especially CPM. Congress and the Left had jointly contested the 2016 Bengal assembly polls before the latter forced a break-up. PCC president and MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury took to Twitter to announce the tie-up in Bengal, which was expected as the two sides had been jointly undertaking programmes in the state for some time. Local Congress functionaries had spoken of the need to formalise the alliance during a virtual interaction with Rahul Gandhi and AICC state in-charge Jitin Prasada last month. Read AlsoCongress finalises alliance with Left for West Bengal pollsThe Congress on Thursday formally approved its electoral alliance with the Left parties for the assembly elections in West Bengal, party's state unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury announced.With BJP seeking to build on its Lok Sabha gains and go for the jugular this time, the state's non-BJP opposition appears to have already fallen behind. Congress has been blaming the Left brass for the so-called secular opposition's failure to stop Trinamool from taking over its turf and sitting back when BJP entered the fray to try and grab that space from Mamata's party. Read AlsoWasn't invited, says Mamata as BJP attacks her for 'boycotting' Visva Bharati eventNEW DELHI: With assembly elections in West Bengal months away, almost all events in the state are becoming a political battleground for the ruling Trinamool and its principal challenger the BJP. The centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati in Shantiniketan on Thursday was no different. PM ModiWith a nationally ascendant BJP pushing its case in the 2019 LS polls, a big chunk of Left voters shifted to the saffron camp, triggering a tectonic shift in state politics. Now, it appears a Herculean task for the Congress-Left combination to make a serious difference. But Congress leaders argue that clever seat-distribution and an effective localised campaign can produce good results. Read AlsoBJP will struggle to cross double digits in West Bengal, says Prashant Kishor; BJP hits backA war of words erupted between poll strategist Prashant Kishor and BJP's National General Secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya after the former predicted that the BJP will struggle to crosse "double digits" in West Bengal polls.By the looks of it, the Congress-Left alliance would hope for a hung House, where its tally can deny BJP and TMC a shot at power. AICC's state in-charge Jitin Prasada said, "Congress will fight with all its might to protect the culture and heritage of Bengal, which is under threat from the divisive policies of BJP and political violence of TMC."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-left-clinch-tie-up-for-next-years-bengal-polls/articleshow/79948343.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
December 25, 2020||Business||In a first for India Inc, HUL to help staff facing domestic abuse||MUMBAI: In perhaps a first, Hindustan Unilever (HUL) has framed a policy to protect its employees from domestic abuse. This extends the scope of employee well-being beyond work — that is, the office —to his/her personal life and home. HUL’s policy comes at a time when a significant number of its office-based staff are working from home. The policy seeks to protect and grant relief to employees who are survivors of abuse, or acts of physical/emotional abuse beyond the workplace. HUL executive director (HR) Anuradha Razdan told TOI, “Across the world, there has been a significant rise in the number of reported cases of domestic abuse. We want to stand up as advocates for change that we would like to see in society by proactively coming up with a policy which calls out to our employees: ‘If you are someone who has faced this and wants to come out and talk, the organisation is here to support you’.” During the lockdown, cases of domestic violence have gone up significantly. The complaints the National Commission for Women (NCW) received on domestic violence against wo men doubled in the first month of the lockdown from 123 during February 27-March 22 to 250 between March 23-April 22. Insights reveal that when people suffer abuse, their immediate family is not necessarily a credible support. Standard Chartered has developed a toolkit to provide examples of the various mechanisms that can be considered when supporting individuals experiencing domestic violence and abuse and the range of available resources. “The group’s position is to offer colleagues experiencing domestic violence and abuse a broad range of support, including providing counselling through employee assistance programmes and local NGOs,” said the bank’s spokesperson. Capstone People Consulting CEO Sujaya Banerjee said organisations need to significantly improve on the support being provided to employees, given that domestic abuse is rampant and not restricted to the lower echelons of the society. Recalling an incident from her past association as an HR leader at a firm, Banerjee said there were several instances wherein employees, even after facing severe domestic abuse, would come to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-a-first-for-india-inc-hul-to-help-staff-facing-domestic-abuse/articleshow/79948570.cms||Namrata Singh
December 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka records 1 Covid death in 24 hours, 6-month low||BENGALURU: Karnataka’s Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday reduced to one, the lowest reported in over six months. The last time the state had one death in a day was on June 3. The lone fatality was a 73-year-old man, admitted to a Bengaluru hospital on Nov 30, died on Dec 23. In Bengaluru, four UK returnees tested positive: three were from Mahadevapura zone and one was from west zone. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-records-1-covid-death-in-24hrs-6-mth-low/articleshow/79948790.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Business||ULIP, MF tax parity sought||TNN Mumbai: Mutual fund industry body Amfi has asked the finance minister to bring tax parity between MF schemes and unit-linked insurance plans (ULIPs) by insurers in the forthcoming Budget. It also suggested that the government allow debt linked savings schemes (DLSS), similar to the equity linked savings schemes (ELSS), which are tax-saving plans. Amfi in its Budget proposals has raised the need to bring parity in tax treatment for investments in different financial sectors. This has been a long-standing demand by the fund houses as both (MFs and ULIPs) are investment products and invest in securities. “Currently, ULIPs enjoy more tax benefits as compared to MFs in various aspects like no capital gains on switching, no STT (securities transaction tax) levied on the withdrawal proceeds, no income tax on the proceeds (including early surrender and partial withdrawals) subject to certain conditions, etc,” Amfi noted. Amfi added that DLSS will help channelise long-term savings of retail investors into higher credit-rated debt instruments with appropriate tax benefits, which will help in deepening the country’s bond market. Amfi had made the suggestion about allowing DLSS before the previous Budget too. Amfi also suggested the government increase the limit for tax deducted at source (TDS) on redemption of MF units to Rs 50,000 from Rs 5,000 now. This would mitigate hardship for retail taxpayers, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ulip-mf-tax-parity-sought/articleshow/79947177.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 25, 2020||Business||Mahindra’s new 2021 Roxor gets US regulator nod for sale||In a major breakthrough for Mahindra & Mahindra’s North America plans, a US regulator has just ruled that the company’s new, redesigned 2021 Roxor off-road vehicle does not violate Fiat Chrysler’s ‘Jeep Trade Dress’. This comes just six months after the same regulator — the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) — ruled against the sale of the earlier versions of the Roxor in the ongoing trade dress dispute between Mahindra and Fiat Chrysler Automobile US. This ruling means Mahindra can now make and distribute the 2021 Roxor in the US. “Roxor was a success from the beginning with off-road enthusiasts and people with active outdoor lifestyles,” Rick Haas, president & CEO of Mahindra Automotive North America said in a statement on Wednesday. “This ‘ruggedness’ was at the heart of the redesign as we wanted an aggressive look that reflected just how tough and capable Roxor is.” In a stock market notification, M&M said on Thursday that the “ITC Administrative Law Judge has completed his review of the redesigned 2021 Roxor and in his opinion, has determined that it does not violate the so called Jeep Trade Dress," and the "ALJ is recommending that the ITC confirm these findings and modify the orders previously issued in this dispute to reflect they do not cover the 2021 Roxor design." The dispute began just over two years ago when FCA took M&M to court alleging that the Roxor's grille and shape infringed the Jeep's trade dress. Trade dress constitutes stand out elements in a product's visual appearance or packaging that specify it to the consumer. M&M had suffered a set back six months ago when the ITC upheld the Administrative Law Judge’s ruling that the earlier version of the Roxor ‘violated FCA’s trade dress’ and had recommended “an exclusion order prohibiting the importation of Roxor parts and a cease and desist order prohibiting sale of any already imported Roxor parts,” said the M&M statement. With this new ruling, that order no longer applies to the new Roxor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mahindras-new-2021-roxor-gets-us-regulator-nod-for-sale/articleshow/79946501.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
December 25, 2020||Business||Salcomp purchases Jabil’s facility at Sriperumbudur||Chennai: Electronics maker and Apple contract manufacturer Salcomp has acquired a 30,000 square meter facility belonging to electronics manufacturer Jabil in the Nokia SEZ in Sriperumbudur in Chennai for around Rs 42 crore. The Jabil facility has remained idle for almost 10 years now. This is Salcomp’s fourth acquisition within the Nokia SEZ, and with this, Salcomp says it now occupies almost 80% of the SEZ, which totally occupies around one million square feet. Earlier in 2019, Salcomp acquired a defunct facility of Nokia, one of LiteOn Mobile, and another of Laird Tech for a consideration of around Rs 350 crore. The company had then also signed a MoU with the TN government for investment commitment of around Rs 1,300 crore. “The factory is conveniently situated near our facility and we will be manufacturing electronic and electro-mechanical components for smart phones and other gadgets,” said Sasikumar Gendham, MD, Salcomp India. “The expansion will help us get into new product lines such as green energy products too,” he added.Salcomp has already started production in the Nokia facility and is all set to commence operations in the LiteOn factory. Jabil is a US-based electronics manufacturing services player that was earlier housed in the Nokia SEZ as a key component maker for the Finnish telecom giant but exited the SEZ in 2009. Nokia exited Chennai in 2014 owing to tax dispute with the then TN government. Salcomp develops and manufactures chargers and adapters for mobile phones and other electronic devices for both domestic and export purposes. The company has more than half of its global workforce in Chennai. With more than 8,000 employees currently, Salcomp expects to be a team of 12,000-13,000 employees by mid of next year. “2020 has been a challenging year but at the same time 2021 looks promising, and we are getting set for increased demand and more job creation,” Gendham said.With the revival of the Nokia SEZ and a new state electronics manufacturing policy, TN is regaining its status as an EMS hub that it had earlier lost after Nokia’s exit. Apple’s iPhone 11 is now made in Foxconn’s facility in Chennai and many of Apple’s component suppliers have a presence here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/salcomp-purchases-jabils-facility-at-sriperumbudur/articleshow/79946533.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 25, 2020||Business||EY plans to hire 9,000 staff in 2021||Chennai: Consultancy firm EY, will hire 9,000 in India in calendar year 2021. The new hires will be in various technology roles across all member firms including the global delivery centers. This is intended “to expand its digital capabilities and help organizations solve their end-to-end business transformation challenges,” said the firm in a statement. “These hires will be from the STEM background and in areas including artificial intelligence, machine learning, cyber security, analytics and other emerging technologies.” “We are making bold investments in our organization particularly in technology, data and through strategic acquisitions while continuing to expand our alliance and ecosystem relationships. With the pace of digital adoption accelerating exponentially, we are strengthening capabilities in emerging technology roles and significantly intensifying our hiring efforts in the coming year,” said Rohan Sachdev, partner and consulting practice leader, EY India. EY in India has over 50,000 people working in all member firms including global delivery centers. Currently, 36% of all EY India employees are from the STEM background. “EY in India is developing a broader range of new digital proprietary tools and solutions which we are looking to take to scale across organizations and geographies. Our people remain at the center of our strategy to meet the growing demands of our clients,” said Mahesh Makhija, partner and technology consulting leader, EY India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ey-plans-to-hire-9000-staff-in-2021/articleshow/79946384.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Snatchers target spl exec magistrate||Chandigarh: Two men on a bike snatched a cellphone and challan book from a special executive magistrate in Dadumajra on Wednesday.Special executive magistrate Inderjit Singh said, “I was challaning people for not wearing masks in Dadumajra market. A bike came from behind and its riders sped away after snatching my cellphone and challan book.”On receiving the complaint, Maloya police launched a search operation, but could not nab the snatchers. Police are checking the CCTV cameras installed in and around the area to trace the accused. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/snatchers-target-spl-exec-magistrate/articleshow/79946436.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Business||IL&FS allowed to sell China road project to PingAn||Mumbai: IL&FS has received approval to sell its stake in Chongqing Yuhe Expressway Co (CYEC) to China’s largest insurer PingAn, which had emerged the highest bidder earlier this year. IL&FS owns 49% in the Chinese road asset through a Singapore subsidiary, with balance 51% held by Chongqing Expressway Group. Retired supreme court judge D K Jain, who was appointed by the government to oversee asset sales of the troubled infrastructure and finance group, has given his approval for the sale. This paves the way for resolution of Rs 2,500 crore of debt. PingAn had offered a bid of $281 million for 100% stake in CYEC. This is the third major road project that has been cleared for sale. Earlier, justice Jain had approved the sale of Chenani Nashri Tunnelway to Cube Highways, which addressed Rs 4,910-crore debt, and Jorbat Shillong Expressway to Sekura Roads (Rs 1,600-crore debt). These three road projects address Rs 9,000 crore of debt. As against the targeted resolution of Rs 50,000 crore of debt by the end of this fiscal, the board has addressed Rs 19,000 crore in the first six months and plans to resolve an additional Rs 13,000 crore by end December 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ilfs-allowed-to-sell-china-road-project-to-pingan/articleshow/79948101.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 25, 2020||Business||Sebi fines NDTV promoters Rs 27cr||Mumbai: Promoters of media house NDTV — Prannoy Roy, Radhika Roy and RRPR Holding — have been collectively fined Rs 27 crore by Sebi. The markets regulator slapped the penalty for non-disclosure of price-sensitive information related to three loans that the company took between 2008 and 2010. Sebi imposed a fine of Rs 25 crore on the three promoters of the company together and another Rs 1 crore each on the Roys for violation of several Sebi rules and regulations. The Sebi order said that the loan agreements between NDTV and the lenders had “certain restrictive conditions” like not allowing promoters to agree to any merger, demerger, consolidation, reorganisation, etc, which were found to be adversely affecting the interest of public shareholders of the company. Since the information was price-sensitive in nature and was not disclosed through the bourses, Sebi imposed the penalty on the promoters of NDTV. The promoters of NDTV did not comment on Sebi’s order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-fines-ndtv-promoters-rs-27cr/articleshow/79948328.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: CESC to bill lockdown arrears in 10 parts||KOLKATA: Electricity bills of 18 lakh-odd CESC consumers are set to rise over the next 10 months as the power utility begins to realize the arrears during the lockdown period in 10 equated monthly instalments. The difference between the actual consumption between March 23 and June 8, when meters weren’t read, and the provisional bills that had been issued based on electricity regulatory norms had initially been billed in June. But it was kept in abeyance following consumer complaints. While some had alleged excess billing, others had said they were not in a position to pay the June bill and arrears of the past two months at one go. For consumers who paid the June bill, the amount was adjusted against subsequent bills. “Now that winter has arrived when electricity consumption is traditionally low, we have decided to collect the arrears in instalments. We decided on 10 months to ensure that the additional payable amount causes the least inconvenience to consumers,” said CESC managing director (distribution) Debasish Banerjee. “The arrears comprise actual consumption during the lockdown months. The amount will be added to the actual monthly bill,” Banerjee explained. The arrears will be realized between the bills for November 2020 and August 2021. The computation of the arrears, will be explained on the reverse side, CESC vice-president (distribution services) Avijit Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cesc-to-bill-lockdown-arrears-in-10-parts/articleshow/79946586.cms||Subhro Niyogi
December 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Murder of RJD activist in Bhojpur triggers protests||PATNA/ARA: Two people, including an RJD activist, were killed and an LJP functionary-cum-mukhiya was shot at in separate incidents in the state in the last 24 hours. The murder of the RJD activist, Ravi Yadav (27), triggered violent protests by his associates in Bhjopur district. Police said the criminals shot dead Ravi and dumped his body near Ramdihra village under the Garhani police station area in Bhojpur district late on Wednesday night. His body was recovered on Thursday morning. Ravi’s father Haridwar Yadav told the police that he had gone to attend the ‘shradh’ of an acquaintance at a nearby village. The family started searching for Ravi when he didn’t return home till late in the night. In the morning, his body was recovered. The bullet had hit Ravi’s head. External injuries on his face were also spotted, which indicated that he was first assaulted and then shot from point blank range. Ravi, a resident of Bhendri village under Aayar police station, had unsuccessfully contested the panchayat elections from Bhendri in 2016. As the news about Ravi’s murder spread in the area, his associates blocked Ara-Piro-Sasaram road near Garhani and disrupted vehicular traffic. They raised anti-government slogans for rise in crime in Bhojpur district. The roadblock was lifted after intervention of senior police officials. Sub-divisional police officer P K Rawat said raids were on to arrest the criminals involved in the murder. In Supaul, a 13-year-old boy was killed and his body thrown near a canal under Triveniganj police station. The deceased was identified as Saurabh Kumar, a resident of Kasaha village. Saurabh had gone missing on Wednesday. In another incident, a mukhiya and LJP functionary, Rajesh Kumar Sahni, was shot at by criminals at Gohi Gachhi village under the Warisnagar police station area in Samastipur district. Sahni, mukhiya of Gohi panchayat, was rushed to the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital in a critical condition. Police said the criminals attacked Sahni when he was on way to Samastipur from his native village on his motorbike. The bullet hit his abdomen and waist, causing grievous injuries. His condition is stated to be critical. The reason behind the incident is yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/murder-of-rjd-activist-in-bhojpur-triggers-protests/articleshow/79946593.cms||Ramashankar
December 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 50% pupils to be allowed in educational institutions||PATNA: The state education department on Thursday issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening of educational institutions in the state from January 4. Schools (from Class IX onwards), colleges and coaching institutes are permitted to allow only 50% of students. They have been asked to call students in batches on alternate days. Students will be allowed to attend the physical classes only after the written consent of their parents/guardians. The department also released the preventive measures to contain spread of Covid-19 in all government and private schools, higher educational institutions (including medical and engineering), skill training institutes and coaching centres. Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary of education department, said the institutions would have to make some preparations for containment of Covid- 19 before the reopening. “The entire campus, building, classrooms, furniture, equipment, kitchen, washrooms, library, halls, laboratories and vehicles need to be sanitised thoroughly before January 4. There should be arrangement for hand sanitizers, liquid soaps and digital thermometer. Temperatures of staff and students will be checked before they enter the premises,” he said. He added after the reopening of educational institutions, the campus will have to be sanitised even after the scheduled classes. The principal secretary said the educational institutions have to make arrangements for the online classes for those who do not wish to attend the physical classes. The SOPs outlined various generic precautionary measures to be adopted, including physical distancing of at least six feet on campus and in classrooms or staff rooms (between two benches), mandatory use of face masks, frequent hand washing, no sharing of water bottles and lunches, reporting any illness and safe transportation. In government schools, masks will be distributed by Jeevika. The SOP also contains guidelines like staggering of time table and classes, precaution at entry and exit points, respiratory etiquette and arrangements for safe residential stay at hostels and prohibition on spitting. Circles should be made on the floor near washroom and drinking water area to maintain social distancing. To avoid huge gathering on school campuses, the assembly or morning prayers will be held in classes. Schools have been asked to use public address system. The timing for dismissal and lunch break should be different for batches to avoid gathering at entry and exit points. For the safety of students and staff, the educational institutions have been asked to form different task teams, including sanitisation, cleanliness and social distancing by involving students, teachers and others. Schools and colleges have been asked not to organise any cultural event. The parent- teacher meet will be held virtually. For admissions, the institutions have to make the entire process online. Sanjay said after monitoring the situation till January 18, the department will take the decision on reopening of junior classes. “Heads of the educational institutions will be imparted training on safety measures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/50-pupils-to-be-allowed-in-educational-institutions/articleshow/79945300.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Online classes only for new entrants in engineering, other top courses||NAGPUR: Though the country has witnessed a sharp fall in daily Covid cases, big educational institutes in the city still have no plans to resume physical classes on their campuses. Faculty members have been reporting and holding online classes from their workplace but students are yet to be allowed. The new academic session for many undergraduate and postgraduate courses would be starting from early January. Institutes like VNIT are in a dilemma over letting students return to campus even if local body and government restrictions are eased. Against the backdrop of 200 students from IIT-Madras testing positive, VNIT director Pramod Padole said they are worried as it will be difficult to host around 4,000 students though they have adequate infrastructure. “The situation is risky not just here but everywhere. We are a residential institute and don’t know how we can keep Covid under control among 3,000 to 4,000 students. As on date, the new batch will start online on January 4. This is the new normal,” he said. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is also occupying a couple of VNIT girls and boys hostel, where it is running a Covid Care Centre (CCC). No patient is right now admitted for nearly a month but the civic administration is keeping the facility on standby in case of a possible second Covid wave. VNIT has also decided to hold its 18th convocation online later this month. Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Nagpur, which too is running from its temporary campus at VNIT, has been holding online classes for both the batches. IIM-N too is yet to hold its convocation for PGP 2018-20. Maharashtra National Law University vice chancellor Vijendra Kumar said a meeting of academic council and executive council was held on the issue. “It was decided that it is not possible to start physical classes immediately. We have students from 12 to 13 states and are running from a rented building. In late January, we shall deliberate over starting physical classes again,” he said. IIIT Nagpur director Omprakash Kakade said they will follow state and local body guidelines, but as of now academic activities are being held online only Nagpur University’s LIT director Raju Mankar said they are keen on having physical classes. “Our students too are not happy with online mode. We can have staggered classes of 50% online and rest in offline on alternate days. Practicals can’t be taught online,” he said. NU ProVC Sanjay Dudhe too said all depends on government’s decision. “If permission is granted, we are ready to start physical classes. As of now, all classes are being held online. Many UG courses have already completed their first semester. PG admissions are under process and those batches too will have online classes as on date,” he said. Government polytechnic and private colleges too are expecting a digital session only for the first batches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/online-classes-only-for-new-entrants-in-engg-other-top-courses/articleshow/79947844.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 25, 2020||Business||Oaktree hikes DHFL bid by Rs 1,700 crore, Piramal still in race||MUMBAI: US-based private equity fund manager Oaktree Capital has hiked its bid for DHFL by Rs 1,700 crore, resulting in a net present value of total recovery for lenders at Rs 36,410 crore. Sources close to the US firm said that the increase makes it the highest bidder. Second-highest bidder Piramal Group is also understood to have revised its offer by an identical amount. Though it is not clear which bidder is ahead given the multiple revisions, it is becoming evident that lenders will get more than they originally envisaged. However, even with the expanded bids, the recovery would be less than 40% of the admitted claims worth Rs 87,082 crore. Oaktree is understood to have submitted its revised bid in a meeting with DHFL’s committee of creditors. Under the revised proposal, Oaktree would make an upfront payment of Rs 17,100 crore, providing additional cash of Rs 300 crore to fixed deposit holders, and Rs 21,000 crore by way of secured debt instruments. This would result in a recovery of Rs 38,400 crore for the creditors. Given that the debentures will have a seven-year tenure, the net present value would be Rs 36,410 crore, which Oaktree claimed would make it the highest bidder. Oaktree also informed lenders that there are precedents for the structure it has proposed for dealing with DHFL’s stake in its insurance joint venture, DHFL Pramerica. The private equity firm said that if it were to be allowed to acquire the bankrupt housing finance company, DHFL’s debt equity ratio would fall to 1.1%, capital adequacy ratio would jump to 27% and just retail home loans will be retained in the books of the housing finance company. Meanwhile, Piramal Group, which had bid Rs 37,250 crore earlier is understood to have hiked its offer during its meeting with DHFL’s lenders on December 18. According to banking sources, the lenders will look at value maximisation, which will be determined by the net present value of the bid and the extent of cash being provided upfront. The net present value will factor in the interest rates being offered by the bidders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oaktree-hikes-dhfl-bid-by-rs-1700cr-piramal-still-in-race/articleshow/79948227.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Business||RBI nod for testing offline e-payments||MUMBAI: A contactless, prepaid card that can be used without any connectivity and three other technologies that enable offline UPI payments are the latest pilot projects that the RBI has allowed to be tested under its regulatory sandbox. A regulatory sandbox refers to testing of new products or services by customers within a controlled environment. Regulators may relax some prescription to enable innovation. Last year, the RBI had released a framework for its regulatory sandbox and said it was aimed at testing product viability. The central bank had specifically invited technology developers for solutions using offline and feature phone-based payment services. Four companies were allowed to test their products on Thursday — Tap Smart Data Information Services (CityCash). The company has developed a near-field communication (NFC) -based prepaid card and point of sale (PoS) device to facilitate offline person-to-merchant (P2M) transactions. The card can be used as a travel pass and e-wallet to purchase bus tickets as well as pay select merchants. ToneTag, a brand owned by Naffa Innovations, has developed a feature-phone based UPI payment solution, where transactions take place over sound waves. Bengaluru-based Ubona Technologies is also testing a merchants payment through feature phones using an interactive voice response (IVR) system. Noida-based Enroute Techonogies is working on a solution where offline payments can be made using a chip attached to a SIM card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-nod-for-testing-offline-e-payments/articleshow/79948325.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Patna||Christmas celebrations begin with fervour||PATNA: The evening prayer service was conducted at different churches in the city on the eve of Christmas on Thursday. However, night vigil (from 12am to 2am) was not at the churches this time due to Covid-19 pandemic. Devotees gathered at various churches like Queen of Apostles Church at Kurji, St Joseph’s Pro-Cathedral Church on Ashok Rajpath and Padri Ki Haveli in Patna City for the evening mass. They were seen wearing masks and following other Covid protocols. The decorated churches were reverberated with the carols’ hymn and recitation of scriptures from the Holy Bible. Patna Archbishop William D’Souza SJ gave the message of love, peace and brotherhood and asked the community to celebrate Christmas by following Covid safety protocols and helping the people in need. CM Nitish Kumar and governor Phagu Chauhan extended their Christmas greeting to people. In his message, the governor said by the grace of Jesus Christ, everyone will be blessed with peace and prosperity. “Jesus Christ gave us the message of love, peace, tolerance ad sacrifice for the well-being of all mankind. People should follow his teachings in their lives. I wish the celebration would bring peace and prosperity,” the CM said in his message. Many Christian families thronged marketplaces for the last-minute shopping on Thursday. The shops remained abuzz with people buying decorative items like tinsel, baubles, snowman, stars, Santa, Christmas trees and sweet treats. Alina Joe, a resident of Kurji, said she bought real trees for the celebration. “It is a real fun when the whole family gathers to decorate the trees with lights and other handmade items. This time, we are not holding any party at home because of the pandemic. Sumptuous dinner will be cooked on Christmas day,” she said. Many Christian families remained awake on Christmas Eve and watched the live night vigil ceremony of Pope Francis on digital platforms. Pooja Ann Sharma, a resident of Patna City, said her family watched the night vigil and participated in the prayer ceremony virtually. “We will bake the cake by adding lots of dry fruits and cherries. The cake we bake is totally different from the ones available in markets. Food will be cooked at home for closed relatives and friends. We will also distribute food among the needy people,” she said. Kevin, a resident of Kurji, said, “Sharing the joy with people is what the Christmas teaches us. We will distribute food and clothes among the needy people and celebrate the festival with our closed ones.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/christmas-celebrations-begin-with-fervour/articleshow/79945523.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 25, 2020||Patna||Fog delays 12 flights at Patna airport||PATNA: About 12 flights were delayed because of low visibility caused by fog at the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport here on Thursday, making hundreds of flyers jittery as they remained stuck at the overcrowded terminal building for up to two hours. The flight operations were disrupted due to poor visibility between 7.35am and 9.30am. The first flight of SpiceJet from Ahmedabad (SG-8719) arrived at 9.30am, instead of its scheduled time of 7.35am. The delay of morning flights impacted other flights in the afternoon as well. The SpiceJet flight (SG- 8722) between Patna and Delhi was delayed by more than two-and-a-half hours due to poor visibility at Delhi airport. Around six flights were delayed for more than an hour, including four of SpiceJet and one each of IndiGo and GoAir, as per the information provided by the officials at Patna airport. “All morning flights were delayed due to poor visibility. It led to consequential delays which resulted in bunching of flights in afternoon and evening,” an airport official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fog-delays-12-flights-at-patna-airport/articleshow/79945565.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 25, 2020||Business||In a first for India Inc, HUL to help staff facing domestic abuse||Namrata.Singh@timesgroup.com Mumbai: In perhaps a first, Hindustan Unilever (HUL) has framed a policy to protect its employees from domestic abuse. This extends the scope of employee well-being beyond work — that is, the office — to his/her personal life and home. HUL’s policy comes at a time when a significant number of its office-based staff are working from home. The policy seeks to protect and grant relief to employees who are survivors of abuse, or acts of physical/emotional abuse beyond the workplace, while maintaining confidentiality about their identities. The help HUL would extend under the policy, which is gender-neutral, includes access to urgent medical care and psychological counselling support, paid leave of 10 days, reimbursement of lodging and boarding expenses for 15 days for the employee, and temporary work arrangement at a company office in another city for a month. HUL executive director (HR) Anuradha Razdan told TOI, “Globally, in every way, women have been more adversely hit due to the pandemic, whether it is due to job losses, or because they have to shoulder a larger part of the burden in household chores, while working at the same time, or dealing with the negative emotions associated with the pandemic. Across the world, there has been a significant rise in the number of reported cases of domestic abuse. We want to stand up as advocates for change that we would like to see in society by proactively putting a stake in the ground and coming up with a policy which calls out to our employees: ‘If you are someone who has faced this and wants to come out and talk, the organisation is here to support you’.” During the lockdown, cases of domestic violence have gone up significantly. The complaints the National Commission for Women (NCW) received on domestic violence against women doubled in the first month of the lockdown from 123 during February 27-March 22 to 250 between March 23-April 22. Insights reveal that when people suffer abuse, their immediate family is not necessarily a credible support. Standard Chartered has developed a toolkit to provide examples of the various mechanisms that can be considered when supporting individuals experiencing domestic violence and abuse and the range of available resources. “The group’s position is to offer colleagues experiencing domestic violence and abuse a broad range of support, including providing counselling through employee assistance programmes and local NGOs,” said the bank’s spokesperson. Capstone People Consulting CEO Sujaya Banerjee said organisations need to significantly improve on the support being provided to employees, given that domestic abuse is rampant and not restricted to the lower echelons of the society. “From the conversations in our forums dedicated to this space, we gathered that there is a huge reluctance to bring this conversation inside organisations. The reason is the social stigma attached to it. Second, this is seen as a private matter, which should not be the case, because this only isolates the individual who is embarrassed to even talk to friends and seek help. It’s high time organisations start offering such assistance to employees who may be victims of domestic abuse,” said Banerjee. The policy, which HUL describes as a “discretionary welfare policy”, states that in case an employee foresees a threat to their physical/emotional safety or identifies as a survivor of abuse beyond the workplace, the employee can reach out to the company for support. This could be done through the immediate boss or function head of the employee at the company, following which the company will extend support to ensure the immediate safety and well-being of employees who are survivors of abuse or foresee a risk to their safety, on request, depending on the severity of the case. The company said it shall fulfil its obligations, if any, under the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005. Recalling an incident from her past association as an HR leader at a firm, Banerjee said there were several instances wherein employees, even after facing severe domestic abuse, would come to work. “In many cases, we have seen that women have a huge reluctance to go back to tell their parents if they have faced any kind of domestic abuse after marriage. Given the strong patriarchy, not all women assert their authority and they end up being at the receiving end. Organisations need to reach out to their employees for their well-being,” said Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-a-first-for-india-inc-hul-to-help-staff-facing-domestic-abuse/articleshow/79948151.cms||Namrata Singh
December 25, 2020||Business||Eco recovering better than expected: RBI||Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said that there has been an improvement in the economic situation in the last one month. It added that there is more evidence coming in to show that the economy is “pulling out of Covid-19’s deep abyss and is reflating at a pace that beats most predictions”. However, the RBI also said that efforts needed to be redoubled to “excoriate the worm in the apple — inflation — before it hurts the impulses of growth that are taking root”. The central bank’s prognosis was part of its ‘state of the economy’ report, which is published in its monthly bulletin. The report said that economic conditions continued to improve through November 2020 on the back of the uptick in agriculture and manufacturing activity. “Financial conditions embodied in interest rates are perhaps at their easiest in decades. Although headwinds blow, steadfast efforts by all stakeholders could put India on a faster growth trajectory,” the report said. The RBI also releases data on its foreign currency purchase in the bulletin. According to the data, the RBI purchased $113 billion of foreign currency between January 2019 and October 2020, of which nearly $60 billion was purchased between May 2020 and October 2020. An article in the bulletin justified RBI’s large-scale dollar purchase, for which it has been placed on a currency manipulator watch list by the US. “In a recent study for India, it was observed that realised (historical) volatility in US dollar-Indian rupee is a key component of the Financial Stress Index (FSI), which in turn has a statistically significant negative correlation with the Index of Industrial Production (IIP),” the report said. According to the RBI, disorderly movements in the exchange rate can often have a deleterious impact on trade and investment, besides endangering overall macroeconomic and financial stability. The central bank said that its survey of bankers showed that there has been a broad-based improvement in sentiments on lending conditions, after a severe impact of the pandemic during April-June 2020. Responses indicated that bankers believe retail/personal loans, which were most severely hit during the period, have bounced back. The respondents expressed lower optimism for the infrastructure, mining and quarrying sectors when compared to other major sectors. On inflation, the RBI warned that a combination of events was taking place that was likely to push up prices in India. These include rising international commodity prices and increasing pass-through to domestic manufactured goods and services prices, firms raising margin to recoup lost incomes, and demand normalising. “In manufacturing, input prices have moved up further and will inevitably pass through into selling prices as slack in the economy reduces and demand gains traction. Consequently, output prices could strengthen beyond the hitherto moderate increases, and still weak pricing power that has characterised them so far,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/eco-recovering-better-than-expected-rbi/articleshow/79948127.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Cold-chain points may work as vaccine sites||Kolkata: Once the Covid-19 vaccine is rolled out, the state health department will train cold-chain handlers (CCH) from 43 cold-chain points (CCP) in two batches in the first week of January. Health department officials said some CCPs will also work as vaccination sites, but added it was too early to say if all 43 CCPs will do so. “Since a large number of people have be to vaccinated within a short span of time, we need to have as many sites as possible. So, many of these CCPs will be utilized for this purpose,” said a source. Eighty CCHs, who oversee the appropriate maintenance of vaccines — will undergo a two-day training between January 4 and 8. The workshop will have experts explaining Covid vaccines and how effectively the cold chains have to function to keep the efficacy of vaccines intact. “Vaccines are sensitive biological products and can lose potency if exposed to inappropriate temperature. Hence, CCHs’ knowledge and skill regarding cold-chain practices and vaccine management are vital to make mass vaccination a success,” said an official. According to the plan, two CCHs each from the 16 boroughs under Kolkata Municipal Corporation will take the two days’ training at the Academic Building of NRS Medical College. These personnel are attached with urban primary health centres from where routine immunization is dispensed. The second batch of training will involve 26 CCHs from 22 hospitals, including the five teaching medical colleges of Kolkata and ID Hospital, on January 7 and 8. Health department officials said the CCHs are trained technicians. “But since the vaccine will be new, the handlers need to refurbish their knowledge and skill. Moreover, the vaccination will be unlike the routine immunization programme in terms of speed and expanse,” said a source at Swasthya Bhawan. Sources indicated that each site could vaccinate about 100 persons a day. Apart from the 43 CCPs in the city, there are about 925 CCPs across the state. The health department is planning similar workshops in other districts. Apart from the state-run hospitals, facilities like KPC Medical College, Command Hospital, BR Singh Hospital and ESI Hospital Joka have been asked to send their CCHs for the training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cold-chain-points-may-work-as-vaccine-sites/articleshow/79946649.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Hosp told to reduce bill, drop charges against patient, dad||Kolkata: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) came to the help of the father of a specially-abled youth who could not foot the entire bill for his son’s treatment. The commission told the hospital to not demand any more money and withdraw criminal cases it had lodged against the father-son duo. According to the complaint lodged by Prasenjit Karmakar of Garia, his son Durbar was initially admitted to Fortis Hospital. The 21-year-old developed severe gastrointestinal problems and needed surgery to remove a blockage. The family had to shell out Rs 5 lakh for hospital care at Fortis. The hospital doctors reportedly said they would not be able to operate and told him to seek treatment at another hospital with a better gastroenterology facility. The family then admitted the youth to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on May 5. Karmakar was given an estimate of Rs 5 lakh to Rs 6 lakh for the treatment. The patient underwent the surgery and was discharged on May 23 and Karmakar was handed a bill of Rs 9.9 lakh. “The family somehow managed to clear Rs 7 lakh and gave a post-dated cheque for the rest,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, WBCERC chairman. But when the post-dated cheque was dishonoured, the hospital lodged a criminal case against the duo and an arrest warrant was issued against them. The family then approached the panel saying that Karmakar now works as a hawker and they were helpless. “We felt that Rs 7 lakh was more than enough as treatment bill and hence told the hospital not to demand any more. The hospital has also been directed to withdraw all cases against the father and son,” added Banerjee. The hospital has agreed to follow the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosp-told-to-reduce-bill-drop-charges-against-patient-dad/articleshow/79946664.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 25, 2020||Business||Centrum to buy Central Bk’s hsg fin arm for Rs 160cr||TNN Mumbai: Domestic financial house Centrum Group on Thursday said it has agreed to buy out Central Bank of India’s 64.4% stake in the lender’s housing finance arm for Rs 160 crore. According to the term sheet of the deal, as of September 30, Cent Bank Home Finance’s loan book was worth a little over Rs 1,200 crore and a total income of nearly Rs 66 crore. According to a release from Centrum, it’s a strategic acquisition. It intends to merge the mortgage finance company with its housing finance arm. Established in 1991, Cent Bank Home has presence in nine states and in fiscal 2020 had revenues of Rs 142 crore. The bank will transfer its equity shares in its home finance arm to Centrum Home Finance as part of the transaction. RBSA, an advisory firm, acted as the exclusive adviser to the bank on this deal, the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centrum-to-buy-central-bks-hsg-fin-arm-for-rs-160cr/articleshow/79947093.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Business||Mrs Bector’s Food stock doubles on listing||Mumbai: Investors in Mrs Bector’s Food Specialities’ IPO saw their money more than double after the stock closed 107% up at Rs 596 on its maiden trading day, compared to its listing price of Rs 288. The scrip listed at Rs 501, a 76% premium to its offer price. The more than doubling of the stock price also made its promoter, 80-year-old Rajni Bector, worth over Rs 1,700 crore. At Thursday’s close of session the company’s market capitalisation was nearly Rs 3,500 crore, BSE data showed. On the first day, over 4 crore shares of the company changed hands on the two bourses. The Rs 541-crore IPO, which closed on December 17 was subscribed 198 times, making it the most successful listing this year. In the IPO, the high networth investors’ part was subscribed 621 times, the institutional part 177 times, while the retail part was subscribed a little over 45 times, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mrs-bectors-food-stock-doubles-on-listing/articleshow/79948401.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Patna||Getting learner’s licence made hassle-free in Bihar||PATNA: Motorists no longer need to queue up at district transport offices to collect learner’s licence as they can download and print it anywhere. State transport department secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the facility to download learner’s licence from anywhere has been started in Patna and district transport offices across the state. “Applicants would need to visit the transport office only once to appear for the test. Later, the applicant can take the certificate of the online learner’s licence from anywhere as per their convenience,” Agarwal said. He added, “Under the new process, once an applicant passes the test, it will be approved digitally and the licence number will be sent to the cellphone number of the applicant. The applicants will be required to feed their online application number and date of birth for verification, following which an OTP will be sent to their cellphone number. Thereafter, the applicants will be able to take the print of their learner’s licence.” Agarwal said online test is being conducted in every district for learner’s licence. “The applicants are issued learner’s licence only after they clear the test. Time slot booking facility has been made available for the test. The facility of downloading the certificate from anywhere will further ease the entire process,” Agarwal said. The transport department has also developed an automated driving test track for conducting drivers’ test prior to issuing permanent licence. One such facility was inaugurated at Aurangabad’s Institute of Driving Training and Traffic Research (IDTR) on Wednesday. A similar automated driving track equipped with sensors and cameras is also being developed on the premises of the proposed transport complex at Phulwarisharif in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/getting-learners-licence-made-hassle-free-in-state/articleshow/79946360.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Drugs seized during drink-driving naka check||KOLKATA: Night nakas this festive season are helping cops crack down on several types of crime — not just drunk drivers and errant bikers. The joint effort by local and traffic cops has led to the prosecution of over 500 violators in the past 48 hours, including two who were caught with drugs. Lalbazar has already deployed cops on round-the-clock duty from Thursday evening till the end of Christmas — except for a six-hour gap at night on Thursday. A Honda City was stopped at a routine anti-drink driving naka in the early hours of Thursday. A check revealed about 183g of charas hidden in the car’s boot and the duo — Rakesh Saha and Surajit Das — were arrested. Around 5,000 cops have been on the roads from Wednesday to ensure safety, said Lalbazar.“Like the previous two years, we have focused on prevention of street crime against women and traffic management on Christmas eve and Christmas day,” said an officer. The police have also finalized plans for Park Street on Christmas Day. “We will allow people to enter Park Street from both pavements — Asiatic Society and Flurys,” an officer said. “The KMC has put up proper fences on both pavements and we have added another layer to that. In addition, we have kept steel barricades ready so that we can create extra channels for crowd flow as and when required,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drugs-seized-during-drink-driving-naka-check/articleshow/79946634.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 25, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: UPHESC to hire 2,106 assistant professors soon||PRAYAGRAJ: Uttar Pradesh Higher Education Service Commission (UPHESC) has begun preparations for recruiting 2,016 assistant professors against vacant posts in 241 unaided degree colleges across the state. The commission has received requisitions regarding the vacant posts from the colleges and is now selecting a private agency that it would partner with for conducting the recruitment exam, said officials. Once the agency is decided, the advertisement for recruitment process is likely to be issued in the last week of December or the first half of January 2021, they added. The 2,016 posts include 803 of general category, 571 reserved for OBC candidates, 441 for SC candidates, 17 ST and 184 for EWS category candidates, they added. UPHESC secretary Vandana Tripathi said the syllabus of the recruitment exam has to be revised since it was last done in 2014. The syllabus would be revised before the recruitment advertisement is issued, Tripathi added. “Besides, there one more issue has to be settled. When the directorate of higher education sent the requisition for 2,016 posts to UPHESC, it mentioned that the horizontal reservation be fixed by the commission at its level,” she added. “As per norms, however, horizontal reservation can be decided only at the department or directorate level. A letter in this regard had been sent to the directorate and two reminders have also been sent subsequently. As soon as the reply comes, we plan to issue the advertisement,” said Tripathi. The recruitment for 2,016 posts of assistant professors in unaided degree colleges are for total 44 subjects, including economics, history, English, mathematics, philosophy, political science, commerce, law, education, physics, home science, Hindi, Sanskrit, zoology, geography, psychology, music (singing), military science, horticulture, animal husbandry and dairy, land conservation, botany, crop science, sociology, education, agricultural engineering, biochemistry, agricultural extension, agricultural botany, plant pathology, physical education, entomology, agricultural economics, agricultural genetics and plant breeding, ancient history, Urdu, statistics, music (sitar), music (tabla), agriculture statistics, painting, geology and Asian culture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/uphesc-to-hire-2106-assistant-profs-soon/articleshow/79947379.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Allahabad||Eight Naini prison inmates shifted to other jails||PRAYAGRAJ: Eight prisoners including two henchmen of former MP and don-turned-politician Atiq Ahmed were shifted from Naini Central Prison to jails of other districts on Thursday. The step was taken on administrative grounds, prison officials said. One of Atiq’s henchmen Ashiq aka Malli was shifted to Jaunpur jail, while another of his aides Amir aka Bhutto was transferred to Kaushambi district prison. Another notorious criminal Sajju Khan was shifted to Mirzapur jail. He is the key accused in a shootout near Naini Jail in which two persons were killed a few years back. He is a member of the Akhtar Katra gang, which was hired to kill the kin of another gangster Santosh Yadav in Jhunsi area. The two family members were returning after meeting Yadav in Naini jail. Four other prisoners who were lodged in Naini Jail for different offences were among those who were shifted. Naini Central Prison superintendent PN Pandey said, “The step was taken on administrative grounds following instructions from senior prison officials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/8-naini-prison-inmates-shifted-to-other-jails/articleshow/79947397.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Patna||Free education to girls in state: Colleges await reimbursements||PATNA: Even as the state government has initiated several steps in recent years to ensure greater enrolment of girls in degree colleges, all the girls’ colleges in Bihar are facing great difficulties in meeting even day-to-day requirements owing to lack of funds. The state government had, in 2015, decided to provide free education to the girl students till postgraduation (PG) level. As per the decision, no fee would be charged from girl students at the time of admission in universities and colleges from 2016-17 session onward and the total financial loss suffered by an institution in the state would be compensated (reimbursed) by the government. However, no institution in the state, except Magadh Mahila College under Patna University, has got even a single rupee from the state government till date towards reimbursement of fees not charged from girl students. Magadh Mahila College had submitted a bill of nearly Rs6 crore to the state education department for reimbursing the fees of the students admitted during the last academic sessions, but it got Rs4 crore only this year only before CM Nitish Kumar’s visit to the college, said its principal Shashi Sharma. The remaining amount is yet to be reimbursed by the government, she added. But, the condition of most girls’ colleges and other coeducational institutions in the state is quite critical due to inordinate delay in reimbursement of tuition fee for the last five years. J D Women’s College principal Shyama Roy said at the time of admission, the college receives a letter from the education department asking it not to realize any fee from the girls being admitted a the total amount not realized from girls would be reimbursed by the department. The college has been sending the bills to the government regularly since 2016-17, but no money has yet been released by the government towards reimbursement so far, she said, adding the college authorities are passing through great mental agony owing to financial constraints. Sri Arvind Mahila College principal Meera Kumar also echoed the feelings of Roy. Her college, too, has not received any funds towards reimbursement of girls’ tuition fees. “It is a herculean task indeed to run an institution having more than 5000 girls without having any financial resource at its disposal,” she said. Patna Science College principal S R Padmadeo also expressed his anguish over delay in reimbursement of fees of girl students admitted in the college for the last five years. State higher education director Rekha Kumari, when contacted, said the process to reimburse the girls’ fee as demanded by different colleges is already on. There has been some delay due to lack of uniformity in the fee structure of different colleges. Moreover, some colleges are also reportedly charging some money from girls at the time of admission in the name of maintenance charge. All these issues were being resolved before releasing funds to the college. Reimbursement would be made soon, she asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/free-education-to-girls-in-state-colleges-await-reimbursements/articleshow/79946195.cms||B K Mishra
December 25, 2020||Pune||Drug cuts post-transplant care costs||Pune: Inclusion of a simple blood-vessel relaxant in the drug regimen of patients with heart transplants can reduce the expenditure of anti-rejection drugs (immunosuppressants) by almost half, a study by a team of city-based physicians and cardiologists has revealed. Patients with organ transplants need to take anti-rejection drugs for the rest of their lives to keep the immune system from attacking/rejecting the transplanted organs. Their monthly expenditure ranges from Rs 25,000-Rs 30,000 per month. This cost can be reduced by up to Rs 15,000 after incorporating a calcium-blocker medication, an inexpensive drug used to treat blood pressure and chest pain, which can significantly curtail the requirement of anti-rejection drug doses, the study found. “The drug Diltiazem serves two purposes. It controls blood pressure and it optimizes uptake of anti-rejection drugs. In our study, we have found that this feature of the Diltiazem leads to lesser dose requirement of the expensive anti-rejection drug, significantly cutting down the monthly expenditure,” said physician Abhijit Lodha, the lead investigator of the study. The experts studied drug Diltiazem for its affordability and easy availability. “And post-transplant, many patients develop hypertension necessitating the inclusion of an effective drug,” said senior cardiologist Jagdish Hiremath, the study’s co-researcher. Organ transplant is a relatively new and evolving field. “This study can serve as a milestone to sustain organ transplant by providing affordable post-transplant care,” said cardiologist Kaushik Seth, another co-researcher. The study spanning four years and involving 17 patients of heart transplants began on September 2016 at Ruby Hall Clinic. None of the patients/participants in the study showed any adverse reactions, and neither did any patient faced organ-rejection. This study has been published in the September 2020 issue of the Journal of Clinical Transplantation, an indexed peer-reviewed international journal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drug-cuts-post-transplant-care-costs/articleshow/79958866.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 25, 2020||Goa||11 UK arrivals test positive for Covid-19||PANAJI: Eleven travellers from the UK have so far tested positive for Covid-19. Their swab samples will be sent for genomic study to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, health minister Vishwajit Rane said. The state government has identified 979 passengers, who arrived in the state after December 9, and testing began on Thursday. “Among them, nine had initially tested positive. Subsequently, two more came for testing after experiencing symptoms,” Rane said. The Goa government has identified the ESI hospital, which has served as a Covid hospital, for isolating the UK travellers who test positive. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) of the government of India requires that all passengers from the UK, who arrived in the country between December 9 and 20, be subjected to the RT-PCR test. Those testing positive are to be isolated in a separate facility and treated. States were also required to test those who landed between December 21 and 23. However, Goa has not received any passengers from the UK for the period. Dean Goa Medical College (GMC) and in-charge of Covid hospitals in the state, Dr S M Bandekar, said that the line of treatment for patients who test positive for the new strain detected in the UK will be the same as that followed for other Covid patients. “What we know is that the new strain is not lethal, but spreads faster, and that young people are more likely to get the infection,” Bandekar said. The SOPs also require that contacts of those who test positive be placed in institutional quarantine facilities different from the one used for regular Covid patients. They (contacts) are also to be tested between the fifth to tenth day as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). If any traveller falling within the scope of the new SOP has travelled to another state, the concerned health authorities are required to be notified about the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/11-uk-arrivals-test-positive-for-covid/articleshow/79948734.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 25, 2020||Patna||Sunny skies give relief to people from cold||PATNA: Clear sunny skies for the second consecutive day in Patna and many other places in the state provided some respite from the biting cold to the people on Thursday, but the Patna Meteorological Centre has issued an orange alert for cold day conditions and fog across the state on Friday and Saturday. Orange alert stipulates that the authorities should be prepared for extreme weather conditions. As per meteorology, cold day condition is declared at a place when minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or low and there is a departure of 4.5-6.4 degrees C in maximum temperature on two consecutive days. Sudhanshu Kumar, an officer at Patna Meteorological Centre, said neither cold day nor cold wave conditions prevailed anywhere in the state on Thursday owing to clear sunny skies. Broadly, the weather is unlikely to change much during Christmas celebrations on Friday. As per Patna Meteorological Centre, maximum temperature has surged by two notches in the last 24 hours. “Minimum temperature at most places in the state was recorded in the range of 7-11 degrees C on Thursday, which was one to two notches lower than the normal. Humidity remains in the range of 75-85% in the lower level of atmosphere in the morning, leading to foggy conditions. Shivery conditions, however, prevail in the evening hours along with light to moderate fog,” Sudhanshu said. Districts in south-west Bihar are likely to be the coldest in the morning over the next two days as the Met office has predicted that the minimum temperature in Buxar, Bhojpur, Rohtas, Jehanabad, Aurangabad and Arwal districts would be in the range of 5-7 degrees C. Day temperature, on the other hand, is likely to be in the range of 19-23 degrees C at most places in south Bihar. Shallow to moderate fog is also expected at isolated places in the state over the next two days. Private weather agency Skymetweather also reported on Thursday that foggy conditions will prevail in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “Cold winds from the western direction will continue for the next three to four days. But due to the less speed of the wind, the fog will not get sorted and due to the coolness in the air, the temperature will not increase,” the Skymet report stated. The IMD, on the other hand, stated in its all-India daily bulletin on Thursday that minimum temperature would rise by two to four notches for three days starting Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sunny-skies-give-relief-to-people-from-cold/articleshow/79945555.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 25, 2020||Business||Former CMD of Cognizant to join Krea University’s leadership team as Pro Vice-Chancellor||Chennai: Ramkumar Ramamoorthy, the former CMD of Cognizant (India), is joining the leadership team of Krea University effective January as its first Pro vice-chancellor, responsible for professional learning. In this role, Ramamoorthy will help drive the long-term strategy of all professional programs — spanning Masters in Business Administration, executive education, as well as other advanced programs — at Krea. In addition to this role, as a part of the core leadership team, Ramamoorthy will help strengthen Krea’s vision to be a teaching and research university that defines global benchmarks.Ramamoorthy has around 30 years of experience in the IT industry as well as academia. He was most recently the CMD of Cognizant in India in a 22-year stint with the IT company in various leadership roles. He is currently on the governing council of the IT/BPM Skill Sector Council of NASSCOM and the board for undergraduate studies in engineering and technology at All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). He is also the CEO of the Chennai Mathematical Institute.“I am truly excited to be part of the Krea team that strongly believes in the larger purpose of helping humanity prepare for an unpredictable world,” Ramamoorthy said. “In a fast-paced world that is increasingly shaped by the interplay of humans, machines and the environment, learning throughout one’s professional or entrepreneurial career is key to staying relevant while driving excellence and innovation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/former-cmd-of-cognizant-to-join-krea-universitys-leadership-team-as-pro-vice-chancellor/articleshow/79946443.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 2,406 murder, 1,106 rape cases in 9 months||PATNA: If the figures released by the State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB) are anything to go by, at least nine people are murdered, five robbed and four women raped per day in Bihar. According to the latest data, which is available on the website of SCRB, 2,406 people were murdered in just nine months in the state from January to September this year. Patna topped the chart with 159 murders during the period, followed by Gaya (138) and Muzaffarpur (134). Sheohar recorded the lowest incidents of murder, just six, during the period. As far as police ranges are concerned, Tirhut was at the top with 294 murders, Magadh (276), Munger (145), Kosi (141) and Begusarai (124). Police, however, said majority of murders took place either due to land dispute or personal enmity. Similarly, altogether 1,106 incidents of rape were reported in the state from January to September, which suggested that on an overage, four women are raped per day. Altogether 20 incidents of kidnapping for ransom and 1,300 incidents of loot were lodged with different police stations during the period. The incidents of theft went up to 22,690. Altogether 1,234 incidents of road robbery were registered, suggesting that three people are robbed per day on the roads in the state. In addition, 171 incidents of dacoity, 111 incidents of road dacoity, 11 incidents of bank dacoity and four incidents of bank robbery were reported during the period. Even on Thursday, a four-year-old girl was raped in Kaimur district, an RJD leader Ravi Yadav was shot dead in Bhojpur and an LJP leader and mukhiya of Gohi panchayat, Rajesh Kumar Sahni, was shot at in Samastipur district. Besides, a 13-year-old boy was killed in Supaul district on Thursday. Reacting to rising incidents of crime in the state, leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav tweeted, “Hundreds of killings, loot, kidnapping and rapes are the achievements of BJP-Nitish Kumar government in the state.” On Wednesday, CM Nitish Kumar held asked senior police officers to rein in criminals. “The CM is not in a mood to relent. If things don’t improve soon, many heads may roll,” an IPS officer posted at the police headquarters said. ADGP (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar, however, said, “If you go by the official records of the crimes in the last few years, you will find substantial decline in the majority of the heads, except one or two. Yet, we are alert and have put our maximum efforts to check crime.” He reiterated that police officers, if found lax in dealing with law and order, would face stern disciplinary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-2406-murder-1106-rape-cases-in-9-months/articleshow/79945819.cms||Ramashankar
December 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Patients hit as junior doctors continue stir||PATNA: Health services remained paralysed in government medical colleges and hospitals across the state for the second consecutive day on Thursday as junior doctors continued their strike demanding an increase in stipend. Patients visiting the OPDs of different government hospitals, including Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), were the worst sufferers. While many returned without treatment, some had no other option but to go to private hospitals. Raju Paswan, who had come to PMCH from Paliganj for the treatment of his mother, said, “Even the registration has been stopped. My mother is old and I cannot afford to bring her every day by hiring a private vehicle.” Some attendants alleged that even pregnant women were not attended by the doctors. A senior PMCH doctor said emergency services were badly affected as junior doctors are the ones who manage them. PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said registration at the OPD was stopped for two hours as they were attending a videoconference. “We are trying to treat all patients. Patients may have to wait for long, but no one had been denied treatment at least in our department,” said PMCH skin department’s associate professor Dr Pankaj Tiwari. Junior doctors at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) also boycotted work and the OPD at the hospital remained closed. They also protested on the hospital campus, raising slogans against the government. NMCH Junior Doctors’ Association president Dr Ramchandra Kumar said they will continue the stir until their stipend is increased. “We did not go on strike during the peak of Covid-19 pandemic because we knew the sensitivity of the situation. In fact, junior doctors were the first ones to treat Covid-19 patients. In the course of duty, many of them were infected. Our hospital was made a dedicated Covid hospital and we never maintained negligence in work. Now, when we are agitating for our genuine demand, the government should listen to us,” Dr Kumar added. Like PMCH and NMCH, health services were badly affected at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur as well. The OPD remained totally shut at the hospital. JLNMCH superintendent Dr A K Bhagat said, “All the departments are running, except the OPD.” Sources said junior doctors of JLNMCH were given an ultimatum to resume work in order to avoid action. ANMMCH superintendent Dr Harish Chandra Hari said OPD was not affected at the hospital and nearly 400 patients were treated on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patients-hit-as-junior-doctors-continue-stir/articleshow/79945287.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s deputy chief ministers call on PM Modi and Rajnath Singh in Delhi||PATNA: The expected cabinet expansion in the state might remain on hold for some more time as PM Narendra Modi on Thursday advised the state’s two deputy CMs -- Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi – and other BJP ministers in Bihar government to continue doing “good works” in the departments that they are heading. Prasad and Renu, who have been in Delhi for the last three days, made courtesy visits to President Ram Nath Kovind, PM Modi and Union ministers Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal and Rajnath Singh. The duo met the PM and Singh on Thursday. Asked if the matters related to the cabinet expansion were discussed at any level, Prasad said over phone, “It was a courtesy visit. Cabinet expansion was not discussed. It will happen when the time comes.” “The PM emphasised that the BJP ministers in the government should fulfil the responsibilities given to them and also strive to do better,” Prasad said, adding Renu was with him at all the meetings. The PM and the deputy CMs had discussions for around an hour. “The PM stressed the need for transparent and efficient implementation of various schemes,” Prasad said. As to his meeting with defence minister Singh, Prasad said it was necessary as the latter had been the central BJP’s most important representative at the first NDA meeting held in Patna on November 16 when the names of ministers were finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-deputy-chief-ministers-call-on-pm-modi-and-rajnath-in-delhi/articleshow/79946536.cms||Abhay Singh
December 25, 2020||Patna||Patna University colleges gear up for NAAC inspection||PATNA: B N College, a constituent unit of Patna University (PU), is gearing up to secure a better grade from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). All the teachers and non-teaching staff of the 131-year-old institution are working overtime despite the Christmas holidays for meeting the various criteria of NAAC for a better grade. College principal Raj Kishore Prasad said the NAAC peer team would visit the college on March 9 and 10 for making its overall assessment under various parameters. Earlier, the team was scheduled to visit the college in March this year, but its visit was put off due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. The college had submitted its self-study report in October last year. The college is more concerned for getting a good grade from NAAC as Patna College, another constituent unit of PU, which is supposed to be the oldest institution of higher education in the state, was awarded ‘C’ grade from NAAC early this year. Even Patna Science College was awarded B+ grade in NAAC assessment early this year. Magadh Mahila College, yet another constituent college of PU, which had been awarded ‘A’ grade in the last cycle of accreditation, was awarded ‘B’ grade last year. When the college challenged the award of an unexpected grade, the NAAC team visited the college again for reassessment and ultimately awarded B+ grade to this college this year. Patna College principal Ashok Kumar said the college has started making necessary preparations for improving its score on different parameters. Feedback would be taken from all the stakeholders on the present status and also the strengths and weaknesses in various fields. The college would apply for reaccreditation only when it makes satisfactory progress on all fronts, said the principal. PU internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) director Birendra Prasad said the university is also making necessary preparations for improving its grade. PU was awarded a ‘B+’ grade by NAAC last year. It is now striving hard to create an atmosphere of research in the university and improve the student support service, both of which had been awarded very poor scores in the NAAC assessment last year, Prasad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-colleges-gear-up-for-naac-inspection/articleshow/79946259.cms||B K Mishra
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: FMS secures 100% summer placements||NEW DELHI: Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi University’s Faculty of Management Studies (FMS) has secured 100% summer placements with the highest ever average stipend of Rs 2,41,400 for two months, an increase of 5% from last year. FMS stated that this year, 64% of the batch— 183 candidates—received a stipend of Rs 2 lakh and above and there was a 10% increase in the median package to Rs 2.2 lakh. “Around 18% of students were hired in Consulting and General Management domains, while 12% received offers for Finance roles. The companies that took part in the campus placement included Accenture Strategy, Axis Bank, Bank of America, Boston Consulting Group, Capgemini, Gartner, HSBC, JSW, Kearney, Mastercard, RPG, Spark Capital and Tata Administrative Services among others.” The institute added that around 42% of their students accepted offers in Sales and Marketing. “Apart from legacy recruiters in the FMCG domain, S&M roles were offered in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, consumer electronics, retail, e-commerce and industrial goods sectors. Some of the prominent recruiters included Asian Paints, Coca-Cola, Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL), ITC and Johnson and Johnson.” FMS added that there was a record 43% increase in the e-Commerce/IT/Operations roles compared with last year with 67 accepted offers from recruiters, such as Amazon, Adobe, Byju’s, Google, etc, and a 34% increase in the number of offers in e-commerce. FMS media secretary Keval P Varotaria said that “the institute has built its reputation over the years and thus, there was no negative impact in spite of the economic instability in the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fms-secures-100-summer-placements/articleshow/79947855.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar registers 668 fresh Covid cases, tally rises to 2,49,335||PATNA: The state’s Covid tally rose to 2,49,335 on Thursday with 668 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. However, active cases in the state stood at 5,198 on Thursday. As per the daily Covid bulletin issued by the health department, four deaths were recorded in the state in the last 24 hours. Apart from the health department’s bulletin, six deaths were recorded at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna on Thursday. The victims included four from Patna and one each from Begusarai and Supaul districts. No fresh death was recorded at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on Thursday, but two new Covid positive patients were admitted to the hospital. Of the 668 fresh Covid cases recorded in the last 24 hours, Patna alone accounted for 282. Among other districts, 50 cases were reported in Muzaffarpur, 44 in Aurangabad, 21 each in Saran and Katihar and 17 in Gaya. Meanwhile, altogether 522 people recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours, taking the tally for cured persons in the state to 2,42,766. With new cases and discharged patients, state’s recovery rate stood at 97.37% on Thursday, 1.62% higher than the national average of 95.75%. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that as many as 1,18, 228 new samples were tested at different health facilities and laboratories in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the number of total samples tested so far to more than 1.75 crore. Health budget: Health minister Mangal Pandey on Thursday chaired a meeting to review the preparations for readying the health department’s budget for the 2021-2022 fiscal. The meeting was attended by senior officials of health department, including its principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-registers-668-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/79945505.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 25, 2020||Patna||Patna: Schools gear up to reopen from January 4||PATNA: Schools in the city have welcomed the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the state education department on Thursday for reopening of educational institutions from January 4. They said necessary preparations were being made in this regard. “We have issued an order for participation of faculty members in Covid vaccine trial at AIIMS-P before the commencement of classes. The classes will be held with all precautions,” said Shailesh Kumar, director of Bishop Scott Group of Schools. Mary Alphonsa, principal of Don Bosco Academy, said the school would adhere to all Covid protocols. ”We feel confident to begin our classes,” she said. Abhishek Patrick, assistant director at Jesus and Mary Academy, said only 50% students will be allowed to attend classes on a day. “We welcome the move of the government to reopen the schools for students of classes IX to XII,” he said. Farhat Hasan, directress of International School, said the entire campus was being sanitised. “We have informed students to bring their own lunch as sharing of food will not be allowed and the canteen will also remain closed,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-gear-up-to-reopen-from-jan-4/articleshow/79945494.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Patna||Patna: Virtual celebrations in schools, colleges||PATNA: Change is the only constant during the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and the same has happened with Christmas celebrations in schools and colleges. The educational institutions heavily depended on virtual platforms for the Christmas celebrations this time. Most schools in the city organised cultural events, including online carol singing, which was beamed live on the computer and mobile screens of students through various applications. Aadya Singh, a student of Mount Carmel High School, said: “This Christmas was different as the celebrations in school were organised via digital platform and the tasty treats distributed in school every year were missed.” Farhat Hasan, directress of International School, said teachers prepared carol singing and fable videos, which were displayed online coupled with special live Christmas assembly. Litera Valley School celebrated the Christmas week by organising and hosting ‘Flair 2020’, an interschool competition. Among the major contests were Hindi and English poem recitation. St Joseph’s Convent High School clinched the ‘overall champions’ trophy. Shailesh Kumar, director of Bishop Scott Group of Schools said efforts of students, teachers and parents ensured successful digital Xmas celebrations. Priyanshi Singh, a student of Patna Women’s College, said, “Christmas celebrations were not organised this year due to the pandemic. However, the student cabinet organised a virtual function top celebrate the festival.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/virtual-celebrations-in-schools-colleges/articleshow/79945531.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kochi||M Sivasankar knowingly helped gold smuggling accused, says ED||KOCHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) probing the money laundering aspect of the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, on Thursday, filed a supplementary chargesheet against M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the chief minister. The agency submitted in the report that Sivasankar had knowingly assisted Swapna Prabha Suresh, Sarith P S and Sandeep Nair in the gold smuggling activities. The chargesheet also referred to Suresh’s statement recorded on December 14. “She, inter alia, stated that whenever cargo was held up at the airport Sivasankar used to call the customs officers to clear the consignment and when the customs caught the consignment on July 5, Sivasankar very well knew that the consignment had gold and he called the customs officials for release of the diplomatic consignment. She further stated that Sivasankar always helped in clearance of consignment and was completely aware that they were also exporting foreign currency abroad,” the chargesheet said. The chargesheet said that he received illegal gratification in the Wadakkanchery Life Mission project and it was kept in the bank locker held jointly by Suresh and P Venugopal, Sivasankar’s chartered accountant. It stated that Sivasankar and others had committed an offence of money laundering under Section 3 of PMLA and rendered themselves liable for punishment under Section 4 of PMLA. The report further stated that on being specifically asked about Sarith’s knowledge of financial transactions between Suresh and Sivasankar, Sarith stated that the cash seized by NIA officials from the locker jointly operated by Suresh and Venugopal belonged to Sivasankar and this cash was kickbacks in connection with the award of Life Mission project in Wadakkancherry. He further told ED that Sivasankar had prior knowledge of gold smuggling through the diplomatic channel. The chargesheet stated that another statement of Suresh recorded on November 3, said that she might have called Sivasankar 2-3 times during her tenure as secretary in UAE consulate to intervene in clearing the diplomatic cargo. “She stated that he was aware of the shady deals in awarding the UAE Red Crescent Life Mission project contract to Unitac Builders. She further stated that Sivasankar shared details of the rate quoted by Pennar Industries and Mitsumi and also messaged her details such as altogether 42 quotes for 10 locations, 12 firms participated, six quotes for Palakkad and Kasaragod and minimum three quotes for all locations,” the chargesheet said. The report showed that Sivasankar, on being confronted with his WhatsApp messages dated December 2, 2019, to Suresh, which indicated that he had shared the quote details, he stated that the same was absolutely irrelevant to PMLA proceedings and that the details were in the public domain and were not ‘quote details’. On another statement recorded on November 10, Suresh said that she was used by Sivasankar as a front for all the dealings involving UAE consulate. The report showed that when Sivasankar was further confronted with Suresh’s statement wherein she stated that her WhatsApp conversation dated July 5, 2020, with Sivasankar was a pretentious chat purposefully done by them to make everyone believe that she was innocent and the media news of gold smuggling through diplomatic cargo came to them as a shock and they came to know about the news together around half an hour before this WhatsApp conversation happened, he stated that he did not know what she meant and denied everything. On being confronted with his WhatsApp conversation with Suresh where she messaged him, “can I confess” for which he replied, “Not try. Do it” and then she messaged him “….A smuggler and a whatever ppl say I am” and specifically asked if he was aware of Suresh’s involvement in gold smuggling, he denied having any knowledge and awareness of it, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-knowingly-helped-gold-smuggling-accused-says-ed/articleshow/79945483.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||5 new micro-containment zones||CHANDIGARH: UT adviser Manoj Parida on Thursday declared five new micro-containment zones in the city. To check the spread of coronavirus, there will be restrictions in parts of sectors 23, 29, 34, 44 and Ram Darbar, Phase 1. These were declared on the basis of the recommendations of the affected area committee comprising MC commissioner, district magistrate, senior superintendent of police, director health services, sub-divisional magistrate (east), state surveillance officer and superintendent of police. While issuing the orders, the UT administration directed that regular screening and monitoring of Sector 63 by medical teams would also continue. MC would ensure regular sanitization of the areas. The orders come into force with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-new-micro-containment-zones/articleshow/79946464.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt’s initiative for UPSC aspirants||NEW DELHI: At the first series of interaction started by Delhi government for UPSC aspirants from Delhi schools, deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Thursday said, those who become IAS/IPS should serve a larger purpose, whether it’s about developing rural India, eradicating corruption or removing hatred and violence in the society. The initiative, which began with Director of Education Udit Prakash Rai addressing the students, would allow students to interact with young officers every month. “The officers will share their experiences, strategies and insights about exam preparation, which will help students in developing better understanding,” said the government. In the first instalment, 60 students from classes IX-XII attended the interaction with Rai at Veer Savarkar Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, Kalkaji. The session was streamed live on YouTube, which was seen by over 5,000 students. Rai, an IAS, 2007 batch who also has an electronic engineering degree from BITS Pilani, shared his experiences and gave some tips to the students. “Marks don’t matter in the civil services exam. It’s important to have a deeper understanding about it. Choose the subjects based on your interest and knowledge,” he added. Sisodia said that all the young aspirants should also dream about what they would do once they become an officer. “If students are clear about the larger purpose, they can easily overcome the hurdles and won’t be tired or scared in the pursuit of their dreams.” The minister added that young IAS and IPS officers should interact freely with the students and share strategies about developing a mindset for the exam preparation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govts-initiative-for-upsc-aspirants/articleshow/79947907.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand may bring white tiger from Madhya Pradesh||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand's tourism minister Satpal Maharaj has revealed that he is currently in talks with Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to bring a white tiger from Maharaj Martand Singh Judeo White Tiger Safari and Zoo located in the state's Rewa district for Pakhro tiger safari of Uttarakhand. “To make tiger safari at Pakhro more attractive and exciting for the tourists, I am in talks with CM Chouhan to bring a white tiger from there to the safari park here,” he said. Though, experts claim that it would be difficult as Madhya Pradesh doesn’t have too many white tigers, at the moment, to give to other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-may-bring-white-tiger-from-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/79945479.cms||Shivani Azad
December 25, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 42 lakh seized ahead of New Year||Rajkot: Tightening the noose on liquor mafia ahead of New Year’s Eve, Rajkot police seized Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 41.5 lakh on Wednesday night.In two separate raids, the detection of crime branch (DCB) and the special operations group seized 11,052 liquor bottles near Kuvadva and Gunda villages. In a raid at a farm in Gunda village, police seized IMFL worth Rs 22.8 lakh. Police said that just before the bootleggers were going to unload liquor stock from a truck registered in Haryana and distribute it in smaller quantities for sale, they reached at the spot. As police team struck, all accused fled from the farm. The liquor stock was hidden under the sacks of cattle feed in the truck. In another incident near Kuvadva village, police seized a truck and nabbed two persons including a minor for transporting liquor bottles to Junagadh. The driver identified as Dudharam Jat told cops that he was transporting the liquor from Barmer in Rajasthan to Junagadh. He was carrying 5,292 IMFL bottles. “We suspect that the liquor stock that has been seized was meant for revelry on New Year’s Eve and we will continue our drive against liquor,” said DCB inspector V K Gadhvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-42-lakh-seized-ahead-of-new-year/articleshow/79945488.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||New Year: Hoteliers urge UT against imposing night curfew||CHANDIGARH: With the UT administration planning to impose night curfew from December 26 to January 2, the hospitality industry, which has already suffered huge financial losses, has urged against it. They said they would go bankrupt if night curfew, especially during New Year, was enforced. “The hospitality industry suffered major losses during the pandemic and national lockdown. There was no support from anybody and we were asked to pay rents, salaries, electricity and water bills even during the lockdown. We can’t pay if we can’t operate,” said Neeraj Kharab, who runs a nightclub in the city. “Night curfew will leave us bankrupt, as New Year is the time when we earn. Besides, the directive might increase gatherings with both the day and the night party-goers getting together during lunch,” Kharab added. Chandigarh Hospitality Association president Ankit Gupta said, “The administration should instead allow limited gatherings as night curfew is not a solution. The hospitality industry has already suffered a lot. Its members are ready to follow all protocols,” he added. UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “Midnight celebration parties may compromise Covid protocol and spread infection. We will take a call on December 26.” While replying to a query, the UT adviser on his Twitter account advised people not to buy night event tickets. During Wednesday’s review meeting, the UT administration had decided against imposing an immediate night curfew and to review the situation on December 26 amid fears over the new mutant strain of novel coronavirus. Parties advertised While the administration is planning a night curfew, the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (Citco) hotels, the private ones, restaurants and bars have advertised their New Year programmes and parties. A hotelier said, “If the UT imposes night curfew, there will be huge losses not only for hoteliers but also for musicians.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-year-hoteliers-urge-ut-against-imposing-night-curfew/articleshow/79946466.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Finally, NMC proposes Rs 21 crore works to strengthen Ambazari lake embankment||NAGPUR: Some 32 months after lapse of deadline given by Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has finally proposed to execute works with Rs21.06 crore to strengthen Ambazari lake’s embankment, including spillway. The chances of further delay cannot be ruled out as the civic body has proposed to seek majority of funds from the state government. NMC standing committee will take a decision on the proposal to spend Rs21.06 crore on the works in a meeting on December 29. As per the proposal, water resources department (WRD) has submitted list of works costing Rs21.06 crore for strengthening of embankment including spillway. MahaMetro will contribute Rs3.35 crore. NMC will bear Rs3.14 crore to be spent on strengthening of spillway. Remaining amount will be sought from the government. NMC has also proposed to get works done through WRD. TOI had many times highlighted lack of inspection and works on 148-year-old embankment for decades. Then, MahaMetro dug a part of the embankment and constructed Metro Rail corridor’s pillar in 2017. Activist Mohammed Shahid Sharif filed a PIL in HC highlighting threat to embankment as well as people since lake is situated well within the city. Hearing the PIL, the HC order dated March 21, 2018, had directed government agencies to finalize plan for strengthening the embankment before April 15, 2018, and begin works immediately. A petition was filed by another activist Pravin Mahajan before Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) highlighting lack of works despite lapse of HC’s deadline. MWRRA had passed strictures on NMC and other agencies, and chalked out a comprehensive plan for strengthening of the embankment. The civic body had challenged MWRRA’s order in HC following which a stay was granted. At the same time, HC passed strictures for the delay. Therefore, NMC has now moved the proposal to execute the works. Another proposal before the standing committee is to construct mini sewage treatment plants (STPs) on 12 nullahs at a cost of Rs1.12 crore. The treated sewage will be utilized for watering NMC’s gardens situated at 12 locations. Third proposal is to increase charges of documents provided by NMC’s town planning department and zone offices related to building plan and city’s development plan. If approved, people will have to pay higher charges. For an example, existing charges for providing part plan is Rs160 and proposal is to hike it to Rs6,800. Similarly, charges of 13 more such services will be increased to a great extent. One proposal is to extend tenure of 99 retired servicemen working in NMC’s Nuisance Detection Squad by 11 months. Their tenure lapsed on November 18. The NMC social welfare department has proposed to give financial assistance of Rs1.95 crore to 99 persons with disabilities and one organization related to them for generating self-employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/finally-nmc-proposes-rs21cr-works-to-strengthen-ambazari-lake-embankment/articleshow/79947873.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 25, 2020||Rajkot||Three cops suspended for crowded ‘daayro’||Palanpur: In a throwback to recent incidents of massive peoples gathering in Covid times, hundreds crowded at a ‘daayro (folk programme) in a village of Tharad taluka of Banaskantha district.The district superintendent of police Tarun Duggal suspended three policemen including police sub-inspector and constable for negligence.The cops had no inkling of such a large gathering and they swung into action only on Thursday when the video of the event went viral. According to the police, Dhanji Chaudhary, a farmer, had organized ‘daayro’ as a part of ‘Santvani’ a bhajan programme at Vadgam village on Wednesday night. Over 500 persons turned up for the event and video of the gathering showed that many were not wearing face masks while social distancing was completely absent.Chaudhary has been arrested under IPC section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide). “A complaint has been filed against 12 other people including the artists and pandal maker,” Duggal told reporters.Chaudhary told police that he had invited a limited number of people as it wasn’t a public function, but did not expect so many to turn up for the event.Interestingly, the invitation for the event had the name of assistant superintendent Puja Tharad as the guest. Tharad, however, said, “I didn’t know that my name was printed on the invitation card. While one needs permission to organize any gathering, no permission is required for printing anyone’s name on the card.”The cops who have been suspended include Tharad local intelligence branch sub-inspector, M M Qureshi, head constable Ashok and constable Vihaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-cops-suspended-for-crowded-daayro/articleshow/79945512.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||92 travelled to UT from UK||Chandigarh: To prevent the spread of new strain of coronavirus, the UT health department has started contacting all UK returnees. The spokesperson said, “Ninety-two passengers travelled to Chandigarh from UK between November 25 and December 23.” The Central Surveillance Unit of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) shared details of the passengers with the Chandigarh health department unit. The UT administration had asked the Centre to provide a list of passengers who have recently arrived from the UK so that their testing or quarantine could be arranged.  “Their addresses and important details are also being verified. They are being monitored for symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 and their contact history is being checked,” the spokesperson added. The passengers have been advised to home isolate themselves, self-monitor their health, wear masks and adopt Covid appropriate behavior strictly. None of the travellers have reported any symptoms. Their further testing and institutional isolation would be done as per the SOPs, said the spokesperson. As per the directions of UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, the UT has dedicated Punjab University’s international hostel for institutional isolation of foreign returnees found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/92-travelled-to-ut-from-uk/articleshow/79946498.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Participants excited for marathon of learning||NAGPUR: The 5th edition of Gurukul.education’s initiative Learnathon™ is all set to commence on December 26. Due to Covid-19, the two-day learning marathon will be held online, with The Times of India as the print partner. Learnathon™ has about 84 workshops this year. Be it the volunteers, participants, or the workshop conductors, everyone is excited about Learnathon™ 2020. Dr Aimee Vora, principal, Devi Prasad Goenka Management College of Media Studies, Mumbai, said, “For a robust delivery of curriculum today, it is necessary that students have open access to practical learning and industry-based knowledge.” Bhaskar Ranjan Das, associate director, AICPA-CIMA said, “Learnathon™ is a fantastic way to present our youth with snippets from different fields of learning and skill development. Youth from across the country can pick up not just technical and business skills, but also finer skills such as communication, theatre etc.” Rtn Shabbir Shakir, district governor, Rotary 3030, said, “Learnathon ™ will be instrumental in inculcating a culture of ageless learning along with generating funds for LIFE, a not-for-profit organization helping deserving students through scholarships and career guidance. Rotary district 3030 is happy to be part of this initiative and promote this cause through the network of our Rotaractors in all educational institutions.” Anjani Singhvi, a 10-year-old participant from Hyderabad, said, “I am very excited to attend the workshops and learn about chocolate making, creative writing and storytelling.” Another participant, Sushmita Bhowmick said, “I am sure this year’s Learnathon™ will be as good as all the past years have been. I have great expectations and I am excited to learn about Hydrophonics and Geeta.” Ameya Mathagare, a final year engineering student and a volunteer for Learnathon™ said, “I am extremely eager to see how this year’s edition will go by, but am confident that it will be as good as all the previous years. We are now aiming to reach a global level.” (Passes can be bought online from www.learnathon.co/passes. For further details contact 91-45670606/7507510752)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/participants-excited-for-marathon-of-learning/articleshow/79947906.cms||Anchal Bhatia
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Two UK returnees traced, quarantined||Mohali: The Mohali administration has traced and home quarantined two UK returnees. The couple are a resident of Sunny Enclave in Kharar and returned on December 3, said additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Aashika Jain.The ADC said, “Their samples have been collected. They are in home isolation till the report is received. At present, they do not have any symptoms and if found positive, they will be taken into institutional isolation.” Passengers arriving in India from the UK through Mohali International Airport are being tested for the disease.CEO of Chandigarh airport Ajay Bhardwaj said, “We get a list of international passengers even if they are travelling on domestic airlines. Such travelers will be detained at the airport and the information will be forwarded to the Mohali administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-uk-returnees-traced-quarantined/articleshow/79946493.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
December 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Pollution board for covering coal wagons||PANAJI: Goa state pollution control board (GSPCB) has decided to recommend to the railways to cover the wagons transporting coal with domes/metallic covers to avoid spillage. The board has rejected the request of South West Port Ltd seeking adjustment in coal handling quantity as they are unable to handle it during the monsoon. People have been raising the issue of coal dust pollution while transporting it to other states via railway. Pollution board to write to Mormugao Port TrustThe board has decided to write to Mormugao Port Trust, who in turn will take up the matter with the South Central Railway. Member-secretary informed the board members that it has received a representation from South West Port requesting adjustment in the handling of coal as they could not handle the sufficient quantity during the monsoon season for four months out of the permitted quantity of 0.575 MMTPM per month. It requested the board to permit the same during the non-monsoon season by allowing it to handle 0.515 MMTPM against 0.4 MMTPM so as to maintain the total annual capacity of 5.5 MMTA. The members deliberated on this issue and scrutinized the coal handled by the unit from April 2020 to October 2020. The members opined that the unit was permitted to handle 0.575 MMTPM considering that there will not be adverse pollution during the monsoon season. Further, it was also discussed that since the Source Apportionment study report by IIT is awaited, it would not be prudent to permit the unit to utilize the permitted capacity during the non-monsoon season. Members also deliberated that the South Central Railway be recommended to ensure that coal transporting wagons shall have domes/metallic cover to avoid spillage during transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pollution-board-for-covering-coal-wagons/articleshow/79948665.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Pay hourly charges for parking from January||CHANDIGARH: Commuters will have to pay hourly charges from January, as both paid parking contractors of the city have assured the municipal corporation they will install all smart features in the lots by next month. First 10 minutes will be free for pick and drop service. The licence fee issue has also been resolved as both contractors have started paying it in full to the civic body. The move came following the recent meeting of the paid parking contractors with the MC officers. Both the contractors told the officers about the status of work and raw material required to install the smart features. The contractor who is managing zone-II lots has assured to complete work by the first week of January and his zone-I counterpart will do it by January 15. Zone-II contractor Anil Kumar Sharma said, “We have completed more than 50% work and will start hourly parking by the first week of January. We will also give monthly rechargeable parking cards to the commuters.” Ram Sunder, zone-I contractor, said, “We have got the material and we are in the process of assembling it. As some raw material had to come from China, it took time. We will fix all smart features by January 15.” The city has 89 paid parking lots divided into two zones. Zone-I has lots of southern sectors and Manimajra, and zone-II covers northern sectors. As per the agreement, the first 10 minutes will be free for pick and drop services. From 10 minutes to four hours, charges will be Rs 10 for four-wheelers and Rs 5 for two-wheelers. From four hours to 12 hours, charges will be Rs 20 and Rs 10 for four-wheelers and two-wheelers, respectively, after which these will double. Every year, 20% parking charges will be increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pay-hourly-charges-for-parking-from-jan/articleshow/79946487.cms||Deepak Yadav
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Probe by SIT sought into ‘custodial’ death||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Thursday sought the response of Delhi Police on a plea seeking a Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe into the death of a man who was allegedly forced to chant the national anthem and died in police custody during the riots in northeast Delhi. According to a video that went viral, Faizan was allegedly beaten up by police personnel and forced to sing Jan Gana Man in his injured condition and he later succumbed to the injuries. Hearing a petition by Faizan’s mother, Justice Suresh Kumar Kait issued notice to Delhi Police and asked it to file a status report on the investigation against the police personnel. The victim was, along with four other men, was seen in the video being allegedly assaulted by police officers. Faizan’s mother told the court that he had died on February 26 after he was detained from February 24 to February 25 and allegedly brutally assaulted by police officers. The petition has sought a court-monitored SIT to conduct a fair and impartial investigation into the alleged custodial death of Faizan. The plea has alleged that there are shortcomings in the investigation being carried out by Crime Branch as even after 10 months since the incident, there has been “no progress”. It is “now clear the investigation conducted by Crime Branch is a sham, designed at shielding the guilty men in uniform, rather than investigating the crime”, the plea contended. While seeking the court’s intervention, the plea also alleged that the probe carried out by Crime Branch “does not inspire confidence, and there is a grave and real apprehension that the tardy, shoddy and sham investigation will shield the real perpetrators of the heinous crime, as they are policemen”. It has sought directions to Delhi Police to file an affidavit with relevant material regarding the functioning of the CCTV cameras at Jyoti Nagar police station where Faizan was detained in February, especially that of February 24 and 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/probe-by-sit-sought-into-custodial-death/articleshow/79947994.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Two UK returnees test Covid-positive, flee IGI airport||NEW DELHI: A woman from Andhra Pradesh and a man from Punjab, who landed at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport, set alarm bells ringing after they tested positive for the novel coronavirus and then somehow managed to escape from the airport without their disappearance being in anyone’s knowledge. The due came from the UK where a new variant of coronavirus strain had been detected recently. It is unclear whether they were tested positive for older or new strain but officials said that they couldn’t afford to take any risk. TimesViewIndividuals like these wilfully imperil the health of many others. This is grossly irresponsible behaviour that shouldn’t go unpunished. Creative penalties such as temporarily blacklisting them for future travel could act as a deterrent.The woman is from Rajahmundry and she returned to India on December 21. As per the regular procedure, after clearing the immigration and collecting baggage, the passengers hand over their passports to the authorities. A few Delhi government representatives then take them to the place where the testing is conducted. While batches of 20-30 people are taken for the test, the rest of the people are made to wait in the lounge area, an airport official said. “Since the people who escaped had their passports, which are usually collected after testing negative or positive and before shifting to a quarantine facility, we do not have anything to do with the disappearance of the two individuals,” an airport official said on the condition of anonymity. As per the Union health ministry, officials are supposed to mandatorily take swab samples of every flyer who came from the UK, and must isolate the passenger or crew member in a separate unit of an institutional facility if found positive. The health officials lodged a complaint with Rajahmundry police station after the woman’s family told them that she boarded a train. Meanwhile, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that they came to know about the escape through media. “They should not have done this. We will speak to the airport authorities regarding this issue,” he said in a press conference. So far, at least 20 air passengers and crew members who landed in India from London have tested positive for the coronavirus. Their swab samples have been sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, to check if anyone was infected from a different virus strain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-uk-returnees-test-covid-ve-flee-igi-airport/articleshow/79947953.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||No oil discharge into Irai river: CSTPS||CHANDRAPUR: The Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS) has claimed that it has not released any oil into the Irai river and has accordingly given compliance report to the Maharashtra State Pollution Control Board (MPCB) regional office here. MPCB had recently served notice to CSTPS stating that oil stains were found in the nullah flowing through CSTPS up to Irai river. Chief engineer, CSTPS, Pankaj Sapate said that MPCB officials visited their plant and collected water samples from the nullah flowing through the premises up to Datala bridge on Irai river. The MPCB has verified that there was no discharge of oil/effluents from the CSTPS to any water source and maintained that plant management has accordingly submitted compliance of visit report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-oil-discharge-into-irai-river-cstps/articleshow/79947924.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 25, 2020||Kochi||Fight polls unitedly: Top brass to state BJP||KOCHI: The BJP core committee which met in Kochi on Thursday saw a strong exchange of complaints between the V Muraleedharan group and P K Krishnadas faction on Shobha Surendran’s non-cooperative stand against the state leadership. The state leadership was told to ensure that they unitedly contest the state assembly elections. “I don’t see any problem with anybody in the party. Shobha Surendran stayed away from campaigning in local body polls due to personal reasons and you will see that she is back with her political activities in a much stronger way,” said state ‘Prabhari’ C P Radhakrishnan. He said, “We will be taking everybody along when we start our campaign.” Radhakrishnan conveyed the BJP central leadership directive to the state leadership to avoid any form of clashes within the party ahead of the assembly elections next year. BJP’s Muraleedharan group wanted the leadership to take disciplinary action against Shobha for staying away from election works. Krishnadas faction said that her concerns were not addressed properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fight-polls-unitedly-top-brass-to-state-bjp/articleshow/79945519.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Defying Covid-19 fears, forest dept generates Rs 199 crore revenue||NAGPUR: Overcoming Covid-19 pandemic fears, Maharashtra forest department has succeeded in generating revenue of Rs 199 crore through e-auction of timber logs, firewood and bamboo. “The state forest department had started a digital platform for sale of timber in 2015 with just three depots in the first year. Now, there are 50 depots across Maharashtra and over 1,200 contractors and traders from all over the country participating in the auction. Earlier, only contractors from Maharashtra used to participate,” said Praveen Srivastava, principal chief conservator f forests (production & management). Srivastava said, “Professional commitment and observance of all Covid-19 protocol and guidelines resulted in no causality among the staff and workers. Not a single worker belonging to the forest labour cooperative societies (FLCSs) was affected by Coronavirus. The FLCSs were awarded coupes all over Nagpur, Chandrapur, Yavatmal, Gadchiroli, Amravati and Aurangabad forest circles.” “We provided helmets to all workers for safety, luminescent jackets for easy identification in the forest, and insurance for all resulted in zero causality. Safeguards for their life and health gave dividends,” said the PCCF. The FLCSs are operating since 1950 and are actively engaged in working out forest coupes, where they share 20% of the net revenue accruable to the forest department. On achieving the feat, Srivastava said, “Timely sanction for felling, logging, transportation, and auction delivered the result. Though our operations were affected for a period of three months between March and June, professional efficiency and operational output by the entire team paid off.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/defying-covid-fears-forest-dept-generates-rs199cr-revenue/articleshow/79947938.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 25, 2020||Varanasi||Three held for posting ad to sell PM’s Kashi office get bail||Varanasi: Three persons arrested for posting advertisement for the sale of building housing the parliamentary constituency office of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on a sale and purchase site, were granted bail by the court of additional sessions judge-II Ashok Kumar Singh Yadav on Thursday. The defence lawyer Anuj Yadav said that the court ordered to release the accused persons Jitendra Kumar Verma, Babulal Patel and Manoj Kumar Yadav on bail after submission of prescribed bonds and guarantees while date for hearing on the bail application of main accused Laxmikant Ojha was fixed as January 2. He further said the court was informed that the building comprising PM’s parliamentary constituency office is owned by one Shyam Lohia, who is willing to sell it after rent period of the office will expire on March 31. All necessary documents were also produced to make it clear that no forged documents had been used for placing advertisement. On December 18, Bhelupur police had lodged an FIR against Ojha and his three companions for posting the advertisement to sell the building in Jawahar Nagar Extension area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-held-for-posting-ad-to-sell-pms-kashi-office-get-bail/articleshow/79947786.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kanpur||Food safety department’s teams raid city’s 11 bakery shops, collect 18 samples||KANPUR: On the occasion of Christmas festival food Safety and Drug Administration department during a raid conducted on Thursday at as many as 11 bakers of the city collected around 18 samples of items used in manufacturing cakes , biscuits etc. Designated officer Vijay Pratap Singh said the bakery shops were raided in compliance with the directions issued by the commissioner, food safety. The teams, he said, collected samples of biscuits, rusks, sauce, baking powder, soda powder, food colours (orange, lemon, red, yellow, apple green), fruit cakes and special Christmas cake, chocolate cake and farina. The food department had raised shops under its special campaign on the occasion of Christmas and collected samples so that the people got pure and unadulterated food items, Singh said. “Four teams raided ten bakery shops on Wednesday and collected around 12 samples whereas on Tuesday six teams raided 16 bakery shops and collected 19 samples”, the designated officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/food-safety-departments-teams-raid-citys-11-bakery-shops-collect-18-samples/articleshow/79947937.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Two who returned from UK being traced||RAJKOT: The district health department is keeping a close watch on people who have returned from the UK in the last one month for the new coronavirus strain. Three people who returned have completed their mandatory 14-days incubation period, while health teams are tracing addresses of two others. Of the three, one was from Dhoraji and two from Shapar-Veraval adjoining Rajkot city Sources said that the department has got the list of people who arrived in Rajkot district from November 23 till date. The officials have asked the state government to provide specific addresses of two others who have recently come to Rajkot. District health officer, Manish Bhanderi, said, “As per the guideline, we keep all those who returned from the UK under observation and home isolation. If anybody develops symptoms, we have to collect and send their samples for testing to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune and shift the family members to the isolation facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-who-returned-from-uk-being-traced/articleshow/79945521.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Varanasi||Two held for sexually harassing women in separate cases||VARANASI: A woman in a village of Revati area in Ballia district was allegedly raped by her husband’s brother while in a village of Sukhpura area a girl lodged a complaint against a person alleging that he sexually exploited her for long on the assurance of marriage. Accused persons in both the cases were arrested. SO Revati Pravin Kumar Singh said that a woman from a village under the limits of his police station had lodged a named FIR against her brother-in-law Dhanji Verma on Wednesday alleging that when she was sleeping on December 20 he entered the room and raped after threatening her with a knife. She alleged that Verma had also made two abortive bids in past. Taking note of her complaint, a named FIR under sections 376 and 506 of IPC was lodged against Verma, said Singh adding, police arrested Verma on Thursday and sent to jail after being produced before the court. SO Sukhpura Yashwant Singh said that one Afzal of a village of Chitbadagaon area had been arrested on Wednesday night after a girl alleged that he had repeatedly made physical relations with her by assuring to marry her since 2015 when their parents had given consent for their marriage. She alleged that Afzal not only started making physical relations with her but also took many obscene pictures. When Afzal’s parents became aware about it they cancelled the marriage proposal, she alleged adding, when her parents went to meet Afzals parents threatened them. When she tried to pressurise Afzal for marriage he and his parents thrashed her, she alleged. SO Sukhpura said that on her complaint a named FIR against Afzal and his parents was lodged under sections 376, 323, 504 and 506 of IPC. Following initial investigation Afzal was arrested. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/2-held-for-sexually-harassing-women-in-separate-cases/articleshow/79947733.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Varanasi||Absent Vyapam accused doctor marked present||GORAKHPUR: A Vyapam scam accused doctor, who was suspended in 2016 and later attached to the CMO office in Deoria, has been absent from duty since November, but the officials noticed that someone has been putting signatures in the attendance register against his name. Deoria CMO Alok Pandey has ordered a probe into the incident. CMO officials said the doctor, Gaurav Shahi, has been absent since November, but his signatures were being affixed against his name in the attendance register regularly. Shahi was earlier posted at the Bhaluani primary health centre in the district, but was suspended by the health department in 2016 and was attached to CMO office after his name surfaced in the Vyapam scam of Madhya Pradesh. “Shahi has been absent since November, but daily someone affixed his signature in the attendance register. The discrepancy was noticed and a probe has been ordered. The culprit won’t be spared and strict action will be taken against them,” said Deoria CMO Alok Pandey. Pandey has issued a notice and sought a clarification within three days from whoever has forged the signatures of Dr Shahi. The notice also says that strict action will be taken against the culprit if his identity is ascertained from any other source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/absent-vyapam-accused-doctor-marked-present/articleshow/79947701.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kanpur||Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya lays foundation of 79 road projects||KANPUR: Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya on Thursday laid the foundation stone of 79 road projects of Kanpur Nagar and Kanpur Dehat districts at a function held at the Circuit House here on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, he said that smooth transport in cities was the top priority of the state government and for this he had dedicated these road projects worth Rs 5028 lakh. Later, talking to reporters, Maurya said Lucknow- Kanpur Expressway project would be completed soon. He said the masses were with the BJP and this fact was troubling the opposition leaders who were misleading them. “The Central and the state governments will continue to work for the welfare of the poor and needy”, he added. He said roads in UP would be constructed by using polythene and plastic garbage. In the first phase, around 15000 km of roads, including roads in Kanpur, would be constructed from plastic garbage, he further said. “As announced earlier, the construction of roads up to the houses of students who had topped are in progress. The schools where the toppers had studied have also been included in the project”, the deputy CM said. “If a player from UP wins a medal in the national or international level event, a road constructed up to his/her residence will be named as ‘Major Dhyanchand Vijay Path. Similarly, a road leading to the house of a martyred soldier will be named as ‘Jai Hind Veer Bandh”, he added. The deputy CM had earlier announced that the Circuit House would be renamed after late former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Replying to a question on the ongoing farmers' agitation, he said that majority of farmers had described the three new farm bills as a revolutionary step taken by the Modi government but some farmers of a couple of states were opposing them. “The government has invited the farmers to discuss the bills and it is hoped some solution will come out soon”, he said. When asked about Ganga, he said that his government’s pledge was ‘Clean Ganga’.for which it had already set up a separate ministry which was working with several other government organizations to keep the river clean .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dy-cm-lays-foundation-of-79-road-projects/articleshow/79947890.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
December 25, 2020||Varanasi||Relative held for forcing minor girl into flesh trade||Varanasi: Prompt action by Ballia cops helped in timely rescue of a minor girl of Bihar from the clutches of her woman relative who was allegedly forcing her into flesh trade. Ballia SP Vipin Tada said that the girl's family from Bihar had alerted child welfare committee officials on Wednesday that one of their women relatives, Gulshan Bano, had taken their daughter to Ballia, and was later forcing her to get involved in flesh trade. Taking serious note of the complaint, a joint team of officials was formed which raided the place of Gulshan Bano in a locality under Kotwali police station and arrested her after rescuing the girl, informed Tada. Gulshan Bano was booked under Sections 366A (procuration of minor girl) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of IPC and sent to jail, while the girl was produced before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and later sent to the women protection home in Nidharia area, said police. On Wednesday morning, CWC Ballia office bearers received a call. The caller tipped off about the area where the girl was kept after she was brought to Bihar, and alleged that she was being forced to indulge in flesh trade. CWC Ballia chairman Prashant Pandey and judicial member Raju Singh then contacted the Ballia SP, who ensured formation of a joint team led by city magistrate, circle officer (city), inspector Kotwali, SO of women police stations and CWC office bearer. The team raided the place of Gulshan Bano and arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/relative-held-for-forcing-minor-girl-into-flesh-trade/articleshow/79947819.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 25, 2020||Varanasi||25-year-old man beaten to death||GORAKHPUR: A 25-year-old youth was beaten to death at his paramour’s house on Wednesday night. Police sent the body for postmortem and registered a case against unidentified persons on the complaint of the woman’s father-in-law. As per reports, On December 8, a woman from Sivan in Bihar got married to one Vikas Pandey at Nonar Pandey village under Bankata police station in Deoria district. She had an affair with one Pankaj Mishra of her village in Bihar. “On Wednesday, around 11 pm, Pankaj along with his 2-3 aides, entered the girl’s room in her in-laws’ house in Deoria from the back door and tried to take her with him. However, when the family resisted, both the parties got into a clash. The woman’s husband Vikas and father-in-law Jitendra Pandey became injured. Hearing noise from the house, villagers caught Pankaj and started beating him,” informed Deoria SP, Dr Sripati Mishra said. “On being informed, police rushed Pankaj to Bhatpar Rani CHC, from where he was referred to the district hospital. There, he died during treatment.,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/25-yr-old-man-beaten-to-death/articleshow/79947672.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Rajkot||Garments shop owner abducted by three posing as cops||Rajkot: A young garments shop owner in Junagadh was abducted on Wednesday morning by three men posing as cops from the local crime branch and released him at a hotel in Upleta in the evening.Nimesh Khanwani, 21, was picked up from his home in Bhavnath area of Junagadh around 4 am on Wednesday. The three accused said that they wanted to interrogate him in connection with a prohibition case. They took him away in a car and drove him around in Junagadh district and in Upleta. They asked Khanwani to call his elder brother Roshan and ask him to pay Rs 10 lakh for his release. Roshan informed police about his brother’s abduction and the ransom call. Police tried tracing them based on Khanwani’s mobile phone location, but were unsuccessful. Cops asked Roshan to tell the kidnappers that he has managed Rs 1 lakh cash and can pay the remaining amount later. The kidnappers agreed to the offer and it was decided that the ransom be paid at Sandhnidhar village. A team of cops had been keeping watch in the village to nab the abductors. However, the accused became suspicious about it. They took cash and gold necklace worth Rs 71,000 from Khanwani and dropped him at a hotel on highway near Upleta. Based on the car’s registration, cops detained its owner Ramesh Odedara from Dhak village. Odedara told police that his three friends Naja Kalotara, Bhavin Rabari and Jayesh Rabari had borrowed the car as they were planning to travel out of town. “We are searching the three accused but we have kept the car’s owner under detention. If the three abductors will reveal that he too was involved, we will formally arrest him,” said deputy superintendent of police Pradeepsinh Jadeja. An offence of kidnapping, extortion, robbery, assault, criminal intimidation, pretending to be public servants and criminal conspiracy was registered at Bhavnath police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/garments-shop-owner-abducted-by-three-posing-as-cops/articleshow/79945542.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kochi||Thrissur mayor polls: LDF to woo UDF rebel||THRISSUR: Congress rebel councillor M K Varghese, who earlier said he would announce his decision on supporting LDF or UDF in Thrissur corporation mayor election on Thursday, has deferred his decision to Friday. However, the CPM district leadership has reportedly decided to proceed with the plan to bring Varghese to LDF. Sources in LDF said the front may accept his demand to make him mayor. Though Varghese demanded that he be made mayor for the whole five-year term of the present council, LDF hopes he would agree for a three-year term. Varghese said he was told that LDF would decide by late Thursday evening, and he would announce his stance on Friday. “I made a commitment to them first, and will take a decision only after knowing their response,” he said. Varghese contested from Nettissery division as an independent candidate after Congress denied him ticket, and won with a margin of 38 votes. His stance became crucial as LDF won 24 seats and UDF 23 seats in the corporation. If Varghese shifts to the LDF side, they will have a comfortable lead. If he returns to UDF, their tally will be 24, which means a tie in the corporation, and the new mayor will have to be selected through draw of lots. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thrissur-mayor-polls-ldf-to-woo-udf-rebel/articleshow/79945590.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Sea change in NMC’s working during Tukaram Mundhe time, but then...||NAGPUR: For the first time in over half-a-decade of reporting on Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the diarist witnessed a change in the way the civic body functions, all because of an upright and no-nonsense man at the helm — Tukaram Mundhe. After the Maha Vikas Aghadi formed the government in Maharashtra, it was rumoured that Mundhe would be deputed to Nagpur as municipal commissioner. Mundhe’s reputation as a taskmaster preceded his arrival and every one, right from the NMC employees to corporators, were wary. Mundhe took over in late January 2020. With Mundhe calling the shots, NMC started emerging as a disciplined civic office. Both employees and officials started reporting to office on time. The coronavirus pandemic stalled all development works in NMC and most of the reporters were under the impression that no stories would be possible from the civic body. But Mundhe’s action against employees, officials and elected representatives proved us wrong and NMC was a source of continuous news. The diarist got to report on a lot of behind-the-scenes activities happening due to Mundhe’s — what many called — unilateral diktats. While covering NMC happenings, especially the general body meeting, was quite a different experience with the general body meeting, which is usually of one day, extending to five days at a stretch — One agenda was to show Mundhe the door (though in not in these words). The meeting was organized at the Suresh Bhat hall and initially the diarist feared contracting the virus while covering it. The House witnessed full drama and all those fears vanished. Senior corporators like Dayashankar Tiwari not only recited Urdu couplets but also narrated short stories to stress his point. BSP corporator Mohammed Jamal too applause for his Urdu couplets. First time corporators Jitendra Kudke and standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke too cited shayaris to draw attention of the House. The experience, the diarist thought, is good enough for writing a mega play rather than report on pressing civic issues which are generally discussed in the general body. Mundhe, who left the House midway on Day 1 of the meeting on June 20, was seen thumping his chest in front of the corporators to prove how his proactive steps helped the city contain Covid-19. He seemed like a Bollywood movie hero boasting about his heroics. In the end, it turned out to be a useless meeting. Mayor Sandip Joshi gave many rulings including suspension of a doctor couple but none of them were implemented by Mundhe. Mundhe could stay on only for short stint of seven months. An officer like him was much-needed to clear the mess in NMC. His exit saw many in the NMC heave a sigh of relief and feeling a sense of coming back to normal. (Reporting on civic issues gives Proshun Chakraborty access to ground reality and even solutions)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sea-change-in-nmcs-working-during-mundhe-time-but-then-/articleshow/79947991.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 25, 2020||Meerut||Two labourers die, four injured in roof lenter collapse||BIJNOR: Two labourers were killed and four injured when the lenter of an under-construction house collapsed on Thursday evening in Bijnor’s Nahtaur town of Bijnor district. Police rushed to the scene and with the help of locals, managed to drag out the labourers buried under the debris. They were taken to the community health centre, where two were declared brought dead. and the rest are undergoing treatment. Dharamveer Singh, Bijnor superintendent of police, said, the accident took place here at Eidgah mohalla of Nahtaur town. Six labourers were engaged in lifting the roof lenter of an old house, owned by Jahid Ahmed, with jacks when it collapsed.” One of the deceased was identified as Nanhe (34) from Hazrat Nagar of Noorpur. Four of the injured -- contractor Kamruddin, labourers Alam, Aman and Arshad of Noorpur -- are recuperating in the district hospital. Further investigation is underway, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-labourers-die-four-injured-in-roof-lenter-collapse/articleshow/79945535.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 25, 2020||Meerut||Three more TrueNat machines set up to detect TB cases in Meerut||MEERUT: Three heavy load TB areas here -- Sabun Godam, Tarapuri and Rajpura -- got their first set of TrueNat machines on Wednesday. Each of the three machines have been set up at these centres to tackle the tuberculosis load. The suspected patients can now get their TB reports within an hour. Earlier, these patients had to travel all the way to the district hospital to get themselves tested. “These TrueNat machines will help in conducting the test and giving out the reports within an hour’s time,” said Dr MS Fauzdar, Meerut district tuberculosis officer. The first TrueNat machine was installed at Meerut district hospital. Later, two more machines were set up at LLRM Medical College. Now, three centres, finalized to set up these machines are in Sabun Godam, Tarapuri and Rajpura. “This will save time of the locals who came all the way to the district hospital to get themselves tested for tuberculosis,” said Dr Fauzdar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/three-more-truenat-machines-set-up-to-detect-tb-cases-in-meerut/articleshow/79945532.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 25, 2020||Kanpur||Jhansi Covid-19 cases cross 10,000-mark||JHANSI: Twenty-two persons including three doctors were found Covid-19 positive here on Thursday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district have gone up to 10,027. As per medical bulletin released by DM Jhansi Andra Vamsi, 8,023 people have been discharged so far including five on Thursday itself with a recovery rate of 96.26%. Presently, active cases in the district are 202. Of these 30 are symptomatic. These include 2 severe, 11 moderate and 17 mild in nature while rest are asymptomatic. The total number of Covid-19 related deaths in the district is 173, having a case fatality rate CFR of 1.7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jhansi-covid-cases-cross-10k-mark/articleshow/79947909.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kanpur||Now, adopt an animal at Etawah lion safari||KANPUR: The Etawah lion safari has launched an ‘Adopt an Animal’ scheme where individuals and corporates can adopt an Asiatic lion, leopard, bear and deer by bearing all expenses incurred on feed and upkeep. Those willing to adopt these animals will, however, have to complete certain criteria drawn by the safari authorities. Giving this information, safari director Rajiv Mishra said funds generated through this scheme would be used by the safari authorities for buying food and medicines and other related expenses for the adopted animals. “The people adopting animals will get publicity wherein their names displayed on the enclosure, besides adoption certificates as well as free entry to the safari along with several other facilities,” he said. The adoption fee for Asiatic lions is Rs 4.1 lakh, for leopards Rs 55,000, for bears Rs 60,000 and antelope Rs 50,000 per annum. According to the safari director, an individual can adopt animals for one year. “If we will get an overwhelming response, we will extend the adoption period. Those who are willing to adopt safari animals can file an application addressing senior safari authorities,” he said. The officer further said that at present the safari houses 20 Asiatic lions, including two newly born cubs, seven leopards, three bears, 135 antelopes. Safari sources said that at present the state government is incurring expenses of Rs 70 lakh on Asiatic lions, Rs 9 lakh on leopards, Rs 5 lakh on bears and Rs 40 lakh on antelopes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/now-adopt-an-animal-at-etawah-lion-safari/articleshow/79947864.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 25, 2020||Goa||Goa board’s Class XII exam from April 26, X from May 13||PANAJI: The Class XII exam conducted by the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education will begin from April 26, and the Class X exam from May 13, 2021, as the state government has approved the delayed public exam dates. The late dates were proposed due to late start to the 2020-21 academic year due to the pandemic. “Date and subject-wise timetable for the 2021 exams will be notified by January 15,” board chairperson Ramkrishna Samant said. As per the dates approved by the state government, theory examination for Class XII will start from April 26 and end on May 15, 2021 The theory exams for Class X will be held from May 13 to 31. In a normal year, the Class XII exam would begin in the last week of February and end by mid-March. And the Class X exam was usually conducted in April. Around 35,000 students register for the Class X and XII state board exams combined each year. In 2021, the practical examinations for Class XII will be held from April 1 to 24. For Class X, the practicals are scheduled from April 5 to 30. Normally, by November, the registration process of students for the public exams begins, but it is yet to start this year. Physical classes for Class X and XII students were only allowed from November 21, which too saw interruption as some teachers and students tested positive in four different institutes, prompting them to suspend offline sessions. Even when physical classes were held not all parents agreed to their children attending the sessions. In July, Goa board had curtailed the syllabus for Classes IX to XII by 28-30%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-boards-class-xii-exam-from-apr-26-x-from-may-13/articleshow/79948721.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Ready to mediate between Centre and farmers: Dushyant Chautala||CHANDIGARH: Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said if the Centre was ready to amend the new agriculture laws ensuring minimum support price (MSP), he believed their main demand had been fulfilled. He also said farmers should continue to talk to the Centre, as the deadlock could be ended only with the dialogue. The JJP leader also offered to mediate in the issue if the Centre assigned him the responsibility. Continuation of dialogue between the farmers and the central government was the only way out of the current situation, he said, adding that the agitation by Anna Hazare was also resolved only through the mediation and the dialogue. Chautala reiterated that he would resign from the government if MSP was denied to farmers. He was talking to mediapersons in Chandigarh on the sidelines of a press briefing on the state’s industrial policy approved by the state cabinet on Wednesday. On a question regarding any kind of pressure on him in view of the farmers’ agitation, Chautala said there was no pressure on him and the BJP and JJP coalition government would complete its five-year term. On imposition of 2% panchayat tax on power bills, the deputy CM said the aim was to strengthen the village panchayats financially. He said the amount collected through the tax would not go to the state exchequer but would be deposited by the power companies directly in the accounts of village panchayats. Thus panchayats would not remain dependent on the state government for carrying out the development work in their areas. Moreover, no such tax would be imposed on the power connection for agriculture purposes or any agriculture-based industries, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ready-to-mediate-between-centre-and-farmers-dushyant/articleshow/79946548.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||‘Fake’ affidavit: Delhi cops raid lawyer’s offices||NEW DELHI: Special Cell of Delhi Police on Thursday raided the offices of advocate Mehmood Pracha in connection with a court-ordered probe into the allegations of furnishing a fake complaint and an affidavit regarding the Delhi riots before the court. Police said an affidavit signed by a lawyer who had died three years ago was submitted, prompting an inquiry. According to police, they were only following a court order and executing a warrant issued by it. The cops have reportedly seized some materials during the raids. A Delhi Police spokesperson said, “During the course of a bail matter pertaining to an accused of the northeast Delhi riots, use of a forged notary stamp and creation of allegedly false/manipulated evidence at the hands of certain members of the Bar was noticed. The special court had observed that the same required a thorough investigation.” Following this, a criminal case was registered and an investigation was started, he added. During the investigation, search warrants to look for electronic and other evidence from the premises of two members of the Bar were obtained and the same are being executed in a professional manner at one location in Nizamuddin and another at Yamuna Vihar, the spokesperson said without naming anybody. Pracha said after the raids that he would approach court and seek relief and also file an FIR against the policemen. “Everything is recorded, let the court see it,” he said while a small crowd gathered outside his office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fake-affidavit-cops-raid-lawyers-offices/articleshow/79948037.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Groups preparing to leave for Delhi on Thursday||GURDASPUR : Not only the farmer leaders here are making last minute preparations for sending activists from Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, and Hoshiarpur to Delhi border on Thursday, but they have also begun groundwork for sending another batch of protesters, which is scheduled to leave for Delhi in the second week of January. Though there is reportedly enough arrangement for ‘langar’, yet the farmers’ jathas are carrying huge quantities of flour, sugar, cereals , vegetables, oil, gas cylinders, spices and refreshments. Senior vice-president of Kisan Mazdur Sangarash Committee (KMSC) Sawinder Singh Chautala told TOI, “Everybody is enthusiastic to join the struggle and return after winning Delhi, such is the eagerness and frenzy to join the struggle that we had no problem in collecting donations, arranging for vehicles, and eatables etc.” he said “We have sent almost half a trolley of khoya, gur and other sweets” said another farmer leader Gurbachan Singh Chaba. He said they had already started registration for the people who were willing to go to Delhi in next batch, which would be sent around January 10 or 11. “No inconvenience or problem is big enough that could deter us from our struggle, which we expect will be a long drawn one,” he said, adding that they were contemplating on sending all women jatha too. Taking cognizance of the poor basic amenities, especially the lack of toilets at the site of struggle, he said some of the farmers had got portable toilets made, which could easily be carried on trolleys and could be assembled and dismantled with ease. Harjit Singh, a farmer from Dera Baba Nanak, said earlier he had thought that farmers struggle would end soon so he didn’t go, but now he was prepared to live there for as long as their demands were not met. “We have gone so far and there is no coming back at this stage, I am taking clothings for two weeks,” he said. Chautala said jathas would leave from Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, and Hoshiarpur and would meet at Jalandhar. The night will be spent at Baba Daler Singh Gurdwara, Shahbad and jathas would start their journey to Delhi on early December 26 to join other agitating farmers. “Government is trying to confuse the farmers through its complex strategies, which is causing much delay, but they can’t curb our enthusiasm,” he added.0||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/groups-preparing-to-leave-for-delhi-on-thursday/articleshow/79946556.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Deadlock can be lifted only if both government, farmers took step forward’||HISAR: Former Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Birender Singh sat on a dharna in front of peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram’s statue here on Thursday evening, under the banner of Chaudhary Chhotu Ram Vichar Manch. He said the deadlock between the farmers and the Union government over the agriculture laws would end only if both took a step forward. “Some efforts have been going on for the last two to three days, so it seems that now some solution will be found for the farmer agitation. This is also the reason for the delayed arrival at Hisar’s dharna,” he said. Interacting with the media, he said when the agitated farmers will understand that the problem has to be resolved and the government will understand that we do not want to offend the farmers, then this deadlock will be overcome. When asked why he is supporting farmers’ agitation, which is against his party’s wishes, he said 62% of the population in the country are farmers and giving voice to their concern is not anti-party activity. As for his MP son, Brijendra Singh, not coming in support of the farmers, Birender said his son makes his own decisions. However, if he asks for advice, he will definitely tell him why it is important to support farmers, he said. On the SYL issue, he said time is of essence. “In the last 50 years, almost every leader of the state has collected votes on this issue but has not resolved it. Today, the brothers of Punjab and Haryana are sitting together and when these two brothers sit and talk among themselves, then this problem will be solved,” he added. He said by December 28, the dharnas will be completed in all districts in the state and after this, if the solution is not found, he will take out the tiranga yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/deadlock-can-be-lifted-only-if-both-govt-farmers-took-step-forward/articleshow/79946552.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||X’mas binds Anglo-Indians together in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With just a handful of members remaining in Rajasthan, the Anglo-Indian community in different parts of the state try to remain in touch during the Christmas. Although in pandemic, it has become even more difficult. A person belongs to an Anglo-Indian community if he/she is from a lineage of a mixed marriage between a foreigner and Indian. Once a flourishing community after 1947, most of them migrated to different parts of the world, but a few of them decided to stay back to their roots. In Jaipur, only 10 families of Anglo-Indians are remaining. Leslie Ropson, secretary of the community, said, “Until last year, we used to have a week-long celebration of Anglo-Indians starting from Christmas eve. There used to be Christmas mass, dance, music and a New Year’s ball. Anglo-Indians from different parts of Rajasthan used to participate in it. Due to a pandemic, it is not possible this year. Although we will be in touch through social media.” In Jaipur, Anglo-Indians have a lot of contribution in the education sector. St. Joseph, St Peter’s, St Michael’s are some prominent schools of Jaipur still run by the community members. However, now the younger generation is leaving the town for a better prospect. Tanya Rose Castella, a member of the community in Jaipur, said that with the expansion of the city it has become difficult for them to meet frequently. “Most of our younger generation is going out for better prospects and life. We are an aging community although we do organise different events during holidays especially Christmas but its charm has definitely dwindled,” said Castella. Most of the Anglo Indians in Rajasthan belong to Catholic sect of Christianity but there are many Protestant as well. Before Independence, many churches had British in title like St Mary’s Church in Ajmer used to be called as St. Mary’s Church of England, but now these all are run by Church of North India. Anglo-Indian also have a unique cuisine mixture of eastern and Western culture. Sally Everett Joseph, one of the 20 families of Anglo-Indian in Ajmer said that the famous dish is Ball curry and yellow rice. She even cooks tamarind fish, pork-vindaloo, Jalfrezi and chicken on Christmas. Members of this community are still living in Ajmer, Jaipur, Mt. Abu, Jodhpur and a few in Udaipur but there will be a day when their culture will become a thing of the past in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/xmas-binds-anglo-indians-together-in-raj/articleshow/79948058.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
December 25, 2020||Delhi||PM Narendra Modi to flag off India’s first driverless train on Magenta Line on Monday||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will flag off the country’s first-ever fully automated driverless train service on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line (Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden). He will also launch the fully operational National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) for travel on the Airport Express Line the same day. The technological leap of driverless operations, which comes as Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) completes 18 years of operations on December 24, has been made possible in the 37-km-long Magenta Line and the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) due to a state-of-the-art Communication-Based Train Control (CBTC) signalling technology. Compared with the technology used in older Metro corridors, CBTC allows more efficient and safe train operations. DMRC has been carrying out trial runs in driverless mode in non-revenue hours and has also got its signalling system reviewed by experts for eventual implementation of Unattended Train Operation (UTO) phase. In driverless operations, DMRC will replace drivers with ‘roaming attendants’ who will be trained in driving trains. But instead of being stationed at the driver’s cabin, they will move up and down the train to assist passengers in need. Driverless operations have been made possible due to changes in the existing ‘General Rules’ for running trains that takes into account the presence of a driver and the guidelines of handling any emergency involving the presence of a driver. The new Metro Railway General Rules 2020, however, takes into account driverless operations. The Pink and Magenta Lines are planned to be operated in the UTO mode in a phased manner. Magenta Line will switch from Automatic Train Operation (ATO) mode to Driverless Train Operation (DTO) mode on Monday. However, the trains, signalling system, traction, track and depot design of Magenta and Pink Lines are compliant for operation in the UTO mode and eventually, DMRC plans to move to this mode on these two corridors. While the Delhi Metro system will see fully operational NCMC for the first time from Monday, the PM had first launched the indigenously developed NCMC in March 2019 to enable people to pay multiple kinds of transport charges, including Metro services across the country. Dubbed as ‘One Nation One Card’, the inter-operable transport card aims to allow the holders to pay for their bus travel, toll taxes, parking charges, retail shopping and even withdraw money. To enable the use of NCMC, DMRC had installed new firmware and software at the automatic fare collection gates of the 23-km-long Airport Express Line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pm-to-flag-off-indias-first-driverless-train-on-magenta-line-on-monday/articleshow/79948099.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Low-key Christmas at 171-year-old Mt. Abu church||JAIPUR: Once a flourishing community in Mount Abu, the dwindling number of Protestant Christians in the town is the reason why Christmas is losing its charm in the 171-year-old church. Saint Saviour’s Church was established in 1849 for which the then government of Bombay contributed Rs 472. From 1853, the expansion of church began to accommodate a greater number of people as the presence of British troops was increasing in Mount Abu. At present, the church can hold more than 300 people. Since Independence, the number of Protestant Christians have been going down and currently only 10 families remain. Asha Saini, a member of the community, said youngsters were leaving the town as the jobs prospects was not much here. “After schooling, there is not much to do in this town for the young generation. Hence, most of our children are settled outside. A few decades ago, Christmas used to be loaded with fun all week. Tourists used to visit this church during Christmas. Now, with only a few families, it’s not fun anymore,” said Asha. Catholic Christians still have majority in the town as they have two prominent schools run by their organization and worship in different churches. Reverend Rajesh Mackwan, former priest of the church who worked tremendously for its renovation, said this heritage church was in terrible condition due to neglect in 2007. “As a community leader, we asked for donations from the members and renovated the church. Saint Savior’s Church used to have visitors from different royal families of Rajasthan and British army officials. There used to be special place for each dignitary. The church used to be a big part of social life. I tried to bring back its glorious days, but with such few numbers, it’s not possible,” said Mackwan. With limited manpower, donations are dwindling and aged community lacks resources to revive it. Members of the community go to the church for prayers on Christmas, but the pandemic has come as a damper. Most worshippers will pray at home than attend social gatherings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/low-key-christmas-at-171-year-old-mt-abu-church/articleshow/79948070.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Captain betrayed farmers with secret deal with BJP: SAD||CHANDIGARH: The SAD on Thursday accused Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh of forging secret deals with the BJP-led central government to sabotage the farmers’ cause. In a statement issued here, former minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal, said, “You have stained your high office by using your position to betray the farmers’ struggle. This was proved by your own MP, Ravneet Singh Bittu, who publicly announced that Union minister Piyush Goyal told him to stop protestations in favour of farmers. You backstabbed the cause of farmers by entering into a secret deal with the BJP.” Grewal also rubbished the chief minister’s claim that he did not visit the agitating farmers because they did not want to involve political parties in their protest. “You were asked this question during your social media interaction because Punjabis had expected their chief minister to visit the protest site to express solidarity with farmers. It is you who is politicising the chief minister’s office by linking it with the Congress party, which is condemnable,” he said. “You seem to have forgotten that you amended the APMC Act immediately after forming the government in the state. You were also a member of the committee which discussed the then agricultural ordinances threadbare before they came into being,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-betrayed-farmers-with-secret-deal-with-bjp-sad/articleshow/79946576.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Bengaluru||U-turn in 24 hours: BS Yediyurappa government scraps night curfew order||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa rolled back night-curfew orders across the state on Thursday after his announcement a day earlier provoked anger and protests from members of the business community, citizens and political parties, and silent dissent among the police and bureaucracy. “After receiving feedback from the public that a night curfew is not needed and after discussing the decision with cabinet colleagues and senior officials, it was decided to withdraw the order. The public should prevent the spread of the virus by self-imposing regulations, wearing masks, maintaining distance, avoiding unnecessary travel and maintaining strict adherence to government-imposed Covid-19 control rules,” a statement from the CMO on Thursday evening said. The ban on public New Year revelry — including special events in hotels, bars and pubs — remains. The government had announced a week-long night curfew on Wednesday after dismissing any such talk just the day before. Govt found it difficult to defend another night curfewAt least on four occasions since Tuesday, the CM gave statements going back on his earlier statement, in an indication of the confusion within the administration on the subject, and flip-flops by the political executive. On Wednesday, Yediyurappa announced a night curfew from 10pm to 6am and, within hours, relaxed it by cutting an hour each at night and in the morning. The government also issued a notification highlighting the SOPs for implementing night curfew. He justified the curbs, saying it was based on an opinion from the Covid-19 technical advisory committee as well as the Centre in light of a new variant of Sars-CoV-2 virus surfacing in the UK. The government has been avoiding any new curbs in order to put business activities back on track. It also found it difficult to defend a night curfew now as the Covid-19 caseload has been falling for two weeks, and Bengaluru reported just about 640 fresh Covid cases on Thursday. The CM had said the curfew is in tune with the Centre’s advisory while the latter had not stated anything on night curfew. In fact, health experts warned authorities against overreacting to cases detected in the UK, while counselling the public to stick to the Covid norms in the run-up to the New Year celebrations. Karnataka’s knee-jerk reaction followed similar measures in Maharashtra, Punjab, Manipur, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh. Officials rushed to the CM’s home office soon after the announcement and explained implications of the harsh measure on economic activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/u-turn-in-24-hrs-bsy-govt-scraps-night-curfew-order/articleshow/79949217.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengluru safe city project runs into trouble||BENGALURU: An IPS officer has come under the scanner for trying to access classified information on the tendering process related to the Rs 619 crore Bengaluru Safe City project. Police have lodged a complaint with chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar and sought a high-level inquiry. The city police have taken objection to the officer’s interference in the project at a time when the process of selecting the service provider for design, implementation and maintenance of the project was underway. The project, funded by the Centre under the Nirbhaya Fund and aimed at ensuring safety of women and children, envisages installation of 7,500 different types of surveillance cameras across the city. Action will be taken against ‘impersonator’ cop: MinisterThe request for proposal (RFP) was prepared by an independent project management consultancy firm hired by the city police and the tender for the project was uploaded on November 11by the additional commissioner of police (administration), Bengaluru city police. However, the city police learned that an officer, who was not related to the project, had contacted the project consultants on November 7 before the tender was uploaded and sought details about the previous RFP that got cancelled and the allegations made by one of the bidders, the status of the new RFP, the Make-in-India weightage and the process followed for the current RFP. The IPS officer’s interference came to the fore when the independent project management consultant reverted to the city police on November 9 seeking to know if the details should be shared. While cross-checking, the city police learned that the home secretary had not sought any details and it was another IPS officer. The complaint to chief secretary stated that the officer unauthorisedly tried to “access classified information before publication of tender for wrongful gains”. Chief secretary Vijay Bhaskar said the home department was aware of the matter and is taking suitable steps. Additional chief secretary (home) Rajneesh Goel said the project was being executed by the home department but said he was not authorised to comment on the issue. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said necessary action will be initiated as per chief secretary’s directions. What is Safe City Project?Under the Nirbhaya fund to implement the Safe City Project, Bengaluru was one of the few cities in the country chosen to make urban spaces safer for women and children. The project is scheduled to be implemented over a threeyear period and the centre will bear 60% of the cost, and the state 40%. The project includes installing of CCTV cameras, surveillance systems, panic buttons and GIS mapping of crimes in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengluru-safe-city-project-runs-into-trouble/articleshow/79949221.cms||Kiran Parashar
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Gujjar leader Bainsla admits to SMS with breathing difficulties||JAIPUR: Gujjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla, who had spearheaded the protest for reservation recently, was admitted to Sawai Man Singh Hospital with breathing difficulties on Thursday.He was rushed from Hindaun to Jaipur for treatment. “We have admitted him to medical ICU, where doctors are conducting diagnostic tests along with medication,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, medical superintendent, SMS Hospital.Bainsla had tested positive for Covid on November 12, a day after meeting chief minister Ashok Gehlot. He had undergone treatment at Infectious Disease Hospital under SMS Medical College and was discharged after his condition improved. Bainsla complained sudden breathlessness, following which his family members rushed him to SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gujjar-leader-bainsla-admits-to-sms-with-breathing-difficulties/articleshow/79948083.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Covid death graph goes down, cases plummet||JAIPUR: With the Covid graph going down, virus deaths have also reduced. Between December 16 and 22, the state reported 66 deaths, which is far lower than 100 weekly deaths reported earlier. From December 2 to 8, as many as 156 persons had lost their lives to Covid in the state. “Mortality rate is going down in the state while the recovery rate has gone above 95% and active cases have gone down,” said a senior health department official. The state is having 11,759 active cases currently, out of which 3,881 are in Jaipur, followed by Jodhpur (1423), Kota (578), Dungarpur (486). In the last 10 days, Dungarpur reported 447 Covid cases, which accounted for 10% of the cases reported in the district so far. Due to increased number of cases in Dungarpur, it is at the fourth place among the districts having highest number of active cases. Though the number of deaths have gone down, eight people have lost their lives to Covid on Thursday, while 1,001 others tested positive in the state taking the overall tally to 3,02,709. The state’s casualty figure stands at 2,650. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (175), Kota (113), Jodhpur (100), Ajmer (65), Alwar (47), Udaipur (47), Bhilwara (41), Dungarpur (37), Rajsamand (35), Baran (33), Sriganaganagar (30), Nagaur (29), Tonk (23), Banswara (19), Bharatpur (19), Chittorgarh (19), Churu (16), Sikar (15), Pali (15), Pratapgarh (15), Bundi (15), Jaisalmer (14), Dholpur (12), Sirohi (12), Jhalawar (10), Barmer (8), Bikaner (8), Sawai Madhopur (7), Hanumangarh (6), Jhunjhunu (5), Dausa (4), Jalore (4) and Karauli (3). Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its Covid-19 toll to 282, Jaipur reported its 494th, Pali 108th, Chittorgarh 36th, Tonk 34th, Jhalawar 22nd and Bundi reported its 17th Covid-19 death. Covid pandemic in the stateCasesDeathsMortality rateDec 16-Dec 227132660.9Dec 9-Dec 159,4681001.0Dec 2-Dec 816,0531560.97Nov 25-Dec 1175811120.63Nov 18-Nov 2420,3021110.54Nov 11- Nov 1715109810.5Nov 4- Nov 1012,851720.5Oct 28- Nov 312,376690.5Oct 21-Oct 2712721930.7Oct 14-Oct 2013,904950.6Oct 07-Oct 1314,9031050.7BOX:Today’s positive: 1001Cumulative positive:3,02,709Today’s death: 8Cumulative deaths: 2650Today’s recovered: 970Cumulative recovered: 2,88,388Active cases: 11,759||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-death-graph-goes-down-cases-plummet/articleshow/79948098.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Covid included under govt health scheme||JAIPUR: Treatment of Covid and hemo-dialysis have been included among the 1,574 packages under Ayushman Bharat Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojna (AB-MGRSBY). At a review meeting of AB-MGRSBY held at his residence on Thursday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot directed the health department officials to implement the insurance schemes effectively for giving more benefits to underprivileged people eligible under the scheme. The insurance cover has been increased from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. The state government has allocated Rs 1,400crore budget per year for the scheme. Gehlot said Ayushman Bharat is a Centre’s scheme and the beneficiaries were those who were covered under social and economic census 2011. Only 59 lakh families were eligible for it. But, the state government included the families which are convered under National Food Security scheme and now 1.5 crore families have become eligible for getting benefits. The premium per family is Rs 1,662 in state but Centre is giving it for Rs 1,052. While the Centre is providing Rs 400 crore, the state is spending Rs 1,400 crore on the scheme per year. Directions have been issued to monitor private hosptials to prevent filing of any false claims. An IT-enabled monitoring system will be developed for the purpose, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-included-under-govt-health-scheme/articleshow/79948096.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ludhiana||No denial to probe, but would gherao I-T officials: Arhtiyas||PATIALA: The arhtiyas (commission agents) in Punjab have got farmers’ support and have decided to gherao the income tax (I-T) officials together, wherever raids are carried against them. However, arhtiyas claimed that they would not refuse further probe by the IT officials, who had carried out raids on their six colleagues in Punjab last week. They alleged the I-T officials had conducted raids to create pressure on them, as arhtiyas had extended support to the farmers’ agitation against three new agriculture laws enacted by the Union government. The arhtiyas said farmer leaders in a recent meeting have assured them of support in the protest against I-T officials by the arhtiya fraternity if further raids are carried out in the state. “Around 10 arhtiyas were served notices and raids were carried out at the premises of six by the I-T officials. There will be no denial from our side to the I-T officials to proceed further, as we have nothing to hide. But these raids are pressure tactics being used on us to suppress the farmers’ agitation by suppressing their supporters from various sections. In the recent meeting, the farmers have extended their support to us and assured us they will be part of gherao of IT officials if they carry out further raids,” the Federation of Arhtiya Association, Punjab president Vijay Kalra said. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokarikalan said, “We will support the arhtiyas as the government wants to suppress the farmer agitation in one or other way.” Already in protest against raids conducted by the tax officials, the arhtiyas have closed the grain markets for four days till Friday and this had impacted the daily wagers and the labourers besides affecting the farmers. Punjab Arhtiya Association president Ravinder Singh Cheema said, “The grain markets have been shut down for four days till Friday due to which farmers and labourers are affected. There are around eight lakh labourers across the state working in the grain markets directly and indirectly. With the closure of mandis, the farmers are unable to get items or money from arhtiyas and the central government is responsible for this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-denial-to-probe-but-would-gherao-i-t-officials-arhtiyas/articleshow/79946591.cms||Bharat Khanna
December 25, 2020||India||Bella Ciao in Punjabi, Faiz in Tamil give stir its rhythm||BATHINDA/JALANDHAR: The music of protest has bridged language, culture and geographic divides. Songs with roots in Italian folk music and in the sublime genius of Faiz Ahmad Faiz’s ghazals is keeping spirits singing in the farmers’ agitation against the three central agri-marketing laws on the borders of Delhi. “Wapas Jao”, a Punjabi version of “Bella Ciao (Goodbye, Beautiful)”, an Italian farmers’ protest song from the late 1800s, has gained newfound popularity because of a web series, has been an instant hit, as have been songs themed on Iqbal Bano’s rendition of Faiz’s ghazal, “Hum Dekhenge”, in Punjabi and Tamil. “This is not a translation of the original ‘Bella Ciao’ but a rendition of it in Punjabi in solidarity with the farmers. It was sung by workers in protest against harsh working conditions in the paddy fields of north Italy. Versions of Bella Ciao continue to be sung worldwide as an anti-fascist hymn of freedom and resistance. This version in Punjabi is written and sung by Poojan Sahil for a campaign led by activist Harsh Mander,” said author and filmmaker Natasha Badhwar, the creative producer of the music video. She said the song is an effort to take the struggle of the farmers protesting on the borders of Delhi, in harsh conditions, to a wider audience. Ajaypal, one of the protesters, said cultural expression of dissent gets instant traction and “Wapas jao” is a case in point. The song based on Faiz Ahmad Faiz’s ghazal is titled “Hai Sada Haq (It’s Our Right)” in Punjabi and “Nee Ajanthey (Fear Not)” in Tamil. Remarkably, even the Punjabi version has been sung by Tamil singers Vedanth Bharadwaj and Bindhu Malini. In the song, images and video footage of the farmers’ protest, including of them crossing barricades, have been used. Uploaded on YouTube by Vettiver Collective, the song is a “Justice Rocks” initiative by #Madrasis4Punjabis, a hashtag created to convey solidarity from the deep south of India to protesters from Punjab and Haryana.“We share your pain and resonate with your concern,” the producers said. Nityanand Jayaraman, a freelance journalist who conceived the idea, said they wanted to convey a message of solidarity from the people of Tamil Nadu for the farmers of Punjab and wanted the latter to understand. “We feel very strongly that the protesting farmers are correct in demanding the scrapping of the farm laws. It is also being projected as though it only concerns Punjab, and that the farmers are Khalistanis or terrorists,” Jayaraman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bella-ciao-in-punjabi-faiz-in-tamil-give-stir-its-rhythm/articleshow/79949039.cms||Neel Kamal
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||More warmers needs for kids at Kota’s JK Lon hosp: Rights panel||JAIPUR: A two-member team constituted by the Rajasthan State Human Rights Commission chairperson Justice Mahesh Chandra for investigating the deaths of nine children at Kota’s JK Lon Hospital on December 10 submitted its report along with 18 recommendations to the state government to prevent such cases in future. The team comprising commission secretary B L Meena and registrar Omi Purohit in their report mentioned that during the investigation it has been found that JK Lon Hospital was the only facility available in Kota for treatment of children. It has been recommended to set up a separate wing for infants in Kota division. Also, at each district, there should be a modernized neonatal ICU wing. The commission found that the chances of spread of infection was higher at JK Lon Hospital as more than one patient was getting treatment from one warmer on a single bed. One warmer is sufficient for one patient. It is recommended to increase the number of warmers at the hospital up to 200. Also, there is a need to keep the warmers in reserve as it is an electric equipment and when it becomes defunt it needs to be replaced.The commission also recommended safety of children from Covid infection by regular testing of the nursing staff. Also, it has been suggested to keep the hospital clean, maintaining room temperature for children, nursing staff should follow hand hygiene practices, change bedsheets regularly, ensure cleaning of toilets, availability of sufficient staff should be maintained, giving pace to works under smart city projects for constructing 156-bed wards, registration of admission and death, availability of pediatricians at panchayat level, all hospitals should have centralized oxygen system, children in hospital should be kept in hygenic condition, gyneachologists should take care of pregmant women from the beginning of pregnancy, antenatal check ups at every three months should be done, and awareness should be created among women on their health issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-warmers-needs-for-kids-at-kotas-jk-lon-hosp-rights-panel/articleshow/79948102.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Retd IAF officer returns Commendation Medal in support of farmers||LUDHIANA: Upset with the farmers’ agitation being tagged as “China and Pakistan sponsored” and “questions” being raised on their “patriotism”, a retired warrant officer of Indian Air Force (IAF) has returned his prestigious medal. Seventy-six years old Gurtek Singh Virk has participated in 1965 and 1971 wars against the Pakistan before retiring in 1993. The retired officer, who lives in BRS Nagar area of Ludhiana, told TOI that though he had returned majority of the 13 awards he had got during his service in Air Force (from 1963 to 1993) during OROP issue, he also returned the prestigious Commendation Medal awarded to him by Chief of Air Staff in 1990s. He added that the award is given to a selected few officers for their dedicated and selfless services in IAF. “Since I was unwell and I am unable to travel, so with deep pain I gave the medal to members of Ex-servicemen Welfare Society, whose members went to Singhu border to support farmers’ agitation, and asked them to return the hard-earned medal to President of India in Delhi who is Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces,” said the retired officer. “It is painful that the government representative is saying this agitation is China and Pakistan sponsored. If they have proof, why don’t they file a case and whoever is the culprit should be punished, instead casting aspersions over our patriotism. We fully support the agitation and I want that these laws should be repealed,” added the retired IAF officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/retd-iaf-officer-returns-commendation-medal-in-support-of-farmers/articleshow/79946600.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Man held for duping woman of Rs 85,000||NEW DELHI: The northwest district police have arrested a person from Meerut who would pose as a tantrik and dupe people in Delhi. The suspect, Harun, had assumed the identity of Pandit Rahul Shashtri and claimed to be doing “grah shanti” for people. He recently duped a woman of Rs 85,000 on the pretext of doing rituals for domestic peace. According to police, a woman lodged a complaint at the Keshavpuram police station stating that she came in contact with the “priest” on November 19 through telephonic conversation. He induced her to perform pooja for domestic peace for Rs 3,500. “The victim claimed that she was hypnotised and deposited the said amount in his bank account. The accused managed to get credited total Rs 85,000 to his bank account in different transactions. The next day, she came in her normal sense and found that she was duped. She also alleged that he was pressuring her to deposit Rs 55,000 more in his account. The woman later informed her family members about it, following which a case was registered,” said Vijayanta Arya, DCP, North-West. A team was subsequently formed and the accused, Harun alias Miyaa Shah Ji Bangali (55), arrested from Meerut on December 21. During interrogation, he said that he was a tantrik and also having a web portal in his name. “The accused disclosed that his son was talking to the complainant and the cheated amount was credited in the bank account of another person known to them. The accused is registered on Google and True Caller App as Miya Shah Ji Bangali, an occultist who claims to sort out many issues. He was also earlier involved in the riots, which occurred in Meerut. Raids are being carried out to nab his accomplices,” added Arya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tantrik-held-for-duping-woman-of-rs-85000/articleshow/79948103.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Look into illegal structures in Shamshabad, directs HC||Hyderabad: Telangana high court on Thursday directed Shamshabad municipal commissioner to inspect survey No. 203 in Shamshabad and verify whether any illegal constructions are coming up in the area. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy sought a report from the commissioner by January 4 on the issue. The judges gave this direction while hearing a PIL filed by G Jai Paul of India Fellowship Inc Society charging the authorities with remaining inactive despite having prior information about the construction of buildings on the land. According to the petitioner, two persons have been raising structures in 5.12 acres of public space in Shamshabad town and started raising buildings there. “The municipality should accord building plans and permissions. If the application comes seeking permission to raise structures, then the officials would come to know that this is encroachment and no structures can be permitted there,” the petitioner said. “Even if the encroachers are raising structures without seeking any building permission, it is still illegal. So, there is no question of municipal officials not knowing about the ongoing constructions,” Paul said. He said even work was going on openly, officials chose to remain mum. “We have even given a representation to the municipal officials bringing to their notice about the illegal constructions on November 6 this year. No action has been taken up till now,” the petitioner said. He said this is in violation of the provisions of Telangana Municipalities Act, 2019, and sought action against two individuals for raising the structures illegally. The judges also issued notices to the principal secretary of the municipal administration department, municipal commissioner of Samshabad municipality and the alleged violators who were named in the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/look-into-illegal-structures-in-shamshabad-directs-hc/articleshow/79948132.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation to build RWH pits under Smart City scheme||TRICHY: Trichy Corporation has planned to expand the project of establishing roadside rainwater harvesting (RWH) pits in more city roads using the Smart City mission fund. The move came after the success of the pilot RWH pits established on Reynolds Road (near Cantonment police station), VOC road behind Central bus stand and Veereswaram in Srirangam. The civic body has identified inundation prone spots in two of the four civic body zones during the recent rainfalls during Nivar and Burevi cyclones. The corporation has sanctioned a sum of Rs 1.80 crore from the Smart City mission fund towards the same. Total Rs 90 lakh was sanction to each K Abishekapuram and Ariyamangalam zones to construct at least 25-30 roadside RWH pits. Around 50 sq ft space in the stagnation prone area bordering the roads will be dug for a depth of four feet. Beneath the pits, an array of 3-6 perforated PVC pipelines will be laid further for a depth of 12 metres. The RWH pits filled with gravel and sand will be covered with filter and concrete slabs. The structures will harvest the runoff water from the roads, preventing inundation in the low-lying areas including traffic signals and roundabouts. “Roadside RWH is a cost-effective project, the single structure may cost Rs 3 lakh. Construction work will begin within a month and will be completed is three months,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.The civic body claimed that the absence of proper RWH design in commercial establishments and houses was one of the reasons for the stagnation. The civic body has planned to depute field workers in the residential neighbourhoods to inspect the presence of RWH pits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-to-build-rwh-pits-under-smart-city-scheme/articleshow/79948123.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 25, 2020||Agra||Fog covers western Uttar Pradesh, chill goes down the spine||AGRA: Cold winds passing through the dense fog continued to add to the chill in western UP where mercury hovered close to 5 degree Celsius. Pollution, after mixing with the fog, further reduced the visibility to a few meters on several throughways and led to vehicle pile-ups, a regular feature of winters. One person was killed and at least 11 others were injured after 10 vehicles collided on the Lucknow-Delhi national highway in Moradabad on Thursday morning. The condition of three victims is still critical. Several such pile-ups were witnessed in other parts of the region this week, leaving several dead and scores injured. Several trains passing through the region were also running late by several hours. Sky remained overcast for most part of the day. And a meek sun failed to warm up the region and also the spirits. People remained indoors in the night and in the morning, covered in warm clothes and sipping tea. According to the weatherman, the mercury is likely to drop below 5 degrees in the next three days. On Thursday, the maximum temperature in Agra was recorded 22.8 deg C which was one degree less than normal. The minimum was 8 degrees. Meanwhile, Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) kept gas heaters at over a dozen places in the evening. People also set up bonfires. Cold wave also swept across Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri. According to the meteorological department, the Agra region is likely to witness dense fog in morning and evening for the next one week. Minimum temperature is expected to decrease by 3 degrees and maximum temperature 2 degrees in the next three days. In Meerut, the minimum temperature was 5.2 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/fog-covers-western-up-chill-goes-down-the-spine/articleshow/79945609.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Centre trying to suppress voices of farmers, elected representatives: Preneet||PATIALA: Member Parliament from Patiala and former Union minister of state for external affairs, Preneet Kaur strongly condemned the Union government for suppressing the voices of farmers as well as elected representatives. In a press statement issued after her release from Delhi's Mandir Marg police station, Patiala MP Kaur said on Thursday, Congress Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha members and Central Working Committee members and Youth Congress leaders, led by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, had scheduled a march to the Rashtrapati Bhawan to submit a petition signed by over two crore farmers to the President for repeal of the anti-farmers laws. However, she said, in an unprecedented action they were stopped by the Delhi Police outside AICC office. She further said after allowing the three Congress leaders to file the petition, the demand of the rest of the delegation to march up to the gate of Rashtrapati Bhavan, was also denied, which, she held, was a brutal murder of democracy. Kaur said this indifferent attitude of the central government towards the ‘annadata’ of the country would go down in the annals of history as the most barbaric and condemnable action. “Our annadata is our pride and we will not sit until their demands are met,” she said. She added that Punjab Congress would never allow these black laws and the anti-farmer plans of the BJP led central government to succeed, as they were aimed at destroying the agrarian economy and farmers of the state. She lauded the efforts of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to set up helplines 1091 and 112 to provide emergency aid to the families of the farmers participating in the agitation. The state government is also standing firmly with the families of farmers who had died during the ongoing struggle, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/centre-trying-to-suppress-voices-of-farmers-elected-representatives-preneet/articleshow/79946615.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Inter-state gang involved in ATM thefts busted, 6 held||Hyderabad: Six members of an inter-state gang were arrested by Rachakonda police on Thursday for their involvement in 11 different offences. They were stealing cash from ATM kiosks by using a gas cutter. Four others of the gang are on the run. Waris Khan and Mohin Khan of Rajasthan, Waheed Khan, Munazeer and Zahir Khan of Haryana and Mufeed Khan of Uttar Pradesh were arrested while four associates -- Kader Khan, Azru, Haris and Irfan — are absconding. Police recovered Rs 16.90 lakh and other articles from the gang members. The accused had committed offences in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh in the past. In Bihar, they had stolen Rs 21 lakh cash in one such offence. All the accused met one another in jail and later they formed into a gang and started committing ATM thefts. This is the first time the accused have been arrested since October when they first started targeting the ATM centres, a police official said. In the last one month alone, the accused had stolen cash from two ATMs in Shabad and Vanasthalipuram police station limits. Rachakonda Special Operations Team (SOT) got the first clue after they compared the footage of an accused arrested from a scene of offence in city with a footage recovered from a similar offence, which the accused had committed in Chittoor in AP some time ago. Using the mobile tower location of the accused, cops nabbed the accused reportedly in Tamil Nadu. Before they committed two offences in the city in the last one month, the gang members had stolen a parked car in Vanasthalipuram. Later, they had even stolen an oxygen cylinder with a cutter kept at a lorry workshop in Autonagar. “The gang members preferred to target those ATMs which had iron frames. By using the gas cutter, they used to cut open the machines and steal the cash,’’ Rachakonda police said in a press note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-state-gang-involved-in-atm-thefts-busted-6-held/articleshow/79948134.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Goa||Goa University defers January exams for final year students||PANAJI: Goa University has issued a circular on Thursday deferring the physical examinations scheduled to be held from January 4 for semester V of the BA, BSc and BCom programmes. The first exam of the academic year 2020-21 for final-year general stream degree programme students will now begin from January 18, 2021. The exams have been deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation and to permit students additional time for preparation, GU has said. The offline exams earlier scheduled to begin on January 4 and to end on January 23, will now be held from January 18 to February 6, 2021. However, all online exams will be conducted as scheduled for the first and second year students. In a regular year, both exams for final-year students studying in BA, BSc, BCom programmes, i.e. exams for semesters V and VI, are conducted by Goa University. But during the academic year 2020-21, colleges have been given the levy to conduct the semester V exam on their own due to the pandemic, by setting their own question papers. As per the circular, for students on the Goa University campus too the exams have been postponed. The offline examinations scheduled from December 28, 2020 to January 6, 2021 have been postponed and will now be held from January 11 to 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/university-defers-january-exams-for-final-year-students/articleshow/79946653.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Five-year-old boy falls into open drain, dies||TRICHY: A five-year-old boy lost his life after falling into an open drainage canal passing through Thennur in Trichy city. The deceased has been identified as Yashwanth, son of Premkumar from Annai Sathya Nagar in Thennur. Residents said that their demand to cover the open drainage channels was ignored by the Trichy corporation authorities. The corporation, in turn, blamed the local people for letting the drainage outside their houses although the vicinity has underground drainage (UGD) system in place. The boy was reported missing by the family on Wednesday around 7 pm. Local people said that Yashwant was last seen playing in the streets all by himself. Unable to trace him, the parents lodged a complaint with Thillai Nagar police station. But, local people found the boy dead in the open drainage channel in the neighbourhood on Thursday. Wastewater from Anna Nagar locality flows through Annai Sathya Nagar and ends up at Fort channel near Ramakrishna theatre. Although the channel is 5ft deep and 4ft wide, residents said that a majority of the large drainage carriers in Thennur including those behind Ukkira Kaliamman temple residential areas were uncovered. “Had the channel been covered with RCC slabs, the boy’s life would have been saved. People used to cover the channel with plywood and other flat materials,” C Arumugam, a resident of Annai Sathya Nagar, said. Corporation sources said that the channel will be covered with RCC slabs in a phased manner. “We have prepared an estimate to cover all the open drains in Anna Nagar,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-5-falls-into-open-drain-dies/articleshow/79948128.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 25, 2020||Agra||Etah dhaba owner shot at for serving cold chapati, 2 held||Agra: Angry at being served cold “chapatis” at a roadside eatery, opposite the bus stand in Etah, a youth allegedly whipped out his licensed pistol and shot the dhaba owner on Wednesday night. The assailant and his companion have been arrested. Quoting dhabha owner, Awadhesh Yadav, police said two youths came to the eatery and ordered food at around 11:30 pm on Wednesday. While eating, they objected to cold chapatis being served and had a heated argument with Yadav. Suddenly, one of the youths, allegedly pulled out a pistol and shot Yadav. The bullet hit him on the right thigh, police added. The dhaba owner was rushed to hospital, where the bullet was removed. He is said to be out of danger. Sunil Kumar Singh, senior superintendent of police, said, “Both accused, Amit Chauhan and Kasustab Singh, have been arrested. Two licensed pistols were seized from them. A case has been registered against the duo under IPC section 307 (attempt tAo murder), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). Both have been sent to jail on court orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/etah-dhaba-owner-shot-at-for-serving-cold-chapati-2-held/articleshow/79945620.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers gherao JJP MLAs Dhanak, Babli in Uklana, Tohana||HISAR: Stepping up their protest against the politicians of the ruling party in the region, the farmers gheraoed the office and residence of JJP MLAs Anoop Dhanak in Uklana in Hisar district and Devender Singh Babli in Tohana town of Fatehabad on Thursday. Around 1,000 protesters farmers organisation gheraoed the office of Tohana MLA Babli in Tohana town, demanding his resignation and withdrawal of support from the government and to join the protesting farmers. Babli was not present in the office at the time of protest and his brother accepted the memorandum from the farmers. The protesters also gheraoed the house of state minister Anoop Dhanak at his town Uklana on Thursday. The protesters broke the barricades to reach near the house and raised anti government slogans. They demanded his resignation. The minister was not at the house at the time of protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-gherao-jjp-mlas-dhanak-babli-in-uklana-tohana/articleshow/79946641.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Goa||NIT Goa to have virtual convocation||Panaji: The sixth convocation ceremony of National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, will be addressed by Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank through the virtual mode. The event is scheduled to be held on December 28, and will see 69 NIT Goa students being awarded the BTech degrees and 36 students with the MTech degrees. The institute will also confer PhD degrees to six students, NIT Goa director Gopal Mugeraya said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nit-goa-to-have-virtual-convocation/articleshow/79946660.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||3 peddlers arrested, ganja worth Rs 10L seized||Hyderabad: Uppal police arrested three peddlers and seized 100 kilos of ganja worth Rs 10 lakh on Thursday. The accused procured the contraband from Visakhapatnam agency area. The accused are Sk Ismail, a bike mechanic from Annavaram, Andhra Pradesh; M Satish, 30, an auto driver from Bagh Amberpet; and M Prakash, 37, an auto driver from Goshamahal. Ismail fell in love with a woman from Chintapally agency area of Visakhapatnam district and settled in Chintapally. Due to financial problems, Ismail started peddling ganja. Ismail came in contact with 27-year-old peddler, Arun Singh from Dhoolpet and started supplying ganja to him. Since 2017, Ismail has been arrested twice by Visakhapatnam district police for peddling ganja. He was released from prison on November 12 this year with the help of A Raghupathi Reddy of Vanasthalipuram. Recently Ismail procured ganja from supplier, Raju of Vishakapatnam for Rs 1,000 per kilo. “Ismail brought 100 kilos of ganja, loaded it in an auto from Chintapally to Hyderabad on Wednesday by paying Rs 50,000 to the auto driver and dumped the contraband at an open plot in Devender Nagar of Uppal as per Arun Singh’s instructions. Arun sent Satish and Prakash to pick up the contraband. When Ismail, Satish and Prakash were travelling in the latter’s auto with contraband to meet Arun, we intercepted the auto and seized the ganja,” Uppal Inspector N Ch Ranga Swamy said. Ismail planned to sell the ganja for Rs 10,000 a kilo to Arun, who in turn sells it to clients for Rs 15,000 a kilo. The police arrested the trio and launched a manhunt to nab Arun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-peddlers-arrested-ganja-worth-rs-10l-seized/articleshow/79948138.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Madurai||Madras high court stays SI selection process||MADURAI: Madras high court has granted interim stay on the entire selection process in the direct recruitment of sub-inspectors on the ground that the reservation for Persons Studied in Tamil Medium (PSTM) was not followed properly at every stage of recruitment. The court was hearing a batch of petitions challenging the selection and seeking to apply PSTM reservation in every stage. Senior counsel M Ajmal Khan submitted for the petitioners that 20% reservation under PSTM category has been applied only in the final stage of selection and not at every stage, unlike what is done by TNPSC. In all, 212 of the 1,064 SI posts notified in 2015 were meant for students who studied in Tamil medium, but only 34 got the posts under the PSTM category. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the state government has brought a laudable Act called PSTM Act with an incentive of 20% reservation in jobs to see that those from the state are encouraged to study in Tamil medium. However, even the said reservation is not properly implemented as the case before the court shows. As the reservation is applied at the final stage, the required number of candidates under 20% quota is not available for selection. Without taking note of this, the authorities have been continuing the same pattern instead of adopting a proven method followed by the TNPSC. The judges observed that if this process of selection is allowed to proceed, the very purpose of the PSTM Act will be lost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/high-court-stays-si-selection-process/articleshow/79948139.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 25, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC initiates contempt move against collector, drops it later||MADURAI: Madras high court on Wednesday evening dropped the contempt of court proceedings it suo motu initiated earlier in the day against officials including Karur district collector S Malarvizhi for not complying with its interim order not to lay drinking water pipelines from a place near Amaravathy river. This followed a submission from additional advocate general K Chellapandian that the collector was in an interior village in connection with the farmers’ agitation and therefore could not appear before the court. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by P Mani, treasurer of Village Drinking Water and Health Society, seeking a direction to forbear a private party from laying a pipeline near Amaravathy river to extract water for commercial purposes. During the previous hearing, the court had granted interim injunction restraining the person from laying the pipeline. On Wednesday, the petitioner’s counsel made a mention that despite the interim order, the person is carrying out the works. The judges observed that the video produced by the counsel reveals that the work was going on even till 12.30pm on December 23. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that despite the information sent by the special government pleader about the interim direction, the authorities are permitting laying of pipelines by digging the road using earthmovers. They said though the court had directed the collector and superintendent of police to appear before the court through video conference, they had not done so even after nearly two hours. The judges observed that it is evident that the collector is under some pressure since the private party is deemed to be powerful. Hence, the court initiated suo motu contempt against the respondents including the collector, issued statutory notice and directed them to appear before the court. Subsequently, the AAG informed the court that the collector could not appear through video conference as she was in an interior village. Taking into account the submissions, the judges dropped the suo motu contempt proceedings and directed the collector to ensure that the interim order of the court is complied with in letter and spirit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-initiates-contempt-move-against-collector-drops-it-later/articleshow/79948136.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 25, 2020||Goa||Govt to seek more time from high court for appointing Lokayukta||Panaji: Unable to find retired judges to appoint as the new Lokayukta, the state government has decided to file an application before the high court of Bombay at Goa seeking more time for the process. The high court had directed the state to appoint a new anti-corruption ombudsman by the end of this year. Advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI that the government will seek a two- or three-month extension in the matter. While it had received names of retired judges of the Supreme Court and a chief justice of the high court as probable candidates, most of them did not consent to taking up the post, Pangam said. There are at least 75 cases pending before the office of the Goa Lokayukta. The term of the state’s last Lokayukta, P K Misra, ended on September 17 this year. Panaji-based lawyer Aires Rodrigues had consequently approached the high court seeking a direction to the government to select a new Lokayukta. In his petition, he had claimed that the state did not appear keen to appoint the next Lokayukta so as to give public officials a free hand to indulge in acts of corruption and maladministration, and to bring to a grinding halt the cases pending before it. A senior government official said the state had written to a number of retired judges for their consent to be appointed as Goa Lokayukta. Generally, once consent is received, a three-member committee — comprising the chief minister, opposition leader and one other — is constituted to finalise the name, the official said. “Once the name is finalised in consultation with the chief justice of the Bombay high court, the new Lokayukta is appointed,” the official said. The state government had approached the Supreme Court to obtain names of retired judges to appoint as Goa’s new Lokayukta. Misra had taken the oath of office on April 28, 2016. The Goa cabinet dragged its feet for almost three years before the appointment was done. Prior to his appointment as Lokayukta, Misra served as the chairperson of the Goa State Human Rights Commission for five years. Goa’s first Lokayukta, former Supreme Court Justice Sudershan Reddy, was appointed in March 2013, but resigned within seven months citing personal reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-seek-more-time-from-high-court-for-appointing-lokayukta/articleshow/79946663.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 25, 2020||Goa||PM Modi to address Goan ryots today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address farmers in Goa along with those from five other states through video-conferencing on Friday. During the interaction with farmers, Modi will release the next instalment of financial benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM Kisan) to Goa. Under the scheme, income support amounting to Rs 18,000 crore will be released to 9,000 crore farmers in the country. The farmers are given Rs 6,000 a year in three instalments, paid in three equal cash transfers of Rs 2,000 every four months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pm-modi-to-address-goan-ryots-today/articleshow/79946669.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Goa||From 71 in 2014, Goa’s leopard population up to 86 in 2018 census||KERI: India’s leopard population has shown an increase of 60%, a trend that is also reflected in Goa. From 71 leopards recorded in the state in 2014, the numbers are up to 86 in 2018, as per results of the leopard census 2018 released by the Union environment ministry earlier this week. Of the 12,852 leopards recorded in 2018, 3,387 have been traced to the Western Ghats region, comprising Goa, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, states the ‘Status of Leopards in India 2018’ report of the environment ministry. Goa’s neighbouring states of Maharashtra (1,690) and Karnataka (1,783) too, have recorded a significant rise in leopards. This is heartening for Goa as well, as the contiguous forests along the borders form part of the habitat. Though Goa has six wildlife sanctuaries and one national park, leopards are also found in government and private forests and in their fringe areas. Leopards are afforded the highest legal protection in India under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and are included in scheduled-I species. Only when leopards turn man-eaters and when they are considered likely to continue to prey on humans, are they allowed to be killed. “In Goa, leopard-human conflict is on the rise. As they face paucity of prey, they now prefer to live in the vicinity of human settlements, where stray cattle and dogs become easy victims. Human beings are becoming more intolerant about the presence of leopards in their vicinity as well,” said wildlifer Amrut Singh. An injured leopard may become an exclusive predator of livestock, if it is unable to kill prey on its own. Frequent livestock raiding may cause leopards to lose their fear of humans. “We are taking necessary steps to monitor leopard movements and also mitigation measures to protect leopards in the protected areas. However, at times when leopards move in the fringe areas and prefer to live on stray dogs and cattle, it results in man-leopard conflict,” said deputy conservator of forests, North Goa Wildlife division, Arulraj Jabestin. Over the last decade, leopard-man conflict has shown an increase, with villagers insisting on trapping and relocating the leopard far away from settlement areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-71-in-2014-goas-leopard-popn-up-to-86-in-2018-census/articleshow/79948939.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
December 25, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC orders seats for 3 aspirants who lost out under 7.5% MBBS quota||MADURAI: Granting relief to three aggrieved MBBS aspirants who applied for seats under the 7.5% quota for government school students but could not make it due to different reasons, Madras high court directed the authorities to keep three seats vacant when the All India Quota seats are surrendered. Petitioner G Kathikajothi had got placement under the quota in a private college but since it required her to pay more fees, she did not accept it. Justice S Vaidyanathan observed that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had made a commitment that fees would be borne by the government for meritorious students who could not pay them in private colleges. The offer had been made after the petitioner refused to accept the seat. Hence, the judge said that the gesture shown by the CM may be applied for the petitioner depending upon seat availability, marks scored and the surrender of seats in All India Quota. In another case, petitioner S Gowsalya did not know about the scheduled time of counselling due to problems in internet connectivity that she missed the counselling. The judge observed that depriving meritorious students of a seat in MBBS would amount to losing a good doctor in future. Hence, the judge directed the authorities to keep one seat of MBBS/BDS vacant in case of surrender of seats by All India Quota and if the counselling takes place. In the third instance, the judge directed the authorities to keep one seat vacant for petitioner Soundarya who had studied in a government school till Class X but Class XI and XII in a private school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-seats-for-3-aspirants-who-lost-out-under-7-5-mbbs-quota/articleshow/79948141.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana seeks central funds for textile park||HYDERABAD: IT and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao has written to Union textiles minister Smriti Irani seeking funds from the Centre for development of handlooms and textiles in the state. He sought funds be allocated in the Union budget 2021-22 for development of Kakatiya Mega Textile Park (KMTP) and sanction of a mega powerloom cluster at Sircilla and also that other proposals sent by the state be cleared for development of handlooms and textiles in the state. The minister said the KMTP at Warangal would take off in 2020-21 and would be developed at a total estimated project cost of Rs 1,552 crore. “We have aligned our project activities in a such manner that major external and internal infrastructure works at KMTP can be taken up immediately upon receipt of the proposed financial support under the mega textile park scheme of the Centre,” KTR said. The minister requested the Union minister to sanction the powerloom cluster at Sircilla and sanction Rs 49.84 crore from out of the projected outlay of Rs 993.65 crore. In the letter, KTR also urged the Centre to sanction the Indian Institute of Handloom Technology (IIHT) for Telangana. KTR also explained about the adverse impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the Indian handloom, textiles and apparel industry. “Several companies have their orders cancelled and shipments put on hold and are facing zero revenues and cash flows,” KTR said. “I am seriously worried about the sustenance of the industry and the resulting impact on the livelihood of millions of workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-seeks-central-funds-for-textile-park/articleshow/79948148.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Bars and restaurants hope for a better end to a bad year||Kolkata: Kolkatans are bidding goodbye to a gloomy year by eating out. Footfall across the city’s bars and restaurants shot up sharply on Christmas Eve and the crowd is expected to persist till December 31 and beyond, believe restaurant-owners. Many restaurants will stay open beyond midnight on several days this week to allow more people to get in since the 50% restriction on seating capacity has increased waiting time. While the table-turnover is slow due to the restriction affecting sales, the crowd has been bigger than last year over the last two weekends, according to the Hotel and Restaurants Owners’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI). Most central Kolkata restaurants were packed on Thursday and many had a waiting crowd. It will swell over the weekend, said HRAEI president Sudesh Poddar. “The crowd is bigger this time, possibly due to the fact that other avenues of entertainment are shut. Without the seating restriction, our sales would have been far higher than last year,” said Poddar, who owns Song-Hai restaurant. Amber, too, has seen footfall climb back to capacity on weekend. On Thursday, the restaurant had a sizeable waiting crowd. “It’s growing everyday and we expect the turnout to be high till the New Year eve,” said owner Sanjay Khullar. The restaurant will stay open till 1 am on New Year Eve. Kolkata’s favourite year-end party hub Park Street, too, has throbbed back to life with a huge crowd of diners and glowing lights. After a dull November, queues have been steadily lengthening at restaurants. On Thursday, most remained packed for dinner. The popular ones like Mocambo, Peter Cat and Bar-B-Q will stay open till 2 am today and on December 30 and 31. “The crowd has been big but waiting time has gone up due to the social distancing restriction on capacity. Yet, people have been waiting more than an hour for a table. So, we have decided to go for late closure on the big days to allow more people to come in,” said Mocambo and Peter Cat owner Nitin Kothari. Bar-B-Q will be serving till 1 am on Christmas and New Year Eve. The crowd has grown but is yet to touch last year’s level, said owner Rajiv Kothari. “Footfall has been improving every month which is encouraging, though. Late closure will allow more people to join the revelry,” said Kothari. Anand Puri of Trincas agreed. “The revival is still on and crowds are getting bigger. We expect a few big days this week,” Puri said. Some like Nitin Kothari expect the crowd on Park Street to be smaller on Christmas and New Year eve, leading to a higher footfall at restaurants. “Due to the crowd and ban on traffic, families and the elderly avoid visiting Park Street restaurants during this period. This time, due to the Covid restrictions and the fear, the crowd could be smaller which is good for those planning to dine,” he said. Most tables at Oudh 1590 have been booked in advance for Christmas. “Usually, we don’t book tables but this time we have made an exception after being flooded with requests,” said owner Shiladitya Chaudhury. Airline executive Avishkar Sinha has been wary of visiting restaurants since March but has decided to make an exception on New Year Eve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bars-and-restaurants-hope-for-a-better-end-to-a-bad-year/articleshow/79946673.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 25, 2020||Trichy||118 Covid cases in south Tamil Nadu, 100 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 118 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Thursday. The number of active cases in the region has dropped to 1,016, the lowest since November 27. Meanwhile, the eight central districts reported 100 cases taking the tally to 73,188, which include 778 active cases. The region recorded no casualties as it maintained the toll at 913. The deaths in the southern region are in Tenkasi. After touching 2,000 deaths on October 28 the southern region has taken 57 days to add the next 100 cases as the toll crossed 2,100 on Thursday. The death rate at 1.58% is has marginally dropped from 1.62% when the deaths were 2,000 against 1,23,416 total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/118-cases-in-south-tn-100-in-central-dists/articleshow/79950751.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Madurai||118 Covid cases in south Tamil Nadu, 100 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 118 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Thursday. The number of active cases in the region has dropped to 1,016, the lowest since November 27. Meanwhile, the eight central districts reported 100 cases taking the tally to 73,188, which include 778 active cases. The region recorded no casualties as it maintained the toll at 913. The deaths in the southern region are in Tenkasi. After touching 2,000 deaths on October 28 the southern region has taken 57 days to add the next 100 cases as the toll crossed 2,100 on Thursday. The death rate at 1.58% is has marginally dropped from 1.62% when the deaths were 2,000 against 1,23,416 total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/118-cases-in-south-tn-100-in-central-dists/articleshow/79948145.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Madurai||DMK MLAs slam govts at gram sabha meetings||MADURAI: DMK’s ‘reject AIADMK’ gram sabhas organised in the rural areas of the southern districts have stressed the need to defeat the AIADMK in the ensuing assembly elections. Tiruchuzhi MLA and DMK Virudhunagar North district secretary Thangam Thennarasu participated in the gram sabha meeting organised at Samathuvapuram Colony in Narikudi in the district. He said that the people were ready to defeat the AIADMK government, which was destroying the state by acting like a slave to the BJP government at the centre and implementing schemes that were against the welfare of the people. Addressing the gram sabha in Veerakkal panchayat in Dindigul district, Athoor MLA I Periyasamy said that the BJP government was torturing the farming community through its three farm acts and even the 100-day work scheme. The hike in fuel and LPG prices has affected the common man badly, when many of them had already lost jobs due to the Covid-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-mlas-slam-govts-at-gram-sabha-meetings/articleshow/79948152.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Goa||‘Clear power dues or face disconnection’||Poinguinim: Power department officials on Wednesday urged consumers in Canacona to settle their dues by availing the One-Time Settlement Scheme (OTSS), the deadline for which is December 31, 2020. Assistant engineer for Canacona, Sanjay Gaonkar, said that the taluka has 466 revenue recovery cases, 2,455 active cases, 335 permanently disconnected cases, and 58 temporarily disconnected cases. Consumers were asked to settle their pending dues at a meeting held to inform locals as well as panchayat members from Canacona taluka about the OTSS provision. Executive engineer of electricity department, Santosh Lolyekar, helped clear doubts pertaining to the scheme. Power officials said there will be no further extension of the scheme, and added that customers who have defaulted in paying their bills and fail to avail the scheme, will face disconnection immediately after December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/clear-power-dues-or-face-disconnection/articleshow/79946675.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Patna||Tablighi case: Patna high court gives clean chit to all 18 foreigners||PATNA: The Patna high court has quashed criminal proceedings against 18 foreign nationals who were arrested from two different localities in Araria district on charges of violating tourist visa rules by allegedly participating in religious activities or Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi during lockdown in April this year. While pronouncing a common judgment in two separate criminal writ petitions filed by 21 people, including three residents of Araria who had helped in arranging accommodation for the foreign nationals, a bench of Justice Rajeev Ranjan Prasad observed that there were no materials present before police to prove that the foreigners were involved in religious preaching. The order was reserved on December 10, delivered on December 22 and came in public domain on Wednesday. Of the 18, nine are Bangladeshi nationals who had entered India via West Bengal and the rest nine are Malaysians. The Bangladeshi nationals and two Indians were booked in an FIR lodged with Narpatganj police station while Malaysians and an Indian were booked in another FIR lodged with Araria police station on April 12 this year. The high court also quashed Araria CJM court’s orders taking cognizance in the two chargesheets filed in both cases. The high court, while disposing both petitions, also directed the central government to take steps for deporting the 18 foreign citizens back home if they are not wanted in any other case or are required to stay in India because of any order passed by a competent authority or court. No relief was granted to the three Indians accused in both cases. The court observed that no material in form of audio/video cassettes, leaflets or pamphlets were found in possession of foreign nationals and there was absolutely no material in case diary to suggest that they had indulged in religious activities. The HC observed that Araria CJM perhaps took cognizance of offences and issued summons in routine and mechanical manner even after absence of materials. The Bangladeshi nationals had visited Nizamuddin markaz in Delhi before Tablighi conglomeration. The Malaysians had also visited Nizamuddin markaz prior to the conglomeration and reached Araria on March 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tablighi-case-patna-hc-gives-clean-chit-to-all-18-foreigners/articleshow/79945850.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Madurai||Ministers ready to disclose earnings: Kadambur Raju||TUTICORIN: Ministers in the AIADMK government are ready to disclose their earnings, information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju has said. He was interacting with reporters in Kovilpatti on Thursday after paying floral tributes to the portrait of former CM and AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran on his death anniversary. The minister’s response was to a challenge posed by Makkal Needhi Maiam leader Kamal Haasan asking ministers to disclose their earnings. Kamal had posed the counter-challenge in response to Kadambur Raju asking him to release a white paper on his earnings as an actor. “I asked him for a white paper on his earnings. He has been an actor for a long time since his debut in Kalathur Kannamma (1960). He has also acted with MGR as a child artist. Kamal should disclose his earnings from the beginning to his most recent film according to his conscience, not what was on paper. We (ministers) are ready to disclose,” he added. On December 22, campaigning in Villupuram, Kamal, reacting to the minister’s insistence that he release a white paper on the taxes paid by him, had stated, “The Income Tax department's decision to invite me to honour honest taxpayers will serve as a white paper and prove my credentials.” Later, turning his ire on Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman, Kadambur Raju dubbed him as a ‘half-baked’ politician for his reported remark that MGR’s rule was not a golden rule. “No Tamilian would accept such a remark. People see him as god and his name is spoken with reverence even 33 years after his demise. Seeman is not qualified to talk about him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ministers-ready-to-disclose-earnings-kadambur-raju/articleshow/79948154.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 13-year-old dies after auto overturns||HYDERABAD: A 13-year-old student died when the auto he was travelling in overturned at Vanasthalipuram on Thursday. The victim, Nenavath Rohan, 13, was a resident of Balaji Hills in Boduppal. On Thursday morning, when Rohan was travelling from Uppal to Ibrahimpatnam in his family’s auto driven by G Vijay Reddy, 23, the vehicle overturned at Injapur Katta due to Reddy’s negligent driving. He was rushed to a nearby hospital by the locals, where doctors pronounced him dead on arrival, Vanasthalipuram police said. Reddy suffered minor injuries and based on the complaint of the victim’s family, police registered a case against Reddy under section 304-A of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/13-yr-old-dies-after-auto-overturns/articleshow/79948155.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||Congress hints support to Gupkar for polls of DDC chairpersons in J&K||NEW DELHI: With Congress in a position to be king-maker in as many as six districts, the party leadership has indicated that it may lend its support to the Gupkar alliance in the election of chairpersons in the District Development Councils in Jammu and Kashmir. As per final results, the PAGD - comprising chiefly national conference and PDP - is short of numbers in Baramulla, Bandipur and Shopian in Kashmir and in Rajouri, Kishtwar, Ramban in Jammu region. However, with the support of Congress, which has won a few constituencies in these districts, the anti-BJP alliance is in a position to win the chairperson’s post. Here, Congress support will boost the opposition combine, which includes CPM, against BJP which is banking on independents to win control of DDCs that are otherwise out of its reach. Congress contested the DDC elections separately after facing uncomfortable questions over controversial remarks of Gupkar alliance leaders. But party sources said the mandate is against BJP and its policy anulling the statehood of J&K and reducing it to a mere Union Territory. J&K Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir called it a vote against BJP’s injustice to J&K. Congress sources said the party is likely to tie up with PAGD wherever it was necessary. However, the party did not make an official statement on the issue and sources said AICC in-charge Rajani Patil was in talks with local leaders. AICC spokesman Abhishek Singhvi gave the hint by saying that between BJP and PAGD, “Congress cannot at any cost support BJP”. The reason for Congress to contest separately from PAGD were statements made by PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti. With a controversy arising over her remarks about not wanting to hold the tricolour as also her call for restoration of Article 370, Congress chose to steer clear of the grand combine and contested alone. It has fared poorly in both the regions. While the broad contours of its future tilt in DDC polls is known, Congress believes that the road ahead may still be uncertain given the slow decision-making on the issue of DDC chairpersons’ election. One key imponderable is the “reservation” of the top DDC post. Mir said there were around several categories for reservation - like SC, SC women, ST, ST women - and the government will decide which chairperson’s post will be reserved for which category. “There is a concern that the government may reserve the posts in such a way that it will benefit BJP,” he alleged, adding that this should have been done before the elections and not left for post result phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-hints-support-to-gupkar-for-polls-of-ddc-chairpersons-in-jk/articleshow/79949279.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chennai||No longer 20-20: Will new players in Tamil Nadu change old game?||CHENNAI: The balance of power has see-sawed between the DMK and the AIADMK for some five decades now in Tamil Nadu. But as we stumble and stagger into 2021 under the weight of the pandemic, actor Rajnikanth threatens to rewrite the state’s political screenplay that has been steeped in the rhetoric of Dravidianism, Tamil and caste identity, and welfarism. The passing of M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa had put DMK president M K Stalin and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami of the AIADMK centre stage. All year the spotlights shone on them, with Stalin coming into his own after the DMK’s spectacular electoral success in the previous year’s Lok Sabha elections and Palanisami tightening control over the AIADMK and the state administration. But as the year was ending, Rajinikanth finally decided to make an entry in politics and now all the attention is on him. Pitted against old hands at the game, Rajini will need more than his commitment to “spiritual politics” to convince the voters, but his arrival has forced his rivals to review their strategies. Stalin and Palanisami appear sanguine, but Rajinikanth’s presence can change the Dravidian landscape. Palaniswami is battling a 10-year anti-incumbency and charges of corruption. But his performance as an administrator has won him grudging admiration from adversaries as well. Though a bit Machiavellianism, the way Palaniswami got the AIADMK and its coordinator and deputy CM O Panneerselvam to choose him as the party’s CM candidate may have finally propelled him into the leadership league. EPS giving officials a free hand to rein in the pandemic, touring the state to review the Covid-19 situation gave him a clear advantage. After two cyclones battered parts of the state, EPS sniffed a water-soaked paddy tuft and waded through slushy fields to project himself as a farmer-common man-CM. “But we have several disadvantages. After Amma (Jayalalithaa), there has been no attempt to woo woman voters. There is no woman representation in any decision-making body,” said a senior AIADMK leader. “The leadership’s focus has been on party and government crises management, not on organization building,” he said. Powered by a tech-savvy team, Stalin had admitted early on that he was no Karunanidhi. Stalin’s advantages include a reorganised and revitalised DMK that quelled internal feuding, one reason for the party’s 2016 assembly poll debacle; the DMK’s great showing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections; and a frontline leadership that backs him to the hilt. Ten years of being out of power has, however, has put Stalin at a disadvantage, leaving him little to show for achievements. But the DMK’s and AIADMK’s calculations may come to naught if ‘disrupter’ Rajinikanth storms the poll arena. There are other players too who could provide that twist to TN politics with the hope of changing its course forever. The BJP and the PMK, both AIADMK allies, have been playing the Hindu and vanniyar cards. While the BJP’s Vetrivel yatra never really took off and ended in a whimper, the PMK’s violent protest for 20% sub quota for the vanniyars too petered out. Both have their strengths that could help AIADMK, but with Rajini’s political script still in the making, uncertainty looms large. Then there is the ‘5% vote bank league’ that includes Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), T T V Dhinakaran’s AMMK and Seeman’s Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK). With their oratory on alternative politics, they could cause a minor tremor. With son Vijaya Prabhakaran’s hold on the reins rather tentative, the future of Vijayakanth’s DMDK is rather hazy. A still tottering Congress and VCK may add strength to DMK, though how much is not clear. “How 2021 will play out in politics depends on the direction Rajini takes,” said political and economic analyst and critic Sriram Seshadri. “If he teams up with small outfits, it would be beneficial to DMK. If he teams up with BJP, there could be a consolidation of Hindu votes. If he strikes an alliance with AIADMK and its allies, it may prove formidable,” said Seshadri. He could also go it alone. 2021 is set to be the year of the voter, who will be spoilt for choice. Will you, the voter, fall for the lure of the poll dole or see a messiah in a superstar or choose the safe option of one of the Dravidian giants? Or will you spring a surprise?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-longer-20-20-will-new-players-change-old-game/articleshow/79946706.cms||Jaya Menon
December 25, 2020||Goa||Two MP natives held with guns at Patnem beach||POINGUINIM: Two natives of Porsa, Madhya Pradesh, were arrested from Patnem beach, Canacona late Tuesday evening for illegal possession of guns. Kamla Ramnaresh Singh, 34, and Veerendra Singh, 45, were found at the beach with two single barrel breech-loading guns and 10 live cartridges. On questioning by the police, the duo were unable to provide satisfactory answers. The accused were then brought to Canacona police station and placed under arrest after completing formalities. On Wednesday, both were produced before the judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), Canacona, and were remanded in seven days police custody pending investigation. The police stated that the men were working as security personnel at Kranti Yoga, Patnem-Colomb. Police sub-inspector Ramachandra Naik is further investigating the case under the supervision of Canacona PI Pravin Gawas. Kamla Ramnaresh Singh, 34, and Veerendra Singh, 45, were found at the beach with two single barrel breech-loading guns and 10 live cartridges. On questioning by the police, the duo were unable to provide satisfactory answers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-mp-natives-held-with-guns-at-patnem-beach/articleshow/79930875.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIM-A’s decision to demolish Kahn’s structures raises questions||Ahmedabad: The latest decision by Indian Institute of Management – Ahmedabad (IIM-A) to bring down all except four dormitories that were designed by the legendary architect Louis Kahn seems to sharply contradict some of the details mentioned in an expression of interest (EOI) document released earlier this month. Also, the decision to demolish the structures has not gone down well with some experts. “It would set a terrible precedent in an India where so many fine buildings are under threat from rabid development,” wrote William J R Curtis, an architectural historian, in an article published in Architectural Record recently. The dorms built during 1968 to 1978 have been facing multiple problems in terms of leakages from roofs, dampness in walls, leakages in toilet walls, slabs etc. The earthquake of 2001 has also caused major structural damages to these buildings. The issues related to these buildings were discussed in a number of meetings of the Building Committee and the Board of Governors, according to a letter written by IIM-A director Errol D’Souza dated December 23. “We had invited international restoration consultants Peter Inskip and Stephen Gee to advise us and they suggested we first restore one building and then based on our findings we could proceed to take up further work in the other buildings,” the letter reads. Dorm 15 and the library were restored successfully as a result, it further said. This seems to contradict the tender document which claims that IIM-A did try restoring one dormitory building in 2017 but the results were not satisfactory.“Along with the restored Dorm 15 as you would recollect they constitute the periphery of the built campus and are the first buildings that persons who enter the campus see and understand along with the LKP and associated buildings as the grandeur associated with the work of Kahn,” states the letter by the IIM-A director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-as-decision-to-demolish-kahns-structures-raises-questions/articleshow/79946713.cms||Maulik Pathak
December 25, 2020||Amritsar||Farmers take to internet to clarify doubts on agriculture-laws||BATHINDA: The farmer organisations foraying into the virtual world, held a webinar on Thursday to pinpoint the fault lines in the central agri laws and why such extensive opposition to these laws is necessary. The farm leaders faced a volley of questions and a panel of farmers answered all the questions. While justifying its core demand — that the law should be repealed — the panel of farmers said the laws are harmful not only to farmers but to many sections of the society and the financial health of the states. The farmers reiterated that as the central government has gone beyond its jurisdiction in enacting these laws — as the agriculture is state subject. The farmers also said they were reluctant to approach the court saying that the matter could drag on for long and the farmers fear that in only two years, the corporate houses may usurp lands of the farmers through contract farming. Senior farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal from BKU (Rajewal), Jagjit Singh Dallewal from BKU (Sidhupur), Darshan Pal from Krantikari Kisan Union, Prem Singh Bhangu from Kul Hind Kisan Federation, Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala from Kirti Kisan Union, Abhimanyu Kohad from Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh and Manjit Singh Rai from BKU (Doaba) answered queries from a wide range of audience. Rajewal said, “Nearly a year ago, in the second stint of Narendra Modi government, the government started showing its intentions of pushing agriculture towards corporatisation. We started collecting documents to know the intentions of the government and our concerns proved right when the Union government came up with ordinances on June 5, during the Covid-19 emergency, and went ahead in getting the bills passed in both the houses of parliament. The farm groups from Punjab started opposing these laws and got support from farmers from many other states, turning this into a pan-India protest. We held meetings with central government, which though agreed to making certain amendments, but not to repeal the laws and started defaming farm groups for not taking a flexible approach.” The farm leaders made it clear that they don’t want just amendments or fractured assurance on MSP, but repeal of laws and written guarantee with legal binding on MSP with C2+ 50% profit with state procurement. They asked diaspora to register their protests at Indian embassies on December 26-27 and write to elected representatives to put pressure on Indian government to repeal laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmer-groups-foray-into-virtual-world-to-answer-faqs-about-agri-laws/articleshow/79948176.cms||Neel Kamal
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Celebrate responsibly, urge docs amid new-strain fear||Kolkata: Doctors in the city have started a social media campaign to dissuade people from Christmas and New Year parties, picnics and any form of get-together, citing the UK’s mutating virus which is a super spreader. Hiralal Konar, co-convenor, Joint Platform of Doctors (JPD), West Bengal, under which organizations like West Bengal Doctors’ Forum (WBDF), Health Service Association, Doctors for Democracy and Association for Health Service Doctors have united to fight the contagion, said, “We are urging caution through WhatsApp messages and the Facebook, lest this new variant spreads.” JPD was on a similar e-campaign ahead of the Durga Pujas. “At that time, the high court had intervened and Kolkata was spared of a larger disaster. But Christmas and New Year are not such big community festivities. So, there’s no court order to protect us this time round. We are especially worried about youngsters. We appeal to them with folded hands to stay indoors,” said Konar, who is a senior paediatric surgeon. The doctors suspect the UK variant may be in India already, where there is no tightening against travel or other restrictions. Koushik Lahiri of Apollo Hospital rued, “For all you know the mutated virus may have started spreading here.” Lahiri, who wears another hat as the WBDF vice-president, referred to the 1920 flu epidemic that created havoc in the second and third peaks. “Remember, we are just done with the first peak unlike Europe and the US, where the second or third peak has turned out to be more dangerous than the first,” he said. ENT consultant Arjun Dasgupta echoed, “At a time when scores of countries are cancelling festivities, we have suddenly become complacent, behaving as if the pandemic is over. We do have proof that cases spiral after any festival.” In their social media posts, the doctors are saying that the new strain will simply out-compete the others in circulation and become the dominant version of the virus around the world. “It might be possible to contain the new variant. But the state and central governments and the people, themselves, must cooperate in containing the virus domestically, by maintaining distancing and testing, tracing and isolating,” read the Facebook post of Arghyadeep Sen, a medic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/celebrate-responsibly-urge-docs-amid-new-strain-fear/articleshow/79946704.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 25, 2020||Goa||NCP asks Mapusa officer to review works||Saligao: Members of the Mapusa block of NCP met the chief officer of Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) Kabir Shirgaonkar and demanded that an inspection and review be carried out of all the road, gutter and water supply works carried out by the council in the last five years. NCP general secretary, Sanjay Barde said that the town’s residents continue to suffer due to lack of proper water supply and power fluctuation. The NCP delegation told Shirgaonkar that, according to the councillors, around Rs 90 crore has been spent to carry out different developmental and other works in Mapusa town area. But the town’s residents continue to face a number of issues, including no proper guidelines for vendors operating from the MMC market and illegal building constructions. “The councillors only announce their agendas in their manifesto at the time of elections when they visit the people’s houses to ask for votes. Hope our chief officer investigates the amount spent by MMC and councillors for the so-called development,” Barde said.  Shirgaonkar said that the proposal for renovation and restoration of toilets and gutters will be taken up in January 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncp-asks-mapusa-officer-to-review-works/articleshow/79946697.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Goa||Govt has no money to pay salaries: GFP||PANAJI: Goa Forward Party (GFP) slammed the government for spending money on Liberation Day celebrations, while struggling to pay salaries to government employees on time. GFP general secretary Prashant Naik said that salaries of Bal Bhavan contract workers and arrears of security and housekeeping workers should be paid before the New Year. The delay in paying salaries, said Naik, shows that the state government’s financial position remains precarious. He said that Bal Bhavan’s contract workers have not been paid their salary for November even though their salaries are in the band of Rs 8,000 – Rs 12,000. “This government spends Rs 3 crore to celebrate December 19 by floating a big tender, but has no shame denying salaries to contract workers,” said Naik. “What is the need to have such a show if the government cannot pay small people their salaries? Instead of wasting money on all these celebrations or events, the government should pay people their salaries on time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-has-no-money-to-pay-salaries-gfp/articleshow/79946703.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu to start Cauvery-Gundar inter-link in January||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government is set to start the much-talked about Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link scheme, beginning with a flood carrier canal for about 11km in Karur and Pudukkottai districts. The public works department will finalize bids and lay the foundation stone for the project in January. The scheme is the last leg of the Mahanadhi-Godavari link to the deficit basins of Krishna, Pennar, Cauvery, Vaigai and Gundar under the peninsular rivers development component of the National Perspective Plan. Following a draft report from the National Water Development Agency, the state public works department submitted a detailed project report to the government for formation of the canal from Cauvery (Kattalai) to South Vellar river to divert the flood waters. This diversion will help meet drinking water requirements and recharge groundwater in drought-hit areas of Karur, Trichy and Pudukkottai districts. The state government has estimated Rs 6,941 crore for a canal running for about 262km. “Bids have been received for two segments of 4km and 7km in Karur and Pudukottai respectively, under phase I linking Cauvery (Kattalai barrage) and South Vellar. The 11km canal will be completed in two years from the date of award of work,” PWD Middle Cauvery Basin Circle, superintending engineer, R Thiruvettaiselvam said. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had requested Union home minister Amit Shah during his recent visit to Chennai to provide financial assistance for the scheme for which land acquisition has begun. The state government directed the Tamil Nadu water resources conservation and river restoration corporation to apply for NABARD loan assistance. According to officials, the proposal is to divert 6,360 cusecs of water for nine days from the availability of 8.5tmcft from surplus of Mettur dam. This is at 50% dependability calculated for 83 years (1936 to 2018). The 25m wide canal will take off from the Kattalai barrage with full supply level of 100.75m. In a report submitted to the state environment impact assessment authority, the state government said it was “highly trusted” that the flood canal project would bring economic prosperity to the acute water, drought prone area in the vicinity. It would be a lifeline to the people of the region. The state expert appraisal committee and the state environment impact assessment authority recently cleared the terms of reference with public hearing for environment study and clearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-to-start-cauvery-gundar-inter-link-in-jan/articleshow/79946760.cms||Julie Mariappan
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Turkey boost to local economy crippled by Cov||Kolkata: A bird, the demand of which soars during Christmas, is giving wings to hundreds of women’s dream of being financially independent in a village outside Kolkata. Though sales have been slow to pick up in city markets this year due to Covid, vendors have still managed to clear stocks. Demand for turkey meat by consulates, expats, clubs, restaurants and households during Christmas is generating livelihoods for women at Balarampur village in Sonarpur, 20 kilometres from the city. They farm the birds in their backyards for around five months before selling them before Christmas. The meat reaches Kolkata markets through Haringhata outlets of West Bengal Livestock Development Corporation. This year, dressed turkey meat is selling at Rs 500 per kilogram at Haringhata outlets while the price hovers between Rs 550 and Rs 650 per kilogram in New Market. In several city clubs and restaurants, turkey preparations are sold around this time of the year as Christmas special delicacies. “Earlier, people would give us advance so that we keep it aside for them for Christmas. But this year the response has not been so good but I have cleared my stock,” said Sheikh Irfan, a poultry vendor in New Market. Mamata Nadu, a homemaker till 2017, wanted to be financially independent when she decided to form a group and started poultry farming. A local bank official introduced her to Sarbaswarup Ghosh of Sasya Shymala Krishi Vigyan, who then linked the women to state livestock department for marketing turkeys. They also trained these women on how to rear turkey, vaccinate them and give scientific feed and make them ready for human consumption. “We used to feel embarrassed asking for money from our husbands or sons even for our small needs,” said Nadu. A couple of years ago, Praitama Mondal was a homemaker when her husband had suffered a brain stroke. “Today, I am the main earning member of my house and it is due to turkey farming,” said Mondal. These women rear chicken and quail, too, but their focus turns completely towards turkey during Christmas due to its demand and the profit it fetches. “This year, we have made a profit of Rs 30,000, excluding all expenses and transportation cost. We have to work very hard from August to look after the turkey, but it fetches us good price around Christmas,” said Nadu. In 2017, scientists at Sasya Shyamala Krishi Vigyan Kendra trained these women on how to vaccinate and de-worm birds. “They feed birds scientifically for human consumption. A very small number of women had started with 250 chicks and today many other have joined,” said Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/turkey-boost-to-local-economy-crippled-by-cov/articleshow/79946750.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC seeks state govt reply over management quota||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday sought explanation from the state government on allegations of diverting 677 MBBS seats in government and its aided colleges to private management quota. In response to a PIL seeking to immediately stop the diversion of medical seats to “the rich”, the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora has asked the government lawyer to place an affidavit explaining the position by January 11. The PIL was filed by advocate K R Koshti contending that the allocation of 677 MBBS seats to management quota, which also includes the NRI quota, is in violation of the medical admission laws of the state. He sought an end to this practice of accommodating students on these “government” seats by charging high fees. He also sought re-allocation of these seats to relevant SC, ST, SEBC and EWS quotas during admission process being undertaken by the admission committee. Koshti submitted that there are 5,508 medical seats available for admission in Gujarat in state’s quota. Of these, there are only 700 seats in unaided colleges and 175 seats are available in management quota of the concerned trusts. The advocate has claimed that there are six government colleges, eight GMERS colleges, three municipal corporation-run colleges and eight aided colleges in the state. All these 25 colleges are termed as government colleges and all seats available in these colleges should be treated as government seats and there cannot be any allocation for management quota. The law makes it very clear that the management and NRI quota is available in unaided colleges only, the petition stated. Koshti claimed that by allocating 677 seats to management quota, the rights of students from SC, ST, SEBC and EWS categories are violated. He maintained that the aided and GMERS colleges have been wrongly classified as self-financed institutes, whereas they receive government funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-seeks-state-govt-reply-over-management-quota/articleshow/79946733.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Community members demand police protection for carol singers||HYDERABAD: The Christmas Day attacks on carol singers in the city from the past few years and lack of representation in the government to address their issues have refocused the hurdles faced by community members practicing the faith in the city. Just like any other festival that is celebrated in India or around the world, Christmas, too, is celebrated with a lot of fervour and excitement every year. However, expressing anguish over the attacks on carol singers in the past, community members demanded the government they be provided with better security. James Sylvester, coordinator of Catholic Association of Hyderabad said, “Every year before Christmas day, we go to the houses of our Christian community members to sing carols. It is a ritual that we follow to bring good tidings to the people. It does not propagate religion in any way. And yet our carol groups are attacked by some anti-social elements in some or the other part of the twin cities every year.” “While we are going to limit the carol singing to our houses and church premises, we request the police to provide better security to our community members so that these kinds of incidents do not occur in the future,” said Sylvester. In one incident that took place in Saroornagar’s Singereni colony, community members alleged that a pastor and four others were severely injured. When asked if police are going to provide any security to avoid such cases, K Seetharam, inspector of Saroornagar PS said, “We haven’t received any such complaints this year. If anyone from the community feels like there is a problem or a threat, they can approach us directly and security will be provided.” Apart from urging the authorities to ensure safety and security of Christians across the city, community members also expressed the need for representation of the community in the government. The community had also approached the minister for minority welfare recently, requesting him to form a committee that can address the issues of members and also take them to government officials as per the need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/community-members-demand-police-protection-for-carol-singers/articleshow/79948183.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Meerut||Over 9 quintals marijuana seized in Bulandshahr||MEERUT: Over 9 quintals of marijuana, hidden in a load of maize inside a truck coming from Odisha, was seized by police in Bulandshahr district. “It is an inter-state gang which procures marijuana from Odisha and supplies it to peddlers in UP, Delhi- NCR and in Punjab,” Santosh Kumar, senior superintendent of police (SSP) said. A total of 9.5 quintals of marijuana, with an estimated price of Rs 1crore in street market, was seized and the driver was arrested, police said. The seized drug was being smuggled from Bhawanipatna in Odisha. According to police, they were checking vehicles after getting a tip-off about the consignment on Wednesday night. “During the checking, we signaled a truck to stop. Two persons on board jumped out of it and fled. When we searched the vehicle we found the hidden drugs. The driver was arrested. Later, another suspect, Sushil, a resident of Aligarh in UP, was arrested. During his interrogation, he revealed that they had received the consignment from Bhawanipatna in Odisha and had entered Uttar Pradesh through neighbouring Madhya Pradesh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-9-quintals-marijuana-seized-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/79945667.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Goa||Update websites, provide info on time: IT dept to govt depts||Panaji: Despite several reminders, government websites continue to display outdated information, while some online services remain defunct. The department of information technology has issued a fresh reminder to government departments and corporations to update their websites and provide information in a time-bound manner. Sources said that some departments continue to ignore chief minister Pramod Sawant’s directive that non-functional websites need to be revamped with a focus on citizen-centric services. “It has been observed that, despite issuing several circulars and directions by this department, information does not reach to this office in a time-bound manner thereby affecting the timely updation of the state portal,” said director for information and technology Ankita Anand. “All government departments, corporations and autonomous bodies are requested to provide the information on regular basis whenever there is change in existing content, or any additional content is to be uploaded.” Sawant had written to chief secretary Parimal Rai with a list of non-responsive websites. Subsequently, the government directed the information and technology department to update government websites that are either defunct or outdated. A circular issued in September had asked all government departments, corporations and autonomous bodies to provide details of their websites and services by September 7. However, some government departments continue to ignore the circular, prompting Anand to issue a fresh circular on December 23. “This information needs to be regularly updated in order to ensure that latest information is available to citizens. The department of information technology which operates the Goa government portal is making constant endeavour to enhance, improve and timely update the website,” Anand said in the fresh circular. In July 2018, then chief minister Manohar Parrikar had asked Goa Electronics Ltd to monitor all government websites and to ensure that they are kept updated. Very few government departments upload notifications and circulars on their relevant websites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/update-websites-provide-info-on-time-it-dept-to-govt-depts/articleshow/79946711.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 25, 2020||Goa||Act on tenancy claims of over 3 years: Khaunte||Panaji: Applicants whose tenancy claims have been filed under the Agriculture Tenancy Act and which have been pending for more than three years with authorities should be declared as deemed tenants, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte said. Khaunte, a former revenue minister said that a three-year deadline has been fixed for settling tenancy cases. During Khaunte’s tenure the Goa Agriculture Tenancy Act was amended so that all tenancy cases could be settled by the respective mamlatdars within three years. Section 60C of the Goa Agriculture Tenancy Act says that all tenancy cases should be disposed off in three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/act-on-tenancy-claims-of-over-3-years-khaunte/articleshow/79946716.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Amritsar||All-woman jathas go on hunger strike in Barnala||BATHINDA: On Day 4 of the relay hunger strike, all-woman jathas sat on hunger strike at Barnala railway station protest site and Mehal Kalan toll plaza. The 12 women activists at the railway station were led by farm organisation BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) activist Amarjit Kaur. Besides Amarjit, the group on 24-hour hunger strike comprised Surjit Kaur, Darshan Kaur, Jal Kaur, Paramjit Kaur, Manjit Kaur, Gurbans Kaur, Kiranjit Kaur, Parminder Kaur, another Amarjit Kaur, another Paramjit Kaur and another Manjit Kaur. Ten women activists also started a 24-hour hunger strike at Mehal Kalan toll plaza. In the evening, all the 22 farm activists returned home and continued their hunger strike there. Amarjit said, “We have got a list of many women who will participate in hunger strike for the next few days. The women say they do not want to lag behind the men in hunger strike and any other type of protest. They have been actively participating in the ongoing protest in large numbers over the last 85 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/all-woman-jathas-go-on-hunger-strike-in-barnala/articleshow/79948182.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Meerut||76 foreign returnees identified in Meerut, on watch for new Covid strain||MEERUT: Amid the fear of the new Covid-19 strain detected in the United Kingdom spreading here, Meerut health department has identified 76 people who returned to the district from foreign destinations since November 23, and put them under surveillance. Of these, 64 returned from the UK. While all of them have tested negative in antigen testing, their RT-PCR reports are yet to arrive. According to a list given out by the health department, as many as 76 foreign returnees have been identified. These include 64 from UK and others from the United States, South Africa, the Netherlands and Bangladesh. An alert has been sounded by the health department in this regard. “The foreign returnees have been classified into two groups -- those who arrived India between November 23 and December 8, and those who arrived after December 8,” said Dr Akhilesh Mohan, Meerut chief medical officer. “The samples of the identified people were sent for RT-PCR testing. The reports are likely to arrive by Friday and accordingly isolation wherever needed, will be done,” said Dr Ashok Taliyan, Meerut divisional surveillance officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/76-foreign-returnees-identified-in-meerut-on-watch-for-new-covid-strain/articleshow/79945666.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 25, 2020||Goa||Heritage group raises concerns over Mollem infra projects||Panaji: Members of the Goa Heritage Action Group (GHAG) have written to the Central Empowered Committee (CEC) in New Delhi with their concerns about diversion of forest land for infrastructure projects, which are situated within and around the Bhagvan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National park, both prime locations of hinterland and nature-based tourism. The letter signed by GHAG chairperson, Heta Pandit points to potential damage to heritage properties near the proposed double-track railway line and how the existing single track line has already caused cracks in walls and floors of homes, some of which are more than 200 years old. The letter to CEC also spoke of the increasing demand for home-stays in Goa which according to local operators hosts over 6,000 tourists every year and promotes friendly and culturally-enriching interactions with Goan families. The letter also points out that these structures currently face the consequences of an industry that will use the state only as a transit medium. “The GHAG in its letter pushes for a cumulative impact assessment of all three projects that cannot be looked at in isolation. We also urge the committee to reconsider the alignment of the proposed double-track railway line that will potentially damage the heritage buildings along the track. As far as we know no studies or surveys or inventories have been conducted that evaluate the cultural, social, historic, architectural, archaeological or group value of these heritage structures and natural sites,” Pandit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heritage-group-raises-concerns-over-mollem-infra-projects/articleshow/79946751.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Removal of waqf members sought||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat State Waqf Tribunal on Thursday recommended removal of those members of the State Waqf Board, who illegally granted permission to sale of property despite prohibition in the law and negative opinion on part of the state legal department and the Central Waqf Council. The property in question belongs to a trust named Anjuman-e-Hifzul Islam in a village near Bharuch town. The Board members passed a resolution granting permission to sell 4,400 sq mt land at Rs 20 lakh in lieu of purchase of 1,400 sq mt land in equal amount. Few aggrieved persons from the village challenged the 2015 land sale before the tribunal, which cancelled the sale. The tribunal ordered those responsible for illegal sale of land to pay fine of Rs 50,000 to the Board. The tribunal noticed that much before the land sale was permitted, residences were constructed on the plot and the Board members did not bother to verify the real situation of the trust property. The tribunal has ordered restoration of the property to the trust by removing the encroachments. It also recommended removal of concerned Board members, who had consented to the sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/removal-of-waqf-members-sought/articleshow/79946755.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s oldest choir keeps spirit of Christmas alive amid pandemic||HYDERABAD: When Covid-19 turned inside out the scope for live performances, The Tabernacles, Hyderabad’s oldest choir, headed online to ensure it would not be a Christmas without music. Formed as a labour of love by a group of nine boys in 1967, the 53-year-old gospel singing group continues to flourish with 50 singers and 12 instrumentalists who come together every week demonstrating the group’s motto, ‘service to singing’. Four members of the founding group are still active, said Zubin Gibson, conductor and son of the late Kenneth Gibson, founder-conductor, while musicians and singers other than the core group also take part in performances. The group draws a mix of singers and has choristers from different denominations. Cash proceeds collected at performances are donated to various social causes. Concerts on a small scale are held around the year but it is the Christmas production that is the group’s big-ticket event. Practice for the concert is rigorous and begins four months ahead of the performance that is held on the first Saturday of every December. Not wanting to break custom, practice sessions started this year in August. Virtual sessions, however, turned out to be a challenge, with different timings for each part (bass, tenor, alto and soprano) while recordings were sent to the conductor, who in turn suggested corrections. By December 5, the day of the concert, audio and video recordings were complete. But the response that the group received to its online concert was unlike that in any other year. Within days, the YouTube video had amassed over 7,000 views and comments poured in from across the country, the US and Australia. “The beauty of this was being able to reach out to other parts of India, such as Tamil Nadu and West Bengal that have a rich tradition of Western classical music. They could also see what Telangana has to offer in terms of this genre,” Gibson said. In 2016, The Tabernacles was recognised by chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao at the United Christmas Celebration and is the only music group to have regularly performed at the event. With the year drawing to a close, the choir is now looking forward to preparing for the Passion in April 2021. “All members of the choir participate in all events. It is not driven by any monetary incentive but by selflessness,” Gibson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citys-oldest-choir-keeps-spirit-of-christmas-alive-amid-pandemic/articleshow/79948187.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Madurai||Tejas special train cancelled from January 4||MADURAI: Southern Railways on Thursday announced the cancellation of the Train No 02613/02614 Chennai Egmore – Madurai Junction – Chennai Egmore Tejas special trains on both ways from January 4 owing to poor patronage. Started on March 1, 2019, the superfast train connected the two cities in less than six-and-a-half hours and was operated six days a week. Decision to cancel the train has upset regular users of the train, who strongly feel that the railways should consider operating the train at least till the end of January, considering good demand for the extended Pongal holidays and for the Republic Day holiday. According to railway officials in Madurai, average occupancy of Train no. 02613 Chennai Egmore to Madurai Tejas was 26% and 17% occupancy in the chair car and executive class, respectively, in October and it was around 40% and 30% respectively in November. Train No. 02614 Tejas special from Madurai to Chennai Egmore had 26% and 20% occupancy in the chair car and executive class, respectively, in October. It was around 45% and 40%, respectively, in November. This is very poor compared to the 95 to 100% occupancy before the Covid-19 pandemic. Rail fan and frequent user of the Tejas, M Arun Pandian, attributed various factors to the poor occupancy of the train and called it a temporary phase. “Occupancy in Tejas dropped when regular travellers working in Chennai and Bengaluru started working from home in their home towns and reduced travel due to the pandemic,” he said. “On the other hand the Chennai Egmore to Madurai Tejas on January 13 (before Pongal) has 85% reservation and has only 150 seats left. Demand for Tejas will increase since the other trains connecting Chennai and the southern districts are fully booked,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tejas-special-train-cancelled-from-jan-4/articleshow/79948184.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Goa||GSPCB grants approval for solid waste plant at Bainguinim||Panaji: Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has granted consent to establish the solid waste treatment plant at Bainguinim. Recently, the Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) extended the time limit for accepting bids for the solid waste management facility at Bainguinim for the second time after three earlier bidders raised many queries. A senior officer said the second extension of 45 days is part of the bidding procedure. The last date to submit bids is January 4, 2021, and the tenders will be opened on January 5. On November 9, the corporation had extended the bids accepting process by 15 days. Initially, on September 22, GWMC had invited bids for setting up the solid waste processing facility having a processing capacity of 250 tonne per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gspcb-grants-approval-for-solid-waste-plant-at-bainguinim/articleshow/79946730.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 25, 2020||Madurai||Cameras to identify number plates in Madurai||MADURAI: As an initiative by the Madurai police to help make the city safer for residents, automatic number plate recognition cameras are being installed at all the entry points to the city and at important junctions inside the city. City commissioner of police Prem Anand Sinha on Thursday inaugurated the cameras installed at the police outpost near Teppakulam. In total, 25 automatic number plate recognition cameras have been installed now at 12 city police check posts and a few important locations in the city like AV Bridge. With the help of the database of vehicles’ numbers, it will make it easy for police to search for a particular vehicle, which is suspected to be involved in a crime, or even to blacklist certain vehicles by entering its numbers on the database so that if that particular vehicle is detected, the system will generate alert. These cameras can also detect vehicles with no number plates and raise an alarm. Sinha said that crime prevention will be given a technological boost. Police are hoping to make use of the cameras to easily identify and monitor vehicles for investigating crimes, tracking perpetrators and suspects and also tracing those involved in traffic/vehicle-related violations like not wearing helmets, road traffic accidents, excess people boarding a single vehicle, etc.,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cameras-to-identify-number-plates-in-madurai/articleshow/79948185.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||Conveyance deed drive in Pune from January 1 to 15||PUNE: Nearly 13,514 housing societies in Pune city will be reviewed for deemed conveyance by the cooperation department in the first 15 days of January. According to officials, teams will visit these societies across the city to help them get their deemed conveyance which transfers ownership of the land on which the societies have been built from the developer to the cooperative housing society. This gives the society the right to use any notional floor space after construction or any additional floor space directly, or via transfer of development rights. It will allow societies to raise loans for repairs by mortgaging the property and have a stronger say in redeveloping the building. In the absence of a conveyance deed, the rights remain with the developer and a conveyance deed prevents any potential misuse of such rights. Deputy district registrar Narayan Aghav said of the 17,984 registered housing societies in the city, 2,125 have already sought deemed conveyance while orders for another 2,345 have been issued. “Our teams will visit the remaining societies to check whether they have their conveyance deed. Housing societies can approach us during this period to register the conveyance deed,” Aghav said. The letter issued to all deputy registrars across the state said since the scheme was launched, very few societies have obtained the conveyance deed, and societies wanting to get their conveyance deed can do so during this special drive. However, submission of the necessary documents are a big hurdle. President of Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association Ramesh Prabhu said the government’s initiative is positive, but documentation takes a toll on housing societies who face issues while gathering basic documents from their members and from the city survey office. “From collecting documents from civic bodies, obtaining necessary entitlement certificates from architects, matching details of property cards with agreements or even builders and land owners challenging the deemed conveyance are issues citizens continue to face. Hence, many societies hesitate to seek a conveyance deed,” he said. Once a cooperative society is formed, the builder has to hand over the title of the land and building to it within six months. However, builders have failed to do so for decades, and in many cases, have delayed the conveyance as they want to benefit from the FSI or TDR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/conveyance-deed-drive-in-pune-from-january-1-to-15/articleshow/79946757.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular Builders: Owners get bail in one case||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday granted bail to owners of Popular Builder, Raman and Dashrath Patel, in connection with an offence registered against them for not vacating a rented premise in Thaltej area. The brothers have been ordered to be released on furnishing Rs 15,000 bail bond. However, they cannot come out of jail because they are facing various other offences, which include charges of attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy as levelled against them by Raman Patel’s daughter-in-law, Fizu. After the allegations of domestic violence, the brothers were booked in several other offences related to land grabbing and cheating. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builders-owners-get-bail-in-one-case/articleshow/79946758.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Madurai||UK returnee tests Covid positive in Madurai||MADURAI: A 38-year-old man who was among the 88 in Madurai who recently returned from the United Kingdom (UK) and are being tracked by district health officials, has tested Covid-19 positive. After a new strain of the SARS CoV-2 was reported in the UK, authorities in India, including Tamil Nadu, have been taking measures to trace and follow up with all those who recently returned from the UK and other European countries. Health officials across districts have been given a list of travellers who returned from abroad to be traced and monitored. According to health department sources, samples were collected for testing from 29 of the 88 travellers identified as having recently returned from the UK to Madurai district. Out of the 29, one person has tested Covid-19 positive so far. “The patient had returned from London by November 26 and hence considering the incubation time period, it is unlikely that the virus strain was contracted there. But the sample has been sent for genome sequencing to National Institute of Virology, Pune. The patient has also been admitted to the hospital and will be closely monitored,” said the source. The patient’s contacts are under strict home quarantine. At Madurai airport, two teams each from the health department are posted 24x7 at both domestic and international terminals and all passengers strictly monitored and samples being collected. Strict quarantine is also being insisted upon. Meanwhile, in Madurai district, 669 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in December so far. An average of 28 cases per day have been reported with the highest single-day rise being 50 on December 11. The positivity rate is around 1% as 2,500-3,000 samples continue to be tested a day on average. “There has been no drastic spike in cases as such but we are seeing cases go up at a steady rate. There are also no reports of any clusters. Public are urged to not let their guard down and follow all Covid-19 safety precautions strictly especially as we are approaching Christmas and New Year celebrations,” said a health official. Two students from Madurai Medical College had recently tested positive, prompting officials to test all students and staff in contact. However, no one else tested positive. “We are definitely vigilant about possible spread in educational institutions across the district. If any case or suspected case is reported, they must inform immediately so that necessary measures can be taken,” said a city health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/uk-returnee-tests-covid-positive-in-madurai/articleshow/79948186.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Path in gurdwara for Muslim protester who died of heart attack||LUDHIANA: Nine days after a Muslim protester of Bhindar Kalan village in Moga died of a heart attack at the protest site in Singhu border near Delhi, residents of his native village organised a ‘path’ at a gurdwara on Wednesday. Members of different communities attended the prayer meet. His family members also organised a ‘Fateh Khwani’, (Quran recitation) at his home in the morning. Mohan Singh, husband of sarpanch Gurdeep Kaur, said Makhan Khan attained martyrdom fighting for farmers. He said they organised a kirtan at the local gurdwara to pay tribute to the departed soul. “Members of various communities, including Sikhs, Muslims and Hindus attended the meet. We are proud of Makhan,” a prominent village resident said. Family members of the deceased said they want the agricultural laws passed by the Union government repealed. Khan is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. “He was the main earning hand of our family. I work in a dairy farm but earn very little. My younger brother studies in Class XI. With his passing, we have suffered a big loss but we want the government to repeal the laws. My father also gave up his life fighting for the cause,” said Kashmir Ali, 19-year-old son of the deceased. He said they organised Fateh Khawani (reciting of Quran) at their home and later attended Ardas organised at the gurdwara by village residents. A relative of the deceased said he stood for farmers’ rights. “He was associated with All India Kissan Union for a long time now. He also fought for the rights of farmers. He went to the protest site when the agitation began. Then he went once before he died there,” said Akram Ali, relative of the deceased. Box: Help pours in Relative of the deceased said that a social organisation, Sarbat Da Bhala Trust has given life time pension to wife of the deceased. Also, a former minister and MLA have given Rs 1 lakh each to the family of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/path-in-gurdwara-for-muslim-protester-who-died-of-heart-attack/articleshow/79948189.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Three injured as jeep rams wall in city||Hyderabad: Three businessmen suffered injuries when their jeep rammed into the wall on Raj Bhavan road during the early hours of Thursday. Police said that the trio was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident and booked them for drunk driving. The injured were identified as Mohammed Shukur (19), Md Farooq Shaik Abdulla (25) and their friend Syed Ahthesham. Police registered a case under sections 337, 279 of the IPC and 184 of the MV Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-injured-as-jeep-rams-wall-in-city/articleshow/79948197.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Ambala SP shifted||Chandigarh: Two days after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was shown black flags in Ambala and vehicles in his convoy attacked by farm organisation activists, the state government on Thursday shunted out Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia. The government has appointed 2008-batch IPS officer Hamid Akhtar, who was so far serving as SP (security) CID, as new SP Ambala. Kalia, a state police service officer, has been posted as SP (security) CID. On Tuesday, Farm organisation BKU (Charuni) activists protested against Khattar during his visit to the city to address meetings for the civic body elections. On Wednesday, attempt to murder and the charges of rioting were slapped against 13 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambala-sp-shifted/articleshow/79948194.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Court annuls child marriage in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: A family court here on Thursday annulled the child marriage of a now 20-year-old girl. She had been married at the age of 2 years during a family function and had been under pressure from in-laws to go to their place. She had filed an application for annulment of her marriage in a family court here in November and presiding officer of the court Mahendra Kumar Singhal finally passed a decree for annulment of the marriage. According to Kriti Bharti of Sarthi Trust, Nimbu (name changed) from Baap tehsil of Jodhpur had been married to a boy from Bikaner in 2002, when she was about 2 years. “After turning 18, her in-laws had been constantly exerting pressure on her parents and community for her departure to her in-laws,” said Bharti. She had not accepted this marriage and was consistently refusing to go to her husband’s house with support of her parents. Bharti said the in-laws, their relatives and caste panch had started threatening her and her parents to banish them from society. Somehow, she contacted the trust and shared her situation with them, which first tried to counsel her in-laws and husband, but when they did not come around, Nimbu finally filed application for annulment of her child marriage. Delighted after the decision of the court, she said that she was free now to pursue her dreams of life and expressed her wish to study to become a police officer. Bharti said the trust has now been putting in efforts for her rehabilitation and realisation of her dream.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/court-annuls-child-marriage/articleshow/79946765.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chennai||5 to paddle 135km in Buckingham Canal to draw eyes to pollution||CHENNAI: Five standup paddlers will navigate 135km along the Buckingham Canal to raise awareness on plastic pollution in water bodies. The group began its journey on Thursday from the Madras Boat House and will end their trip at Koonimedu near Marakkanam in Villupuram district. Right on Day 1, the team flagged a range of violations, including direct disposal of garbage and sewage into the canal, all of which are affecting the water body’s health. Eight hours since commencing their journey, the paddlers reached Kokilamedu village near Mamallapuram, navigating about 50km and observing a slew of polluting activities along the channel sandwiched between Old Mahabalipuram Road and East Coast Road. SUP Marinaa Club founder Satish Kumar, who is heading the team, said a mini lorry and tricycles were found disposing garbage into the Buckingham Canal at 18 locations, particularly in Kanathur, with cattle consuming the water. “We even saw a sewage tanker lorry dumping sewage into the canal. As we moved closer to the banks of the canal, we informed locals about the importance of protecting water bodies and making them pollution free since their cattle would be the first victims,” he said. While the aim was to create awareness, Kumar said, “We found that solid waste was disposed of at Buckingham Canal, destroying the massive water body. The water was clear only after crossing Muttukadu.” On the flip side, the team was able to witness up close nature at its finest on the banks of Buckingham Canal, such as mangroves along Kovalam and banana plantation on the banks of the canal. The team said they caught sight of birds such as pelicans, flamingos and cranes during their eight-hour journey. The team members had to switch between the water and road in the stretch between Mamallapuram and Kalpakkam Township due to security reasons. Kumar said the team was hoping to reach their destination on Friday. “If not, we will be reaching the destination on Saturday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5-to-paddle-135km-in-buckingham-canal-to-draw-eyes-to-pollution/articleshow/79946840.cms||A Prathap
December 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Christmas celebrations low-key this year, but no leash on cheer||PUNE: Families have planned low-key Christmas celebrations this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, but there will be no shortage of cheer and festive spirit. Many of them are foregoing annual tradition of attending mass, though churches have scheduled the service to accommodate night curfew. Pimpri resident Michael Dwyer said, “We will celebrate at home and probably go over to a friend’s place in the evening for dinner. The church is open now, but with restricted attendance. I doubt whether we will go to the church this year.” Sheeba Chacko, a Wanowrie resident, who travelled from Kerala to be with her daughter in Pune, said, “Christmas is all about enjoying the festival season with family and friends. We will attend the midnight mass online. For Christmas lunch, we have invited our dear ones at home in small groups.” For Deepti Borges’ family residing at Lohegaon, the festival is a fun-filled affair within the comfort and safety of their home. “My son and I made DIY decorations. We will be spending the festival with my in-laws, so there will be lots of talking and catching up, games and a delicious feast to look forward to. I have decorated our home and got my daughter some gifts on behalf of Santa,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/christmas-celebrations-low-key-this-year-but-no-leash-on-cheer/articleshow/79946777.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jodhpur||Court annuls child marriage in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: A family court here on Thursday annulled the child marriage of a now 20-year-old girl. She had been married at the age of 2 years during a family function and had been under pressure from in-laws to go to their place. She had filed an application for annulment of her marriage in a family court here in November and presiding officer of the court Mahendra Kumar Singhal finally passed a decree for annulment of the marriage. According to Kriti Bharti of Sarthi Trust, Nimbu (name changed) from Baap tehsil of Jodhpur had been married to a boy from Bikaner in 2002, when she was about 2 years. “After turning 18, her in-laws had been constantly exerting pressure on her parents and community for her departure to her in-laws,” said Bharti. She had not accepted this marriage and was consistently refusing to go to her husband’s house with support of her parents. Bharti said the in-laws, their relatives and caste panch had started threatening her and her parents to banish them from society. Somehow, she contacted the trust and shared her situation with them, which first tried to counsel her in-laws and husband, but when they did not come around, Nimbu finally filed application for annulment of her child marriage. Delighted after the decision of the court, she said that she was free now to pursue her dreams of life and expressed her wish to study to become a police officer. Bharti said the trust has now been putting in efforts for her rehabilitation and realisation of her dream.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/court-annuls-child-marriage/articleshow/79953484.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 16,000 broadband connections added since May this year||AHMEDABAD: The demand for broadband connections has seen a significant spike after the lockdown across Gujarat, with 16,659 new wireline connections added from May to October 2020, according to the latest telecom subscription report for October 2020, released by Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on Wednesday. The highest spike in new connections was seen in June this year with 9,693 new connections added, as pent up demand opened-up, post lockdown. “With increased number of people working from home and education also going online, the demand for broadband connections has gone up. A significant spike was visible in June because of a lot of pent up demand for April and May, during which most part of the state was under a lockdown and with restrictions in residential societies, entry of service personnel was a concern,” said a source. Industry players claim that broadband has become a basic requirement as against a facility availed by a few. Over the past few months, new connections are being added by major players namely Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and Reliance Jio. In October, Bharti Airtel added 358 new broadband subscribers whereas Vodafone Idea added 471 new subscribers. The largest pie of 17,236 new subscribers were added by Reliance Jio in Gujarat. Against this, Tata Tele Services lost 999 subscribers, whereas Reliance Communications lost 1,463 subscribers. The biggest loser was however, state-owned telecom player, BSNL, which lost 11,078 subscribers in the same month. Interestingly, the new connections are not just being added in the four major cities of Gujarat but also in tier-II cities. “As we continue widening our offerings, the demand has seen a significant spike from tier-II cities such as Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Bharuch, Morbi, Mehsana, Anand, Nadiad and Bardoli as well,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/16k-broadband-connections-added-since-may-this-year/articleshow/79946832.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Woman jumps into well with 3 kids, all dead||Ajmer: A 30-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping into a well along with her three kids in Ajmer on Thursday. All the bodies have been fished out of the well. The deceased children include seven-year-old and four-year-old daughters and a two-and-half-year-old son. Police have registered a case and further investigations are on.According to police one Vimala was married to Pradhan Mali, a farmer, 12 years ago in Ramsar village near Nasirabad. On Wednesday, Vimala along with her children left home daughters Komal, Radhika and son Chittar. When she didn’t return, the family members launched a search for them and also informed police. On Thursday morning bodies of all four members were found in a well just half a kilometre from the house. Police took out all four bodies and sent for post-mortem to Nasirabad hospital, police said.Police said Vimala, a resident of Okadiya village of Arai, went to meet her parents on Dewali festival where she told them that she was not having a good relationship with her husband and her in-laws.Father of Vimala Gopal Mali told police that Vimala was mentally unstable and they have no complaint against her husband or in-laws as they were married for 12 years. Therefore, they do not want to register complaint against her husband, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-jumps-into-well-with-3-kids-all-dead/articleshow/79946761.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Milkman’s daughter set to become judge||UDAIPUR: Sonal Sharma’s day begins at 4am, helping her father in milking cattle, cleaning the cow shed, collecting dung and even distributing milk at times. Now, this 26-year-old, who has received three gold medals for topping in BA, LLB and LLM examinations, will be posted as a first class magistrate in a sessions court in the state after a year’s training. Sonal, the second of four children of milkman Khyali Lal Sharma, has qualified to become a judge in her first attempt at the Rajasthan Judicial Service (RJS) examination of 2018. The exam results were declared in November 2019 but Sonal was placed in the waiting list. As some of the selected candidates did not join the service, the state government issued an order on Wednesday asking the wait-listed candidates to join. “We were confident of Sonal's selection. But, she fell just one mark short in the general cutoff list and was put in the waiting list,” said her mentor Satyendra Singh Sankhla. Later, she got to know that seven candidates who got selected had not joined the RJS-2018. Sonal then filed a writ with the Rajasthan high court in September this year. On Wednesday, she got the high court notification to join on one of the seven seats that had remained vacant. Sonal never attended a coaching centre or received tuitions, as her father could not afford it. She cycled to college early and spent hours in the library making notes as she could not afford to buy the expensive books. On December 22, Sonal had received the gold medals at the Mohan Lal Sukhadia University convocation. “My parents have worked hard to provide the best education to us. My father took numerous loans to meet the expenses in educating us but never complained. Now I can give them a comfortable life," said Sonal. Sonal, while helping her father in his business, studied at a corner of the cow shed while she prepared for the RJS exams. Her study table was made of empty oil cans on which she read and wrote. “Most of the time my chappals would be smeared with the cow dung. When I was in school, I felt ashamed to tell my classmates that I was from a milkman's family. But now, I feel proud of my parents,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/milkmans-daughter-set-to-become-judge/articleshow/79946847.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chennai||29 heritage buildings in Tamil Nadu to get facelift in one go||CHENNAI: In a first, the public works department (PWD) will be renovating 29 heritage structures across Tamil Nadu in one go. The state government has sanctioned Rs 80 crore to restore buildings including the Government Printing Press in Chennai, district collectorates at Cuddalore, Madurai and Pudukottai. Eight heritage court buildings are also on the list. Official sources said tenders for the projects would be floated in January and finalised by the third week of February. "Renovation will begin in another two months and will be completed within a year. We are renovating these many heritage structures in a single phase for the first time," a PWD official said. Currently, the building centre and conservation division of PWD is renovating Humayun Mahal at the Chepauk Palace in Chennai. Kohinoor Sheik Abdullah bungalow in Kodaikanal and Governor's Bungalow in Coimbatore will also renovated. While nearly Rs 14 crore has been allocated to restore the Government Printing Press building in Old Mint area of Chennai, Rs 3.1 crore has been earmarked for conservation and restoration of the Collector's camp office building (Clive House) in Cuddalore. Around Rs 4 crore has been earmarked to renovate collectorates at Madurai and Pudukottai. The eight heritage court buildings that will get a facelift includes district court, munsif court and chief judicial magistrate courts in districts such as Dharmapuri, Nagapaittnam, Trichy and Theni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/29-heritage-buildings-to-get-facelift-in-one-go/articleshow/79946892.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
December 25, 2020||Erode||29 heritage buildings in Tamil Nadu to get facelift in one go||CHENNAI: In a first, the public works department (PWD) will be renovating 29 heritage structures across Tamil Nadu in one go. The state government has sanctioned Rs 80 crore to restore buildings including the Government Printing Press in Chennai, district collectorates at Cuddalore, Madurai and Pudukottai. Eight heritage court buildings are also on the list. Official sources said tenders for the projects would be floated in January and finalised by the third week of February. "Renovation will begin in another two months and will be completed within a year. We are renovating these many heritage structures in a single phase for the first time," a PWD official said. Currently, the building centre and conservation division of PWD is renovating Humayun Mahal at the Chepauk Palace in Chennai. Kohinoor Sheik Abdullah bungalow in Kodaikanal and Governor's Bungalow in Coimbatore will also renovated. While nearly Rs 14 crore has been allocated to restore the Government Printing Press building in Old Mint area of Chennai, Rs 3.1 crore has been earmarked for conservation and restoration of the Collector's camp office building (Clive House) in Cuddalore. Around Rs 4 crore has been earmarked to renovate collectorates at Madurai and Pudukottai. The eight heritage court buildings that will get a facelift includes district court, munsif court and chief judicial magistrate courts in districts such as Dharmapuri, Nagapaittnam, Trichy and Theni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/29-heritage-buildings-to-get-facelift-in-one-go/articleshow/79950786.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||NGT orders to install bird diverters in GIB habitat||Jaisalmer: Taking serious note of the Great Indian Bustards (GIBs) getting killed after hitting electricity wires, the NGT Delhi has ordered that the power lines of renewable energy schemes be laid underground in the GIB habitat.A bench comprising NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goyal, Justice Shiv Kumar Singh and expert members Satyawan Singh Girebal and Nagin Nanda passed the order on a petition filed by Gaurav Kumar Bansal.In the order, the Union environment and forest ministry and the states have been directed to install bird diverters on electricity wires related to solar energy within four months, so that the GIBs could be saved. The order applies to five states (Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh).It is to be mentioned that Wildlife Trust of India former chairman M K Ranjeet has also filed a petition in the Supreme Court to lay the high tension electricity wires underground to save GIBs. Two hearings have taken place and possibly the apex court will pronounce its decision next month.Wildlife biologist Sumit Dookia said the government should make mandatory provision to have rigorous EIA study in the entire GIB distribution area, as identified by the Wildlife Institute of India under Critical GIB habitats. These areas are stretched east and south of Field Firing Range of Pokhran-Khetolai.He said that he strongly recommend that all existing lines be laid underground, if not, bird diverters (which emits light at night) must be installed. The recent ones, which were placed between Chacha-Dholiya are just reflectors, and at night, these are not visible. Whereas all GIB deaths happen during night only.The tribunal also sought a factual report from the MoEF with regard to the allegation that steps taken are not adequate and there continues to be high mortality of the birds.According to the applicant, population of GIB has steadily declined by 75% in the last thirty years. The main reason for such decline is fatal accidents on the power lines. This requires habitat improvement and conservation breeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ngt-orders-to-install-bird-diverters-in-gib-habitat/articleshow/79946851.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Madurai||29 heritage buildings in Tamil Nadu to get facelift in one go||CHENNAI: In a first, the public works department (PWD) will be renovating 29 heritage structures across Tamil Nadu in one go. The state government has sanctioned Rs 80 crore to restore buildings including the Government Printing Press in Chennai, district collectorates at Cuddalore, Madurai and Pudukottai. Eight heritage court buildings are also on the list. Official sources said tenders for the projects would be floated in January and finalised by the third week of February. "Renovation will begin in another two months and will be completed within a year. We are renovating these many heritage structures in a single phase for the first time," a PWD official said. Currently, the building centre and conservation division of PWD is renovating Humayun Mahal at the Chepauk Palace in Chennai. Kohinoor Sheik Abdullah bungalow in Kodaikanal and Governor's Bungalow in Coimbatore will also renovated. While nearly Rs 14 crore has been allocated to restore the Government Printing Press building in Old Mint area of Chennai, Rs 3.1 crore has been earmarked for conservation and restoration of the Collector's camp office building (Clive House) in Cuddalore. Around Rs 4 crore has been earmarked to renovate collectorates at Madurai and Pudukottai. The eight heritage court buildings that will get a facelift includes district court, munsif court and chief judicial magistrate courts in districts such as Dharmapuri, Nagapaittnam, Trichy and Theni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/29-heritage-buildings-to-get-facelift-in-one-go/articleshow/79950787.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
December 25, 2020||Salem||29 heritage buildings in Tamil Nadu to get facelift in one go||CHENNAI: In a first, the public works department (PWD) will be renovating 29 heritage structures across Tamil Nadu in one go. The state government has sanctioned Rs 80 crore to restore buildings including the Government Printing Press in Chennai, district collectorates at Cuddalore, Madurai and Pudukottai. Eight heritage court buildings are also on the list. Official sources said tenders for the projects would be floated in January and finalised by the third week of February. "Renovation will begin in another two months and will be completed within a year. We are renovating these many heritage structures in a single phase for the first time," a PWD official said. Currently, the building centre and conservation division of PWD is renovating Humayun Mahal at the Chepauk Palace in Chennai. Kohinoor Sheik Abdullah bungalow in Kodaikanal and Governor's Bungalow in Coimbatore will also renovated. While nearly Rs 14 crore has been allocated to restore the Government Printing Press building in Old Mint area of Chennai, Rs 3.1 crore has been earmarked for conservation and restoration of the Collector's camp office building (Clive House) in Cuddalore. Around Rs 4 crore has been earmarked to renovate collectorates at Madurai and Pudukottai. The eight heritage court buildings that will get a facelift includes district court, munsif court and chief judicial magistrate courts in districts such as Dharmapuri, Nagapaittnam, Trichy and Theni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/29-heritage-buildings-to-get-facelift-in-one-go/articleshow/79950789.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
December 25, 2020||Pune||Colleagues in Pune play ‘Secret Santa’||PUNE: The work from home regime has not dampened initiatives like “Secret Santa”, a holiday tradition which involves office colleagues buying gifts for each other anonymously. Seema Nair, who works for an ecommerce portal, said, “Every year, we play “Secret Santa”, but it is not mandatory for anyone to participate.” Rohan Oberoi, a manager at a content firm, said, “We need some Christmas cheer and playing ‘Secret Santa’ is a great way to do that and bond with employees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/colleagues-play-secret-santa/articleshow/79946871.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Three held with 8kg ganja and 900g hashish oil||HYDERABAD: KPHB police arrested two students, K Jaya Krishna Reddy (24), J Balram Naik (23) and their friend, S Venkata Srikar (23) at Addagutta in KPHB Colony while they were trying to sell ganja and hashish oil to prospective customers. Police seized eight kilos ganja and 900 grams of hashish oil along with three cell phones and Rs 1,500 cash from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-held-with-8kg-ganja-and-900g-hashish-oil/articleshow/79948213.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Vendors dump fruits, veggies on roads in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: The Udaipur Municipal Corporation (UMC) officials had a tough time dealing with public fury on Thursday. While on one hand, vendors majorly women dumped vegetables and fruits on the streets to protest against the UMC's encroachment clearance move, on the other hand some youths went to the municipal commissioner's office with a demand letter asking to repair the damaged roads causing casualties in Hiran Magri area. In a symbolic protest, they took with them small bags of coal tar, cement, sand and stones to express their anguish on the bad shapes of the city roads. The youths said if the road is not repaired in three days, they would resort to a traffic block. At the Delhigate-Bapu Bazar road, tension brewed when some women vegetable sellers threw away their baskets and dumped veggies and fruits on the main road to protest the encroachment clearance drive of the UMC officials. The vendors said the employees were harassing them since a month and not letting them sell veggies in the space that had been occupied by them for a long time. Few of the women said, they were the sole bread earner for their family as their husbands were either critically ill or no more and hence their children would starve if they are not able to let work peacefully. Later, the UMC trash collection vehicle cleared the mess and cleaned the road. Satya Narayan Sharma, the health and sanitation officer said, the veggie vendors were blocking the traffic and creating nuisance for the commuters. “The lorry vendors have been instructed many times to keep moving but they keep themselves stationed in a location causing traffic problems. Similarly, the women folk too were asked to keep their activities in a certain limit but they do not listen and come on roads. The Smart City work is in progress and we have to manage the traffic with the construction work and these people do not cooperate,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vendors-dump-fruits-veggies-on-roads-in-udaipur/articleshow/79946859.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Allow us to function: Bar association to HC||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Family Court’s Bar Association has requested the Gujarat high court to open family courts and to allow court to resume functioning so as to save women, elderly and children who are dependent on court-ordered maintenance from starvation. The association has brought to the HC’s notice that the family courts in the city are closed since March due to Covid-19 and permission has been granted to them for limited functioning. Only physical filing of cases is permitted, but no procedure takes place except issuance of notice. The Bar members have complained that there are numerous applications for maintenance, and divorce with consent which are at the verge of completion. Those cases should be allowed to be completed. One of the grievances was that the courts do not issue notices except if the litigant has WhatsApp number. Even after issuance of the notice, there is no scope for further proceedings, their representation said. The association has stated that the lawyers continued receiving phone calls and complaints from the litigants that recovery of maintenance amount is not possible and urged the court to stop the delay because litigants in women, elderly parents and children are already facing starvation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/allow-us-to-function-bar-association-to-hc/articleshow/79946869.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Pandemic fails to defeat festive spirit, churches invoke Christ in troubled times||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, accompanied by MP Derek O Brien and city police commissioner Anuj Sharma, attended the evening mass on Christmas eve at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary, also known as the Portugese Church, the main Roman Catholic Church in the city, on Thursday. Given the pandemic this year, the midnight mass at this cathedral was cancelled an an evening mass was held instead. The Church of North India, however, went ahead with its midnight mass at St Paul’s Cathedral. Both the places implemented several restrictions to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus. The evening service at the Brabourne Road Cathedral started around 7pm with the singing of carols. After the chief minister arrived around 7.30pm, she cut the ribbon of the crib at the nativity scene and the archbishop, Thomas D Souza, blessed the crib. Banerjee offered flower petals at the feet of Baby Jesus after which she, along with the other dignitaries, was escorted inside the church, where they took their designated seats, separated from each other to maintain social distancing. The Cathedral organised the singing of three Bengali Christmas carols in honour of Banerjee. Later, vicar-general Dominic Gomes said she had requested for Bengali carols and hence, this was arranged. Hymns, like ‘Bishwa pita tumi he prabhu’ and ‘Swagato janai tomake aji ei punyo raate’, were sung. “The pandemic did not allow the midnight mass to happen, but that cannot take away the spirit of Christmas,” said archbishop D Souza in his prayer service, where he also welcomed the chief minister, addressing her “Didi”. “I pray to God that he answers all your prayers and keeps you in good health. You are our messenger of peace and I pray that you continue with greater effectiveness and stay healthy in the service of the Lord,” the archbishop addressed Banerjee. The vicar-general congratulated Banerjee for giving equal attention to all religions. “It is because of her that Christmas is being celebrated not only at Allen Park on Park Street but at nine places across the state with such fervour,” he said, adding appreciation for the service that the police administration has provided to citizens during these pandemic months. Before Banerjee left, Archbishop D Souza blessed her. The midnight mass at St Paul’s Cathedral started around 11pm as Bishop Paritosh Canning blessed the crib. At the service he said, “This year has shown us the need for invoking Christ into our lives. It has been a year fraught with trouble and reminds us of the troubled times that Jesus was born into. It was He who gradually showed humanity the way out of the trials and I hope he will listen to our earnest prayers in these trying times, too.” The service ended at 12.30 am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-fails-to-defeat-festive-spirit-churches-invoke-christ-in-troubled-times/articleshow/79946929.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 25, 2020||Udaipur||Vendors dump fruits, veggies on roads in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: The Udaipur Municipal Corporation (UMC) officials had a tough time dealing with public fury on Thursday. While on one hand, vendors majorly women dumped vegetables and fruits on the streets to protest against the UMC's encroachment clearance move, on the other hand some youths went to the municipal commissioner's office with a demand letter asking to repair the damaged roads causing casualties in Hiran Magri area. In a symbolic protest, they took with them small bags of coal tar, cement, sand and stones to express their anguish on the bad shapes of the city roads. The youths said if the road is not repaired in three days, they would resort to a traffic block. At the Delhigate-Bapu Bazar road, tension brewed when some women vegetable sellers threw away their baskets and dumped veggies and fruits on the main road to protest the encroachment clearance drive of the UMC officials. The vendors said the employees were harassing them since a month and not letting them sell veggies in the space that had been occupied by them for a long time. Few of the women said, they were the sole bread earner for their family as their husbands were either critically ill or no more and hence their children would starve if they are not able to let work peacefully. Later, the UMC trash collection vehicle cleared the mess and cleaned the road. Satya Narayan Sharma, the health and sanitation officer said, the veggie vendors were blocking the traffic and creating nuisance for the commuters. “The lorry vendors have been instructed many times to keep moving but they keep themselves stationed in a location causing traffic problems. Similarly, the women folk too were asked to keep their activities in a certain limit but they do not listen and come on roads. The Smart City work is in progress and we have to manage the traffic with the construction work and these people do not cooperate,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/vendors-dump-fruits-veggies-on-roads-in-udaipur/articleshow/79953438.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt okays Rs 259 cr development works||Gandhinagar: Even as the state election commission (SEC) is expected to notify elections for urban and rural local bodies in the first fortnight of January 2021, the state government on Thursday approved developmental works worth Rs 259.7 crore under the Swarnim Jayanti Mukhyamantri Shehari Vikas Yojana. This fund will be used for setting up various civic amenities in the municipal corporations of Vadodara, Gandhinagar and Bavnagar, along with the Bhuj municipality. The government on Thursday allocated Rs 248.2 crore to Vadodara Municipal Corporation for a 83 MLD sewage treatment plant (STP) at Atladara and a 100 MLD sewage treatment plant at Tarsali. The allocated amount will also be spent for upgrading an existing STP in Vadodara. The government also allocated Rs 6.79 crore to Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation for resurfacing work of inner roads in Sector-24, 25, 26 and 27, a 5.8km stretch of road in Sector-17 and a 5.2km stretch of road in Sector-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-okays-rs-259-cr-development-works/articleshow/79946876.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Safai workers to intensify strike||AHMEDABAD: The members of Ahmedabad Municipal Servants’ Association have threatened to strike works in all departments of the corporation if a complaint was not registered against certain AMC officials. Secretary of the association Kalpesh Makwana said, “A safai worker Gunvant Khatri had met the AMC officials for making a representation but the officials — DyMC C R Kharsan and director solid waste department Harshad Solanki — misbehaved with Khatri after which he attempted suicide.” Makwana said that the association members went to AMC office and demanded that a police complaint be lodged against the officials. However, when no complaint was lodged, the safari workers went to Vastrapur police station to lodge a police compliant. “The police too refused to lodge the complaint after which the workers sat on the road and blocked the traffic,” he said. Makwana said that the association has decided to intensify the stir and to strike down work in the AMTS, malaria department, sewerage treatment plants, water and the manhole department. The employees said that the 6,200-odd safai workers want the AMC to give their kin the right of compassionate jobs as in case of other employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/safai-workers-to-intensify-strike/articleshow/79946886.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Four students die as car rams into water tanker in overtaking bid||HYDERABAD: Four engineering students were killed and three of their friends injured when their car rammed into an HMDA water tanker in Bhuvanagiri while trying to overtake another car on Thursday evening. The injured were rushed to a nearby hospital and one of them is said to be critical. The accident occurred near Antharam flyover close to Yadadri Bhuvanagiri collectorate when the students were returning home after attending a marriage in Alair, Bhuvanagiri DCP K Narayana Reddy said. The students, all around 19 years, were pursuing second year B Tech in Holy Mary Engineering College in Ghatkesar. Cops said that the driver was not drunk and the accident was primarily because of overtaking miscalculation. Cops said that there were two vehicles ahead of the victims’ car — a car on the left and a slow-moving tanker with workers watering plants on the median. “The driver, Venkatesh, tried to overtake through the gap between the two vehicles but their car brushed against the other car. To avoid collision, Venkatesh turned the vehicle to right and ended up ramming the water tanker. Four youngsters, including Venkatesh, died on the spot,” the DCP said. Venkatesh was a resident of Kushaiguda and police are checking his licence details. Traffic came to a grinding halt on the highway for over half an hour as cops pulled aside the mangled Swift Dzire (bearing registration No. AP 28 DM 9989). They shifted the bodies to Bhuvanagiri area hospital for post-mortem. A case was registered under IPC sections for causing death by rash or negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide and causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others. Apart from Venkatesh the other deceased were P Kalyan Reddy of Jakranpally in Nizamabad, V Karthik of Ghatkesar and E Ravi Kiran of Malkajgiri. The injured were K Akhil Reddy of Annojiguda, G Harshavardhan of Kushaiguda and G Sai Charan of Malkajgiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-students-die-as-car-rams-into-water-tanker-in-overtaking-bid/articleshow/79948979.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||Rs 7 crore for upkeep of Pimpri Chinchwad civic body's water supply monitoring system||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The standing committee of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has approved Rs7 crore for the maintenance of the Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition (SCADA) system, used for centralised monitoring of the water supply network. The committee also approved separate funds for repairing the water pumping houses across Pimple Gurav, Dapodi, Sangvi, Ravet, Thergaon, Dighi, Charholi, and other areas. The civic body officials ruled out the possibility of daily water supply in place of alternate day supply. The joint city engineer for the PCMC’s water supply department, Ramdas Tambe, said the pressure and the volume of water supply were not being compromised with. According to Tambe, around 490 MLD (million litres per day) water was lifted from Pavana dam to provide water to the eight zones in the twin cities. “If we can get an additional 100 million litres of water per day, then proposal for daily water supply can be seriously considered,” Tambe further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-7-crore-for-upkeep-of-pcmcs-water-supply-monitoring-system/articleshow/79946879.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cops and SOT arrest fraudster, recover 4 cars||HYDERABAD: KPHB police with the support of Special Operations Team (SOT), Balanagar, arrested a habitual offender, G Vinod Kumar Reddy, 23, for cheating multiple people after taking their cars on lease. Reddy, who has been operating a private travels business from Madhapur and Moosapet, used to take cars of individual vehicle owners on lease. “After taking the cars on lease, Reddy used to pay the rental for two months and later start avoiding them. He also mortgaged some of the leased cars and obtained loan,” Kukatpally ACP B Surendar Rao said. During the past few months, Reddy mortgaged four cars for Rs 6.6 lakh and used the money for his lavish lifestyle, police said. Based on the complaints lodged by three persons who gave their cars to Reddy on lease, RC Puram and KPHB police registered three cases under sections 420 and 406 of the IPC against Reddy. Acting on specific information, police raided his house in MIG, BHEL Township on Wednesday night and arrested him. The four cars have been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-and-sot-arrest-fraudster-recover-4-cars/articleshow/79948228.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||Police bust sex racket, two in net||Pune: The Pune police on Wednesday night busted a sex racket being run under the guise of a massage parlour in Koregaon Park, rescued seven women and arrested two. A team of the Swargate police, led by senior inspector Brahmanand Naikwadi, raided the spot on a tip-off received by inspector Somnath Jadhav. The team arrested the woman running the sex racket, as well as the manager of the parlour. Naikwadi said the police team found seven women who were forced into prostitution under the guise of giving massages to the customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-bust-sex-racket-two-in-net/articleshow/79946882.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||PMPML plans special e-buses on 11 routes to boost ridership in Pune||PUNE: The PMPML will run special e-buses on 11 routes from Friday, which will stop only at a few stops to attract ridership, slash travel time and improve punctuality. “A fleet of e-buses will ply on 11 routes in such a way that they only stop at selective bus stops. The intention is to minimize the journey time, improve speed and also ensure that people reach their destinations faster,” Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML)’s chairman-cum-managing director Rajendra Jagtap told TOI. The 11 trial routes will include buses from Nigdi to Katraj, Bekrainagar to Nigdi, Bekrainagar to Chinchwad, Bekrainagar to Alandi, Bekrainagar to Hinjewadi (phase-3), Bakrainagar to NDA Gate and Nigdi to Wagholi. “There are many bus stops on each of these routes and buses halt at each stop for passengers. The special fleet of e-buses will ply on these routes in addition to the existing ones and will stop only at important stops,” Jagtap said. He said the fare for travelling aboard these special buses would be the same as that on regular ones, for now. “This is an attempt to create newer specialized services to attract more ridership,” he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-plans-special-e-buses-on-11-routes-to-boost-ridership/articleshow/79946891.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 25, 2020||Business||Govt challenges Voda arbitration tribunal ruling in Singapore court||NEW DELHI: The government has challenged an international tribunal’s verdict holding it guilty of violating provisions of the India-Netherlands bilateral investment treaty while making tax claims from telecom major Vodafone through retrospective amendment to the law. The government had 90 days to challenge the tribunal’s order and it is learnt to have moved a Singapore court earlier this week, although it is yet to officially disclose its stand. Finance ministry and tax department spokerspersons did not comment on the matter, while officials dodged media queries. On September 25, an international arbitration court had rejected a demand for over Rs 22,000 crore in taxes and penalties relating to Vodafone’s acquisition of Hutch’s controlling interest in India in 2007. Five years later, after losing the case in the Supreme Court, the government had amended the law retrospectively, in what it has maintained was a clarification. The companies involved in the transaction had argued that no payment was required as the deal involved overseas entities. The government, however, believed that capital gains tax needed to be paid in India given that the underlying assets are in the country. While the liability was on Hutch, authorities decided to pursue Vodafone as they did not have access to the Hong Kong- based company’s assets and argued that the telecom company should have deducted the tax before making the payment. Although some ministries were not keen on pursuing the case further, the revenue department pushed for it, including with PM Narendra Modi, arguing that tax policy was a sovereign right and could not be dictated by an investment protection treaty or an arbitration tribunal. The Modi government has already faced twin setbacks in defending the tax policy adopted by the UPA during Pranab Mukherjee’s term in the finance ministry, having got an adverse ruling in another case related to retrospective tax – Cairn Energy – where the income tax department went a step further in selling some of the shares. On Wednesday, a tribunal had asked the government to pay $1.2 billion apart from interest and cost to the British energy firm. The Centre’s liability in the Vodafone case is limited to Rs 85 crore in legal cost. The government stance in the Vodafone case is expected to be repeated in Cairn Energy too although the finance ministry had said that it was studying the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-challenges-voda-arbitration-tribunal-ruling-in-singapore-court/articleshow/79949281.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: M K Alagiri to consult supporters on January 3 about next move||CHENNAI: M K Alagiri, son of former chief minister M Karunanidhi and elder brother of DMK president M K Stalin, has called for a meeting of his supporters in Madurai on January 3. The meeting is to get their feedback on his future political course of action, said the former Union minister, who has been in political hibernation since 2014 when he was expelled from the DMK. “I am meeting my supporters on January 3. If they urge me to launch a new political party, I will do it,” Alagiri told reporters in Chennai on Thursday. He had come to the city to call on his ailing mother Dayalu Ammal, who resides at Karunanidhi’s Gopalapuram residence. “Only after the January 3 meeting, I will be in a position to take a call on my future course of action on the political front,” Alagiri said, while adding that he has not received any feelers from the DMK so far. “My contribution will be there in the 2021 assembly election in Tamil Nadu. But it may not have anything to do with the DMK alliance,” he said, while adding that even casting his vote could be seen as a contribution to the election. Alagiri was the DMK’s Madurai strongman from 2009. But after relations between him and Stalin soured and he was expelled from the party ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, Alagiri chose to maintain a low profile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/alagiri-to-consult-supporters-on-jan-3-about-next-move/articleshow/79946897.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Bareilly||Two dead, 11 injured as 10 vehicles pile up on NH-24 in Moradabad||BAREILLY: Two people were killed and at least 11 others left injured after 10 vehicles piled up in a crash due to dense fog on the Lucknow-Delhi national highway (NH-24) in Kathghar area of Moradabad district on Thursday morning. The deceased, astride a motorcycle, rammed into a truck and then other vehicles crashed into their bike, said police. Police said the accident took place due to high speed as the visibility had dropped significantly owing to the dense fog. The vehicles were following a truck, and when the truck driver suddenly applied the brake to save another truck parked on the road, the vehicles following the first truck crashed into each other, said police. After the accident, a rescue operation was immediately launched by the staff deployed at the nearest toll gate and police were informed, too. Police said one of the bikers died on the spot while another died at the district hospital. All the injured were initially admitted to a community health centre, but later eight of them were shifted to the district hospital. The emergency medical officer said, “Eight people were brought to the hospital. One of them succumbed to his injuries while the condition of four is critical. All of them are under observation.” The bikers have been identified as Kamal Singh Yadav and Ramsaran, both residents of Moradabad, who used to work as construction labourers. The accident halted the traffic on the highway for nearly two hours. Later, circle officer Manish Kumar and SHO Katghar Gajendra Singh called a crane to remove the mangled vehicles to clear the road. The CO said, “A truck parked on the road was invisible due to dense fog which led to the accident. Two people were killed in the accident while 11 injured.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-dead-11-injured-as-10-vehicles-pile-up-on-nh-24-in-moradabad-due-to-dense-fog/articleshow/79945782.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||No New Year parties, stay at home, warn Telangana officials||HYDERABAD: Health authorities in Telangana on Thursday said they were writing to police, excise and the GHMC to ban New Year parties across the city fearing a second wave of Covid infections. Every year, the city hosts roughly 1,500 New Year bashes, but this year authorities have not yet given permission to event organisers, bars, pubs and hotels for parties. “We are really worried about the New Year parties as all sections of people will be participating in celebrations. We are writing to various wings of the state government for stopping parties this year. We are urging people not to go out on New Year but stay at home with family and celebrate,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health. Authorities said that all the efforts of the past 10 months in controlling the virus must not go to waste. “In the last 10-11 months, everybody in the health and other departments put in their best efforts to control the pandemic. The efforts of all these people will go for a toss if there is a surge now, especially with the threat of a new variant of the virus looming,” said Rao. “We have also lost many lives this year. We request people to think of this as a tribute to them by not celebrating New Year and not letting their efforts go down the drain,” he said. Telangana has been able to control the spread of the virus in the last two months with the daily positivity rate dropping to 1.1% and has been able to avoid a surge even during the festival season. However, the threat of the new variant of the virus which is more transmissible could also derail the massive vaccination programme which is likely to start in the state soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-ny-parties-stay-at-home-warn-t-officials/articleshow/79948983.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 25, 2020||Meerut||Proclamation notice issued against absconding cop accused of rape||BIJNOR: A proclamation notice under section 82 of the CrPC was put up on the house of an absconding UP police constable who allegedly raped a woman on the pretext of marriage. The constable has been absconding since he was booked under relevant sections on a complaint lodged by the woman last month. According to the complainant, she met police constable Manoj Rastogi for the first time when she had gone to lodge a complaint against her husband. Superintendent of police, Bijnor city, Lakshmi Nivas Mishra said, “The woman had filed a complaint against Rastogi a few days ago. The accused was trying to resolve the matter through interactions, but she did not withdraw the complaint. The accused was posted in Bijnor district during the alleged crime. Last year, he was transferred to Moradabad.” “The woman alleged that the constable had come in contact with her ten years ago when she had gone to Seohara police station to file a complaint against her husband following a tiff. Thereafter, he raped her repeatedly and also attempted to rape her minor daughter,” said the SP. The SP added, “The constable is still at large. We have put up a notice on his house in Bijnor city. Further action will be taken if the accused refuses to surrender.” The SSP has, meanwhile, written a letter to his counterpart in Moradabad district in this connection. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/proclamation-notice-issued-againstabsconding-cop-accused-of-rape/articleshow/79945795.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 25, 2020||Pune||Man held on charge of raping cop’s daughter in Ahmednagar||PUNE: A man was arrested on Wednesday night on the charge of kidnapping and raping the daughter (20) of a policeman in a lodge at Nevasa in Ahmednagar district between December 21 and 22. His accomplices were booked on the charge of abetting the crime. DCP (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh said, “Investigations revealed that the suspect was married, and the woman was not in talking terms with him. The suspect will be in police custody till December 28. We have fanned a police team for arresting his two accomplices on the run.” Inspector (crime) Prakash Pasalkar from the Chandannagar police said on Thursday, “The man and the woman are known to each other for six years. On December 21, he proposed the woman while she was going to a jewellery store at Vadgaonsheri. He threatened to consume poison while forcing her to sit in the car when she rejected his proposal.” He said, “The suspect forced the woman to smell a chemical substance, after which she became partially unconscious. He then called his two friends. He took their help in gagging her with a scarf and tying her hands and legs, and then asked them to alight from the vehicle at Wagholi and Lonikand.” Pasalkar said, “The man then drove the woman to Nevasa in Ahmednagar and allegedly raped her in a lodge and later dropped her at her residence. The woman later visited the police station and registered an FIR.” The woman stated in her complaint that the suspect had taken her to a theatre on old Mundhwa road before calling his friends. Giving description of the aides of the suspect, she said one of them was short and the other was tall. They were in the age group of 22 to 28 years, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-on-charge-of-raping-cops-daughter/articleshow/79946896.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||NFAI expects funding to continue for key projects even after merger||PUNE: Details are still sketchy about the proposed merger of the National Film Archive of India (NFAI), along with three other bodies, with the National Film Development Corporation (NFDC), but the former expects that its flagship projects, including the National Film Heritage Mission (NFHM), will be on track. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar announced on Wednesday that the NFAI, the Directorate of Film Festivals (DFF), the Children’s Film Society of India (CFSI), and the Films Division, will be merged with the NFDC. The merger was suggested by a committee appointed by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, which proposed creation of specialised verticals to focus on aspects of films and television in a coordinated manner. While NFAI officials are still not sure what the merger will bring about, they said its key projects are on course and well-funded, with timelines being adhered to. The NFHM is a vital project for the NFAI, for which it is the nodal agency. “The NFHM is not expected to be affected in terms of funding or timelines. This step is largely focused on creating verticals for the various organisations to work better. If implemented well, it could be of huge benefit in terms of sharing of staff and resources within a single vertical. Besides, the NFAI already preserves films made by the CFSI, Films Division, NFDC, or the Film and Television Institute of India,” said a source at NFAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nfai-expects-funding-to-continue-for-key-projects-even-after-merger/articleshow/79946906.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Patient sexually harassed, hospital guard arrested||PUNE: A security guard (47) from a government hospital in Pimpri was arrested on Wednesday on the charge of posing as a policeman and sexually harassing a 19-year-old patient on its premises at 9pm on Monday. The woman on Wednesday lodged an FIR against the suspect, arrested under IPC sections 354A and 170. “A local court has remanded the guard in police custody till December 25,” assistant inspector Ganesh Londhe of the Pimpri police said. He said, “The complainant is undergoing treatment at the hospital. The suspect came when she was alone in the ward and told her he was a policeman. He talked with her in a lewd language. He also touched her improperly and left.” Londhe said the terrified woman later narrated her ordeal to her parents and lodged the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patient-sexually-harassed-hosp-guard-arrested/articleshow/79946893.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||PMC guidelines||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday issued guidelines for Christmas celebrations, under which only 50 people were allowed attendance at prayers to maintain social distance norms. Besides, the guidelines only allowed 10 choristers in a group. As per the notification, the Thanksgiving Mass should be organised at 7pm, instead of midnight. The gathering at public places and on road should be avoided. “The directives issued by the home department of state government will be mandatory,” PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-guidelines/articleshow/79946943.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||ED attaches Rs 4,100 crore assets in AgriGold case||Hyderabad: The Enforcement Directorate attached assets worth Rs 4,109 crore under Prevention of Money Laundering Act in the AgriGold ponzi scheme Case. The attached assets include 2,809 properties in the form of land, Haailand amusement park in Guntur spread over 48 acres, shares of various cosmpanies floated by the accused, plants and machinery. The ED attached properties in several districts of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Odisha. The ED on Monday had arrested three main accused, including AgriGold chairman Avva Venkata Rama Rao, in the case. It booked the money laundering case based on multiple FIRs registered against the accused in various states. Rama Rao hatched a conspiracy and along with his seven brothers and other associates, set up more than 150 companies and started collecting deposits from general public with a promise to provide developed plots and farm lands and withdrawal at a high rate of return on maturity/pre-term. “Thousands of commission agents were engaged to lure people with various schemes at hefty commissions. The company managed to collect Rs 6,380 crore from 32 lakh investor accounts. Investors neither got plots nor could recover their deposits,” said ED. The accused illegally diverted the public deposits and invested in several sectors and in private companies which were directly owned by their family. Names of accused also figured in the paradise leaks case. The promoters had incorporated companies in Cayman Islands, the ED said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-attaches-rs-4100-crore-assets-in-agrigold-case/articleshow/79946899.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Four more arrests in loan app case; cops share details with RBI officials||Hyderabad: Cyberabad police on Thursday nabbed four more persons for allegedly harassing loan takers, who defaulted after taking loans through instant loan apps. Police were tight-lipped on Thursday on the details of the nabbed persons since the investigation is still underway. They said there would be more clarity on their role on Friday. about their role. Meanwhile, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar and other senior police officials met the regional director of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and shared details of the police investigation in the instant loan apps harassment cases and sought some clarifications. “The digital lending platforms engaged as agents are also required to disclose upfront to the customer the name of the bank/Non Banking Finance Company (NBFC) on whose behalf they are transacting,” RBI officials told the police. In a press note, Cyberabad police said that RBI officials said that the public can report information about unverified/unauthorized apps to the concerned law enforcement agencies or use RBI’s Sachet portal https://sachet.rbi.org.in for filing complaints online. With the arrest of four members, the total number of arrests has gone up to 15. The investigation into the death of software engineer Sunil is still underway. Police have served notices to a few NBFCs with whom the instant financing companies have tied up. “Irrespective of banking irregularities, the accused have committed an offence by harassing defaulters,” Cyberabad police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-more-arrests-in-loan-app-case-cops-share-details-with-rbi-officials/articleshow/79946947.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||City startup Fleeca raises funding from Bridgestone||Jaipur: The Pink City-based startup Fleeca India raised series-A funding round from tyre maker Bridgestone India to expand its operations and invest in new technologies and digital solutions. Currently, Fleeca has operation in 17 cities across 11 states and employs 125 people. It provides tyre services to 110 fleet owners having 6,000 trucks across national highways through its 350 Fleeca Centres. Founder and CEO of Fleeca India Tikam Jain did not disclose the size of the fund but said, “It is a strategic investment. We will use the funds to increase our presence to 30 cities in 17 states in the next one year. We will also more than double the headcount to support the expanded operations.” Jain said the company expects to take the total number of clients to 350 and truck to 15,000 in the next one year. “We are now back to the pre-Covid levels. In 2018, we had 50 clients which rose to 110 by the end of March 2020. We are now well capitalized to pursue our expansion plans aggressively and expect to reach 350 clients and 15,000 trucks by the end of 2021,” added Jain. Fleeca expects its ‘pay per km’ to be driving the future growth. Under the model, transporters don’t have to buy tyres but pay as per the use. The startup has seven clients under the pay per km category. Jain said, “In this model we buy tyres and the clients pay for the km their trucks log. We expect high growth in the segment and are on course to have 15,000 trucks in next one year from the current 2,000.” Fleeca Centres is another focus area of the company. Jain said their focus is on improving the profitability of these centres which are key to its operations. “At every 30-40 km, you would find these Fleeca Centres. They provide services like wheel alignment, puncture, tube change and others,” added Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-startup-fleeca-raises-funding-from-bridgestone/articleshow/79946948.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana on alert as 7 who came from UK test Covid-positive||HYDERABAD: Seven people who returned from the UK to Telangana in the past month have tested positive for the Covid-19 virus. Their samples have now been sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) for genome sequencing to find out if they are affected by the existing strain or if it’s newly mutated and highly infectious B.1.1.7 variant found in the UK. Sources told TOI that not wanting to take any chances, the state health officials have gone into high alert and are aggressively tracking contacts of those who tested positive. “The seven patients are from Hyderabad, Medchal, Warangal Urban, Siddipet and Jagityal districts. They have been kept in isolation at various hospitals, separate from the other Covid-19 patients,” said a health department official, adding that special wards will have to be set up for the UK returnees who have tested positive. Of the roughly 1,200 people who have returned to Telangana from the UK since December 9, 846 of have been tested. “All the seven patients who tested positive are being monitored separately and people who have come in contact with them are being traced. We are also monitoring those returnees who have tested negative,” said health minister Eatala Rajender in an official statement. In the wake of global concerns about the new variant of the existing novel coronavirus, the minister appealed to people to be vigilant. He suggested that people observe the upcoming Christmas, New Year and Sankranti celebrations at home, urging all to follow Covid precautions including wearing masks, hand hygiene and physical distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-on-alert-as-7-who-came-from-uk-test-covid-ve/articleshow/79948992.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Teen lands in soup for flying drone above houses of AP DGP, T'gana chief secy||HYDERABAD: Jubilee Hills police registered a case against an 18-year-old student for flying a drone camera above the houses of Andhra Pradesh DGP D Gautam Sawang and Telangana principal secretary (home) Ravi Gupta. Though prima facie it was found to be a playful act of neighbourhood teenagers, cops seized the drone camera and sent it to the lab for analysis of the visuals recorded. A case was registered under IPC sections of causing disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant and endangering life or personal safety of others, Aircraft Act sections of wilfully flying any aircraft in such a manner as to cause danger to any person or to any property and sections 21 and 76 of Hyderabad City Police Act. A family member of Gupta noticed a drone flying over their house and the neighbouring house of Sawang on Road No. 10 in Jubilee Hills. Police were alerted about the incident, who reached the spot and seized the drone camera after identifying the teenager operating it. Police officials said that during a preliminary probe they found that it was not an act of any ill intention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teen-lands-in-soup-for-playful-drone-flying/articleshow/79946942.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Bareilly||As farmers march towards Delhi, admin & cops on their toes to persuade them to stay home||PILIBHIT: Three teams of Pilibhit district administration and police held meetings with farmers at gurdwaras in Sikh-dominated villages under Puranpur tehsil in Pilibhit district in a bid to persuade them “not to travel to Delhi borders with the supplies needed for the protesting farmers” after UP-Uttarakhand Sikh Sangathan chief Jasveer Singh Virk called upon the farmers to reach Delhi’s Ghazipur border on December 25. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, meanwhile, on Thursday visited Rampur to campaign against the three new farm laws in villages in the district. Confirming the development, Pilibhit district magistrate Pulkit Khare said, “The teams are visiting 10 villages daily. They are listening to farmers’ grievances and trying to redress them on the spot.” The DM and superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav comprised a team, while ADM (judicial) Devendra Pratap Mishra led the second team comprising IPS-designated of the state government Ajay Pal Sharma and two deputy SPs from Lucknow — Vineet Singh and Ajay Pal Sahni. The third team was, however, led by Puranpur circle SDM Rajendra Prasad and CO Pramod Yadav, said the DM. The visiting officials even “promised to resolve some of the local issues of the farmers”. Virk told TOI that farmers from several destinations in UP and Uttarakhand had started moving towards the Delhi border on Thursday, but police were impeding their journey. “They will not return to their homes and will stage peaceful dharna at the spot of their detention. The dharna will continue till police withdraw. We are expecting at least ten thousand farmers from Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand and UP to assemble at Rampur T-point at 11 am on December 25.” Nighasan tehsil president of the Sangathan in Kheri district Gurmeet Singh said around 300 farmers from Tikunia first "took an oath to reach the Ghazipur border at any cost" at Tikunia gurdwara and then embarked on their journey by tractor-trolleys and cars, but they were besieged by a heavy police force just outside the gurdwara. “They somehow managed to move towards Palia, where they would be joined by around 600 farmers. At Bhira, another 200-300 farmers would join them with essential supplies for their stay at the Delhi border. They are prepared to thwart police action,” he added. Talking with TOI over the phone, Sirsa said police forces had encircled Nawabganj gurdwara in Rampur on Thursday morning after Sikh farmers in large numbers assembled there following a call given by ‘mukhya granthi’ (chief priest) Baba Anoop Singh to reach Delhi border. Sirsa termed the police action “unfortunate and provocative”. Jagdev Singh Jagga, a farmer leader hailing from Simraya village under Puranpur tehsil, told TOI that administrative and police officers were making efforts to persuade farmers not to go to Delhi borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/as-farmers-march-towards-delhi-admin-cops-on-their-toes-to-persuade-them-to-stay-home/articleshow/79945820.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Remain careful till Uttarayan to contain Covid-19: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday ordered the state government to remain vigilant and strictly implement checks and controls during the days between the Christmas and Uttarayan festivals. The HC also sought assurance from the government that the night curfew arrangement continues at least till the festival of kite flying. During the hearing of a PIL on Covid-19 and lockdown, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala asked the advocate general to convey to the government that it will be required to be “very careful” between December 25 and January 14, particularly four-five days ahead of Uttarayan. The judges told the advocate general that the government must not bother about people getting disappointed because of harsh measures. “They will be disappointed now, but they will celebrate the next year,” the court commented.The judges insisted that the government should come out with “some norms or guidelines” with respect to the kite flying festival. “Uttarayan should not spoil the entire show now again. The pre-Diwali efforts (to contain Covid-19) had yielded good results, but post-Diwali laxities landed us in trouble. January 14 is a big show in Ahmedabad and across the state,” the judges told the government law officer, who assured the court of taking every possible measure in this direction. The high court also insisted that the government should continue with its policy of imposing night curfew in big cities. The chief justice expressed concerns over excursions by people living around the city. Meanwhile, advocate N M Kapadia filed a PIL seeking court directions to the authorities to prevent crowding on the festival of Uttarayan. The court has posted hearing on this PIL after the winter vacation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/remain-careful-till-uttarayan-to-contain-covid-19-hc/articleshow/79946951.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Student files PIL on PhD ‘irregularities’ in Osmania and Kakatiya universities||HYDERABAD: A PhD student from Karimnagar approached the Telangana HC seeking a CBI probe into irregularities in awarding of fellowships by Osmania and Kakatiya universities. Alleging that norms were violated by both varsities, he said that authorities were not responding to several of his representations. Admitting the PIL filed by Kudumula Srinivas, the court on Thursday issued notices to the Centre, University Grants Commission, CBI, OU and KU, asking them to explain their stand. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave the authorities four weeks’ time to file their counters. Srinivas, in his PIL, also complained about misuse of research programmes meant for SC, ST and OBC students in the form of irregular grant of fellowships to ineligible students. Srinivas said he had also filed complaints with the CBI a few months ago, seeking a thorough probe into the issue. According to him, the UGC guidelines clearly stipulate that students with interesting research topics with them could be awarded fellowships if they are enrolled as PhD and MPhil students in these universities. Each fellowship has a five-year tenure, which is known as junior research fellowship (JRF) for the first two years and as senior research fellowship (SRF) for the next three years. Srinivas said JRF entails a financial assistance of Rs 28,000 per month and Rs 35,000 for SRF. “Known as national fellowship, this research programme is open only for those who are enrolled as PhD and MPhil students. But the varsities’ authorities have been granting the fellowships in a whimsical manner to those who have not enrolled their names for these courses in the first place,” the petitioner argued. Explaining about the research programmes at the disposal of students of disadvantaged sections, the petitioner said the UGC had issued guidelines for awarding the national fellowships to the students belonging to other backward classes, Maulana Azad national fellowship for minority students, Rajiv Gandhi national fellowship for SC, ST candidates who have completed their PG and want to pursue MPhil, PhD courses. Srinivas contended that the programme was aimed at helping the students from these sections to pursue their research work even without clearing UGC NET and CSIR NET exams. CBI counsel K Surender, who was present in the court, took note of the notice to the investigation agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-files-pil-on-phd-irregularities-in-osmania-and-kakatiya-universities/articleshow/79948994.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Bareilly||UP man who lodged graft complaint against pradhan beaten to death||BAREILLY: A pradhan and his aides allegedly killed a 45-year-old man in Budaun district of Uttar Pradesh, just a few days after he filed a corruption complaint against panchayat and a few hours after a probe panel visited and assessed the development work done by the village head. Beniram Singh is survived by his wife and three children-- a boy and two girls. Meanwhile, in a striking departure from the usual practice in such cases, local police didn’t file a murder case and booked all the six accused under IPC section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder). The family in Sirki Dammu village alleged bias by police. Jaydev Singh, the elder brother of Beniram, said, “Beniram had given a complaint against village head Rakesh Kumar because he had misused government funds for his own development. Beniram had also submitted proof of corruption against the pradhan, which is why he was killed. Now police are trying to shield the accused. They didn’t register a murder case. The accused were booked under milder sections and they are yet to be arrested.” The alleged murder took place on Wednesday evening, soon after an investigation team consisting of additional development officer visited the village and inspected work done by the panchayat. Beniram was killed just a few hours later near his farm. Police registered a case of culpable homicide against six persons, including Kumar, his father and three others. All the accused were missing till Friday evening. When contacted, additional SP (rural) Siddharth Verma said, “The victim had filed a complaint against the gram pradhan and a team of district officials had visited the village to verify it. After investigation, the team had left. But the victim was allegedly beaten by gram pradhan and five others. We have recorded the statement of the eye witnesses and an FIR has been registered under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with weapons), 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence in prosecution of common object), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-45-files-graft-plaint-against-pradhan-killed-cops-book-accused-for-culpable-homicide/articleshow/79945831.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Nitin Gadkari nod to link Jaipur-Dausa highway to Mumbai-Delhi expressway||JAIPUR: Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari inaugurated 18 new projects, covering about 1,127km of roads and costing Rs 8,341 crore, in the state on Thursday. He agreed to link Jaipur-Dausa highway with Mumbai-Delhi expressway following a request by chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Gehlot also asked the minister to complete all pending works of overbridges, underpasses and service roads on Jaipur-Delhi highway. In his speech, Gadkari appealed to Gehlot to cooperate with the Centre on land acquisition for national and express highway projects as well as in providing compensation to farmers. He promised to offer the rate proposed by the state government to farmers and prepare a policy for the same. “We can develop a new green highway linking Jaipur with Mumbai-Delhi expressway. On the pending works on Jaipur-Delhi highway, we will prepare a new DPR for its completion. But, I request you to help us in land acquisition and removing encroachments,” said Gadkari. “With respect to compensation for farmers, we will provide the rate decided by the state government,” he said. The minister said that there has been a 40% growth in road construction in Rajasthan over the last six years and the length of NH in the state now stood at 10,661km. All the districts are connected by national highways, he said.Jaipur: He invited Gehlot and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat for talks to prepare a DPR for a hybrid road/flyover in Jodhpur to solve the traffic problems in that city. Under the Bharatmala Paryojana, work on 1,976km roads costing Rs 32,302 crore will be carried out in Rajasthan. A DPR is being prepared for 14 projects of 800km. Apart from this, a DPR is being prepared for 22 other projects of 2,811km costing Rs 50,000 crore, he said. He requested Gehlot to forward two proposals each from every MP and one from each MLA to develop the NH network to him, and promised to personally get them examined and approved quickly. He urged Gehlot to explore the option of starting a seaplane service to the lakes of Rajasthan for which a plan has already been prepared by the ministry. Spice Jet has agreed to offer its services, he said. He also wanted Gehlot to get local businessmen into the aviation sector to boost tourism. He proposed to promote the state's handicraft industry by allowing them to set up shops on either side of highways. “This will help to generate employment. I am ready to give the state government land at any rate for this,” he said. Meanwhile, Gehlot complimented Gadkari for showing interest in the state’s tourism industry and solving problems with regard to implementation of NH projects. He also urged the minister to develop a six-lane road between Jodhpur and Pachpadra, which falls between Amritsar and Jamnagar expressway, and issue a gazette notification for 50 NHs announced in the last four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gadkari-nod-to-link-jaipur-dausa-highway-to-mum-del-expressway/articleshow/79948284.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt to HC: Only 11% Covid beds occupied in state||Ahmedabad: The state government has told the Gujarat high court that the Covid-19 situation in the state is improving and as on December 22, there were only 11% Covid beds occupied across Covid hospitals. In its report, the state government stated that at present there are 739 Covid facilities across the state with nearly 55,000 beds. There are 3,433 ventilators and 5,070 ICU beds available. However, only 11% of total beds are occupied. The district of Dang has least number of Covid beds occupied with 0.93%, followed by Tapi and Banaskantha. Health secretary Jayanti Ravi stated that the government is committed and prepared to contain the spread of the virus, but the spike is seen in the number of persons testing positive across the world, including India. She also attributed the surge in infection due to “unfavourable environment condition and increased human interaction”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-hc-only-11-covid-beds-occupied-in-state/articleshow/79947050.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Why compensate careless Covid victim? HC asks||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday questioned why compensation should be given to a Covid-19 victim, who has suffered from the disease because of his own carelessness. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala raised the question in response to a PIL seeking compensation for all Covid-19 victims under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. While the petitioner's advocate maintained that it is the government’s duty to mitigate the effects of the pandemic, the judges questioned, “What if the person has contracted Covid-19 by remaining careless and not wearing a mask? Why should he be compensated? If there is a case of gross negligence or dereliction of duty on part of the authority, it can be understood that the victim is compensated.” The high court adjourned hearing of the PIL after resumption of regular court work saying that there is no urgency in deciding this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-compensate-careless-covid-victim-hc-asks/articleshow/79947051.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Bareilly||Gang-rape survivor alleges rape by SI in UP’s Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A 35-year-old woman, who went to a police station in UP’s Shahjahanpur district to file a complaint allegedly after being gang-raped by five men, later accused a sub-inspector of sexually assaulting her on pretext of filing the case. The alleged incident took place at Jalalabad police station on November 30. Additional director general of police (ADG) of Bareilly, Avinash Chandra, has ordered an inquiry on the complaint of the woman, who met him on Wednesday. Superintendent of police (city) Sanjay Kumar said that the “allegations are serious” and police are investigating it. The woman claimed that she was gang-raped by five men on November 30. “The five accused forcibly dragged me inside the car, took me to a nearby field and raped me. Soon after that, I went to Jalalabad police station where the SI also raped me,” the woman, a widow, claimed. According to the woman, when local police refused to file a case, she approached senior officers. She met ADG Avinash Chandra who then ordered a probe by the station house officer (SHO) of Mahila Thana. But, sources in police raised doubt about the woman’s allegation and said she has filed several such complaints in the past too and the probe will reveal it. A senior policeman, on condition of anonymity, said, “The woman is being used to settle scores. She had already registered four cases of sexual assaults in Shahjahanpur and had given over two dozen complaints so far. A circle officer is already investigating one of her recent complaints.” Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand told TOI, “The woman never approached us with the complaint against the sub-inspector. She directly went to the ADG. She has already registered a few complaints of sexual assault and all the cases are under investigation. The circle officer of Jalalabad has been asked to probe the gang-rape complaint and submit a detailed report.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/gang-rape-survivor-alleges-rape-by-si-in-ups-shahjahanpur-probe-ordered/articleshow/79945832.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||57 from UK reach Kota, healthdept puts them under quarantine||JAIPUR: Following a worldwide alert on a more virulent Covid-19 strain from the UK, the health department found that 57 people belonging to 13 families had reached Kota from Britain recently. Health authorities reached their homes and with the help of police quarantined them for seven days. Since a few of them had gone to Gujarat and stayed there for some time, authorities have alerted their counterparts in the neighbouring state. “We have taken their samples and sent them to laboratories. The results of the tests are awaited,” said Dr B S Tanwar, chief medical health officer, Kota. Some of the families had returned in the last week of November and some in early December. They told health officials that they had not left the UK fearing the new virus strain and had booked their flights in advance. They also said that they come to Kota every year for New Year. After receiving the test reports, health officials will take further steps on SOPs to be followed for passengers reaching the country between November 25 and December 23. A senior health department official said they had received the list of passengers from the Centre. “We have sent the list to district authorities to take necessary action. It is believed that over 500 passengers had travelled from the UK to the state recently,” he said. The official said that the seven-day institutional quarantine has been mandatory for those coming to the state by international flights. “We have been following it for a long time,” he said. The health department has also issued strict directions to all officials to mandatorily quarantine all those who arrive from other countries. “We have found four persons who came here from other countries today. We sent them to institutional quarantine,” said Dr B L Meena, chief medical health officer, Bikaner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/57-from-uk-reach-kota-healthdept-puts-them-under-quarantine/articleshow/79948288.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Inspector suffers serious burn injuries, cops suspect foul play||Hyderabad: Jawahar Nagar inspector P Bikshapathi Rao, who went inside a house on fire fearing someone was trapped, ended up suffering severe burn injuries, on Thursday. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said that a probe is underway to verify if there was any conspiracy. On Thursday, on the request of Jawahar Nagar municipal authorities, Jawahar Nagar police went to provide security at Balaji Nagar since revenue authorities planned to remove encroachment on a piece of government land. As there was reportedly some resistance, the officials decided to defer the eviction of encroachers. Meanwhile, the inspector found that there was a fire in one of the houses. He feared that someone had attempted suicide and went inside, forcefully opening the door. Police found a couple—Poonam and Shanti Kumar—inside the house, but they were unhurt. “The inspector suffered severe burn injuries in his effort to make sure no one was caught inside. He suffered burn injuries on his hands, legs. He suffered 40-50% burns,” the commissioner said. A video showed the inspector running out of the house with his legs on fire. Other policemen and locals put out the fire with great difficulty. The inspector was rushed to a private hospital in Secunderabad, where director general of police M Mahendar Reddy and Rachakonda commissioner visited and spoke to the doctors. The couple were taken into custody as police suspect they might have thrown fire at the inspector, using an object.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inspector-suffers-serious-burn-injuries-cops-suspect-foul-play/articleshow/79946958.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Man booked for misbehaviour||Hyderabad: Shamshabad police registered a case against an auto driver for allegedly misbehaving with a woman passenger. On December 21, the complainant came to Rajendranagar for a function. While returning home she took an auto from Tondupally in Shamshabad. “The woman got into one auto and sat in the seat adjacent to the driver. During the journey, the auto driver brushed his leg against the complainant’s leg and she had an argument with him at Tondupally bridge,” Shamshabad inspector Y Prakash Reddy said. The woman took auto registration documents and the driver’s bank passbook and left. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-misbehaviour/articleshow/79946953.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Docs ready to forfeit bonds to evade Covid duty||Ahmedabad: More than 300 MBBS graduates, who have decided not to join the mandatory rural duties and forfeit the bonds, have approached the Gujarat high court against the state government’s insistence that they must join Covid duty and serve in Covid hospitals. These doctors, who cleared MBBS in 2019, have told the HC that they are ready to forfeit their bond amounts, which is in lakhs, and compelling them to work in Covid hospitals amounts to breach of contract on part of the government. The authorities had sent notices to them in July and threatened action under the Indian Penal Code, if they failed to serve in Covid centres. The students’ counsel argued that the government had no power to issue such notices under IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act. Moreover, the government has not ordered any other batch of doctors or private doctors for Covid duty. The state government opposed the petition and cited the HC order, by which it had directed the MBBS students to join Covid duty. After hearing the case, the high court has reserved its order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/docs-ready-to-forfeit-bonds-to-evade-covid-duty/articleshow/79947035.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP Diwas to be celebrated in city, Noida||Lucknow: Major preparations are afoot for the celebration of next UP Diwas which will, for the first time, also be celebrated in Noida along with Lucknow. UP Diwas is celebrated on January 24 and programmes will be held over three days, from January 24 to 26, 2021. At a review meeting chaired by chief secretary RK Tiwari, principal secretary (tourism and culture) Mukesh Meshram said several departments, including tourism, information, panchayati raj, health, MSME and khadi, culture, labour, social welfare, sports, women welfare, agriculture, rural development, secondary education, will be involved in celebrations. In Noida, programmes will be conducted in coordination with Noida and Greater Noida Development Authority. Meshram said two committees had been set up to coordinate the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-diwas-to-be-celebrated-in-city-noida/articleshow/79948285.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh sees 357 new coronavirus cases, active cases drop to 3,862||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 357 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday taking the cumulative caseload to 8,80,075. Three districts in the state have posted single-digit infections to the tally. The toll increased to 7,089 as four more people succumbed to the pandemic - one each from Anantapur, Kadapa, Krishna, and West Godavari districts. The number of active cases dropped to 3,862. So far, 8,69,124 people have recovered from the virus. East Godavari reported 58 new infections, followed by Krishna and Chittoor districts with 54 cases respectively, Guntur (42), Nellore (28), Visakhapatnam (28), Anantapur (27), Srikakulam (16), Kadapa (14), West Godavari (14), Kurnool (9), Prakasam (9) and Vizianagaram (4), registering the lowest number of infections of the day. The active cases are less than 200 each in six districts. The government tested 59,551 samples on Thursday and detected 357 new cases. This translates to a case positivity rate of 0.59%. Krishna district has the highest number of active cases with 674 while Vizianagaram district has the lowest number of active cases with 66, in the state. Chittoor district claimed the highest number of deaths (839) and Vizianagaram district the lowest (238) causalities. Andhra Pradesh has so far conducted 1.14 crore tests with an overall positivity rate of 7.67% and the mortality rate of 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-sees-357-new-coronavirus-cases-active-cases-drop-to-3862/articleshow/79945788.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Deal with fire safety the way corona battle fought’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday said that Covid-19 will go one day, but the problems of fire will remain if not dealt with seriously. It issued a slew of directions to the state authorities to implement the laws to prevent fire mishaps in buildings, hospitals and schools and sought details from the government about buildings which are without valid fire NOC. The high court has issued 11 directions to be strictly followed for protection of Covid hospitals, especially the ICUs, from fire. In response to a PIL by advocate Amit Panchal that demanded action in the Shrey Hospital fire incident and proper implementation of the new Fire Safety Act, the bench headed by Justice J B Pardiwala expressed hope that the government would deal with the issue adequately. The court said the government is fighting a gallant battle against the Covid-19 pandemic, and “we expect the government to take up this issue of fire once and for all with all seriousness”.After issuing directions, the court sought details about all buildings across the state so it can act against defaulters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deal-with-fire-safety-the-way-corona-battle-fought/articleshow/79947046.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||In Rajasthan, air pollution claimed over 1.13 lakh lives in 2019, says Lancet study||JAIPUR: Over 1.13 lakh deaths in Rajasthan have been attributed to air pollution for the year 2019. This is 21.2% of the total deaths reported from the state that year, according to a study on health and economic impact of air pollution published in Lancet journal. The percentage of total deaths attributable to air pollution in Rajasthan is higher than India’s average of 18%. The number of deaths caused by air pollution is a sum of deaths attributable to ambient particulate matter, household air pollution and ambient ozone pollution. The India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative on the trends in air pollution and its economic impact for every state in India has been published in Lancet Planetary Health. The number of deaths related to ambient particulate matter pollution is higher than deaths caused by household air pollution in the state. “It has been found that the ambient air pollution, which is emitted by outdoor sources such as industries and others, has increased by 15% in the recent past. The household pollution, which is caused by burning of wood and coal as fuel, has gone down over the years,” said Dr Virendra Singh, city-based pulmonologist and one of the collaborators from the state for the air pollution study. In the state, the number of deaths resulting from ambient particulate matter pollution stood at 58,167, which is 10.9% of the total deaths in the state. Besides, 49,352 deaths have been caused by household air pollution, which is 9.2% of the total deaths in the state. Over 2,000 deaths have been attributed to ambient ozone pollution, which is 2.5% of total deaths in Rajasthan for that year. The report says, air pollution risks are typically quantified for ambient particulate matter pollution, household air pollution, and, to a smaller extent, tropospheric ozone. It further states that the main sources of ambient particulate matter pollution in the country are residential and commercial biomass burning, windblown mineral dust, coal burning for energy generation, industrial emissions, agricultural stubble burning, waste burning, construction activities, brick kilns, transport vehicles and diesel generators. Household air pollution is caused mainly by the use of solid fuels for cooking, such as wood, dung, agricultural residues, coal, and charcoal. Ground-level ambient ozone pollution is produced by pollutants emitted from transport vehicles, power plants, factories, and other sources that react to sunlight with hydrocarbons emitted from diverse sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-state-air-pollution-claimed-over1-13l-lives-in-2019-says-lancet-study/articleshow/79948298.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||2 drones spotted near border again||GURDASPUR: Four days after dropping of hand grenades, arms and ammunition in the border areas of Gurdaspur by Pakistani drones, two more drones were spotted by the Border Security Force (BSF) on Wednesday. According to highly placed sources, the drone movement was observed for one and two minutes respectively over the border villages of Rosse and Chandu Wadala. The first one was spotted at 12.35 am, while the second was recorded at 1.07am. Confirming the incident, BSF deputy inspector general, Gurdaspur sector, Rajesh Sharma told TOI on Thursday that as soon as BSF troops noticed the movement of cross-border drones they opened fire,l following which the drones flew back to Pakistan. On Saturday, after spotting a drone at around 11.30pm, the Punjab police had launched a search operation in the villages around Chakri and recovered 11 Austrian Arges Type HG 84 grenades which were dropped in Salach village near Dorangala town of Gurdaspur district. Two days later, police recovered an AK-47 rifle, one magazine, and 30 rounds from a mustard field in Wazirpur village. The consignment was believed to be the part of the same consignment. Gurdaspur senior superintendent of police Rajinder Singh Sohal said BSF and border range police had again launched a search operation in and around Rosse and Chandu Wadala villages. Cops opened fire? A press release issued by Punjab police on Monday claimed that police personnel had also fired multiple shots from AK 47 and SLR rifles to bring down the drone which was spotted near BSF’s Chakri Border out post around 11.30pm. “BSF troops immediately fired multiple shots in an attempt to bring down the drone, at the same time they alerted the Gurdaspur police about the incident and Dorangla police station station house officer immediately reached the area and deployed cops to engage the drone, on hearing the buzzing sound of the drone, the police personnel’s also fired multiple shots to bring down the drone, which soon disappeared,” the press release read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-drones-spotted-near-border-again/articleshow/79946960.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Probe in 88% cases completed, say cops||Vijayawada: The state saw a four-year high conviction rate of 64% across all cases in 2020 according to the latest data released by the Andhra Pradesh police. As per officials, investigations were completed in 88% of the cases which have been disposed quickly. Police personnel attribute the quick detection rate to technology-driven policing methods which have made a significant impact. For instance, 23 cases were detected using video footage obtained from body cameras while 130 cases — mostly burglaries and thefts — have been cracked using the Locked House Monitoring System (LHMS). Another 3,200 cases were solved using CCTV footage as evidence. For cases pertaining to crimes against women, cops pointed out that the average time taken to complete investigation has reduced by 47% and now stands at 53 days. In 2019, the average time taken to complete investigation is cases of crimes against women was around 101 days. The average time taken to complete investigation in SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act has also dropped to 50 days, a 71% drop compared to 2019. Data reveals that average time taken in SC/ST (POA) cases stood at 264 days in 2017, 186 days in 2018 which had dropped to 178 days in 2019. Officials said the Spandana and Disha initiatives have played a key role in improving the time taken to solve these cases. The Spandana initiative saw 21,827 FIRs registered out of the 96,551 petitions of which 99% were disposed within seven days. Addressing the annual press meet on Wednesday, DGP D Gautam Sawang said that enforcing timelines to redress grievances and investigate cases has been very effective. “There was cynicism about Disha (initiative) and I would say when there is a will there is a way. Spandana is a revolutionary idea and even Disha is inspiring other states like Maharashtra,” Sawang noted. Petitioners in 52% cases under the Spandana initiative are women. Under the Disha initiative, police said they had recorded 97 convictions this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/probe-in-88-cases-completed-say-cops/articleshow/79945756.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 25, 2020||Vadodara||Wait for longest flyover get longer||Vadodara: It was supposed to be a showcase project that would be completed ahead of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) polls, but thanks to the delay caused by the lockdown and other hurdles, the longest flyover within a city is set to overshoot its deadline significantly. After the project being cleared in October 2017, the work for the flyover had begun in 2018 and it was expected to get over last month. But a series of roadblocks, including the lockdown has delayed the project significantly and it may be a daunting task to complete it even before the postponed civic polls. The 3.5km long flyover begins at Genda Circle and ends at Manisha Chowkdi on the Old Padra Road. It is coming up at a cost of Rs 222.18 crore, excluding expenses involved in shifting service lines or other similar work. Sources in the civic body said that the work was affected even before the lockdown, due to the work on shifting of drainage, water, telephone and other lines. Officials said that there were also cave ins along the Old Padra Road due to drainage pipeline leakages and work had to be taken up to repair these pipelines. Sources in the civic body said that it had become evident when the lockdown was imposed that the project would not get over in time. The BJP was hoping that the project gets over on schedule in November so that it could talk about it in the polls, but that may not happen. While the polls may have been delayed due the pandemic, completing work on the project before February when polls are planned may be a difficult task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wait-for-longest-flyover-get-longer/articleshow/79945409.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||New strain of coronavirus not detected in Andhra Pradesh yet, says health minister||VISAKHAPATNAM: Deputy chief minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) on Thursday said that the new strain of the coronavirus has not been yet detected in Andhra Pradesh. The health minister conducted a review meeting on the development works taken up at various government hospitals and medical colleges under ‘Nadu-Nedu’ scheme on Thursday. Speaking on this occasion, Alla Nani said that a woman, who hails from Rajahmundry and returned from the United Kingdom on December 21, tested positive for Covid-19. “Her samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genomic analysis to determine whether the disease is caused by the existing or the new strain. The woman has been kept in isolation. The result would be out in the next two days. People should not panic about the new strain,” he said. Alla Nani said that he would visit the teaching hospitals and medical colleges in Tirupati, Guntur, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam in January 2021. Principal secretary (health) Anil Kumar Singhal, health department commissioner K Bhaskar and other officials were present in the meeting. The health department on Tuesday, December 22 issued detailed guidelines to screen and manage the UK travellers amidst the new coronavirus strain scare. AP government is taking up enhanced surveillance and containment. Passengers arriving from the UK would be screened through RT-PCR tests at airports. If found positive, they would be either sent to Covid-19 hospitals or paid quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/new-strain-of-coronavirus-not-yet-detected-in-ap-says-health-min/articleshow/79945799.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Foundation laid for projects worth Rs 5,000 cr by CM Jagan Mohan Redd in Kadapa||TIRUPATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy laid the foundation for development projects worth Rs 5,000 crore during his visit to his home district of Kadapa on Thursday. Among the projects, grounded on the day were RTC bus stand and depot which will come up at a cost of Rs 34.2 crore, a new building for BC welfare residential school for girls, and development works of local temples. The CM also laid the foundation stone for 76 new roads which would be undertaken under the Pulivendula Area Development Authority, Gandikota-CBR, Gandikota-Paidipalem lift irrigation scheme, and construction of four model police stations. Addressing a public meeting in his home constituency of Pulivendula on Thursday, Jagan said construction of YSR government medical college will start in February 2021. “Work on a 132KV substation in Nallacheruvupalle village is underway. Irrigation and drinking water projects in uranium-affected villages will start at the earliest. The lift irrigation works on Gandikota reservoir will start in March for which the government has sanctioned Rs 1,256 crore,” he said while directing officials to resolve the problems of displaced families of Gandikota and Chitravati projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/foundation-laid-for-projects-worth-rs-5k-cr-by-cm-in-kadapa/articleshow/79945785.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 25, 2020||India||States on alert as 18 more UK flyers test positive||NEW DELHI: Several states in the country are on high alert as 18 more flyers from the UK tested positive for the Covid-19 virus on Thursday, taking the cumulative infections to 47 since Sunday. However, there is no confirmation yet whether this is the new Covid-19 virus strain recently discovered in the UK. Of the 18 new cases, seven are from Telangana, five from Kerala, four from Karnataka, and one each from Odisha and Assam. Seven people who returned from the UK to Telangana in the past month have tested positive for the Covid-19 virus. Seven people who returned from the UK to Telangana in the past month have tested positive for the Covid-19 virus. Their samples have now been sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) for genome sequencing to find out if they are affected by the existing strain of the virus or the newly mutated and highly infectious UK variant. Sources told TOI that the state health officials have gone into high alert and are aggressively tracking contacts of those who tested positive. “The seven patients have been kept in isolation at various hospitals, separate from the other Covid-19 patients,” a health department official said. The coronavirus strain has not been analysed yet. One returnee claimed that passengers were not tested properly before they boarded the flight in the UK or after they arrived in India. (With inputs from Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Mumbai, Bhubaneswar, Thiruvananthapuram, Guwahati)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/states-on-alert-as-18-more-uk-flyers-test-positive/articleshow/79949034.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Tansen birthplace in stranglehold of land encroachers||BHOPAL: As the Madhya Pradesh government gears up for the five-day Tansen Samaroh to be held in Gwalior from December 26-30, a complaint has been lodged with the authorities on a major scam behind disposal of land surrounding Tansen’s dilapidated house in Behat, about 45km from the historic city. The festival is held every year near the tomb of Tansen in Gwalior and exponents of Hindustani Classical music are awarded on the occasion. The Ustad Alauddin Khan Kala Evam Sangeet Academy and state culture department organize the event. Ashish Chaturvedi, a Gwalior-based social activist who had blown the whistle on the Vyapam scam, has written to the government that a syndicate has fraudulently turned the land surrounding Tansen’s house and a related temple into private land using forged documents. “This is Tansen Janmabhoomi,” he said. There are two properties related to Tansen in Gwalior — his tomb in Gwalior’s Hazira area and ‘Tansen Sadhna Sthali’ in Behat, the village of his birth. Tansen’s tomb is maintained by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the sadhana sthali, where he practiced music, is protected by the state archaeology department. An RTI filed by Chaturvedi has revealed that the archaeology department has sanctioned a mere Rs 5 lakh in the past 20- years for the maintenance of Tansen’s sadhana sthali in Behat while crores have been spent on the musical event. SDM asked to probe land grab in Tansen birthplaceChaturvedi alleges that a section of revenue officers, bank officials and locals is involved in transferring the land attached to the temple near Tansen’s house. “It’s a ‘mandir maafi’ land on which banks have sanctioned loans. I wonder how their survey team didn’t notice the glitch. It’s a scam and I will move court if local administration fails to take proper action,” he said. “Tansen’s birth place has been completely ignored by the archaeology department while encroachers are making money out of it,” he said, adding: “Tansen was one of the nine gems of Akbar’s court, you can’t simply allow people to spoil his memories.” Gwalior collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh has ordered an inquiry. “I have asked the SDM to investigate the matter and prepare a report. We have already sent a proposal to the state government for development and maintenance of Tansen's birthplace," he told TOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tansen-birthplace-in-stranglehold-of-land-encroachers/articleshow/79946979.cms||P Naveen
December 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Rs 100 crore fake bill racket busted, 1 arrested||LUDHIANA: Continuing its drive against tax frauds involving fake invoices, Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Ludhiana, raided 12 business and residential premises in Mandi Gobindgarh near Ludhiana. According to sources, bogus billing of over Rs 100 crores has been detected in this operation so far and one person arrested. Sources also claimed that several prominent firms into furnace industry are under the DGGI radar. “Various teams of the department searched as many as 12 business and residential premises in Mandi Gobindgarh area on December 23 and 24. A big chain of fake invoice issuers has been unearthed. Value of fake invoices detected is more than Rs 100 crore in which GST of approximately Rs 20 crores has been passed on. The amount may increase with more links emerging in the coming days. One person, identified as Varinder Singh of Guru Nanak Colony, Mandi Gobindgarh, has been arrested by DGGI and sent in 14-day judicial remand by the court,” sources said. This is the second arrest by DGGI in a month. In an earlier case, the department had arrested a prominent businessman of Mansa, who is a spinning mill director. The accused had executed bogus billing of Rs 1,600 crores by creating a web of fictitious companies in and around Mansa and run on the name of his relatives, friends, staff members. These firms were only involved in circular trading worth crores .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rs-100cr-fake-bill-racket-busted-1-arrested/articleshow/79946973.cms||Mohit Behl
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops misbehave with UoH students, booked||Hyderabad: University of Hyderabad (UoH) registered a complaint against two police personnel for entering the campus in civil dress and misbehaving with female students, on Thursday. According to the complaint filed by G Jalandhar Reddy, security officer, UoH, the two police personnel – Suresh and Gopi — entered the campus from the Gopanpally gate at around 6 pm. “After reaching south campus junction, they misbehaved and harassed university girl students. At that time, they were under the influence of liquor. Both the apprehended police personnel were brought to the police station by the students,” read the complaint copy, which was registered at the Gachibowli police station. Following the complaint, the police registered a case of trespassing and misbehaviour against the two policemen. “They belong to TSSP eighth battalion. There is a piece of police land behind the UoH campus, which is guarded by the battalion police. We do not know why they entered the campus in a civil dress. In the complaint, the students alleged that the cops misbehaved with female students. Case was registered under the charge of trespass and misbehaviour,” said Srinivas, Gachibowli inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-misbehave-with-uoh-students-booked/articleshow/79946987.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Lucknow||Those who try to cheat farmers will be sent to jail: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath issued a warning to those who cheat farmers and said the government will send them to jail. He asked officials to keep a strict watch on paddy purchase centres and ensure that middlemen are completely eliminated. During a review meeting on Thursday, the CM said that ensuring the welfare of farmers was the top priority of the government and no individual, official, employee of private organization will be allowed to cheat farmers. The CM said some persons were trying to disrupt the paddy purchase and directed officials to deal with such elements strictly. Yogi said nodal officers should be appointed at all paddy purchase centres to ensure fairness and added that middlemen should be eliminated from the purchase process. “Our government has a zero tolerance policy for corruption and there will be no leniency towards any government official found engaged in corruption,” he said. Reviewing the admission process through NEET exam, the CM took cognizance of reports of arbitrary fees under the heads of hostel fees, miscellaneous fees being charged for admissions in medical colleges and said such people should be booked. Yogi said an FIR should be filed against the colleges found indulging in the practice of charging arbitrary fees under various heads. Similarly, action should be taken against those charging arbitrary fees in the name of minority institutions, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-those-who-try-to-cheat-farmers-will-be-sent-to-jail/articleshow/79948319.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: CIMS Hospital fined Rs 5 lakh for overcharging Covid patient||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has slapped a fine of Rs 5 lakh on CIMS Hospital in Sola for overcharging Rs 17.76 lakh from a Covid patient who was admitted in the hospital for 32 days. The AMC on Thursday asked the hospital to pay the fine within seven days or else the AMC will cancel the C-form of the hospital which is required for registration. The AMC order states that one Atul Shah was admitted in the hospital on July 2. Shah was admitted as an indoor patient on the private quota bed and hence had to pay the treatment cost. On August 4 when Shah was discharged, the hospital handed him the final bill of Rs 17.76 lakh. Kalpesh Shah, brother of Atul Shah, paid the bill after which he complained to the corporation officials, stating that the hospital had overcharged for Covid treatment. The AMC authorities stated that the patient was on ventilator for 19 days. The AMC asked Dr Manish Kumar Bansal, the officer on special duty at AMC, to probe the matter. On inquiry, it was established that the hospital had taken excess amount from the patient. According to the inquiry report apart from the charges fixed by the AMC, the hospital had added Rs 5,200 per day as ‘Add on Charge’ which was not permitted as per the AMC order. Moreover, the hospital had charged for basic investigation like CBC, serum creatinine among others. These charges were already included in the charges that were fixed by the AMC. Also, the hospital was charging between Rs 5,500 and Rs 7,500 per visit by doctors. Also, the charges for routine medicines and routine investigations were also taken more than those fixed by the corporation. The report stated that for 2D echo, the hospital had charged Rs 6,400, while for Interleukin-6 (IL-6) the hospital had charge Rs 4,900 per single test and Rs 3,900 for a Procalcitonin (PCT). The AMC had issued a notice asking for a clarification from the hospital authorities, however, the clarification was not found to be satisfactory after which the hospital was asked to pay the fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cims-hospital-fined-rs-5l-for-overcharging-covid-patient/articleshow/79947052.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Zydus seeks nod for third phase trials||Ahmedabad: Zydus Cadila, the Ahmedabad-based pharmaceutical major, has sought the approval of Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to commence the third phase of clinical trial of its plasmid DNA vaccine to prevent Covid-19. Called ZyCoV-D, the vaccine candidate was found to be safe, well tolerated and immunogenic in the first and second phase of clinical trials, have been reviewed by an independent Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB). The company is now planning to initiate phase-III clinical trial in around 30,000 volunteers upon receiving necessary approvals. “After establishing safety in phase-I clinical trial, ZyCoV-D has now completed phase II clinical trials and the vaccine has been found to be safe and immunogenic,” said Pankaj Patel, chairman, Zydus Group. “We are optimistic of phase-III clinical trial outcomes as well. We would be able to start the production of the Novel Vaccine on its successful completion,” he said thanking all the volunteers who have participated in the study so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zydus-seeks-nod-for-third-phase-trials/articleshow/79947027.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Municipal commissioners get powers of standing committees||Ahmedabad: The state government through an office order vested the powers of standing committees in respective six municipal corporations in the state in their current commissioners. The state government had earlier appointed the municipal commissioners of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar as administrators as local body polls were postponed due to the Covid pandemic.In absence of the powers of standing committee the commissioners could not carry out development works, as they had limited financial powers. Ordinarily, a municipal commissioner can approve projects only to the tune of Rs 30 lakh, while the standing committee can clear any project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/municipal-commissioners-get-powers-of-standing-committees/articleshow/79947057.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Bareilly||Out for 15 days, Pilibhit tiger reserve’s stray tiger now moves near railway station||PILIBHIT: A tiger that had been lurking amid the agricultural fields of Madhotanda village in Pilibhit for the past 15 days has moved to the government agriculture farm Shahgarh village, just 2.5 km from the railway station, according to forest department officials monitoring its movement. The three-year-old tiger had strayed out of Barahi forest range of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR). To allay fears of the Shahgarh villagers, the forest and wildlife division has fenced the thatched houses of the government farm labourers and deployed four teams each comprising six personnel to monitor the tiger’s movement and prevent any man-animal confrontation as the big cat has killed livestock, said range officer of Puranpur Ayyub Hassan. Amitabh Agnihotri, vice-president of the Wildlife Biodiversity Conservation Society, expressed fears that like the Amaria tigers, this one too might stay on permanently due to the abundance of prey, drinking water and safe hideout amid the agricultural fields. However, Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer, said he was “hopeful that the tiger would retreat to the core forest area, hardly 8 km from its present location”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/out-for-15-days-ptrs-stray-tiger-now-moves-near-rly-stn/articleshow/79945854.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 25, 2020||Bhopal||Saving data crucial in pandemic times||BHOPAL: Securing assets, physical and digital, in case of death has found a new importance during the pandemic. Experts are advising on counterintuitively creating tactical and strategic plans to manage passwords and sensitive data in case of the death or other medical emergencies. “In digital world one must keep the family members informed about credentials in secure way in order to keep things secure for future as trust is the biggest asset,” said cyber security expert, Harsh Wadhwani. Sample this: A private company executive from Bhopal went to Gujarat during the pandemic. On his way back, he along with his family members were injured road accident. Later, he slipped into a coma and was also infected with Covid-19. He was brought to Bhopal and admitted in a private hospital. During the next six weeks of hospitalisation, the patient’s family was unaware of his medical insurance and banking access passwords. Email could not be accessed and without a new mobile ‘sim card’, password recovery could not be initiated. It led to huge out-of-pocket expenditure for the family. “It was a very rare situation and one that gave many of us to keep our options open and prepare for such emergencies,” said a relative of the patient, seeking anonymity. The patient eventually recovered and his medical expenses are being litigated with the insurer. “Medical insurance company, in most cases, has to be intimated within 24-hours of hospitalisation,” said life insurance advisor, HS Rajput. “The is a 40-times increase in clients, mostly non-resident Indians (NRI), who are taking legal and other measures to secure their assets in case of any eventualities. It includes nominating their legal airs,” said Banthia and Company, managing partner and advocate, Neelesh Banthia. “We are documenting their assets, digitising it and sending hardcopies by post to the clients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/saving-data-crucial-in-pandemic-times/articleshow/79947016.cms||Jamal Ayub
December 25, 2020||Bareilly||UP woman raped, blames sister-in-law||PILIBHIT: Four people were booked here for their alleged involvement in a rape case following an order by the court of chief judicial magistrate here. In her complaint, a 47-year-old woman alleged that she was raped by one Hariom Katiyar, 36, a relative of her sister-in-law on January 14 when her husband was away in Lucknow. Her husband and her brother had a property dispute. On that day, her sister-in-law accompanied by her relative and two unidentified men barged into her house and she was raped, the woman claimed. The next day, she tried to lodge a complaint but the local police but was turned away, she alleged. Her repeated requests to the SHO, Sungarhi police station, and senior police officers fell on deaf ears. Then, she moved court. Atar Singh, SHO, the three men, including Hariom Katiyar, were booked under IPC section 376 (rape). All four, including the woman, were booked under secion 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) on Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-raped-blames-sis-in-law/articleshow/79945869.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Govt mulls opening colleges||GANDHINAGAR: Even as the post-Diwali spike in Covid-19 cases has begun to come under control, the state government is once again considering the proposal to re-open colleges, universities and higher secondary schools in a phased manner. Education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama hinted about the state government considering to open higher education institutions and higher secondary schools in a phased manner, while speaking after an interaction with teachers in the state capital. Chudasama however avoided any specific comment on the likely date when the government intends to open universities, colleges and higher secondary schools. He said the issue will be discussed at the high powered committee chaired by CM Vijay Rupani. Chudasama said, “During today’s and recent discussions with academicians, suggestions on re-opening colleges, universities and schools were discussed. The suggestions will be discussed in the high-powered committee chaired by the chief minister at an appropriate time to consider opening up of the education sector in a phased manner.” He added that he could not make any further comment on the issue until it was discussed at the high powered committee. A key source in the state education department said, “In the first phase, the government is considering to open universities, colleges and higher secondary schools from mid-January. Opening up colleges, universities and higher secondary schools will help in conducting regular annual exams as well. Regarding primary schools, the government will wait for more time.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-mulls-opening-colleges/articleshow/79947085.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Christmas mass, festivities go online||Online prayer preparation at St Xavier’s Parish, AhmedabadAhmedabad: When Christmas cribs are in place, there’s a nip in the air, red and yellow fairy lights gleam over the Christmas trees, wreaths are placed on doors and a lingering whiff of freshly baked cakes fills homes, you know it’s Christmas time. When there was no pandemic, celebrations were upbeat with families preparing for Christmas almost a month prior to the festival, shopping, spring-cleaning and decorating the house, preparing snacks and savouries. However, this time around, celebrations have more of a muted tone. Churches across the city have not organized midnight mass, instead celebrations were held in the evening and that too with prior registration. Counters have been set up outside each of these churches. In some other churches, the mass has been organized online through video conference platforms or even live telecast on social media. Pastor Sumeet Borge, from the Seventh Day Adventist English Church in Maninagar, said, “This time we will be holding the mass online through zoom video conferencing platform as it is not advisable to gather people. Carol singing also took place the same way and on Christmas, a small programme will be held.” Lenny Kisku, director of a city-based music school, said, “We usually attend the mass at the church however, this time around it will be online. Even the carol singing is taking place online over video calls this time as we cannot meet in person. Of course, we miss people being around but it is inappropriate during the time of a pandemic to be around the city. We will be worshipping for things around the world to get better.” “We have the crib and the Christmas tree at home. Due to the curfew, the mass has been organized early in the evening and will wind up around 8pm. However, everyone has been encouraged to attend it virtually in the wake of the pandemic. The charm of going for midnight mass, getting decked up is a different joy indeed,” said Robert Gomes, a logistics industry professional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/christmas-mass-festivities-go-online/articleshow/79947090.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Lucknow||‘GST collections in huge UP should be highest in country’||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said UP has the largest population in the country and is a huge market and therefore its GST collections should also be the highest. During a review of the commercial tax department on Thursday, the CM asked officials to ensure that at least 25 lakh traders are registered under GST so that the revenue of the state increases. He also asked the department to come up with a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme to recover VAT dues pending since before GST was launched. Yogi asked officials to take strict action against tax evasion and revenue theft. He assessed the number of registered traders, progress of return filing, revenue receipts, GST collections, non-filing, enforcement etc. He stressed on the need for registration of more traders to increase GST collections. “Traders registered under GST in UP get an insurance cover of Rs 10 lakh without paying any premium. We should inform traders about this and other facilities and encourage them to get themselves registered. The work should be done in coordination with the traders’ welfare board,” Yogi said. The CM was given a special presentation on GST collections in Prayagraj, Ayodhya, Gautam Budh Nagar, Gorakhpur, Ghaziabad, Lucknow, Meerut and other major districts. He said a one-time settlement scheme should be launched to recover VAT dues. He further said that commercial tax department officials should be made accountable for revenue receipts in their jurisdictions. Their performance should be assessed on the basis of their work and those found capable should be given important responsibilities, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gst-collections-in-huge-up-should-be-highest-in-country/articleshow/79948335.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Man who put Batik art on world map passes away||HYDERABAD: Batik artist Yasala Balaiah, who passed away due to age-related issues on Wednesday at the age of 81, was known for his unique style.  Born in Ibrahimpur in Siddipet district in 1939, Balaiah started his career as an art teacher in 1962 before developing an interest in batik. He would go on to become an expert in the technique, with his depictions of rural men and women engaged in the ritual of everyday chores, executed in bold, earthy tones. While batik is an Indonesian technique that uses dye-resistant wax to create patterns, Balaiah’s dexterity in the medium earned him the nickname ‘Batik Balaiah’. His art was an uncontrived response to the rural landscape and its people, striking in its use of subjects with burnt brown and rich, navy skin. In later years, Balaiah retired from his job as a teacher and devoted himself to his art. He was the recipient of several awards, including a Veteran Artist award by All India Fine Arts and Crafts Society (AIFACS), New Delhi and the National Award for Teachers by the President of India. Some of his well-known paintings are Shakuntala, Mirror Lady, Methukuseema and Geetha Parishrama. An acquaintance of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Balaiah was also involved in designing the Telangana Talli statue. Finance minister T Harish Rao condoled his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-who-put-batik-art-on-world-map-passes-away/articleshow/79947056.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||NGU: Varsity not liable if online test held void||Ahmedabad: The Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University on Thursday issued a guideline for the online examination option for undergraduate students, but clearly said that it does not take responsibility if the legality and validity of its online exam is questioned in future. It clearly stated, “If any government/private institute does not approve of the online examination, the university will not be responsible for the same.” This declaration has placed the students in dilemma about online exam. Congress party leader Manish Doshi blamed the university’s VC And said The university has put future of 1.74 lakh students in jeopardy. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ngu-varsity-not-liable-if-online-test-held-void/articleshow/79947088.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Kin of accident victims find it tough to claim Rs 5 lakh relief||HYDERABAD: Despite a government order, applying to get a claim of Rs 5 lakh under the insurance scheme has become an uphill task for the kin of both transport and non-transport vehicle owners in the state. With no proper channel to file claims, families of the deceased say that they haven’t been able to apply for compensation. In one such instance, when the family of M Surender, an auto driver who died in a road accident on April 6, 2019 approached the transport department for claims, they were asked to come back later as there was no official available. Nagesh Kumar, brother of the deceased said, “There are no guidelines or any information available with the officials about the scheme. There needs to be a claims officer to address these issues.” As part of its programme to provide social security for transport drivers, home guards and working journalists, the government started the scheme by issuing a government order and designated the transport commissioner as the master policy holder.  GO further states that the assistant motor vehicle inspectors of transport department would be the ‘registering authority’ for transport and non-transport auto drivers for effective implementation of the scheme. When asked if there is a registering authority in the transport department to apply for compensation, C Ramesh, joint transport commissioner said, “They can apply to the concerned district transport officer who would coordinate”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kin-of-accident-victims-find-it-tough-to-claim-rs-5-lakh-relief/articleshow/79947020.cms||Moulika.KV
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB vice-president to be decided on December 28||SECUNDERABAD: The fate of J Maheswar Reddy, who was in the race to bag the vice-president post from among seven Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) ward members, will be decided at a special board meeting which will be held on December 28. A no-confidence motion against current Secunderabad Cantonment Board vice-president J Rama Krishna, moved by the seven ward members, was passed unanimously in the special board meeting held on December 19. However, the Secunderabad Cantonment Board ward members are yet to receive the whip orders from Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) high command. “We will follow the instructions issed by the Telangana Rashtra Samithi high command. We will all support Maheswar Reddy,” one of the ward members told TOI. Meanwhile, Rama Krishna has approached Telangana high court to stall the process to elect the new vice-president of the board. “The entire process is a conspiracy and is in violation of the Cantonment Act”, said Rama Krishna. The present board’s tenure will expire on February 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-vice-prez-to-be-decided-on-dec-28/articleshow/79947075.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||HC asks estranged father to pay for son’s IIT coaching||Nagpur: A division bench of justices AS Chandurkar and NB Suryawanshi of Nagpur bench of Bombay high court last week provided an interim relief to an IIT aspirant by asking his estranged father to pay up 50% tuition fees and other expenses within two weeks to support his preparation at an expensive coaching institute. The 19-year-old, despite being a bright student, had to drop plan for enrolment at a coaching class due to financial constraints. The high court has ordered the estranged father to pay up Rs62,000 as a proportionate contribution towards his son’s expenses within two weeks from December 15 for the first semester. The court stated it would deal with the issue of the expenses for the second semester when it shall arise in due course. The applicant, who had scored good marks in his board examinations, wanted to prepare for IIT entrance. He had filed an appeal before the high court earlier this year for enhancing the maintenance of Rs5,000 granted by the family court in 2019 towards his mother, apart from legal expenses. The applicant’s father had approached the high court earlier for modification of the family court’s maintenance. The parents of the IIT aspirant, who had tied the knot in 2000, had separated within a year of their marriage and got divorced in 2009. The son, the applicant in this appeal, was born in 2001 and had been brought up by his single mother who is an assistant teacher. She had filed for maintenance before the family court in 2015. The applicant, through counsel advocate Amruta Gupta, approached the high court seeking a redressal stating that the amount asked by the family court from his estranged father, also an assistant teacher, would not be adequate for him to undergo IIT coaching at the renowned institute. The high court, which though kept the appeal pending, had asked the applicant to file before it in affidavit the expenses already borne by his mother towards enrolling him in the coaching class. The mother submitted the expenses of Rs35,400 towards tuition fees, Rs20,000 for miscellaneous expenses and Rs78,000 for laptop. The court calculated the father’s share as 50% that of the mother’s contribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-asks-estranged-father-to-pay-for-sons-iit-coaching/articleshow/79947122.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 25, 2020||Nashik||Festive season brings back tourists to Nashik wineries||NASHIK: This year may have spelt doom for wine tourism — given the outbreak of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdowns and associated restrictions effected between March and September — however, things are finally looking up for the sector. With Christmas and New Year’s Eve round the corner, a large number of people from Nashik and across the country are making the most of the festive season by heading to the wineries for a fine ‘wine-and-dine’ experience. According to the All-India Wine Producers’ Association (AIWPA), the daily footfall of tourists in the wineries has increased three times since October. According to Yatin Patil, a managing committee member of the AIWPA, who previously held the post of president, around 75,000 tourists have visited different wineries in Nashik in the past two-and-a-half months. “The daily footfall in October this year was around 400 per day on average, which has gone up to 1,300 per day between December 1 and 23,” said Patil. President of AIWPA Jagdish Holkar said, “We are following all safety measures and guidelines issued by the government in the interest of public safety. We are expecting more tourists during Christmas and New Year’s Eve.” Nashik has emerged as the wine capital of the country and the wineries here are a major tourist attraction. Sula Vineyards, a winery in Nashik that has become an international brand, makes up for around 75% of the total tourist footfall in the district. “After six months of complete shutdown, the hospitality sector is now slowly recovering. In fact, all the rooms at our resort and villas are occupied,” said Rajeev Samant, the CEO of Sula Vineyards. “The sale of wine has also improved over the past two months.” “The daily footfall has increased a lot in the last two months. While the average footfall in the wineries on any given day is around 300, it goes upto 1,000 during the weekends. All our rooms are full,” said Pradeep Pachpatil, chairman of Soma Vine Village. Apart from Sula and Soma, there are other major wineries like York, Vallonnie, Grover Zampa, Renaissance, Good Drops where tourists visit in large numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cheers-festive-season-brings-back-tourists-to-nashik-wineries/articleshow/79948349.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court: Why delay in board for workers?||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday sought to know from the state government and its labour department as to why they are dodging the constitution of state-level social security board for unorganised workers. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by former deputy chief minister Damodar Raja Narasimha who charged the authorities with showing negligence towards the poor workers who do not have any safety net to protect them and their families at times of distress. “The state has to formulate a comprehensive policy for these workers, maintain data about them and register all of them under the board,” the counsel for the petitioner said. Both the state and Centre have been taking time to respond to the issue. When the hearing was resumed on Thursday, they sought time again. “Lack of such boards has made the lives of these workers more vulnerable during the ongoing pandemic,” the counsel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-why-delay-in-board-for-workers/articleshow/79947058.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Christmas celebrations transcend divide, embrace religious unity, local culture||Kolkata: The nativity scene at Shanti Dan, the Missionaries of Charity home for the mentally disabled, is that of Mary—a Bengali mother in a red-bordered, white sari—with infant Jesus in her lap. The manger resembles a typical hut from rural Bengal. The idea of celebrating Christmas while embracing the local culture has been brought to life by Brother Carmel Duca from Malta, who has been working on inculturation of the church for the past decade. “The symbol of the mother is universal. We see her in Mary just as we see her in Durga and in the mother from Bengal village, cradling her newborn. So, we decided on a Bengali manger this time, which will be a symbol of unity, transcending all divides whatsoever,” said Brother Duca, who is in charge of the Novitiate of the Missionaries of Charity Brothers. The manger has the words, “Kenona amader janye ekti shishu je janma niyechhen (because a divine child is born to save us).” This is not the only place where the Christmas celebrations wear a flavour of religious and cultural unity this time. Traditionally, Ramakrishna Mission has been celebrating Christmas eve for the past 134 years ever since Vivekananda and eight brothers of the order decided to renounce the worldly life on Christmas eve in 1886, a few months after the passing of Ramakrishna. Vivekananda used to celebrate Christmas eve at Belur Math and the tradition continues. This year, a joint celebration was held by RKM Narendrapur and the Archdiocese of Kolkata. Archbishop Thomas D Souza deputed Father Rodney Borneo to represent the archdiocese. “Swami Vivekananda had deep respect for the life of Christ. There are great similarities between the two lives lived in the service of mankind, transcending all divides and borders with pure love for humanity,” Father Rodney said. Harinam sankirtan filled the air as Iskcon Mayapur started their Christmas celebrations on Wednesday. The festivity began early at Iskcon and will continue till Thursday. A 50kg giant cake was offered to Jagannath on the occasion. “We believe Jesus was a messenger of Jagannath and in Vaishnavism, he was a true soul who came to emancipate humanity, absorbing all the pain himself. We celebrate Christmas with bhakti and love-filled songs every year. It was a special year this time because of the giant cake,” said spokesperson Subrata Das. In his midnight mass at St Paul’s Cathedral, Bishop Paritosh Canning called Jesus, Shantiraj, the messenger of peace and love. “I prefer to call him Shantiraj, a Bengali name I hold dear to my heart. It resonates with the emotion that I have for Jesus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/christmas-celebrations-transcend-divide-embrace-religious-unity-local-culture/articleshow/79947287.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 25, 2020||Lucknow||Govt paid record Rs 1.12 lakh crore to sugarcane farmers in 3.5 years: Suresh Rana||LUCKNOW: Sugarcane minister Suresh Rana on Thursday said the BJP government paid Rs 1.12 lakh crore to cane growers in the past three and a half years of its rule, which was highest ever. This, he said, was 17,314 crore more than the combined cane price payment made in five years of previous SP government. He said the sugarcane farmers were paid Rs 5,854 crore during lockdown, though sugar sales were low during the period. The cane minister claims comes ahead of the scheduled determination of the state advisory price (SAP), a politically sensitive measure that drives state politics especially that of the cane rich west UP region. “It was because of high cane price payments that farmers got facilitated and helped in increasing the acreage of the sugarcane in the state,” he said. The minister said despite the lockdown, all 119 sugar mills operated to cater to the needs of cane growers in the state. Besides this, the state government gave licences to the 243 Khandsari units. Rana said that the state government was working in the direction of doubling the farmers’ income. “The cane development department has also taken various key decisions in helping farmers increase their income,” he said, while speaking to reporters. According to Rana, around 3.25 crore families are directly and indirectly associated with the cane industry. He said that around 45 lakh farmers are directly associated with cane farming. He said that UP was playing the key role in sugar production in the country, contributing around 47% of the sugar production. The cane sector accounts for 8.45% of the state gross domestic product. In terms of agriculture, the sugar sector forms 20.18% of the GDP. At the same time, Rana hit out at the previous SP and BSP regime accusing them of closing down as many as 21 sugar mills. The present BJP government restarted 20 mills much to the help of cane farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-paid-record-rs-1-12-lakh-crore-to-sugarcane-farmers-in-3-5-years-min/articleshow/79948344.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Nashik||Dhule admin tracks nine flyers from UK & Ireland||NASHIK: The Dhule administration has traced nine flyers who returned from the United Kingdom and Ireland recently. District coordinator for Covid-19 Vishal Patil said these international flyers were traced following the directive from the state government. “These flyers have been currently isolated at home and they will undergo Covid-19 test,” added Patil. Patil said that the district administration already has a special cell in place at the district headquarters to keep an eye on the health of the international flyers reaching Dhule. “The administration’s efforts are on to find out if there were more flyers from UK in Dhule during this one month,” added Patil. In the meantime, the Jalgaon district administration has directed the health department and local civic bodies to aggressively find out whether any international flyers from UK has reached the district in the last one month. District collector Abhijit Raut said that he has asked the authorities to give priority to task and carry out Covid test in case any such flyer is found in the district. Considering the identification of new strain of novel coronavirus in the UK, the state government has taken several measures to track people who arrived from the country since November 25. The government is keen on checking whether a patient with the particular strain of coronavirus has reached the state. The Indian government has already banned flights from UK and middle Eastern countries, in a bid to curb the spread of the new strain. Those who arrived before the ban became effective earlier this week, are being placed in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-admin-tracks-nine-flyers-from-uk-ireland/articleshow/79948387.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
December 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: 40 teams to screen 2,500 for antibodies||NASHIK: The civic administration has decided to conduct antibody tests of around 2,500 citizens as part of the serological survey that will be conducted to check herd immunity for Covid-19. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to form 40 teams — each comprising four health officials — who will be conducting the antibody tests. A decision to this effect was taken after a meeting of the civic health officials with the technical experts of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) of Aurangabad. “Experts from the GMCH Aurangabad will give training to the 40 teams next week. The training will be on the technical aspects of the survey,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintending officer of NMC. “We informed the experts about the current Covid scenario in the city and the positivity rate which is around 25%. After a detailed discussion with the experts, we have decided to conduct antibody tests of 2,500 people from all age groups,” said Nagargoje. “We will conduct the serological survey in all the pockets of the city — residential areas, market complexes, colonies, slums, etc . We have plans to conduct the survey after a couple of weeks. The survey will be completed in four to five days,” he added. The NMC is in process of seeking permission from the ethic committee of Maharashtra University of Health Science (MUHS), whose approval is necessary for conducting the sero survey. The civic body is also in the process of identifying the lab that will conduct the antibody tests at a minimum rate under the Corporate Social Responsibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/40-teams-to-screen-2-5k-for-antibodies/articleshow/79948372.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS trying to offer Rs 6cr to BJP corporators: Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday alleged that Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) is trying to offer Rs 6 crore each to all BJP corporators. Addressing a press conference, he said that if BJP also begins to play, it will be very difficult for the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and that they should be careful. Sanjay alleged that the state government did not take any action against Rohingya in the Old City and neither let police do their job. “If the police department was given 10 minutes in Old City, they would have caught all illegal migrants from Bangladesh,” he said. “The process for electing the new mayor of GHMC should be done soon,” he added. Many leaders from Telangana Rashtra Samithi are ready to join BJP ahead of civic polls in Warangal and Khammam.  Meanwhile, many municipal leaders of Telangana Rashtra Samithi from Khammam district joined BJP on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-trying-to-offer-rs-6cr-to-bjp-corporators/articleshow/79947087.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Homemade sex clips flooding social media||Nagpur: Explicit footages of couples making love in their bedrooms have become common on social media. Acts of uploading, posting or sharing such content in public domain can be registered as an offence provided a complaint is lodged. The police can hardly do anything if no one comes forward to take objection to such posts in which adults are involved. In many social media groups, the once commonly viewed foreign porn clips are fast losing relevance because of the locally shot clips of citizens from different socio-economic backgrounds. Couples spotted in such clips hail from different age groups starting from minors to even elders, leaving everyone stunned. Though clips involving minors attract suo moto police action, the ones in which adults are seen cannot be acted upon unless legally confronted by an aggrieved individual. Once a clip is out, it triggers speculation among netizens who try to identify the source and location of the couple. Due to social stigma and long drawn legal processes starting with lodging police complaints, it’s learnt that aggrieved persons do not come to the fore most of the time. “Even if a complainant comes, he or she do not want to record anything. They just want to get links deleted or accounts with objectionable contents removed and not file an FIR and get the accused arrested. The victims and the accused most of the time are closely related,” said an officer. While the legal analysis by the police department underlined the fact that the explicit content may go unchecked unless someone raises an objection, leading psychiatrists like Dr Pawan Adatiya and Dr Sudhir Bhave feel that it is the ‘kick’ behind getting ‘likes’ or attention may prompt one to post one’s private videos. Dr Bhave said the trait can be labelled as ‘exhibitionist’ where the thought of other’s viewing private moments could be motivating one to post such videos. “Even women oblige to make their men happy,’ he said. Dr Adatiya said that such behaviour can be associated with ‘attention seeking’ as acceptance to such behaviour is increasing. Senior inspector Ashok Bagul of the cyber police station said that private sex clips of consenting couples get the legal benefit of doubt as the judiciary has equated the right to privacy with the right to life and so we need a complainant whose right has been violated or modesty has been infringed by such videos. “We are aware about the increasing explicit content of the social media in which both the genders can be seen equally involved. If there is an objection raised through complaints, we can strive to delete the links and also arrest the mischief monger who may have posted the content,” said Bagul. “The biggest problem with such videos is that it can lead to assaults or attacks on women,” said the senior inspector. “There was a case in which a clip was shot inside the bedroom with both the consenting partners. The clip was just stored in the husband’s phone from where it was stolen by the person who had kept the handset for repairing. So, collecting and storing such content is not advisable as it can be leaked,” said Bagul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/homemade-sex-clips-flooding-social-media/articleshow/79947222.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: BJP to contest all 3,100 district panchayat seats||LUCKNOW: Seeking to strengthen its political outreach at the grass-root level, the BJP has decided to contest all 3,100 district panchayat seats in the forthcoming rural local bodies’ elections scheduled any time in the New Year. The move is seen as the saffron party’s attempt to consolidate its position in the rural and semi-urban areas ahead of the high stake UP Assembly elections due in 2022. The tenure of 3,127 zila and over 59,000 gram panchayats comes to an end on Friday. Sources in the UP BJP said that the decision has been taken after a thorough discussion with BJP vice-president and newly appointed UP in charge Radha Mohan Singh, who has been pressing for scaling up rural outreach in a bid to nudge an assertive opposition, especially the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party and Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party. Confirming the decision, UP BJP vice-president and incharge of panchayat elections Vijay Bahadur Pathak told TOI that while candidates would be formally selected by the party, they would contest on election symbols allotted by the State Election Commission (SEC). Pathak said that the party, however, is yet to take a decision on contesting on nearly 59,000 gram panchayats. The BJP sources said that party cadres have already been asked to fan out in the state and mobilise people and get them enrolled in the voters’ list which is scheduled to be updated by the SEC in the next few days. “The party would seek to reach out to the maximum possible people once the commission announces the notification and schedule of elections for the panchayats,” said a senior BJP leader. The BJP getting into an overdrive for the panchayat elections comes after an emphatic win in six out of seven Assembly seats where by elections were held in November and grabbing six out of nine teachers and graduate constituency seats in the UP legislative council earlier this month. Experts said that the BJP seeking to tighten its grip on zila panchayats is also driven by the fact that nearly 50 of its sitting MLAs have been members of district rural local bodies. In fact, the recently elected BJP MLA in Deoria Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi too has been a member of the zila panchayat. BJP is expected to push its well-oiled machinery into poll mode once the SEC announced the notifications for the panchayat elections. As a matter of fact, the Panchayati Raj department is in the process of conducting delimitation exercise which would determine the number and size of the district and gram panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-to-contest-all-3100-district-panchayat-seats/articleshow/79948367.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 25, 2020||Nashik||Admin to keep an eye on rural areas in Nashik to check overcrowding||NASHIK: Apprehending that people and tourits may flock to areas outside Nashik city to ring in the New Year, the district administration has warned against overcrowding in the tourist spots outside the city to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “Given that the night curfew from 11pm to 6am is already in place in Nashik city, we are assuming that many people will venture out of the city for New Year celebrations. We are keeping a close watch on such developments,” said district collector Suraj Mandhare. “The decision to impose a curfew in the rural areas has not been finalized yet. The government has said that a curfew in areas outside the city limits would come into effect only after holding consultations with the chief secretary. However, if the situation warrants, then we will take a call,” said Mandhare hinting that if a large number of people were flocking to the semi-urban and rural areas, the administration would be forced to take unpleasant decisions. On the chances of events being organized on New Year’s eve, the collector said most of the organisers have refused to host any such events – in the city or anywhere else. “However, if anybody wants to host an event, the Covid-19 safety norms – limiting the number of guests to 50, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing — will have to be adhered to. Besides, the administration would keep a watch on such events. If we finding any safety norm is being flouted, action will be taken against the concerned organiser,” said Mandhare. Squads of the rural police, entertainment tax department and the excise department are on their toes to check for cases where there is an exodus of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/admin-to-keep-an-eye-on-rural-areas-to-check-overcrowding/articleshow/79948402.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bopal man running clinic illegally held||AHMEDABAD: Special operation group (SOG) of Ahmedabad rural police on Thursday held a man, Suresh Sutaria, 30, a resident of Kalash flat in Bopal for running a clinic and illegally practising in a village of Sanand taluka.  An officer of SOG said that the accused, was running a clinic in Nighrad village of Sanand. The accused was prescribing allopathic medicines to people without holding a licence or degree. SOG officer said they raided his clinic on Wednesday after they got a specific input. They found him prescribing allopathic medicine to patients. Police have registered a case under the Gujarat Registered Medical Practice Act at Sanand police station and is investigating the matter. Sutaria had a homeopathic degree but he was prescribing allopathic medicines and injections to patients. Cops have recovered medicines, injections and medical tools from his clinic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bopal-man-running-clinic-illegally-held/articleshow/79947215.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Vehicle checking, combing operations help cops seize 87 sharp weapons this year||NASHIK: The number of sharp weapons, like swords and daggers, seized from criminal elements by the city police this year is four times more than the number of weapons seized last year. As against the 23 swords and other sharp weapons that were seized from criminal elements last year, 87 sharp weapons have been seized by the police till November 30 this year. Maximum weapons (17) were seized from the jurisdiction of Panchavati police station, followed by 12 each from the jurisdictions of Ambad and Nashik Road police stations,11 each from Mumbai Naka and Upnagar police stations, six in Sarkarwada, four in Mhasrool, three each in Adgaon and Deolali Camp police stations and one each in Bhadrakali and Indiranagar police stations. The rise in the number of weapons recovered comes in the wake of the strict action initiated by the police over the past few months. Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey had given instructions to check vehicles with the sole purpose of tracing weapons in possession of people and carry out combing operations at night. Apart from this, the police recently had gathered information of criminals who could likely be in possession of weapons and after taking search warrants, the police had raided their houses. The surprise combing operation at night hours helped the police recover as many as 30 weapons. “Such drives would be taken up even in the future to take strict action against criminal elements in the city,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vehicle-checking-combing-ops-help-cops-seize-87-sharp-weapons-this-year/articleshow/79948405.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 25, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Maharashtra govt was warned against EWS benefits for Marathas’||KOLHAPUR: Rajya Sabha MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati on Thursday claimed that despite resistence from its own counsels, the state government has decided to extend the benefits of reservation of the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) to the Maratha students. Speaking in Pune, he said, “When a video conference was held some time ago, the government’s own counsel had warned that if the EWS benefits are extended to the Maratha community, then the separate reservation of 13% will not stand in court.” He added, “We had fiercely opposed and had demanded that the government should give it in writing that the EWS benefits will not adversely affect the Maratha reservation demand. I think, fearing defeat in the Supreme Court, the government has taken the decision.” The SC had stayed the Maratha reservation in September. Now, the final hearings before the five-judge constitutional bench is expected to start from January 25. Some Maratha leaders have claimed that the government has killed the Maratha reservation by granting EWS benefits as a community already covered by a reservation cannot take benefits of other reservations. They doubted that the legal battle will be lost in the SC. Meanwhile, explaining the need felt by government to grant EWS to Maratha students, minister Ashok Chavan said, “Some students had moved petitions in the high court. The high court has allowed EWS quota to Maratha students with an undertaking that the students will never seek benefit of the Maratha reservation in future for education. Also, the courts had asked the government to take a call on this as all Maratha students cannot afford to file petitions and arrange for a lawyer to fight the case. Therefore, we took a decision to grant EWS to Maratha students and it is voluntary, not compulsory.” Now, the parents are unhappy since the decision to avail EWS benefit has come late. The medical admission process is ending soon and engineering admission process is midway. They claim now the decision has no meaning as no student can avail benefit of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/govt-was-warned-against-ews-benefits-for-marathas/articleshow/79945238.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Lucknow||Collect samples of UK returnees in 24 hours: UP to districts||LUCKNOW: Alarmed over the new strain of Covid-19 virus, the UP government on Thursday directed district authorities to ensure collection of sample — within 24 hours — of all those who have returned from UK and send them to designated labs at the earliest. The target is to be achieved from the time the district officials receive the list of returnees provided by the Union ministry of civil aviation. The government has decided to keep these people under observation for 28 days and get the sample of the positive patients screened for the new strain. ‘New strain of coronavirus affects younger people more’Detailed standard operating protocols in this regard were issued by the state health department late on Thursday. “European disease control center has noted that the new strain of Covid-19 virus is much more contagious than the prevalent strain. Also, it affects younger people more than other age groups. Accordingly, anyone who travelled to India from UK or via UK between November 25 and December 23 must be tracked and tested,” said the order issued by additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. It may be noted that nearly 65% of Covid-19 positive patients in UP are below the age of 40 years. “The data of those who have returned from UK after November 25 must be maintained at the district unit of the integrated control and command centre so that they could be monitored for 28 days,” the order said, mentioning that all positive patients in this category should be kept in the international travellers ward while their samples should be sent for genomic sequencing. The order also stated that the samples collected should be labelled accordingly. The test should be conducted only through RT-PCR method even if they have been tested previously though the antigen test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-dists-collect-samples-of-uk-returnees-in-24-hours/articleshow/79948403.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Govt extends stamp duty concession to leasehold properties||Nagpur: After TOI reported how leasehold property owners are facing discrimination by declining stamp duty concession to them, Maharashtra government issued a new notification on Monday extending the relief to such property holders too. With the decision, flat buyers, builders, valuers and lawyers engaged in property paperwork of leasehold properties falling under Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT), nazul and corporations across the state would be benefited. The stakeholders however, are complaining that the government is not providing the same benefit to those who have already purchased flats or plots on such leasehold lands. “It’s not a new notification, but a corrigendum published by the government to correct its blunder. How can they discriminate between two properties? In the notification, it has now included properties under Article 36 of Schedule-I of the Bombay Stamp Act. Earlier, only properties under Article 25 of the Act, that are freehold, were offered concession,” chartered engineer and government valuer Milan Kale told TOI. Officials at the joint district registrar (Class-1) office and collector of stamps at Civil Lines clarified that the new notification wouldn’t be implemented with retrospective effect and hence only new buyers or sellers would be benefited. “All such decisions have prospective effect and not retrospective,” sub-registrar Ashok Ughade told TOI. Kale, however, questioned the government’s intention saying why common man should suffer due to such discriminatory implementation of rules. “Since this is just an amendment in rules, the government must refund the excess charges levied on earlier transactions,” he said. The government had issued two notifications on August 28 and 29, reducing stamp duty by 3% from 6% for a period from September 1 to December 31 to help revive demand for real estate sector, hammered because of Covid pandemic. TOI had highlighted how the sub-registrar’s office was refusing to pass on the benefit to buyers of properties on leasehold lands citing no clarity in instructions. About 25% of leasehold properties in the city come under nazul, NIT and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Even the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India’s (CREDAI) branch had made a representation in this regard to the sub-registrar’s office. The office also received a slew of complaints from property buyers, lawyers and builders regarding the discrimination. Two cases have also been filed in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, which has issued notices to government and sub-registrar’s office, asking them to file a reply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-extends-stamp-duty-concession-to-leasehold-properties/articleshow/79947295.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt to ensure 1 crore jobs in MSME sector by March||LUCKNOW: In its search for employment generating avenues, the state government is working towards ensuring that at least 1 crore people are employed by the MSME sector by the end of March 2021. Towards this end, the government will be providing loans to 20 lakh MSME units, helping new units to set up and existing units to expand and come out of the Covid-19 led economic slowdown. Additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal, while addressing an event at the Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh University in Ayodhya on Thursday, said that the MSME sector will become the growth engine for jobs and self-employment and in turn, provide a boost for the economy. “By March 2021, the government will be giving loans to 20 lakh MSME units through which the employment for one crore people can be generated. Every man is an entrepreneur,” Sehgal said. “People should stop thinking that any work is small. If a person has ideas, training, and capital, then anyone can start a business,” Sehgal added. Sehgal said that the UP government has been providing loans on easy terms to entrepreneurs and if they approached the government with feasible project ideas, they could be given easy loans. Rupinder Brar, additional director general of the ministry of tourism, spoke about the employment generation potential of the tourism sector. He said that once the Covid-19 pandemic would over and when various ongoing projects being implemented by the government would complete, this capacity would be augmented. “The Central and state governments will work together to make Ayodhya the most beautiful city in the world which will attract tourists from all over,” he said. Vice-Chancellor of Avadh University Ravi Shankar Singh laid stress on the need for financial literacy. He said that financial literacy is a new type of educational revolution and Uttar Pradesh needs to move in this direction. Event organiser Zafar Sareshwala agreed with Singh, adding: “Here, even well-educated people are financially illiterate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-ensure-1cr-jobs-in-msme-sector-by-march/articleshow/79948406.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||India’s RT-PCR kits can catch infectious Covid variant: Experts||PUNE: Experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research have said that RT-PCR test devices currently being used in the country are fully capable of catching the more infectious coronavirus strain that has emerged in the UK. They were reacting to concerns the mutated strain could evade detection by one type of RT-PCR Covid-19 test. The ICMR’s lead epidemiologist Dr Samiran Panda said the new mutations cannot slip through the country’s testing net. He said, “The kits that have been approved in India use the three-gene test — for the E, RdRp and the N genes. So we have nothing to worry about.” But he said with mutations in the S protein in the new variant, RT-PCR tests that look only for the S gene for confirmation can fail. State Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said while mutations are unlikely to thwart RT-PCR tests, India should increase Covid-19 surveillance. He said, “We should carry out genomic surveillance to pick up India-specific strains that may have changes. But, for now, the new coronavirus strain does not impact RT-PCR testing strategy or the vaccine programme.” Dr Avinash Phadke, president of the Mumbai-based SRL diagnostics, said all RT-CR kits should target at least three genes: like the E, N and ORF genes. “The RT-PCR kits that target only the S gene may trigger false negatives with new variant. This needs to be checked,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/indias-rt-pcr-kits-can-catch-infectious-variant-experts/articleshow/79947261.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur sanctuaries, parks off limits for NY revelries||KOLHAPUR: Parks and sanctuaries in the region will remain shut for three days till January 1 to prevent crowds from gathering for New Year celebrations there. As the night curfew has been enforced within the municipal limits, the forest department is expecting large turnouts at the parks and sanctuaries. However, they will be closed and no celebrations will be allowed inside. Moreover, cases of miscreants harassing and causing inconvenience to locals within the parks and sanctuaries are reported. This move will also put a check on that. Samadhan Chavan, the deputy conservator of forest, said, “Dajipur, Radhanagari, the backwaters of dams in the jungles, the Koyna forest and Sagreshwar sanctuary will remain closed for tourist. This year, the turnout could be high mainly because there are limitations in the cities because of the night curfew. We have set up chowkeys at every entry points of these parks and sanctuaries. No one will be allowed in for three days.” The forest department is going to deploy vehicles to patrol the jungles and parks. Local residents will be hired for the purpose. The parks and sanctuaries had just reopened a month back after being closed for nearly nine months. KMC asked to keep gardens open Several citizens, meanwhile, have asked the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation to keep the gardens open during the night hours on December 31. They said the gardens in the city should be open and people should be allowed to have meals there. In Kolhapur, many groups of families, friends, neighbours and even elderly people gather in the gardens to enjoy food together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-sanctuaries-parks-off-limits-for-ny-revelries/articleshow/79945251.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Aurangabad||National Centre of Excellence allotted Rs 5 crore||AURANGABAD: Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju on Thursday announced the allotment of Rs 5 crore to the National Centre of Excellence (NCOE), Aurangabad, for the purchase of advanced equipment at the facility here. Rijiju was in the city to inaugurate a stainless steel swimming pool and a synthetic hockey turf at the NCOE. Rijiju said the central government is working to create talent in seven different disciplines for the 2024 and 2028 Olympics scheduled to take place in Paris and Los Angeles, respectively. “Maharashtra is the only state to have such fully-equipped NCOEs in the cities of Mumbai, Nagpur and Aurangabad. We have sanctioned Rs 5 crore for the purchase of advanced equipment for seven different disciplines here,” he added. The minister appreciated the fact that the authorities in Aurangabad first took efforts on their own before reaching out to the Union government for help. Welcoming the gesture of the Union minister, Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel said Aurangabad should start a diploma for sports along the lines of NIS Patiala. “We have very good gymnastics talent here and only need a boost in terms of required equipment. Moreover, athletics needs synthetic turf and it will help athletes do wonders and bring laurels,” he said. Rijiju assured of shortlisting at least 10 players from Maharashtra for the future Olympics. Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad pointed out that the Sports University was declared at a Karodi-based village for which 150 acres was sanctioned. “But now this university has been shifted to Pune. We request a sub-centre of the Manipal national sports university to come up in Aurangabad,” said Bhagwat. NCOE director Virendra Bhandarkar, MLA Atul Save, MLC Ambadas Danve, Maharashtra Amateur Gymnastics Association secretary Makrand Joshi also attended the event. Rijiju assured of working on having a NIS diploma in Aurangabad and an athletic track. He added, “We will also make efforts to boost sports in the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University with funds from Khelo India scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/national-centre-of-excellence-allotted-rs-5cr/articleshow/79945961.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik civic body ropes in private agency to develop bus shelters||NASHIK: The Nashik civic body has identified a private agency to develop 389 bus shelters and 300 bus stops on public private partnership (PPP) basis. The private agency will develop the bus shelters and bus stops on its own expenses, but it will be allowed to do advertising at the bus shelters. Moreover, the agency will also give around Rs 66 lakh annually to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) from its income through advertising. Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav said, “We have identified the private agency that will develop bus shelters and bus stops across the city on PPP basis. While the agency will earn through advertising on the bus shelters, it will also give some portion of its income to the municipal corporation.” A work order to the agency concerned is to be given following approval of the standing committee of the civic body. The proposal in this connection is to be tabled at the standing committee of NMC to be held shortly. The agency concerned will have to develop the bus shelters as per the design finalized by the civic body. At bus stops, poles with boards displaying information about the bus routes and the bus numbers will have to be installed. NMC has already announced plans to start city bus service with 50 buses on some select routes from January 26. The number of buses and the routes are to be increased in phases after seeing the response from the passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-ropes-in-pvt-agency-to-develop-bus-shelters/articleshow/79945258.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Tourists inflow surges in wildlife sanctuaries, parks||LUCKNOW: Living in a hut in the midst of trees is an added attraction for tourists at Chuka ghat, Pilibhit Tiger Reserve. Accommodation for two, it is the latest offering from the forest corporation to nature enthusiasts just ahead of 2021. It is just one hut right now bookings for which can be made online. Ecotourism is gradually gaining strength in the state. After a lukewarm start on November 1, tiger reserves and wildlife sanctuaries are seeing a steady rise in tourist inflow. Due to Christmas and new year, cottages are more than 90% booked in national parks and sanctuaries. “Dudhwa and Pilibhit are doing really good. Katarniaghat is also expected to get all its cottages booked for the new year celebrations,” said Eva Sharma, GM, Ecotourism, UP Forest Corporation. Dudhwa national park has ten cottages and two dormitories, Katarniaghat has 13 cottages and two dormitories and Chuka Ghat, Pilibhit tiger reserve has four Tharu huts and one tree hut. Except for one cottage at Dudhwa, all accommodation is booked ahead of Christmas. Similarly, except four cottages at Katarniaghat sanctuary, rest of the accommodation is booked ahead of New Year. “Accommodations at Pilibhit have recently been opened for tourists because it was under renovation till some time back. Many people may still not know of it. Bookings can be made online,” said the official. Restrictions due to Covid-19 pandemic, however, continue to be in place. Given the safety provisions due to Covid-19 pandemic and as directed by the Central and state government, stays at and tours to parks and sanctuaries have become expensive this time. Wearing masks and carrying along a bottle of sanitiser is mandatory for tourists. Removing a mask is a punishable offence and those doing so will be charged Rs 500 as fine (per person). Elderlies over 65 years of age, pregnant women, those with comorbidities, persons with more than one ailment and children less than 10 years old are not allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tourists-inflow-surges-in-wildlife-sanctuaries-parks/articleshow/79948423.cms||Neha Shukla
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee bets big on Tajpur deep sea port, Singur agro-industrial park||KOLKATA: The state will float its expression of interest (EoI) for the Rs 4,200-crore Tajpur deep sea port on Monday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday, adding that Bengal will also set up an agro-industrial park on 11 cottahs in Singur. “The EoI on Bengal’s first deep sea port in Tajpur will be published on Monday. I would appeal to international and national port developers to participate in this process. The Bengal government will develop this Rs 4,200crore project. There will be no land acquisition for this,” said the CM. “We expect that it will lead to an indirect investment of Rs 15,000 crore in the region and will generate employment for 25,000 people. Bengal contributes to 13% of the country’s iron and steel exports. Around 80% of the country’s coal is produced here,” she said. “This will be a major fillip to the iron-and-steel plants hemming the Kharagpur region. We expect it will have a positive impact on east and west Midnapore, Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and Burdwan due to connectivity,” she said. “We also believe this will greatly help sea food export to southeast Asia and Japan from Midnapore. This will not only help fishermen but will also help several others involved in packaging and transport. If need arises, we can also explore for an export centre. The West Bengal Maritime Development Board and WBIDC will develop this,” she said. The CM went on to add that Hidco will introduce a dynamic window for land allotment at the Silicon Valley. She also announced that the Dhunseri group has applied for 38 acres at Panagarh Industrial Park for a Rs 400-crore food packaging-related project. Banerjee also said that work will only begin in freehold land at Deaucha Panchami coal block. "There will be no land acquisition. Work will start on land where there is no encumbrances. On others, we would need to first help people with their homes and then think of it," she said. Banerjee said, “The West Bengal Small Scale Industrial Corporation has acquired a freehold 11-cottah land off NH 2 near the Singur railway station and trauma care centre. An agro-industrial park will be set up there. Investors can apply for 10 to 30 cottahs, depending on the nature of investment. This will be a farmer-industry interface. Products can be showcased here.” The state government is working on a proposal of an industrial park at Hasimara. “We have got a proposal from Dhunseri group who have sought 38 acres in Panagarh industrial park to set up a Rs 400crore project. They will be making products for the food packaging industry,” the CM said, adding, “We have today got a letter from Wipro. They have expressed their satisfaction. Infosys is also investing.” The Bengal government has recently allowed land for Wipro’s second unit in Bengal. “Earlier, land allotment was made at in Silicon Valley. But Hidco will now introduce a dynamic window for potential investors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-bets-big-on-tajpur-deep-sea-port-singur-agro-industrial-park/articleshow/79945962.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid vaccine: Software for 2nd dose ready, says Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender||HYDERABAD: Health minister Eatala Rajender held a review meeting with senior officials of the department on the steps being taken in Telangana in the wake of global concerns due to the new type of virus strain. During the meeting, plans on transportation, storage and distribution of the vaccine were also reviewed. The minister said that full arrangements are being made to provide vaccine to the people. “Ten thousand vaccinators are being trained. Each could give vaccine jab to one hundred people per day,” an official statement from the minister’s office said. The minister added that the software for administering second dose 28 days after administering the first dose is ready as well. The minister directed officials to to procure 11 CTR scans and 3 MRI machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/software-for-2nd-dose-ready-says-eatala/articleshow/79947306.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||Pune civic body targets 80,000-litre vaccine storage||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation is planning to use Corporate Social Responsibility funds to increase its vaccine storage and deployment capacity to as much as 80,000 litres. Official said the sum — nearly Rs 10 lakh — will be mainly used to procure 2,000 cold storage boxes for the shots. “These boxes will be used for mobile vaccination drives,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner of the PMC. “They can be kept in vehicles and taken to different places, especially into densely populated residential zones that have narrow roads,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-targets-80000-litre-vax-storage/articleshow/79947313.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 21 of 35 districts upload names for first Covid vaccinations||PUNE: Names and details of nearly 6.8 lakh frontline health workers from the state have been uploaded onto the Centre’s CoWin app for priority Covid-19 vaccinations. Officials said 21 out of the total 35 state districts completed the upload process before the December 25 deadline, which has now been extended to accommodate more. N Ramaswami, commissioner of the National Health Mission, said, “We have data from the 21 districts that finished uploading names and details of their healthcare workers. Rest of the districts are expected to complete the process within the next two to three days.” From the data uploaded so far, Ahmednagar has registered the highest number of beneficiaries, at 31,527. Nagpur followed with 29,139. The districts of Pune and Mumbai haven’t yet finished uploading their data. Pune officials have so far uploaded details of 77,530 health workers. Mumbai’s number stands at 88,439 names. Authorities said both districts are likely to finish uploading the data within the next couple of days. Officials from the state government said they are expecting at least 10 lakh health workers to be part of the priority vaccination drive that aims to inoculate frontline medical staff — a list that includes doctors, nurses and paramedics from all hospitals and care units. The CoWin app has been developed by the Centre to track vaccinations, supply and dosage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/21-of-35-dists-upload-names-for-first-jabs/articleshow/79947289.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Airlines eye Hyderabad as hub for vaccine storage, distribution||HYDERABAD: With manufacturers inching closer to rolling out the Covid-19 vaccine, hectic activity is underway in the aviation sector. Positioned to play a key role in the storage and distribution of the vaccine, prominent airline operators are making arrangements to meet the demand — with an eye on Hyderabad — as soon as the vaccine gets the green signal. On Thursday, SpiceJet signed an MoU with the GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC) and Aerospace Engineering Ltd (GACAEL) for “storage and seamless delivery of the Covid-19 vaccine”. It also announced that the airline will keep a dedicated fleet of freighters, including wide-body aircraft, at the Hyderabad airport to handle domestic and international consignments of the vaccine. GHAC, meanwhile, will provide SpiceJet space to park its vaccine shipment. The MoU, airline officials said, gains significance as Hyderabad is “already at the centerstage of India’s Covid-19 vaccine development programme and is expected to be a key hub (in manufacturing and distribution) both domestically and globally”. SpiceJet’s cargo arm, SpiceXpress, has the capacity to transport sensitive drugs, vaccines and blood samples in controlled temperatures ranging from -40°C to +25°C. Emirates too is looking at Hyderabad as part of its global pharma corridors programme. “Since it is part of the corridor, we are well-positioned to move Covid-19 vaccines out of Hyderabad,” said Julian Sutch, manager for global pharma sales, EmiratesSkyCargo, adding how India is a key origin market for pharmaceutical cargo. "We have been transporting temperature-sensitive pharma shipments including vaccines from destinations such as Mumbai and Hyderabad for many years,” Sutch said. International carriers such as Singapore Airlines (SIA) and Etihad Airways are also ramping up their existing networks to facilitate the delivery of Covid vaccines. SIA, which delivered the first shipment of Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccines from Brussels to Singapore on board one of its Boeing 747-400 freighters earlier this week, has seven 747 cargo freighters with a capacity to ferry 110 tonnes. Etihad Airways, which has a specialised pharma and healthcare service called PharmaLife that is capable of facilitating temperature-sensitive cargo between +25⁰C and -70⁰C, too has plans in place to cater to the global vaccine demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/airlines-eye-hyd-as-hub-for-vaccine-storage-distribution/articleshow/79947292.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
December 25, 2020||Pune||Day’s Covid-19 recoveries surpass 1,400 in Pune Metropolitan Region, nine more dead||PUNE: The active Covid-19 caseload dropped to 7,809 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, with patients in hospitals declining to 1,748, while those in home quarantine sliding to 6,061. Besides, as many as 1,410 patients recovered in PMR on Thursday, the highest daily discharges in December so far. The rural and cantonment areas together reported 831 discharges in the last 24 hours, followed by the PMC limits (481) and the PCMC limits (98). A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 605 new cases were recorded in PMR on Thursday, including 278 from the PMC limits, 148 from the PCMC limits and 179 from the rural areas. With this, the total caseload in PMR rose above 3.59 lakh, discharges increased above 3.42 lakh. As many as nine patients succumbed to Covid-19 in PMR on Thursday, taking its toll to 8,744. A total of 6,448 tests were conducted in PMR on Thursday, reporting a drop from Wednesday’s 8,137. PMC’s health department stated that active caseload in the city dropped to 4,668. As many as 383 patients were at critical stage, of whom 224 were on ventilator support. As many as 858 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits, a report released by the PMC health department stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-recoveries-surpass-1400-nine-more-dead/articleshow/79947332.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana recorded 570 new Covid cases on Thursday||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday recorded 573 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, raising the total number of cases so far in the state to 2,83,556 and the toll to 1,524. Telangana currently has 6,815 active cases in the state, but with a constantly improving recovery rate in the state, the number of patients who have recovered from the coronavirus infection has reached 2,75,217.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/570-new-covid-cases-in-state/articleshow/79947328.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Police bust liquor factory in Ambawadi||Ahmedabad: In a bid to cater to pent up demand of alcohol, two brothers, were caught for running a manufacturing unit of IMFL (Indian made foreign liquor) at their residential flat in Ambawadi. Cops from the prevention of crime branch (PCB) held the duo on Thursday. The accused were allegedly filling up branded and premium liquor bottles with country made liquor at their home. A PCB officer said that the two accused were identified as Hitendra Jain alias Bunty and Jitendra Jain alias Tino. Both resident of flat number-3 at Kamla apartment near Shreyas Crossing, Ambawadi. The two used to collect empty liquor bottles from scrap. Then they use to paste new stickers of same brand and sold it in Bhadra and Raykhal areas. They also had their clients in the posh areas of the city like Satellite and Vastrapur. “They mixed some chemical substance and essence of whisky in the country made liquor to enhance the taste, which could have proved fatal for the consumers,” said a PCB official. Police further said that the accused procured chemical and essence from two men named Mahesh Marwadi and Bheruji Marwadi from Valinath Chowk in Naranpura. Police have begun investigation and are tracing their clients and from where the duplicate stickers were printed and purchased. Police have recovered goods worth Rs 2 lakh from them along with 235 liquor bottles and 60 caps of liquor bottles. Cops have booked the two accused under the prohibition act and sent them for Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-bust-liquor-factory-in-ambawadi/articleshow/79947329.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Sale of Gray francolin meat in Aurangabad on rise again||AURANGABAD: The meat of Gray francolin is again openly sold at a section of hotels in the city even if the bird is protected by the law. The forest department had carried out crackdown against such sale last year, but it has picked up again due to lack of sustained vigil. With New Year celebrations round the corner, bird lovers are seeking action against the sale in question. Covered under Schedule III of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, killing Gray Francolin is punishable offence with an imprisonment of six months or fine of Rs 25,000 or both. Wildlife photographer Waseem Quadri said that the forest department should bring on radar the eateries that offer meat of Gray francolin in an illegal manner. “Every bird has a role to play in maintaining the ecological balance. The rampant killing of Gray francolin adversely affects the food-chain in the nature which in turn affects us humans,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sale-of-gray-francolin-meat-on-rise-again/articleshow/79945967.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Night curfew puts dampener on Christmas, New Year’s Eve plans||PUNE: The sudden announcement of the 15-day night curfew has drawn sharp criticism from Puneites, many of whom had plans for the year-end. While some called the move illogical, others, like city-based working professional Aditi Munot, likened the curfew to moral policing. Experts too have chimed in, and said the seven-hour restriction on movement at night will have little effect, as people continue to ignore Covid safety protocol during the day. Arjun Arora, a city-based event manager, said people will find a way around the curfew. “People have found a way to party away from cities in farmhouses, or other tourists spots. In fact, many have planned to travel, which is the first thing to be discouraged during the pandemic,” Arora said. The outlook was bleak for a restaurateur. “Business was finally bouncing back, but the curfew has put an abrupt end to this slow recovery,” he said. Sandhya Jog and her husband, residents of Lullanagar, had planned to ring in the New Year with relatives in Baner. “We planned to come home in the early hours of January 1, but now that is not possible. We cannot stay overnight either because of the recent spate of burglaries. This is utterly disappointing,” Jog said. Surya Thakur and his friends, all IT professionals from Baner, had pooled together money for a big New Year’s bash. “We have been planning to go to a club for a month — this year has taken a mental, physical and financial toll on us. Now, we are very disappointed,” Thakur said. Mitali Dandekar, a resident of Dhole Patil Road, was in the same boat. “My parents allowed me to go out after months — to a restaurant for New Year’s Eve. Now, they won’t let me go to even a friend’s place,” Dandekar said. However, others had a more balanced view of the curfew. Nayeisha Dsouza, principal of Vivero Pre School and Child Care, conceded that the curfew would be hard on some businesses and said, “It is much needed to ensure the virus does not spread further. Unfortunately, as a nation we seem unable to self regulate and need external policing to do the right thing.” A city-based event manager said, “The night curfew may be able to contain the spread of the virus to an extent, as I have seen people being irresponsible lately. There is been a lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour and a night curfew was needed during the party season.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/night-curfew-puts-dampener-on-christmas-new-years-eve-plans/articleshow/79947362.cms||Neha Madaan
December 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad’s first civic-run parking project to start at 5 spots from January 2021||AURANGABAD: The much-awaited parking project is all set to materialize at five key commercial places in the city, starting from the first week of January. The decision to simultaneously implement hawker zone policy has also been taken by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation. To begin with, the commercial places of Connaught Circle, Pundalik Nagar, TV Centre, Nirala Bazaar and Osmanpura will get parking spaces. A meeting regarding this was held in the office of city engineer on Thursday. Based on the in-depth study of the selected areas, market survey, hawkers survey, the team comprising town planning deputy engineer Sanjay Kombde, tax department’s Shaikh Moin, Urban Research Collaborative’s Shrinivas Deshmukh and others presented their solutions to address the traffic woes in Connaught Circle, Pundalik Nagar, TV Centre, Nirala Bazar and Osmanpura has also been taken. As per the directions of AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey, the parking policy and the hawkers’ zone policy is being worked upon by a team led by deputy municipal commissioner Aparna Thete. On Thursday, the team members discussed their solutions in the presence of assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Suresh Wankhede. Earlier, meetings were held with the shopkeepers and residents in Connaught Circle, Nirala Bazar and Osmanpura. It was decided that a dedicated squad will be formed by the AMC to keep a check on encroachments. Markings will be done to designate parking of vehicles and street vendors will be assigned dedicated space. The AMC will first declare the no-hawking zones and then will streamline the street vendors in the designated zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabads-first-civic-run-parking-project-to-start-at-5-spots-from-jan-2021/articleshow/79945266.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court denies bail to ex-chief of Dudhsagar Dairy||AHMEDABAD: A city sessions court on Thursday denied bail to former homer minister and ex-chief of Dudhsagar Dairy, Vipul Chaudhary, in connection with the allegations of financial irregularities in the dairy. Chaudhary was arrested on December 12 for siphoning off Rs 14 crore from the bonus fund of dairy employees last year. He had sought bail claiming innocence and questioning invocation of Prevention of Corruption Act against him stating that he was not a public servant. The prosecution submitted bank statements and witness statements to oppose Chaudhary’s bail plea and furnished evidence that Rs 10 crore amount was transferred to his personal account. After hearing the case, additional sessions judge D V Shah said that the material collected by investigator prima facie reveals that there is substance in the FIR against Chaudhary. The evidence showed that Chaudhary was present in the annual general meeting of August 12, 2019 and the office-bearers helped him, though he was not a chairman. This also speaks a lot about his sway on the dairy employees. The court said that whether corruption charges can be invoked against him or not is a subject matter of the trial. The court cited the Supreme Court’s observations that economic offences are grave offences affecting the economy of the country as a whole and serious repercussions on the development of the country and in view of the fact that corruption is a really human rights violation specially right to life, liberty, equality and non-discrimination and it is an economic obstacle to the realization of all human rights. With this citation, the court refused bail to Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-denies-bail-to-ex-chief-of-dudhsagar-dairy/articleshow/79947382.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Lucknow||Vaccine centres in pvt hospitals too||Lucknow: Apart from government medical facilities, Covid-19 vaccination centres will also be set up in private hospitals for the immunisation drive which is expected to begin in January. The decision was taken so that residents from all parts of the city could have easy access to the vaccine. “As of now, 52 vaccination centres have been set up in government facilities. Now, we are planning to set up similar centres in private hospitals in areas where the population density is high. These centres will operate under the supervision of government officers,” said chief medical officer (CMO), Lucknow, Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar In charge of Covid-19 immunisation in Lucknow and additional CMO Dr MK Singh said “We are in talks with private nursing homes to identify those which can house vaccination centres. A nursing home will be selected if it has adequate space and the required facilities for storage of vaccines. Besides, it should have three rooms — one each for screening and ID matching, vaccination and for people to wait while getting an assessment.” Each centre will vaccinate 100 beneficiaries daily. Individuals will have to wait for 20 minutes in the waiting room after the vaccine is administered, so that the vaccinators could assess any complications due to the shot.  “The waiting area will have at least 30 chairs kept at a safe distance. In case of any reaction or medical problem, help will be provided at the vaccination centre itself. An ambulance will be deployed at every centre to deal with any emergency,” the ACMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vaccine-centres-in-pvt-hospitals-too/articleshow/79948465.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Bombay HC upholds woman sarpanch’s disqualification over encroachment of govt land||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has dismissed a writ petition by Taslimbee Akram Pathan challenging her disqualification in July 2019 as woman sarpanch of Gram Panchayat Umravati in Phulambri taluka of Aurangabad on the grounds of encroachment of a government land in the village by her family. Pathan was elected sarpanch of Umravati in 2017. Later, Sadiq Hussain, a gram panchayat member, complained to the district collector that she, her husband and father-in-law had encroached a `Gayraan’ (cattle grazing) land, which is a government property, and raised a food godown there. A subsequent panchanama by the revenue authorities had confirmed the encroachment. After a hearing process, the district collector ordered Pathan’s disqualification on July 22, 2019 under the provisions of the Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act 1959 and the divisional commissioner dismissed her appeal on October 7, 2020 against the collector’s decision. Pathan then moved the high court. Pathan’s key argument in her defence was that she and her husband were living separately from her father-in-law and the encroached structure cannot be attributed to her, but to her father-in-law and, hence, she should not be disqualified. She also argued that her ration card was separate from the ration card of her father-in-law. Lawyer Devdutt Palodkar, representing Hussain, had countered the argument by pointing out that the land was encroached in 2001 and the petitioner got married only in 2010, besides, there was no evidence to show that she and her husband were living separately from her father-in-law. The bench of Justice Mangesh Patil observed, “There is no record to show that and it is nobody’s case that the respondent Nos. 7 and 8 (Pathan’s husband and father-in-law, respectively) are separate by metes and bounds in all respects. If the encroached portion is being used as a godown for storage of grains, being a member of the family which is not separate by metes and bounds, the petitioner can certainly be attributed with the use of the encroached premises.” The bench also noted that the names of the woman sarpanch and her husband were separated from the ration card only three months prior to the sarpanch elections in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-upholds-woman-sarpanchs-disqualification-over-encroachment-of-govt-land/articleshow/79945985.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad cop ends life in Satellite flat||AHMEDABAD: A constable with Vastrapur police staying in a rented flat in the Satellite area of city on Thursday committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his house. The deceased was identified as constable Vishal Dabhi, 28, resident of Shubhdarshan Society in Satellite and a native of Dhandhuka in Ahmedabad. Sources in Satellite police said that Dabhi was suffering from depression for a long time, which might have been the reason behind committing suicide.  “Dabhi was staying with three others in the flat in Shubhdarshan Apartments near Prernatirth Jain temple in Satellite. On Thursday afternoon, one of his room mates called him up and as the phone went unanswered, his room mate reached the house at around 3.30pm on Thursday,” said in-charge inspector of Satellite police station, S J Baloch. Baloch said Dabhi’s room mate broke the door and found him hanging from the ceiling fan. He called up police control room and cops reached the spot at around 4pm and recovered the body. Baloch said that Dabhi was introvert and reeling under depression. “We have been trying to get any suicide note or any other document which could ascertain the reason behind his suicide,” said Baloch. Dabhi had joined the police in 2013 and was posted in Ahmedabad rural police before being posted at Vastrapur police station. He was the sole earning member of his family comprising his mother and a sister. His father had died during his childhood, said a cop. Satellite police sent his body for postmortem in Sola Civil Hospital and registered a case of accidental death. A team of forensic experts was also called to know the exact time of his suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-ends-life-in-satellite-flat/articleshow/79947359.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Class XI admissions: Allocation under first special round postponed in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: In the wake of state government awarding SEBC students the benefits of EWS category, the education department has postponed the allocation of colleges under the first special round one to aspirants of Class XI admissions under the Centralized Admission Process (CAP) in Aurangabad. In a notification issued on Thursday, director of education (secondary and higher secondary) Dattatray Jagtap said that the SEBC students can now choose between general or EWS categories while applying for the special round. “Hence, the allocation of special round has been postponed and will be declared shortly. During this extended time, other left behind students can also submit their forms. Students are requested to follow the new time-table,” he said. As per the revised schedule, the extended time for applying for first special round is December 26. For further details and updates, students are requested to keep a tab on the official admission portal aurangabad.11thadmission.org.in. As per official data, around 15,027 seats are available in junior colleges for academic year 2020-21. Of these, 2,273 seats are reserved under EWS quota. CAP authorities have already told students that those who have cleared supplementary exam for SSC can apply for Class XI admissions by following the laid down procedure. Besides Aurangabad, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik and Amravati are identified cities where CAP is followed for Class XI admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/class-xi-admissions-allocation-under-first-special-round-postponed/articleshow/79945996.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||Covid-positive Pune man to be tested for mutated UK strain||PUNE/MUMBAI: On the second day of the state-wide surveillance of passengers who had arrived from the United Kingdom in the past one month, one person from Pune tested positive for Covid-19. The passenger, who arrived in Pune 11 days ago, is asymptomatic and will be shifted to Naidu Hospital for more tests. His samples will be sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune for genetic sequencing, which is the only way to establish that the virus is the new mutant strain sweeping through Europe. The sequencing could take 48 to 72 hours. While the state public health department has received 3,000 names of passengers who travelled from the UK since November 25, till Thursday, local bodies had traced 116 passengers, 52 of whom have already taken RT-PCR tests, said Dr Pradeep Awate who heads the state’s epidemiology cell. Earlier in the day, another passenger who was admitted to Government Medical College, Nagpur, with suspected Covid-19 tested negative. Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has received a list of 1,500 passengers who travelled from the UK to Mumbai. “We have begun calling the passengers, but not yet collected any swab samples. It will start tomorrow,” said Dr Daksha Shah, BMC’s deputy executive health officer. In Pune, 544 passengers have arrived from the UK since November 25. The Kalyan-Dombivli belt has got a 55-passenger list, and tracing and testing will begin tomorrow. The surveillance has been undertaken on the union health ministry’s directive after a global alert on a new mutation. The mutation, which has been in circulation in the UK since September, is responsible for almost 70% of the cases since. Mutations have also been found in South Africa. (With Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-positive-pune-man-to-be-tested-for-mutated-uk-strain/articleshow/79947392.cms||Malathy Iyer
December 25, 2020||Kolhapur||24 fresh cases of Covid in Kolhapur district||KOLHAPUR: A total of 24 cases of Covid-19 were reported across Kolhapur district on Thursday, taking the number of active cases to 87. Also, no death was reported while 24 patients were discharged from various hospitals. The total number of Covid cases in the district has now gone up to 49,449, out of which 1,698 patients have succumbed to the infection and 47,664 patients have been cured. Out of the 24 fresh cases, 14 were reported in Kolhapur city. Meanwhile, civic chief Kadambari Balkawade has formed a city task force to implement Covid vaccination programme. She has directed health officials to get all health workers both private and public from the city registered for vaccination, keep the cold storage chambers ready, identity the sites for vaccination and plan vaccination sessions to cover all registered health workers. Sangli district reported 13 fresh cases of Covid and no deaths on Thursday. The district has 186 active patients. So far district has reported 47,452 cases out of which 1,727 have succumbed to infection while 45,339 have been cured. Alos, Satara district reported 61 fresh cases of Covid. Also, the district reported no death on Wednesday. The district has 1,134 active patients. So far, the district has reported 54,328 cases, out of which 1,794 have succumbed to infection while 51,400 have been cured. Solapur city reported 35 fresh cases of Covid and two deaths while rural district reported 56 cases and 2 deaths. The active cases in the city have increased to 245 while in rural district active cases has increased to 901. The total number of cases in city has reached to 10,897 while in rural areas it is 37,746. So far, 585 patients from the city have succumbed to infection the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/24-fresh-cases-of-covid-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/79945277.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Supply of vegetables & fruits to Gultekdi market uninterrupted||PUNE: The ongoing night curfew has not affected the supply of vegetables and fruit to the wholesale market in Gultekdi. Traders, however, are bracing for a slight drop in demand — which is usually higher in the last week of December — as restaurants and eateries, which are among their biggest customers this time of the year, will down their shutters before the curfew begins at 11pm. Officials from the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) said that the supply from farmers has not been affected since the curfew was imposed on Tuesday night, as supply of essential commodities was exempt. Most trucks carrying produce arrive at midnight and in the early hours. APMC said around 900-1,100 vehicles/trucks loaded with farm produce arrive at the market daily. “While the government has announced that essential commodities were exempt, traders have also reached out to farmers to assure them that the market was functioning and they could send produce as scheduled,” Vilas Bhujbal, leader of a traders’ body, predicting a drop in prices soon. Balasaheb Bibve, head of the vegetables and fruits section at the market, said they were making all efforts to ensure supply remained unaffected. “We have told our teams on the field to check if the farmers were facing issues in transporting produce to the market,” Bibve said. The APMC has intensified action against those visiting the wholesale market without wearing masks. Over 100 cases have been registered in the past three days, the APMC said. The traders are told to ensure all their employees wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/supply-of-vegetables-fruits-to-gultekdi-market-uninterrupted/articleshow/79947403.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Trains to Sri Ganganagar cancelled||AURANGABAD: The South Central Railway (SCR) has announced cancellation of trains bound to Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan for a few days due to traffic block in Agra Cantonment division of North Central Railway, an official release said. Accordingly, Sri Ganganagar-Nanded train bearing number 02486 stands cancelled on December 26 and 29. In the return direction, the train (02485) will not be pressed into service on December 28 and 31. Another train between these two cities, bearing number 02440, is cancelled on Friday. In the return direction, the train (02439) will not run on December 27. Meanwhile, the SCR pressed into service Dharmabad-Manmad-Dharmabad special train (07688/07687) for the benefit of passengers from Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/trains-to-sri-ganganagar-cancelled/articleshow/79946005.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Four held for stealing articles worth Rs 38 lakh from ex minister’s sugar factory||AURANGABAD: Beed district police have arrested four people for allegedly stealing articles to the tune of Rs 38 lakh from Vaidyanath Sugar factory which is headed by former minister Pankaja Munde. Articles, including computers and related spare parts, 200 kg copper, 400 kg mill bearing, brass, imperial bush and round bars, were stolen from the storeroom of the sugar factory. The factory management suspects that the theft took place sometime in the last two to three months. The suspects have confessed to gaining entry in the factory by jumping the boundary walls and later entering the godown by bending its shutter. The storeroom is located in a corner of the sugar factory spread over several acres of land due to which it remained unnoticed till earlier this week. It was first noticed by one of the staffers and an alert was raised. Later, after carrying out audit of the missing articles, factory’s legal advisor Khadir Shaikh lodged a written complaint with police and an offence under IPC sections 461, 380 came to be registered. Parli rural police station inspector Shivlal Purbhe said, “We have arrested four suspects while a manhunt for others is underway. The arrested people were produced before a court on Wednesday, following which they have been remanded to custody till December 28.” The officer refused to divulge names of the arrested suspects citing that revealing identities will alert them and they will flee. The list of suspects currently being wanted by the police include husband of a woman corporator from Parli. While confirming the same, inspector Purbhe said “We are looking for the suspect who is a notorious element.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-held-for-stealing-articles-worth-rs-38-lakh-from-ex-mins-sugar-factory/articleshow/79946001.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||Court martial of Army men likely in Shopian fake encounter case||SRINAGAR: The Army has completed the Summary of Evidence against two of its men involved in July’s Amshipura encounter in Shopian district in which three civilians were killed and a possible court martial could take place after completion of formalities, officials said. General Officer in Command of the strategically located XV Corps Lt Gen B S Raju said the Summary of Evidence has been completed but refused to give away any details of the outcome. The army had ordered a Court of Inquiry earlier this year after reports appeared on social media that three youths, labelled as terrorists, had been gunned down by its personnel. The Court of Inquiry, which completed its probe earlier in September, had found “prima facie” evidence that troops had “exceeded” powers under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) during the July 18 encounter in which three men were killed. Following this, the army had initiated disciplinary proceedings. Officials in know of the development said the two army personnel may face court martial proceedings for violating the powers vested under the AFSPA, 1990, and not following the Do’s and Don’ts of Chief of Army Staff as approved by the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/court-martial-of-army-men-likely-in-shopian-fake-encounter-case/articleshow/79949294.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||PCMC urges private health workers to register for Covid vaccination drive||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The health department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has urged healthcare workers to register for the Covid-19 vaccination drive by Friday in view of the poor response from the private sector staffers. According to the health department officials, around 17,000 healthcare workers from the both the civic and private sectors have registered so far and the number can go up to 25,000. The PCMC medical officer, Varsha Dange, said around 2,255 healthcare workers from the civic body-associated hospitals had registered, while 15,675 had done so from the private sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-urges-private-health-workers-to-register-for-ncov-vaccination-drive/articleshow/79947436.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Nod sought for rural restrictions||PUNE: District collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Thursday sought permission from the state government for imposing night curfew in the rural areas of Pune, besides those adjacent to the PCMC limits, from December 25 to January 5. He sought permission for similar restrictions in Koregaon Bhima too. In a letter to the state government, Deshmukh said superintendent of police, Pune rural, and deputy commissioner of police (special branch), Pimpri Chinchwad, have sought nod for night curfew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nod-sought-for-rural-restrictions/articleshow/79947425.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Five lakh health workers to get priority shot in Tamil Nadu, 1 lakh in Chennai||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu is gearing up to administer the Covid-19 vaccine from January and has started training 21,170 nurses as a first step. The state is readying cold storage facilities at 27 government medical college hospitals, 303 other government hospitals, and 2,286 primary health centres that will be used to give vaccine shots to five lakh doctors, nurses, lab technicians, sanitary workers and pharmacists from government and private hospitals in the first phase. At least one lakh of them are from Chennai, which has around 7,000 healthcare establishments. After healthcare professionals, others on the frontline personnel from the police, municipal administration, revenue and media besides the elderly and those with co-morbidities could be vaccinated, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said here on Thursday. Since Tamil Nadu has a large population of the aged, efforts were on to get more vaccines allocated, he said after a virtual meeting with the Union health secretary. District-level committees had been formed to prepare for the immunisation. The state already has 51 walk-in coolers and 2,685 secondary cold-chain points ready, said health department sources. The state has asked the Centre for 1,144 ice-lined refrigerators, 992 deep freezers, 10 refrigeration vaccine vehicles and 20 more walk-in coolers and freezers. To cover its entire population, TN has identified 33,438 anganwadis and 11,146 health sub-centres too as possible vaccination sites. On the threat of the new virus strain from the UK finding its way into the state, the health secretary said 37 people who had travelled to Tamil Nadu this week had been quarantined and one had tested positive. Three others who evaded Covid screening at Chennai Airport travelled to their homes in Thirunindravur, Tiruthani and Puducherry were traced and quarantined. All three, who claimed that they tested negative at Delhi airport, tested positive on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/five-lakh-health-workers-to-get-priority-shot-in-tn-1l-in-city/articleshow/79947443.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19: Five lakh health workers to get priority shot in Tamil Nadu, 1 lakh in Chennai||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu is gearing up to administer the Covid-19 vaccine from January and has started training 21,170 nurses as a first step. The state is readying cold storage facilities at 27 government medical college hospitals, 303 other government hospitals, and 2,286 primary health centres that will be used to give vaccine shots to five lakh doctors, nurses, lab technicians, sanitary workers and pharmacists from government and private hospitals in the first phase. At least one lakh of them are from Chennai, which has around 7,000 healthcare establishments. After healthcare professionals, others on the frontline personnel from the police, municipal administration, revenue and media besides the elderly and those with co-morbidities could be vaccinated, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said here on Thursday. Since Tamil Nadu has a large population of the aged, efforts were on to get more vaccines allocated, he said after a virtual meeting with the Union health secretary. District-level committees had been formed to prepare for the immunisation. The state already has 51 walk-in coolers and 2,685 secondary cold-chain points ready, said health department sources. The state has asked the Centre for 1,144 ice-lined refrigerators, 992 deep freezers, 10 refrigeration vaccine vehicles and 20 more walk-in coolers and freezers. To cover its entire population, TN has identified 33,438 anganwadis and 11,146 health sub-centres too as possible vaccination sites. On the threat of the new virus strain from the UK finding its way into the state, the health secretary said 37 people who had travelled to Tamil Nadu this week had been quarantined and one had tested positive. Three others who evaded Covid screening at Chennai Airport travelled to their homes in Thirunindravur, Tiruthani and Puducherry were traced and quarantined. All three, who claimed that they tested negative at Delhi airport, tested positive on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/five-lakh-health-workers-to-get-priority-shot-in-tn-1l-in-city/articleshow/79950783.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Erode||Covid-19: Five lakh health workers to get priority shot in Tamil Nadu, 1 lakh in Chennai||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu is gearing up to administer the Covid-19 vaccine from January and has started training 21,170 nurses as a first step. The state is readying cold storage facilities at 27 government medical college hospitals, 303 other government hospitals, and 2,286 primary health centres that will be used to give vaccine shots to five lakh doctors, nurses, lab technicians, sanitary workers and pharmacists from government and private hospitals in the first phase. At least one lakh of them are from Chennai, which has around 7,000 healthcare establishments. After healthcare professionals, others on the frontline personnel from the police, municipal administration, revenue and media besides the elderly and those with co-morbidities could be vaccinated, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said here on Thursday. Since Tamil Nadu has a large population of the aged, efforts were on to get more vaccines allocated, he said after a virtual meeting with the Union health secretary. District-level committees had been formed to prepare for the immunisation. The state already has 51 walk-in coolers and 2,685 secondary cold-chain points ready, said health department sources. The state has asked the Centre for 1,144 ice-lined refrigerators, 992 deep freezers, 10 refrigeration vaccine vehicles and 20 more walk-in coolers and freezers. To cover its entire population, TN has identified 33,438 anganwadis and 11,146 health sub-centres too as possible vaccination sites. On the threat of the new virus strain from the UK finding its way into the state, the health secretary said 37 people who had travelled to Tamil Nadu this week had been quarantined and one had tested positive. Three others who evaded Covid screening at Chennai Airport travelled to their homes in Thirunindravur, Tiruthani and Puducherry were traced and quarantined. All three, who claimed that they tested negative at Delhi airport, tested positive on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/five-lakh-health-workers-to-get-priority-shot-in-tn-1l-in-city/articleshow/79950781.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Hotels, restaurants can stay open till 11pm||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal corporation on Thursday clarified that hotels and restaurants could stay open till 11pm during the extended lockdown period while not more than five person should assemble between 11pm and 6am during the ongoing night curfew. Earlier, lack of clarity had create panic among citizens regarding night curfew compliance with many confused about the relaxation for emergencies or return to city limits after 11pm or before 6am from outside. The state goverenment had declared night curfew within municipal corporation limits across Maharashtra on December 21. Following this, NMC too had notified the night curfew but sans clarity regarding conditions under which people can venture out. Thus, the revised norms ensure no penal action would be taken against people returning home late night or venturing out for emergencies. Also, the civic body issued guidelines for Christmas celebrations which would be permitted in compliance of Covid norms mandated for other public functions. Orgnaizers need to ensure not more than 50 people are in attendance, social distancing is maintained and use of mask ensured by all during choir, online masses, and holding thanksgiving masses at 7am instead of midnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hotels-restaurants-can-stay-open-till-11pm/articleshow/79946013.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Aurobindo in pact with COVAXX to develop, make Covid vaccine for India||HYDERABAD: Aurobindo Pharma Limited has inked an exclusive licence agreement with US-based COVAXX to develop, commercialise and manufacture the latter’s UB-612 Covid-19 vaccine candidate for India and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). As per the pact, Aurobindo Pharma will also get non-exclusive rights to other select emerging and developing markets. The partnership also includes clinical development. COVAXX is currently conducting Phase 1 clinical trials for UB-612, which is the first multitope peptide-based Covid-19 vaccine. The Phase 2/3 clinical trials to be conducted by COVAXX will begin early in the first quarter of 2021 in Asia, Latin America and USA. The vaccine candidate requires only normal refrigeration for distribution. Aurobindo will manufacture the finished doses of the vaccine at its facilities in Hyderabad where it has the capacity to manufacture 220 million doses in multi-dose presentation and is building additional facilities to ramp up to nearly 480 million doses by June 2021 at an investment of Rs 250-275 crore. Aurobindo Pharma Ltd managing director N Govindarajan said the first ever synthetic peptide-based Covid-19 vaccine holds immense potential for eliminating shedding, and hence containing the spread of the pandemic. “COVAXX is committed to providing an equitable distribution of UB-612 by prioritizing emerging markets where the unmet need is greatest. During this global health crisis response, we must establish partners with the strongest capabilities to prioritize the development and the delivery of our vaccine. Aurobindo is the ideal partner to advance UB-612 in India and other emerging nations and support our mission of democratizing health worldwide,” said Mei Mei Hu, co-founder and CEO, COVAXX. Apart from the COVAXX tie-up, Aurobindo is also developing a candidate based on its proprietary Vesiculo Vax platform through its wholly owned subsidiary Auro Vaccines and has also collaborated with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) for developing multiple coronavirus vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aurobindo-in-pact-with-covaxx-to-develop-make-covid-vaccine-for-india/articleshow/79947424.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Policeman, accomplice booked for cheating for Rs 18 lakh||NASHIK: An employee of the Nashik city traffic branch, along with an accomplice, has been booked for cheating a city-based man of Rs 18 lakh. An FIR in this regard was registered with the Panchavati police station and police have booked the suspects under section 420 of the IPC. The complainant — Babaji Ramji Kedare (36) of Hanuman Nagar — told police that his nephew Swapnil Mahindra Bagul was asked to pay Rs 18 lakh for getting employment in railways during the recruitment drive conducted in the past. The incident dates back to the period between November 2014 and May 2016 when the suspects approached the complainant and his nephew assuring that the latter would be given government job in eastern railways as a travel ticket examiner (TTE). The suspects gained trust of the complainant, initiated the process and forged a recruitment letter which they gave to the victim in exchange of money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/policeman-accomplice-booked-for-cheating-for-rs-18-lakh/articleshow/79946008.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19: Five lakh health workers to get priority shot in Tamil Nadu, 1 lakh in Chennai||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu is gearing up to administer the Covid-19 vaccine from January and has started training 21,170 nurses as a first step. The state is readying cold storage facilities at 27 government medical college hospitals, 303 other government hospitals, and 2,286 primary health centres that will be used to give vaccine shots to five lakh doctors, nurses, lab technicians, sanitary workers and pharmacists from government and private hospitals in the first phase. At least one lakh of them are from Chennai, which has around 7,000 healthcare establishments. After healthcare professionals, others on the frontline personnel from the police, municipal administration, revenue and media besides the elderly and those with co-morbidities could be vaccinated, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said here on Thursday. Since Tamil Nadu has a large population of the aged, efforts were on to get more vaccines allocated, he said after a virtual meeting with the Union health secretary. District-level committees had been formed to prepare for the immunisation. The state already has 51 walk-in coolers and 2,685 secondary cold-chain points ready, said health department sources. The state has asked the Centre for 1,144 ice-lined refrigerators, 992 deep freezers, 10 refrigeration vaccine vehicles and 20 more walk-in coolers and freezers. To cover its entire population, TN has identified 33,438 anganwadis and 11,146 health sub-centres too as possible vaccination sites. On the threat of the new virus strain from the UK finding its way into the state, the health secretary said 37 people who had travelled to Tamil Nadu this week had been quarantined and one had tested positive. Three others who evaded Covid screening at Chennai Airport travelled to their homes in Thirunindravur, Tiruthani and Puducherry were traced and quarantined. All three, who claimed that they tested negative at Delhi airport, tested positive on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-lakh-health-workers-to-get-priority-shot-in-tn-1l-in-city/articleshow/79950779.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Salem||Covid-19: Five lakh health workers to get priority shot in Tamil Nadu, 1 lakh in Chennai||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu is gearing up to administer the Covid-19 vaccine from January and has started training 21,170 nurses as a first step. The state is readying cold storage facilities at 27 government medical college hospitals, 303 other government hospitals, and 2,286 primary health centres that will be used to give vaccine shots to five lakh doctors, nurses, lab technicians, sanitary workers and pharmacists from government and private hospitals in the first phase. At least one lakh of them are from Chennai, which has around 7,000 healthcare establishments. After healthcare professionals, others on the frontline personnel from the police, municipal administration, revenue and media besides the elderly and those with co-morbidities could be vaccinated, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said here on Thursday. Since Tamil Nadu has a large population of the aged, efforts were on to get more vaccines allocated, he said after a virtual meeting with the Union health secretary. District-level committees had been formed to prepare for the immunisation. The state already has 51 walk-in coolers and 2,685 secondary cold-chain points ready, said health department sources. The state has asked the Centre for 1,144 ice-lined refrigerators, 992 deep freezers, 10 refrigeration vaccine vehicles and 20 more walk-in coolers and freezers. To cover its entire population, TN has identified 33,438 anganwadis and 11,146 health sub-centres too as possible vaccination sites. On the threat of the new virus strain from the UK finding its way into the state, the health secretary said 37 people who had travelled to Tamil Nadu this week had been quarantined and one had tested positive. Three others who evaded Covid screening at Chennai Airport travelled to their homes in Thirunindravur, Tiruthani and Puducherry were traced and quarantined. All three, who claimed that they tested negative at Delhi airport, tested positive on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/five-lakh-health-workers-to-get-priority-shot-in-tn-1l-in-city/articleshow/79950784.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: Five lakh health workers to get priority shot in Tamil Nadu, 1 lakh in Chennai||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu is gearing up to administer the Covid-19 vaccine from January and has started training 21,170 nurses as a first step. The state is readying cold storage facilities at 27 government medical college hospitals, 303 other government hospitals, and 2,286 primary health centres that will be used to give vaccine shots to five lakh doctors, nurses, lab technicians, sanitary workers and pharmacists from government and private hospitals in the first phase. At least one lakh of them are from Chennai, which has around 7,000 healthcare establishments. After healthcare professionals, others on the frontline personnel from the police, municipal administration, revenue and media besides the elderly and those with co-morbidities could be vaccinated, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said here on Thursday. Since Tamil Nadu has a large population of the aged, efforts were on to get more vaccines allocated, he said after a virtual meeting with the Union health secretary. District-level committees had been formed to prepare for the immunisation. The state already has 51 walk-in coolers and 2,685 secondary cold-chain points ready, said health department sources. The state has asked the Centre for 1,144 ice-lined refrigerators, 992 deep freezers, 10 refrigeration vaccine vehicles and 20 more walk-in coolers and freezers. To cover its entire population, TN has identified 33,438 anganwadis and 11,146 health sub-centres too as possible vaccination sites. On the threat of the new virus strain from the UK finding its way into the state, the health secretary said 37 people who had travelled to Tamil Nadu this week had been quarantined and one had tested positive. Three others who evaded Covid screening at Chennai Airport travelled to their homes in Thirunindravur, Tiruthani and Puducherry were traced and quarantined. All three, who claimed that they tested negative at Delhi airport, tested positive on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/five-lakh-health-workers-to-get-priority-shot-in-tn-1l-in-city/articleshow/79950782.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Hingoli cops nab three, recover 23 stolen bikes||AURANGABAD: The local crime branch of the Hingoli district police has nabbed three suspects and recovered 23 two-wheelers that were allegedly stolen from places in Aurangabad, Nanded and Hingoli districts. The arrested accused have been identified as Shaikh Murtuza, a 22-year-olf from Shukrawarpeth, Umair Khan (21) of Kohinoor Colony and Shaikh Azhar of Vasmat, Akhada Balapur, all in Hingoli district. A preliminary probe has revealed that the suspects come from a poor background and in an attempt to make some fast money, they got into bike lifting. It has also come to fore that the suspects would target vehicles in locations that do not have CCTV cameras. Superintendent of police Rakesh Kalasagar told TOI, “The accused have confessed to using a master key that can unlock one in five bikes they target.” The accused men used would hide the stolen vehicles for a period of 10-15 days, before changing the number plates and other visible identification marks, before handing them over to other members of the gang to disposing of them, either by dismantling it or by forging documents. “We are looking for two of their accomplices, who helped in the disposal of vehicles,” said Kalasagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hingoli-cops-nab-three-recover-23-stolen-bikes/articleshow/79945288.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 25, 2020||Pune||New Year party crowd heads to Goa, Mahabaleshwar for all-nighters||PUNE: Christmas and New Year’s Eve revellers from the city, unwilling to be restricted by the 11pm to 6am curfew that cramps their late nights in pubs and resto-bars here, are taking off to Goa, Daman, Mahabaleshwar and Lonavla to ring in 2021. Christmas and New Year fall on Fridays, and combined with the weekends, it is a 10-day holiday. Working professional Anita Kapur has planned a trip to Goa in the next few days. “I do not want to spend New Year’s in Pune as it is depressing to celebrate in a place which looks desolate at this time of the year. Heading off to Goa seemed like the only option to ring in the New Year,” she said. People like her have ensured a 20-40% surge in bookings for Goa, and other tourist spots, for New Year’s Eve, after the curfew was announced in the state, several travel companies said. Many have planned day travel to these destinations by road instead of flights, due to various restrictions at the airport in the state, including a negative RT-PCR test report, if one has travelled from some states and Union territories. Girish Makhijani, owner of Hare Krishna Comfort Tours, Pune, said he has seen bookings go up for Goa from December 25 to 31. “People are thinking about going out of Maharashtra to enjoy Christmas and New Year’s due to the night curfew imposed in our state. Due to the 50 people limit for Mass in churches in Maharashtra, people have been exploring churches in Goa where lesser restrictions are in place,” he added. Makhijani said those used to partying late into the night during New Year’s Eve won’t sit at home. “One option is to head to Goa. We have a 25% uptick in cab bookings at our firm post curfew announcement,” he said. Shree Vinayak Holidays’ owner Santosh Gupta said his firm witnessed a 40% rise in cab bookings for Goa, Mahabaleshwar and Lonavla just after the curfew was announced. “People are taking cabs to Goa as they do not want to undergo RT-PCR tests before or on arrival at an airport here. They have booked rooms in resorts in Mahabaleshwar and Lonavla. Even if the administration were to impose night curfew, tourists have planned to stay within the resort, which is better than staying at home or a hotel in Pune,” he said. Gupta said they took 12 bookings for hotels in Goa after the night curfew was announced in Maharashtra. Vijay Thakkar, director of Hasmukh Travels, said his agency has seen a 20% increase in cab bookings to Goa after the night curfew announcement. “People have been travelling from Pune in cabs during the day and reaching Goa in 14 hours,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-year-party-crowd-heads-to-goa-mahabaleshwar-for-all-nighters/articleshow/79947447.cms||Neha Madaan
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||‘None forced me to convert, marry’||TOI | DEC 23, 2020Kolkata: The 19-year-old girl, whose father — a 44-year-old Nadia peasant — had moved Calcutta high court alleging that she had been coerced into converting to another religion and marrying against her will, told an HC-appointed officer that she had by her own accord walked out of her marriage and was staying with a person against whom she has no grievance. The HC is expected to hear the plea again but a division bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee observed in its Thursday order: “Since it does not appear that the lady was coerced into making any statement or was under any apparent pressure, there may not be much future in the matter.” The HC said it was evident that the girl “she has willingly left her matrimonial house due to the persistent matrimonial discord and bitterness” and is voluntarily staying with a person “against whom she has no grievance”. The HC also noted that according to the statement she made before a judicial magistrate, the girl was 19-year-old, hence an adult. ToI had reported that while hearing this case the HC on Monday said none can interfere if an adult chooses to marry on their own, convert and refuse to return to their parents. The HC was hearing a petition filed by the girl’s father, a resident of Nadia’s Durgapur village, who alleged that his daughter, a Hindu girl, had left home on September 15, refusing to return. The next day, he had learnt from a WhatsApp group that she had converted and married. The father alleged she had been coerced in doing and suspected she could have been allured. The father in his petition in HC alleges he wouldn’t have doubted the intention if the marriage was done under the Special Marriage Act, 1954 which provides for inter-religious marriages. But his daughter left home, changed her religion, and married within 24 hours, he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/none-forced-me-to-convert-marry/articleshow/79946115.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
December 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur civic body polls: AAP to field candidates in most of 81 wards||KOLHAPUR: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is going to contest upcoming Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections and the party has started hunt for the candidates. The party’s local workers claim that they will contest on most of 81 wards of the KMC as per the response from the local satraps interested in contesting on AAP’s ticket. The party has opened its campaign office at Tarabai Park. The workers are now engaged in getting suggestions over the drafting of the manifesto. Also, the plans are being made to hold-Misal Pe Charcha in every wards, which will be an attempt to catch the eyes of the voters and take party’s view infront of them. Uttam Patil, deputy head of the AAP’s campaign unit, said, “We are thinking on assuring the citizens to provide door-step delivery of civic services such as they can get all kinds of certificates. Also, we are thinking of providing relief to tax payers and making the tax assessment simpler.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-polls-aap-to-field-candidates-in-most-of-81-wards/articleshow/79945299.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Lessons in strategic management from a dhaba||LUCKNOW: If you are looking to start a business but are deterred by the absence of resources, you might be on the wrong path. A small enterprise can be set up with resources already available, and there is no need to “seek them from elsewhere”, said former director of IIM-Kozhikode Prof Krishna Kumar in Lucknow. He was speaking at an online panel discussion on how strategic management is key to the success of any venture, especially when acquiring resources. In the event, a curtain raiser to the 22nd annual convention Strategic Management Foundation of India (SMFI) held at IIM Ranchi, Prof Kumar also displayed a unique venture as an example for the lesson. An unconventional ‘dhaba’, planned and run by Prof Kumar himself, was also launched on the day. The dhaba, Prof Kumar said, is an example of how a small enterprise can be set up with resources already available, rather than seeking them elsewhere. “The idea is to cater to appetite with an intellectual menu,” Prof Kumar said. The kitchen for the dhaba has been created in a small balcony of Kumar’s house in Jankipuram with space for cooking, some storage and sitting for two. To ensure contactless delivery, a fishing road-based system takes the prepared food to the ground floor. Items sich as paratha, idli, dhokla, tea in five flavours, soft drinks and camel milk are available at the drive-through dhaba. “I wanted to successfully run a venture with strategic use of available space, human resources, skills and demand. Having been an academic all my life, I have designed this venture as an example of strategic management,” he said. The dhaba is operational every day. Every fifth Sunday, there will be an online discussion on a chosen subject. The panel discussion saw views of eminent academicians including director of IIM-Ranchi Prof Shailendra Singh, former directors Prof Shekhar Choudhury of IIM-Calcutta, Prof KRS Murthy of IIM-Bangalore, dean (faculty) IIM-Lucknow Prof Neeraj Dwivedi, head of department of business administration at LU Prof Sanjay Medhavi and faculty Ajai Prakash, former IIM-L professor Prof Rajan Gupta, and Sanjay Mohanty, a senior business executive, who was the first all-rounder from IIM-L. Several professors from renowned institutions across India also attended virtually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lessons-in-strategic-mgmt-from-a-dhaba/articleshow/79948511.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Maratha netas divided over inclusion in EWS category||Nagpur: Maratha leaders are divided over the decision of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to include the community in economically weaker sections (EWS) category for reservation in jobs and admissions. While some think it is a good stopgap arrangement, others fear it may weaken the Maratha reservation case in the Supreme Court. Rajiv Jagtap, general secretary of social organization Jan Manch and a Maratha himself, said the state government should give a guarantee that Maratha reservation under socially and economically backward castes (SEBC) should not be weakened due to EWS quota. “If this move backfires in the Supreme Court, then government should not say it did not anticipate the outcome. The government should take the decision after giving a deep thought to the consequences. There is an unease in the Maratha community,” he added. Raje Mudhoji Bhonsale, scion of the Nagpur’s royal family, condemned the decision and said it was nothing but a ploy to fool the Marathas. “The decision will hurt our chances in court. We don’t want reservation under EWS, but under SEBC,” he added. Maratha leader Datta Shirke condemned the decision saying, “The last government had given 13% reservation exclusively for Marathas. Now, we have 10% reservation in which we have to compete with several other communities. The norms for availing EWS reservation are very stringent and not many Marathas will fulfil it. The government failed to protect SEBC reservation and hence it included Marathas under EWS just to pacify them.” BJP corporator Pragati Patil, a Maratha herself, said it was nothing but a ploy to fool Maratha community. “The reservation for EWS is 10% against 13% for SEBC. Secondly, Marathas will have to compete with others for this 10% quota. BJP government had successfully defended Maratha reservation in the high court and Supreme Court, but the MVA government has undone all the good work,” she claimed. Some Maratha leaders are, however, happy with the decision. Prashant Mohite said the SEBC reservation case was pending in the court and so the government thought of giving some relief to the Marathas. “I appreciate the move, but the state government should do its best to get the stay lifted on SEBC Act,” he said. Another community leader Rajesh Nimbalkar said SEBC reservation is likely to be a prolonged battle and hence the government took the decision to bring the Marathas in comfort zone. “Had this decision not been taken, there would have been tremendous discontent in the community. I thank chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maratha-netas-divided-over-inclusion-in-ews-category/articleshow/79946122.cms||Ashish Roy
December 25, 2020||Pune||Schools in PMC & PCMC areas to reopen for standards IX to XII from January 4||PUNE: All schools in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits will reopen for physical classes for standard IX, X, XI and XII from January 4. The state government had permitted reopening of schools for senior classes from November 23. However, most municipal corporations had decided to postpone it because of the high number of Covid-19 cases. Almost all schools in the rural areas of Pune district have started functioning. Zilla parishad schools in the rural areas of Pune reopened on November 23, but Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations had decided to keep them shut till December 13. Later, both civic bodies issued circulars on keeping schools shut till January 3. The PMC authorities on Thursday, who issued the reopening order, said all schools must adhere to all standard operating procedures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. There are 44 secondary schools run by the Pune Municipal Corporation. Schools’ managements can call their teachers from December 28 to ensure that all precautions are taken before the reopening. PMC’s education officer Shivaji Daundkar said additional commissioner Suresh Jagtap has called a meeting of education officials on Monday. “We already have the consent forms from parents and we will collate the data. The meeting will discuss all that is needed for schools to reopen. Ward offices will help the schools in their jurisdiction with cleanliness,” Shivaji Daundkar added. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said an order to allow reopening of schools from January 4 will be issued on Monday. Before the November 23 reopening, the Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal had demanded payment of pending non-salary grants to schools, payment of a lump sum as per students’ strength for hygiene and filling up of class IV vacancies in schools. Anubha Sahai, president of Indiawide Parents’ Association, based in Pune, said parents would not be willing to send their children to school. “There is a new strain of the virus and parents will not give their consent. Most parents and teachers are happy with online classes. In rural schools too, the attendance has been less than 50%. This reopening may lead schools’ managements to extract more money from the parents for fumigation and sanitisation of campuses,” she said. Some principals said they would go with the PMC’s decision. “We will equip ourselves to conduct physical classes. But, we respect parents’ decision to not send their children. We hope to build confidence and make parents trust the school’s management,” Jayashree Venkatraman, principal of SNBP International School, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-in-pmc-pcmc-areas-to-reopen-for-stds-ix-to-xii-from-jan-4/articleshow/79947462.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||'No night curfew in Nainitalfor Christmas and New Year'||NAINITAL: Officials of the district administration in Nainital have said that the town will not impose night curfew during Christmas and New Year. The decision goes against the recommendation of the district level Covid monitoring committee which had suggested that a night curfew should be imposed from 8pm to 10am. Speaking to TOI on Thursday, an official said that arrangements have been made to "screen" tourists. “We have made elaborate arrangements for parking, shuttle and managing crowds. Therefore, it has been decided that no curfew will be imposed. All the physical distancing norms will be followed during Christmas and New Year,” the official added. Covid negative certificate to enter Nainital is not mandatory either. “Tourists, however, need to register themselves. There will be screening and random testing at entry points. But, a certificate is not mandatory,” the official also said. The decision has come as a huge relief for hoteliers. “A lot of confusion was there regarding the guidelines and restrictions during the festive season. Tourists have been sending their queries. Now that the administration has said that certificate is not mandatory we hope that tourists will be allowed without much hassle,” Ved Sah, secretary of Nainital hotels and restaurants' association, said. According to officials, police personnel will be posted at major entry points into the town and tourist locations to facilitate movement and follow Covid guidelines. “In the past few years, there have been certain complaints of people creating ruckus. So, police personnel and district administration will patrol the areas near entry points and tourist locations,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-night-curfew-in-nainitalfor-christmas-and-new-year/articleshow/79945301.cms||Prashant Jha
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||HS practicals in March, theory in June||Kolkata: The West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Examinations will conduct theory exams between June 15 and June 30. The practical examinations will have to be conducted by the schools between March 10 and March 31. Practical marks will have to be submitted to the council within April 20. Sources said Madhyamik exams may be conducted between June 1 and 10. The schedule will be published within a few days. “Without holding a single practical class, how could the Council announce the dates for practical exams?” questioned a teacher. Another government school headmaster said that the dates indicate about reopening the campus before March. “The candidates will be given some lab classes and doubt-clearing sessions before they appear in the Board exams,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hs-practicals-in-march-theory-in-june/articleshow/79946124.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: SEBC pupils can pick EWS, general quota||PUNE: Angry parents of students hoping to get admission to FYJC said the entire admission process this year seems to be on shifting grounds all the time. The CAP committee postponed the announcement of the special round merit list slotted for Thursday after the government resolution on December 23 to accommodate socially and educationally backward classes students in the EWS, and general categories. Manika D’Silva, a parent of a standard XI student, said she was completely clueless about what the state government is doing with the admissions. “This process is a complete mess, and if the government thinks it can wrap up standard XI in 3-4 months, and directly promote the students to standard XII, it would be making a bad mistake. The online classes the government has started for them is erratic. A link to join classes arrives at the organisers’ whim. Standard XI is crucial for students to understand the basics on which their HSC education is based. The fundamentals of subjects is never going to be strong if they don't get enough teaching hours and time,” she said. The CAP committee said the special round allotment list will be declared online on December 28, where students would also be able to see the collegewise cut-off list. The SEBC students who get allotted colleges in this round can process their admissions from December 29 by clicking on proceed for admission if they are ready to accept the allotted junior college. They also need to confirm their admission in the junior college. If they want to cancel or reject their allotment, they need to do so by December 31. “If a student wishes to cancel confirmed admission, they can request the concerned junior college. However, students should re-think before cancellation,” Dattatray Jagtap, director of education, secondary & higher secondary, said. Pratha Joshi, a standard XI student, said the situation was stressful and the government was not taking note of what students are going through. “The government should look at our plight too. How are we supposed to cope with this vast syllabus in a short time. Even if they have to slash some syllabus and plan to cut more of it, our fundamentals will not be strong. Coping with standard XII without learning much in standard XI is difficult. The government must decide in favour of our future,” Joshi said. Vaishali Bafna, an education activist who knows about FYJC admissions, said many parents wanted to know when the process will be complete and when colleges will reopen. She said this year should have been declared a zero year. “Completing the portion in such a short time is impossible. Standard XI is not like school. Students learn the basis of future education. The government should have put up structured online classes. When colleges open, there will be a huge pressure on both teachers and students to catch up,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sebc-pupils-can-pick-ews-general-quota/articleshow/79947487.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 25, 2020||Pune||‘Recovery to pre-Covid levels to take 3 years or so’||PUNE: Bajaj Auto executive director Rakesh Sharma on Thursday said the firm was looking towards making premium bikes a “significant part of its portfolio” over the next few years under its Chetak brand. Speaking about Bajaj Auto’s commitment to invest Rs 650 crore in a new manufacturing plant for premium motorcycles in Chakan, Sharma told TOI, “The premium end of the motorcycle segment in India and overseas will become a bigger part of the Bajaj portfolio, as well as the EV brand of Chetak. This portfolio is set for higher growth in our firm. We are getting ready to ensure that growth in the future.” The new plant, to be ready for production by 2023, will also be used to manufacture the new Chetak e-scooters. Sharma said the response to the limited roll out of the Chetak line of e-scooters had been “overwhelming”. “Unfortunately, it is our bad luck that this coincided with Covid. As a result, we have not been able to service the bookings in Pune and Bengaluru itself,” he said. On recovery, Sharma said, “We have reached last year’s levels, which were not so exemplary either. To reach the previous highs of 2018-19, it will take another three years or so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recovery-to-pre-covid-levels-to-take-3-years-or-so/articleshow/79947515.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 25, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad: ‘Harit Setu’ master plan work starts||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) after inviting citizens’ feedback on ‘Harit Setu’ (connecting green) project is drawing up a master plan to connect 184 civic gardens and few green zones with pedestrian and cycle tracks. The civic body is taking the help of experts, planners, architects and non-governmental organizations in this regard. Shrikant Sawane, executive engineer, PCMC, told TOI that a technical advisory committee has been formed to monitor the project, which will be planned according to the needs of the next 20 years. Another official said the project focuses on the living conditions which are going to create a lot of challenges in the next 20 years. The official said they were focussing on lowering accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/harit-setu-master-plan-work-starts/articleshow/79947510.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Gherao continues at Jadavpur University, pro-VCs fall ill||KOLKATA: Students of Jadavpur University continued with their gherao on Christmas Eve despite several pleas from vice-chancellor Suranjan Das, senior officials and faculty members to keep the demonstration suspended during the pandemic, which may lead to serious health problems for the academicians. Some students had confined the pro-VCs, deans from three faculties and some teachers to the main administrative building till the wee hours of Thursday, demanding approval of their proposals. The gherao forced the VC and other senior officials to contemplate resignation. On Thursday, when the joint faculty council meeting was scheduled to begin on the campus, students entered the VC’s room forcibly and, while submitting deputation, kept Das along with others confined to Aurobindo Bhavan. Pro-VCs Chiranjib Bhattacharyya and Pradip Ghosh remained absent as they fell sick after returning home. The VC, who had attended the meetings virtually on Wednesday, was on campus on Thursday despite being unwell. Among the demands put forward by the student unions are introducing changes in the Jadavpur University Management System and bringing changes in the admissions. Educationist Amal Mukhopadhyay pointed out: “It is unfortunate that the VC and other officials are being gheraoed. I have spoken to the students, who complained that there is no administration in JU. They alleged that the controller of exams have no work to do as the entire assessment system has been outsourced, which has resulted in mistakes while publishing the results.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gherao-continues-at-ju-pro-vcs-fall-ill/articleshow/79946129.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Pune||Decomposed body of man recovered in Pune||PUNE: The Hadapsar police on Wednesday recovered the decomposed body of a 42-year-old electrician from his residence at Manjri Budruk. Police identified the deceased as Gregory John Cardoz from Samta colony here. Police had initially registered an FIR relating to murder as blood was found on his body. “After the victim’s post-mortem revealed that he had died due to prolonged medical ailments like jaundice and piles between December 15 and 22, we converted the murder case into an accidental death case,” said senior inspector Balkrishna Kadam from Hadapsar police on Thursday Kadam said, “The victim’s autopsy conducted at the Sassoon general hospital revealed that he had passed away due to medical ailments. Considering the medical and other evidences collected during investigations, we took a call to convert the murder case into an accidental death case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/decomposed-body-of-man-recovered/articleshow/79947507.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||Winter session of U’khand assembly adjourned sine die||Dehradun: The four-day winter session of the state assembly was adjourned sine die on Thursday.The session operated for over 19 hours. On its last day, Congress members raised the issue of inflation and law and order.Speaker of assembly Prem Chand Aggarwal said that despite Covid-19, the session went off well and saw a positive approach from legislators.A total of 485 questions, including 120 unstarred ones, were received.Congress legislators maintained that the prices of essential commodities had shot over the roof and took a swipe at the government's failure.Urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik countered, “I cited examples of states governed by the Congress and through comparative data told them that the situation was far better in Uttarakhand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/winter-session-of-ukhand-assembly-adjourned-sine-die/articleshow/79945311.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Action sought against officials not showing up at offices||KOLHAPUR: The citizens forum of Kolhapur has sought action against government officials not showing up at their workplace during office hours. The forum has submitted petitions to district collector Daulat Desai and urged him to carry out surprise visits at several government offices and even various offices and departments of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC). Ramesh More, activist associated with the forum, said, “We made surprise visits to government offices such as land survey, various departments of zilla parishad and KMC. At most of these places the citizens are asked to wait for long hours and at the end they leave empty handed. It should be made compulsory for he officials are made compulsory to arrive in time. However, many times we were told that the officer has left for meetings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/action-sought-against-officials-not-showing-up-at-offices/articleshow/79945320.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ludhiana||School authorities, parents resent PSEB decision on charging registration, exam fee||LUDHIANA: In a recent decision, the Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) has decided to charge Rs 200 registration fee for Classes V and VIII board exams and Rs 550 examination fee for Class V and Rs 850 for Class VIII board students from private, affiliated and associated schools. Following the decision, principals, school authorities and parents are up in arm against the board. Teachers and schools authorities claim that it is an extra economic burden on parents as well as schools, especially during the Covid pandemic. Besides this, the registration work, as per their instructions, is complicated and very difficult to understand for parents. There are 5,000 affiliated and associated schools in the state and more than 1,000 such schools are in Ludhiana. JP Bhatt, principal of Rukmani School, Samrala chowk, and a representative of the Joint Action Front, Punjab, said, “First of all, there should be no exams for Classes V and VIII as the CBSE and other central boards have exempted students of these classes from the same. Secondly, if the board wants to opt for examinations, then it should not look at us for collecting the exam fee. Parents are arguing that there shouldn’t be any fees. Their main query is how their ward will appear in the board exams without attending classes.” Bhatt added that, “The dates should be extended by one month as students have not submitted the fee while a few are not even picking up calls of the school authorities.” Thakur Anand Singh, who is the principal of AVM Senior Secondary School, Tibba Road, and also the senior vice-president of Joint Action Front, Punjab, said, “Principals are requesting and appealing to the authorities concerned and government of Punjab to either give permission to board classes’ students to attend the school or exempt them from exams. If they are planning to take the exams, then no fee should be charged, just like government school students. It should be termed as partiality against the private students during this Covid pandemic, when parents are already under economic crisis and not able to pay the school fee.” Some parents on the condition of anonymity said, “I think that our leaders are not serious about this matter. This problem is totally created by our leaders to mint money from education sector. They come and seek money from students when all other board-affiliated schools have been exempted from holding exams, the PSEB has found the way to exploit us. Such fee from students of Classes V and VIII can’t be justified, especially Rs 2,000 from other state students. Hardly, any state would have thrown such unwanted burden upon their people.” They claimed that the state government need to think about this because the outcome of this will not be in favour of schools, especially associated ones.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/school-authorities-parents-resent-pseb-decision-on-charging-registration-exam-fee/articleshow/79946130.cms||Mehak Jain
December 25, 2020||Agra||Activist Faisal Khan released from jail, 52 days after he was held for offering namaz on temple premises in Mathura||Agra: Communal harmony activist Faisal Khan, who was booked and arrested on November 2 for offering prayers on the premises of Nand Baba temple in Mathura, was released from Mathura district jail on Thursday. Khan was granted bail by the Allahabad high court on December 18. Though Khan refused to comment on the issue saying the matter is still sub-judice, he said, “We are the kind of people who can’t even think of disrupting the peaceful atmosphere.” “I offer namaz according to the timing wherever I am present at that moment,” Khan, 50, told TOI, adding that he had never even entered anyone’s house without permission. However, he added that he would be more cautious now as he doesn’t want to hurt anyone’s sentiments. “This is what religion has taught me,” he said. “I never thought this would happen with me and to such an extent but if they feel that I should be punished for what I did then they have every right to do so. I have no complaints with anyone,” Khan said, praising the behaviour of the jail authorities with him. Khan said, “A person should be forgiven, if he commits any mistake at a religious place.” He added that he did not do anything wrong, but even then had released a video apologizing for his act and admitting that it was a mistake. He said his family members had been very disturbed. “I told them that my activism is not only attending seminars and tweeting. This was also part of it,” he said, adding that this was the first time when he had been arrested for long. He said his family members were confident that he would come out as he had not done anything wrong. Khan was booked under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion and injuring), 295 (defiling a place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) along with section 505 (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report) of IPC on a complaint filed by Nand Baba temple priest Kanha Goswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/activist-faisal-khan-released-from-jail-52-days-after-he-was-held-for-offering-namaz-on-temple-premises-in-mathura/articleshow/79944706.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 25, 2020||Pune||Cops raid gutka unit in Pune's Dhayari||PUNE: The Bhosari police busted an illegal gutka manufacturing unit in Dhayari in the early hours of Thursday, following the arrest of four men in Kasarwadi. The police have seized a machine, a consignment of the banned substance and a car, collectively worth Rs10 lakh. Assistant inspector Sidhheshwar Kailase said constable Ganesh Sawant received information off that four men would be coming to sell Gukta near Kasarwadi. “We laid a trap and arrested Prashant Kumkar (29), Sanket Bhadale (24), Shridhar Raikar (26) and Nikhil Paigude (28), and seized gutka worth Rs1.7 lakh and a car worth Rs6 lakh,” Kailase said. Assistant inspector Kailase said the suspects bought the machine second-hand a year ago and started the illicit trade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-raid-gutka-unit-in-dhayari/articleshow/79947519.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Over 35L Vid families to be contacted for Ram temple donation||Nagpur: The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, backed by Hindutva outfits including RSS and VHP, plans to approach six lakh families in the city and 35 lakh in entire Vidarbha to collect donations for construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. This is part of the nationwide Nidhi Samarpan drive during which individuals will be directly contacted by volunteers. The drive is being dubbed to be a voluntary campaign by people for the temple’s cause. The move has already drawn political flak, as Shiv Sena has alleged that BJP is using it as a means of election campaign. The issue was raised in Saamna — the Shiv Sena mouthpiece. The trust’s representatives here will be formally inaugurating its office at New English School, Congress Nagar, on Friday. The month-long drive will begin from January 15. Bhagirath Maharaj, a seer from Nagpur, will be inaugurating the office in presence of Vidarbha and Nagpur unit in-charges of RSS, Ram Harkare and Rajesh Loya, respectively. “Online contribution will continue but the drive will be for those who wanted to donate through offline means,” said Shailesh Potdar, one of the coordinators for the campaign, and added, “Persons irrespective of affiliation to any outfit have been asked to join the campaign if they relate themselves to the cause.” The Nagpur office will be handling the drive for Vidarbha. “The plan is to contact Hindu families across the country. Groups have been made for each region where the campaign will be taking place on different dates. The drive for Vidarbha will last from January 15 to February 15,” said Potdar. In Nagpur and nearby places there is an estimate of six lakh families which would be contacted for the purpose. “Donations will be accepted in cash and cheque. The individuals to be contacted will be given information about the temple cause also,” he said. In May this year the government brought donations to the temple trust under the section 80G of income tax act, allowing tax rebate on contributions. Potdar said those who want to avail the tax rebate will have to make cheque payments and “even otherwise cash more than Rs20,000 will not be accepted”. Loya, the city chief for RSS, said there is plan to contact individuals in entire societies, irrespective of the community. “Workers of Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM) will also be joining the cause and accompany the RSS and VHP workers,” said Mohamed Afzal, the organization’s chief. MRM is the minority outreach wing of RSS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-35l-vid-families-to-be-contacted-for-ram-temple-donation/articleshow/79946137.cms||Shishir Arya
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||700 locals stage protest, block road over rape & murder of 11-year-old girl, booked||Haridwar: As many as 700 locals, including Congress workers, were booked in Haridwar for agitating and blocking the road to mark their protest against the alleged rape and murder of a 11-year-girl. The police registered four cases against the protesters under section 147 (punishment of rioting) and section 341 (punishment of wrongful restraint) of the Indian penal code. One of the main accused is still on the run. Meanwhile, DIG, Garhwal range, Neeru Garg camped in Haridwar and asked the officers to maintain law and order situation. The Haridwar police have formed 12 teams to nab the accused. SSP Haridwar Senthil Avoodai Krishan Raj S told TOI, “We questioned several persons who were in close touch with the second accused Rajiv Kumar. We are also requesting the locals to stage a peaceful protest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/700-locals-stage-protest-block-road-over-rape-murder-of-11-year-old-girl-booked/articleshow/79945332.cms||MS Nawaz
December 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Years on, Guru Nanak Colony residents await road construction||Ludhiana: Residents of Guru Nanak Colony opposite Guru Nanak Engineering College on Gill Road in ward number 36 have been waiting for the construction of the main road in the locality for the past so many years. But to their disappointment it could not be constructed, allegedly due to the prevalent political system . Councillor of the ward rued that since he was from Shiromani Akali Dal, Congress leaders did not bother to construct the road. Interestingly, half portion of the same road falls under the area of a sarpanch and that portion has been constructed. A resident of the area, Usha Malhotra, complained, “It is really risky to drive on this road as now most parts of the road has been washed away completely and deep potholes are also there on some other portions. Moreover, in winter when it is difficult to see anything due to foggy conditions, it can prove fatal for the commuters.” She said for a long time they had been waiting for the construction of the road, but nobody seemed bothered about their safety. Another resident Poonam Bedi rued that two-wheeler riders have lost their balance many times while driving on this road and also got injured. But still the authorities seemed to be waiting for some major tragedy before starting work on the road. She said they had the councillor from Akali Dal and MLA from Lok Insaaf Party and for this reason only they were feeling helpless because the ruling party does not care about opposition wards. Akali Dal councillor Rakhwinder Singh Gabria said, “We are fed up with the Congress leadership as despite several requests no work took place in the wards under other parties. For this road I have been trying for long, but due to paucity of funds, the work could not start.” He said they were given assurance by mayor Balkar Sandhu that in one week work would begin, but nothing happened and now with winter already in, the road construction would now happen in March or April. Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu refused these allegations and said that there was no pick and choose policy in development works and he had never stopped development of any ward. But in case contractors do not participate in tendering process or start work immediately, then it is not anybody else’s fault. He said they want uniform development of all wards of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/years-on-guru-nanak-colony-residents-await-road-construction/articleshow/79946162.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kochi||Uproar over DYFI man’s murder in Kanhangad||KOZHIKODE: The body of Abdurehman Aouf, the DYFI worker who was stabbed to death at Kalluravi in Kanhangad in Kasaragod district on Wednesday night allegedly by IUML workers, was buried at the Kadappuram masjid after postmortem on Thursday. Aouf, also a worker of the Sunni Yuvajana Sangam (SYS), the feeder organization of the Kanthapuram faction of Sunnis, was waylaid and attacked at the Kalluravi-Kadappuram beach junction. He sustained a deep injury on his chest. Irshad, a Muslim Youth League activist who was allegedly part of the gang that attacked Aouf, has been shifted to a hospital in Mangaluru after he sustained injuries. Police have taken a few people, including Ishaq, an MYL worker, into custody. CPM alleged that it was a political murder by the IUML, which had suffered a defeat in the local body election. Two wards in the Kanhangad municipality that are traditionally IUML strongholds, were captured by the INL and Aouf was actively engaged in the election campaign against the IUML. Aouf, who was working in the Gulf, returned eight months ago. He got married two years ago and his wife is carrying. Kasaragod district police chief D Shilpa said that it was too early to comment on the motive of the murder. CPM leaders M V Govindan, M V Jayarajan and P Jayarajan offered tributes to Abdurehman. A hartal was observed in Kanhangad. Meanwhile, Kanthapuram A P Aboobacker Musaliyar asked the IUML to end the politics of murder. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in a Facebook post, has assured that strong action will be taken against the culprits. IUML state general secretary K P A Majeed denied that the party had any role in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/uproar-over-dyfi-mans-murder-in-kanhangad/articleshow/79945374.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Surat||Silver jewellery outshines gold as exports jump 61%||Surat: It seems the coronavirus pandemic and skyrocketing gold prices has changed the preferences of diamond connoisseurs in the US and Europe. This is evident from the fact that the export of diamond-studded silver jewellery has witnessed a rise of 61% in April-November compared to the same period last year when the exports of other valuable items including diamonds and gold jewellery went down. The export statistics provided by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) show that diamond-studded silver jewellery export rose to Rs 10,000 crore between April and November this year from Rs 6,000 crore during the same period in the previous year.Unlike diamond and gold, silver-studded jewellery remained solid performer in the overall export basket of the gems and jewellery from India. The silver jewellery exports witnessed an increase from 56% to 228% between June and November. During the same period, the export of polished diamonds and gold jewellery contracted by 45% to 68%.Silver jewellery export from India is bound to US and Europe. About 60% of the silver jewellery is manufactured in Surat, followed by Jaipur and a little share is from Mumbai. “The high gold prices in the international market is also one of the main reasons for the change in preference of consumers in the US and Europe,” said Vipul Shah, vice-chairman, GJEPC.“Jewellery manufacturers in Surat and Jaipur are equipped with the latest equipment to manufacture designer jewellery studded with diamonds. Soon, India will give tough competition to the two major silver jewellery manufacturing countries China and Thailand,” he added.Colin Shah, chairman of GJEPC said, “Consumers in US and Europe are demanding diamond-studded silver jewellery as it is cheaper compared to gold and if studded with diamonds, it looks more appealing.”Nainesh Pachchigar, director of Indian Bullion Jewellers Association (IBJA) said, “The export market for silver jewellery is increasing. If suppose a gold studded article costs Rs 1 lakh, the same is made in silver design for Rs 50,000. Many jewellery units in Surat do diamond-studded silver jewellery job work for the companies in Mumbai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/silver-jewellery-outshines-gold-as-exports-jump-61/articleshow/79945379.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Declare Ambazari forest biodiversity heritage site: MLA Thakre||Nagpur: West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre has pitched for declaring Ambazari reserve forest as a biodiversity heritage site by applying the National Biodiversity Act (NBA), 2002, thereby increasing its conservational value. The demand comes at a time when MSETCL wants to lay huge transmission towers through the biodiversity park by felling over 900 precious trees. The matter is already being fought in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court. In a communication to PCCF (HoFF), Thakre said the forest department has declared Ambazari as a biodiversity park after much thought. “The area was declared as biodiversity park due to its rich biodiversity. Being a nature lover and conservationist, I have constantly taken lead to conserve Ambazari forest,” said Thakre. Earlier, many forestry activities like soil conservation and plantation works have been undertaken at the forest. The department spent crores to build a compound wall and illicit grazing has stopped enhancing the beauty of the forest. Now, ecotourism activities have also started. Thakre said, “The Ambazari lake has Grade-I heritage status. Besides, the 756.59 hectare area is a reserve forest. It is one of the green lungs of the city and has great ecological, cultural, aesthetic, and historical importance, thereby needing preservation. Under Section 37 of BDA, 2002, the state government in consultation with local bodies may notify in the official gazette, areas of biodiversity importance as Biodiversity Heritage Sites (BHS).” Thakre has also submitted a copy of the memorandum to forest minister Sanjay Rathod and Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board (MSBB). The Congress MLA recalled a research paper by AA Meshram & others published in Indian Journal of Biology in July-December 2017 stating that Ambazari lake and forest has a high presence of avifaunal diversity including aquatic (26.7%), waders (8.7%), and terrestrial species (64.6%). Out of 161 species of birds, 105 are resident, 40 are resident migrants, and 16 migrant species. Furthermore, 104 species of butterfly have been recorded in the forest as per the study conducted by entomologist Ashish Tiple and Arun M Khurad in 2010. Thakre said sites like Ambazari, which are not covered under the protected area network under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, should be declared as BHS increasing their conservational value.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/declare-ambazari-forest-biodiversity-heritage-site-mla-thakre/articleshow/79946201.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre selects Punjab for dry run of vaccination drive||CHANDIGARH: For smooth roll out of Covid vaccination drive, the Centre has selected Punjab for conducting a dry run on December 28 and 29. The drive will be carried out at five locations each in Ludhiana and Nawanshahr districts. Sharing the details, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the exercise is aimed at testing the mechanisms for the vaccination drive. It will provide insights on any gaps or bottlenecks so that those could be addressed before the commencement of the Covid-19 drive, he said. The minister said that immunisation partners UNDP and the WHO at state level would support this activity. All activities starting from beneficiary data upload, session site allocation, session site management to reporting and debriefing are to be covered in this two-day dry run. For safe delivery and storage of vaccines, Punjab has identified 729 cold chain points across the state and 22 stores at district level and 127 at block level. The state has two walk-in freezer points, one each in Chandigarh and Ferozepur, and walk-in cooler in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur. It is also equipped with 1,165 iced refrigerators and 1,079 deep freezers. Frontline health workers — doctors, medical students, nurses, paramedic staff, and Asha workers — will be first to be immunised. Punjab has identified 1.25-lakh health workers to receive the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine whenever it is developed. The frontline workers are second on the list, followed by all people above 50 and below 50 with comorbidity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-selects-punjab-for-dry-run-of-vaccination-drive/articleshow/79947580.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Meal on wheels: South Delhi to get food trucks after 12 years||NEW DELHI: Food trucks dishing out popular delicacies have become a constant feature in most NCR areas other than Delhi. The scenario may change soon with the standing committee of the south corporation deciding to restart issuing these licences. Twelve years after the unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi had stopped issuing them due to traffic congestion and sanitation issues, the committee has approved a proposal for granting permanent licences to restaurants of new design, including e-food carts, food trucks and buses. According to the proposal, food trucks will be a revenue source and also generate employment in 104 wards under South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). A licence process will be created under which vacant land of corporation and other institutions like Delhi Metro and DDA will be put to good use, it adds. A senior official said norms could be changed to take care of old problems. “We will put restrictions so that such situations do not arise again,” he added. “These units are not expected to occupy space for an entire day. Trucks on wheels can be moved out after business hours. Safety norms and traffic concerns will not be compromised.” Medical Relief and Public Health Committee has asked the public health department to reframe rules and start issuing licences. Given the low cost, many beginner restaurateurs want to open food truck businesses. The SDMC data shows that only around 60 food truck licences are currently valid in its areas. West Zone has 16 licences, Najafgarh 11, South 13 and Central 20. Besides permission from the land owning agency, an NOC from Delhi Traffic Police will be necessary. About the problems faced earlier, officials said these vans were supposed to be mobile and a fitness certificate of the vehicle was also to be submitted regularly. But most vans became stationary, one of them pointed out. The traffic police also changed locations of many trucks, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/meal-on-wheels-s-delhi-to-get-food-trucks-after-12-yrs/articleshow/79947582.cms||Paras Singh
December 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Vendor caught with thermocol, challaned||LUDHIANA: Swachh Bharat Mission project director Puran Singh, who is in the city these days for starting an awareness drive around Buddha Nullah, on Thursday, while going to colleges for giving training to NSS and NCC volunteers, caught one vendor with thermocol and got him challaned for littering. In Sarabha Nagar, near Navdurga Mandir, a vendor was selling eatables and he was having thermocol material kept inside his vend and also there was litter all around. The project director stopped the car near his vend and seized the thermocol from the vend. He asked the civic body officials to issue a challan to the vendor for keeping banned material at his vend and also not making cleanliness arrangements around his vend. The officials issued him a challan on the spot. Earlier, project director Puran Singh visited SCD Government College, SDP College and Arya College for creating awareness about the cleanliness of Buddha Nullah drive. The NSS and NCC volunteers attended the awareness programme and they were convinced to make people aware of the segregation of waste into wet and dry, asking people not to throw garbage into the Buddha Nullah and stop usage of single use plastic. The civic body authorities are going to kick off a drive around Buddha Nullah so as to curb the solid waste in drain. Meanwhile, a training programme was also organised for 63 traffic marshals and MC staff at zone A office on Thursday. These traffic marshals and MC employees have also been deputed around Buddha Nullah for awareness and challaning against violators, who do not stop throwing solid waste in drain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/vendor-caught-with-thermocol-challaned/articleshow/79946190.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kochi||‘Over Rs 100cr deposited in PFI’s bank accounts’||KOCHI: The enforcement directorate (ED) probing the money laundering case against the Popular Front of India (PFI) on Thursday filed a report before the Special Court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) that over Rs 100 crore was deposited in the bank accounts of the organization over the years. “The investigations conducted by the directorate also revealed that a very large part of the amount has been deposited in cash. The source and disbursal of these funds is under investigation. Since 2013, PFI has been indulging in various scheduled offences and the money transfers and cash deposits have significantly increased after 2014,” the report said. The court on Thursday extended the custody of K A Rauf Sheriff, the national general secretary of Campus Front of India (CFI). Rauf was intercepted at Thiruvananthapuram airport while attempting to travel abroad earlier this month. ED had found that it was Sheriff who funded the travel of four persons, including journalist Siddique Kappan, who were arrested by Uttar Pradesh on the way to Hathras following the gang-rape incident. Sheriff , who was produced at the court, submitted before the court that the money in the account was received from his import-export business. He alleged that ED officials had asked him to put his signature on 10 blank papers and that his statement was not properly recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/over-rs-100cr-deposited-in-pfis-bank-accounts/articleshow/79945384.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation scraps garbage tax||CHENNAI: Less than 48 hours after declaring that user fee would be collected from residents and commercial establishments for removal of garbage, Greater Chennai Corporation announced a rollback of the decision on Thursday morning. An official release from the civic body said the decision was taken up following representations from citizen groups, traders and the public requesting not to levy the charges. “The rollback was announced after instructions from chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami,” the release said. The civic body had on Tuesday evening announced that the user fee based on the Centre’s Solid Waste Management rules 2016 would be implemented from January 1 and would be collected along with the property tax. The fees were based on size and usage of buildings. Residential building with built area up to 500sqft would have to pay Rs 10 per month while those with 501sqft-1200sqft would require to pay Rs 25. Rs 100 was required be paid for buildings with built up area of 1201sqft-2400sqft and those above 2401sqft. Commercial establishments and schools, places of worship would be charged Rs 500 per month. Events held in open public spaces, expect funeral and government awareness activities, would be charged Rs 5,000 to Rs 20,000 by the corporation based on the number of participants. Penalties for litter in public, non-segregation of waste, burning of waste and dumping of garbage in water bodies would attract a fine of anywhere between Rs 100 to Rs 5,000. Sources within the corporation said that they would have been able to collect anywhere between Rs 60crore to Rs 80crore annually if this charges were levied. The civic body which is already reeling under acute financial strain after revision of the property tax was rolled back last year, would have earned enough for paying at least a month’s salary to its staff through the annual collection of the garbage tax. “It is very nominal. The civic body has brought in doorstep collection of waste by a private contractor and also segregating the waste at source,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-scraps-garbage-tax/articleshow/79946257.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||Citing poor health rape accused MLA fails to turn up in Doon court||DEHRADUN: Citing poor health, Mahesh Negi, the BJP MLA from Dwarahat, who has been accused of rape, did not appear before the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) court in Dehradun on Thursday. The court has now directed the MLA, the woman and the daughter to appear on January 11. The CJM court on Wednesday had ordered Negi to appear before it on December 24 and give his DNA sample. The court had also ordered the management of Doon Hospital to make necessary arrangements. Earlier on August 16, this year, a woman had lodged a complaint accusing the MLA of raping her. She alleged that he is the biological father of her daughter. She also demanded that a DNA test be conducted to verify her charges. An FIR was registered against Negi on September 6 under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC in compliance with the orders of a local court. The MLA’s wife Rita Negi was also booked for "criminal intimidation". Then, last month, an FIR was lodged against the complainant on the basis of a complaint by the MLA’s wife, claiming that her husband was being blackmailed by the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/citing-poor-health-rape-accused-mla-fails-to-turn-up-in-doon-court/articleshow/79945389.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 25, 2020||Kochi||Govt to seek guv’s nod again for special assembly session||Thiruvananthapuram: The state cabinet has once again recommended for special assembly session on December 31 to discuss farmer agitation. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, after the cabinet meeting, said the state is very much concerned about the crisis faced by the farmers of our country and hence, the state government believes that such a public issue should be discussed in the state assembly. “Since the agitation of farmers across the country are continuing, it’s an emergency situation as the state will also be affected with the ongoing agitation. Hence, it has become necessary to discuss on how to overcome if there is any crisis,” said the CM. The government had earlier decided to convene an assembly session on December 23 and a request on the same was submitted before the governor. However, it was turned down, he added. Pinarayi Vijayan said if the state government submits a request for convening an assembly session, then in a parliamentary system usually the governor approves it. “The agenda of the meeting was informed well in advance to the governor. It is the assembly which decides what has to be discussed inside the floor of the House,’’ he said. The governor should not have reacted using the discriminatory powers he has. The usual procedure is to follow the decisions taken by the state government. “I think he had some misunderstandings on this,” he added. On the governor pointing out the ordinances which the government had to repeal, the chief minister said the delimitation of wards was withdrawn since it would have delayed the local body elections. The government was not ready to postpone election, he said. Meanwhile, speaker P Sreeramakrishnan said, “The governor should take the state government into confidence when such a request is presented before him. In a democratic system, the government has the authority to seek governor’s nod for convening an assembly session. The democratically elected assembly should be given the responsibility to decide on issues that have to be discussed and when. The governor, if needs any clarity, can undoubtedly seek clarification,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-to-seek-guvs-nod-again-for-special-assembly-session/articleshow/79945396.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Surat||Court allows NRI accused in DeMo case to stay back six more months in UK||Surat: The Surat district and sessions court on Thursday allowed an NRI from Bharuch, who is accused in 2016 cases of being in possession of demonetised currency notes, from continuing his stay in the United Kingdom (UK) owing to the coronavirus related restrictions on travel. Court had in December 2019 allowed accused Zakir Patel (43) to visit his family in the UK and asked him to return to India before December 31, 2020. Patel was booked by Surat crime branch in December 2016 under IPC sections 489B (using as genuine, forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes) and 489C (possession of forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes). According to police, Patel had given 600 Indian currency notes of Rs 1,000 denomination to one Faisal Patel via his brother Sarfaraz Patel to exchange in lieu of new notes. During the hearing, Patel’s lawyer Rafiq Lokhandwala submitted that his client was a UK resident and lives along with his family there. “Due to the widespread Covid-19 cases at global level and rapidly rising cases in the UK, the restriction has been imposed by the UK government on movements on citizens within the country and those travelling abroad,” Lokhandwala argued. He added that it was practically impossible for Patel to visit India in compliance with the court order and urged that his client be allowed to extend his stay in the UK by another year. Patel is a teacher in South London and runs a coaching class for his livelihood. After hearing Lokhandwala, the court allowed Patel to continue his stay in the UK for six more months from January 1, 2021, to June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/court-allows-nri-accused-in-demo-case-to-stay-back-six-more-months-in-uk/articleshow/79945391.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chennai||Now, adopt park, median or traffic island in Chennai for free||CHENNAI: NGOs, other organisations and even individuals can now adopt a park, a centre median or a traffic island in the city for free.  Following discussions with parks department officials and NGOs, Greater Chennai Corporation has waived the Rs 50,000 caution deposit and the annual adoption fee of Rs 100 per sqm of park. The decision was made to ensure proper maintenance of infrastructure. “We wanted to create an attractive brand so we came up with the name, PASUMAI or Park Adoption Scheme for Urban Landscape Maintenance and Improvement. Under this, agencies, NGOs, organizations or individuals can just contact the concerned nodal officer and fill up a form to take up a park for maintenance,” said Meghnath Reddy, deputy commissioner, works (in-charge). Those adopting parks can also put up small boards stating that they maintain the park along with their brand or the name of the company or resident welfare association. Of the 703 corporation parks, 51 have been adopted so far. The corporation maintains 54 parks and has outsourced 554 to contractors. “Most of these are only maintained by gated communities. Very few residential welfare associations have come forward. Now we hope they will be encouraged to take up adoption in a big way,” said Meghnath Reddy. The adoption period will cover one year and can be renewed annually. Park maintenance usually involves appointment of a security guard, sweepers, gardeners who can prune trees regularly and conduct minor repairs of play equipment. Monthly maintenance cost varies between Rs 1,500 and Rs 1 lakh depending on the area and number of trees in the park. “We will make sure a park superintendent inspects the parks periodically to ensure they are maintained well,” said a parks department official. Geeta Padmanaban, who maintains a park in Thiruvanmiyur’s Sivagamipuram, hailed the corporation’s decision. “This means so much for people like us as there are very few parks in our area. This would encourage local residential welfare associations to look at open spaces and convert them into parks which they can maintain it easily. We hope that we get our caution deposit back,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/now-adopt-park-median-or-traffic-island-for-free/articleshow/79946225.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Mob on rampage at Delhi Jal Board headquarters; AAP, BJP trade charges||NEW DELHI: A protest by BJP at Delhi Jal Board headquarters at Jhandewalan turned violent on Thursday afternoon when several protesters forcefully entered the complex and vandalised the office from the reception area till the vice-chairman’s chamber. The video recordings of the security breach showed protesters scaling the entry gate, grappling with the private security guards and forcefully opening the locked doors. The mob then broke the glass doors and property inside the office complex. While Delhi BJP claimed that “miscreants from AAP” had attacked its party workers, which left many injured, AAP alleged that “goons from BJP” had caused the ruckus. Releasing the CCTV footage of the entry gate, DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha tweeted: “Another CCTV footage that shows Delhi Police quietly standing behind the protesters and facilitating the attack, while DJB’s private security is trying hard to stop them from trespassing.” The incident comes barely two weeks after deputy CM Manish Sisodia’s house was attacked by a group of people who had barged into his house. In both the cases, AAP had alleged that Delhi Police personnel on the spot remained mute spectators. Giving the chronology of the attack, Chadha said, “More than a 100 BJP goons gathered in front of the DJB office, broke the main gate and barged inside. They vandalised the reception area, then reached the vice-chairman’s chamber, broke the glass doors, windows and benches. They also broke the printers, computers and other important items. They also smashed a picture of the CM inside my chamber.” “Bloodstains were spotted at some places. My staff members were injured and women workers and security guards were misbehaved with. A few women workers didn’t come out of their offices for an hour as they were in shock. A few of my staff members were hospitalised and some were treated at a dispensary. The BJP goons threatened of more attacks if we (AAP) did not stop supporting the farmers,” he further alleged. Slamming BJP for the attack, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “It is very shameful. BJP should understand that AAP and my government are in complete support of the farmers till our last breath. We are not scared of such cowardly attacks. I appeal to (AAP) workers not to get instigated by such attacks of BJP, maintain calm and support the farmers.” The AAP MLA, who was recently appointed co-in-charge of Punjab, said the goons asked him not to focus on the farmers’ issue and support their demands. “I want to make it very clear that AAP will not be scared by such intimidation tactics and attacks by BJP. The CM has said that AAP will stand with the farmers and support their demands till the last breath. We will continue to oppose the anti-farmer laws,” added Chadha. “The goons threatened me and said they had come to teach me a lesson because AAP and CM Kejriwal are continuously standing behind the farmers. They asked us to stop it. They even mentioned the Kejriwal government’s decision not to allow Delhi stadiums to be converted into jails to detain the protesting farmers,” Chadha said. Recently, Kejriwal had torn copies of the three farm laws in a special session of Delhi assembly. The CM and several AAP members had even visited Singhu border to meet the protesting farmers. Delhi government had also made arrangements for water and toilets for the farmers. Meanwhile, Delhi Police stated that around 30 BJP workers, including Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, were detained after they barged into DJB’s office and damaged public property. DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said, “They did not have permission for the protest, but police were already deployed there. Around 1pm, the workers barged in and were detained within half an hour. A case of damage to public property has been registered.” Watch Delhi Jal Board office vandalised, AAP govt blames BJP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-mob-goes-berserk-at-djb-hq-aap-and-bjp-blame-each-other/articleshow/79947654.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||IISER scientists working on synthesizing SARS-COV2||CHANDIGARH: At a time when the country does not have the latest variant of the SARS-COV 2 virus, which is highly transmissible, scientists at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Mohali are working on synthesizing the SARS –COV 2 virus to understand this mutation. This technology can help in checking the efficacy of vaccines/drugs against any mutant strain quickly. Researchers claim that this is the first such model in the country. “The only group that has worked and published work on artificially developing the SARS-COV2 virus is Sweden,” said Prof Anand Bachhawat, principal investigator of the research. He said, “The power of this platform is that if we have synthetic virus, we can easily put the mutant variant inside this artificially made virus and check how effective the medicines, vaccines etc can be. This strain is not available in the country and we do not have the preparedness to deal with it unless there is this laboratory-made virus.” The virus will be attenuated (the virulence of the virus is reduced) but will look and function exactly like the live virus. Unlike the Sweden group of researchers, Indian scientists will not use a live virus because of biosafety issues. The team of scientists from IISER include Drs Anand Bachhawat, Sharvan Sherawat, Indranil Banerjee and Ramasasty. Elaborating on the technology and how it can help, Prof Anand said, “There will be many virus variants and by permutations and combinations on this technology, one can develop diagnostics and therapeutics. When such variants are reported, there are no strains available readily. Those working on drugs and vaccines cannot test the efficacy for these strains. In that case, such models can be used to induce the mutant virus once we know the DNA sequence. Thereby, we can get ready with vaccines or antivirals for those specific strains.” To avoid any danger of the virus getting ‘leaked’ during experiments, the scientists are using a unique technique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/iiser-scientists-working-on-synthesizing-sars-cov2/articleshow/79947610.cms||Shimona Kanwar
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||2 leopards electrocuted, another dies in accident||Nagpur: It was a bad day for wildlife on Thursday. Three leopard deaths were recorded in the region. Of them, two leopards were found electrocuted in Akola territorial division. Another leopard in a road hit at Virshi Fata near Sakoli on NH-6 in Bhandara district. With this, Maharashtra has reported 176 leopard deaths from January this year. At least 20 leopards have been electrocuted in the last five years from 2016-2020. This year, nine leopards were electrocuted. The first incident was reported from the Alegaon range in Akola region where an adult female and a male leopard was electrocuted. Divisional forest officer (DFO) Vijay Mane said, “Prima facie the animals died due to a current flowing to a pole of an 11kv line passing near an agriculture field.” “We found hair of the animals stuck to the pole. A mongoose was also found dead nearby. Though there was an injury on the neck of the animals, all the body parts were intact. We have also sought tripping data from the MSEDCL officials,” Mane said. State wildlife board member Yadav Tarte demanded a thorough probe in the matter “as it is possible that the animals must have been electrocuted by the farm fence and later dumped under the electric pole to destroy evidence”. There is no forest in around 5km area. “There was continuous sparking on the pole and that may be the reason for deaths. We are investigating poaching angle too,” said Alegaon RFO SD Nalinde. Wildlife lover Sheikh Munna Sheikh, president, Sarpamitra Nisarga Savwardhan Bahuuddeshia Sanstha, Akola, said, “These deaths are due to lack of coordination between the power company and forest officials. There is no joint patrolling in forest areas connected to farmlands. Forums like tiger cells to discuss these issues have become defunct in the entire state and a noise is made only when such tragedies occur.” Munna blamed forest officials for a record number of 35 leopard deaths in road accidents. “Forest officials at division level fail to suggest mitigation measures to user agencies in sensitive patches and road widening causes a large number of deaths. In Akola district, trees are being felled on all connecting roads but not one road has mitigation measures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-leopards-electrocuted-another-dies-in-accident/articleshow/79946263.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Sikh charity delivers meals to stranded lorry drivers||London: The British Sikh community has rallied together to deliver hundreds of free hot meals to thousands of stranded lorry drivers stuck on the M20 motorway after France on Sunday banned them from entering the country after a new variant of Covid-19 was discovered in the UK. The langar team at the Guru Nanak Darbar Gurdwara in Gravesend in Kent sprang into action and prepared 800 hundred meals in under three hours on Tuesday, following a request from the Sikh charity Khalsa Aid. On Wednesday, Khalsa Aid delivered 1,000 pizzas to the drivers and on Thursday coordinated 3,500 hot meals. Thousands of European lorry drivers have been stranded in Kent since Sunday with thousands forced to park for miles along the M20 motorway without access to toilets, showers, food or water, due to the travel ban imposed by France on all freight and passenger traffic from Britain which had led to the closure of the Port of Dover and the Channel Tunnel. On Wednesday morning, some of the hauliers staged a protest and there were scuffles with police as tensions boiled over. One man was arrested for obstructing a highway, Kent police said. Khalsa Aid volunteers delivered mushroom and pasta and chickpea curry and rice as well as bottled water to the drivers in the pouring rain on Tuesday night, escorted by Kent Police, in scenes which Ravinder Singh, CEO of Khalsa Aid, described as like a horror movie. On Wednesday, his team handed out 1,000 pizzas donated by a Punjabi businessman who owns Domino’s Pizza franchises. On Thursday, they returned to deliver 1,000 vegetable pastas made by the Gravesend gurdwara and 2,500 pizzas from several Domino’s Pizza franchises. “They were down and depressed and had no idea what was going on and just want to get back in time for Christmas. They have been sleeping in their lorries since Sunday. The M20 has been turned into a huge lorry park. They have set a some portaloos (portable toilets) up but it is not adequate. There are no shops and services. We are just reaching out to those who need us,” said Ravinder, whose charity normally works in refugee camps and disaster zones overseas. “Right now it is truckers who need us and as Sikhs we believe in sharing what we have. The aim was to lift their spirits. Hot meals wherever you serve them like at a refugee camp is very good for lifting morale,” he added. “When you are there, the line of lorries just seems endless.” The French ban on UK arrivals was lifted at midnight on Tuesday provided lorry drivers have a Covid-19 negative test less than 72 hours before departure but the backlog and logistics of carrying out the 30 minute lateral flow tests is expected to take days to clear. The military have been drafted in to join NHS test and trace staff in Kent to carry out rapid tests. Thousands of hauliers are also stranded at a makeshift lorry park at the disused Manston airport where there are also inadequate facilities. During the first lockdown in Britain, Khalsa Aid delivered more than 60,000 hot meals to international students, the homeless and NHS workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sikh-charity-delivers-meals-to-stranded-lorry-drivers/articleshow/79947592.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu cops team up with criminals to rob jeweller of Rs 1.1-crore gold||CHENNAI: In a tale straight out of the Wild West, two lawmen who were responsible for escorting criminals to courts from jail joined hands with muggers to rob a jeweller of 300 sovereigns of gold worth Rs 1.11 crore in Sriperumbudur two weeks ago. Constables Thamilarasan of Manampathy police station and Kathir attached to Thirukazhukundram station have now been sent to jail along with Kathiravan, 25, Ranjith, 24, Marimuthu, 25, and Rahul, 24. Incidentally, Marimuthu had just cleared written exam and physical fitness test for sub-inspector selection. The two policemen fell for the enticing tales of easy riches when they were escorting Ranjith who hatched a plan along with others to attack the jeweller on December 11. The gang was tipped off by Santhosh, 26, an employee of the wholesale jewellery run by Mahendar, 51, of Tiruvallur. The gang came on two bikes, intercepted the auto in which Mahendar, his son Ashish and staff Rajkumar were taking 300 sovereigns to a goldsmith at Mambakkam near Sriperumbudur, and snatched it from them, said deputy superintendent of police K Karthikeyan. Based on Mahendar’s complaint, special teams of the Sriperumbudur police collected CCTV camera clippings from the neighborhood to zero in on the suspects based on their bikes registration numbers.  Till Thursday, police have seized 350 grams of gold and Rs 8 lakh cash from the accused. Police suspect involvement of others in the robbery and a hunt is on to nab them. Kancheepuram superintendent of police P Shanmugapriya said, “A police team is formed to track and apprehend four more suspects in the case.” Departmental action will soon be initiated against the two policemen, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-join-hands-with-muggers-to-rob-tn-jeweller-of-300-sovereigns-of-gold/articleshow/79947614.cms||Selvaraj A
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Hi-tech plates: Delhi HC says give people more time||NEW DELHI: Don’t create panic, give people time — Delhi High Court gave this message to the AAP government on Thursday on the issue of colour-coded stickers and high-security registration plates (HSRP). A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh, though declining to stay the levy of heavy fines by Delhi’s transport department, asked the government to consider giving more time and putting fines on hold. “This is only causing harassment to everyone as many are clueless about it...don’t create panic, give people time to apply and obtain, do it in batches,” the bench advised the government, before it starts fining them Rs 5,500 for the violations. The court said even the announcement that colour-coded fuel stickers and high security numberplates are mandatory, made by Delhi government in August this year “was not the ideal time”, given the uncertainty over lockdown and the raging pandemic. The judges said even they were clueless about the requirement of the stickers and asked additional standing counsel Satyakam to come with “detailed instructions” regarding steps taken by Delhi government to publicise the stickers and HSRP. The court said it would like to know who decided to outsource the sale of stickers and HSRP to private contractors, who fixed the rates for the same and who fixed the fine amount. It pointed out that even the vehicles of the high court lacked these stickers and wondered whether they would be fined too. Justice Singh, referring to his own personal experience with regard to the stickers, said he came to know about it from news reports of the challan drive and he booked the stickers for two of his vehicles with much difficulty as the website for the same kept crashing. The court was hearing a PIL by the president of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC), Anil Kumar, alleging that the Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) were overcharging for the colour-coded fuel stickers and HSRP that have been made mandatory for vehicles in the national capital. Advocate Sunil Fernandes, appearing for Kumar, attacked the AAP government’s decision to levy steep fines, saying it should keep its challan drive on hold as the same has created a fear psychosis in the minds of the people who are scrambling to get the stickers and HSRP so that they would not have to face the fine. Satyakam, during the hearing, told the bench that Delhi government has nothing to do with fixing the rate of the stickers and HSRP and it was only concerned with implementing the Supreme Court directions that all vehicles should have HSRP and the stickers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hi-tech-plates-hc-says-give-people-more-time/articleshow/79947640.cms||Abhinav Garg
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||RCA will have to construct stadium within 5 years of allotment||Jaipur: The urban development and housing (UDH) department has finalised the norms to allot land at concessional rate to the Rajasthan Cricket Academy (RCA) in Chop Village situated on Jaipur-Delhi highway. A total of 40.6 hectares will be allotted at 30% of the district lease committee (DLC) rates. The RCA will have to complete the construction of the stadium within five years from the date of allotment. The RCA has earlier made a request for land allotment to construct the third largest cricket stadium in the world with a seating capacity of 75,000 spectators. Sources said as per the proposal, the RCA was expecting a land allotment on 10% of DLC rates. However, after the land allotment policy 2015 was formulated, the JDA on its own cannot decide land allotment at concessional rates. “DLC rate in Chop village is Rs 29.85 lakh. Also, institutional rate is Rs 7,500 per sqm. It is decided to allot the prime land on concessional rates of 30%,” said a source. According to a senior JDA official, during the previous Congress tenure, the civic body had allotted nearly 18.16 hectares to RCA in Chop village in 2012. However, the then BJP government cancelled it in 2017 claiming that the academy did not adhere to the terms and conditions. An official source said, “The state government has directed to revoke the cancellation. It has also identified adjoining 17 hectares to develop a stadium. Now, the total land is 40.6 hectares.” The academy claims this will be the third-largest stadium (having a capacity of approximately 75,000) after the Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad and the Melbourne Cricket Stadium. Motera has a seating capacity of 1.10 lakh, while the Melbourne stadium can host 1.02 lakh people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rca-will-have-to-construct-stadium-within-5-years-of-allotment/articleshow/79947635.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Foundation stone laid for cloverleaf structures||JAIPUR: Even as the acquisition of land for the Ring Road cloverleaf on Jaipur-Agra National Highway remains in abeyance, Union minister Nitin Gadkari laid the foundation stone of similar structures on the other two highways (Ajmer Road and Tonk Road) on Thursday. With this, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) will construct long- pending cloverleaf structure at Tonk Road (NH-52) covering the area of Prahladpura, Ajayrajpura and Hema Ki Nagal. Similarly, at Ajmer Road (NH-48), the intersection structure will be constructed at Bhankarota and Hasmapura Bas Bhankarota. The estimated cost to construct these structures of total length 6.719 km will Rs 155.73 crore. Times ViewDelay in construction of the Ring Road's cloverleaf is leading to traffic snarls on Jaipur-Ajmer and Jaipur-Tonk NHs. Despite crores of rupees being spent, the project remains unutilised. The incomplete structure poses serious accident threats to commuters. The state government must come up with an alternative plan for smooth traffic flow besides reducing accident risks.An official said, at Tonk Road, the loop length of the structure will be 2.089 km and ramp length will be 2 km. At Ajmer Road, loop length will be 1.965 km. “The tender for the same have be invited after receiving the land from the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA). The work will be started from December,” said the official. As construction of these structures was taking time even after one-and-a-half years project was inaugurated, the transport corridor of the 47-km southern Ring Road, which connects Ajmer Road, Tonk Road and Agra Road, was made operational after making temporarily arrangements in November. On Ajmer Road, which is busiest highway comparatively to Agra Road and Tonk Road, the NHAI has decided to close a road cut on divider at Mahapura junction to avoid merging of urban traffic with highway traffic (Ring Road traffic). A senior engineer of JDA said, “To avoid traffic conflict coming from Mahapura-end and Ring Road (Tonk Road end), the NHAI will close the existing road cut in front Kanchan Kesari. Once it is closed, traffic coming from Mahapura will have to take a left turn (towards Ajmer). After 500 metres, a new road cut will be opened.” He added, “If a vehicle coming towards Jaipur from Ajmer-end wants to travel on Ring Road, a road cut on divider ahead of DPS school will be opened. The driver will have to take a U-turn and take the slip lane, which is connected with the Ring Road.” However, commuter’s complaint, heavy traffic taking a U-turn from DPS school to reach ring road has resulted incessant jam on the road. Moreover, possibilities of accident have also cropped up in the area.” “We have called a joint of various departments including traffic, JDA and NHAI to resolve the traffic issued faced on ground. The corrective steps on the road will be taken soon,” said a NHAI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/foundation-stone-laid-for-cloverleaf-structures/articleshow/79947644.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Green run: IOC to buy 15 hydrogen buses for Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi will become the first city in the country to seriously try out hydrogen — touted as the fuel of the future — as a serious public mobility solution, with Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) procuring 15 buses kitted with polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells for plying in the city. “IndianOil has been pioneering hydrogen efforts in the country and this exercise is a part of a bigger project which aims at addressing all aspects of the hydrogen value chain,” a company statement quoted chairman S M Vaidya as saying. The venture is being supported partially by the oil ministry's hydrogen corpus fund. TimesViewThe world is desperately experimenting with environment-friendly fuels. Many are in the race. The only way of finding out whether one of them works best or a combination does is to try out those with the most promise. Without taking the first step, you cannot find out its viability.This project is the first-ever attempt in the country to address all the aspects of hydrogen-based mobility as the ultimate green option, the statement said. According to IOC director (R&D) S S V Ramakumar, the fuel cell stack/system technology would be indigenously developed and manufactured, thus accelerating the creation of a local ecosystem to support further activities in the hydrogen energy domain. The fuel cell buses would be evaluated in collaboration with selected OEM (original equipment manufacturer) partners through a large-scale field validation exercise in Delhi-NCR. To facilitate the hydrogen supply for refuelling these buses, IndianOil is also setting up demo units for different pathways with a capacity to produce approximately one tonne per day of hydrogen at its state-of-the-art R&D Centre in Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/green-run-ioc-to-buy-15-hydrogen-buses-for-delhi/articleshow/79947713.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Shot in the arm? Delhi’s ready, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said Delhi was fully prepared for the rollout of Covid-19 vaccination. In the first phase, priority would be given to 51 lakh people, including 3 lakh healthcare workers, 6 lakh frontline workers and 42 lakh people either aged above 50 or all those with comorbidities according to the guidelines framed by the Centre. As one person would get two doses, this means 1.02 crore doses would be required to be administered to 51 lakh people. As the number of Covid-19 cases has dipped, Delhi government’s focus is slowly shifting to vaccination. “There has been a significant decrease in the daily Covid-19 deaths. We have to reduce it further. The recovery rate has also increased considerably,” said Kejriwal. After chairing a meeting to review the vaccination plan, Kejriwal said, “We are eagerly awaiting approval of the vaccine in India. As soon as Delhi gets the vaccine, we will be fully prepared to administer it to the priority groups. All arrangements are in place to receive the vaccine from the central government, right from storage to administering it.” “The central government has prepared three priority lists for vaccination. The first comprises healthcare workers, the second includes frontline workers such as policemen, civil defence volunteers and municipal workers, while the third list has people either aged above 50 or those with some kind of comorbidities,” said the CM. While multiple vaccines have been authorised for emergency use in the US and the UK, the Centre is yet to decide on the same in India. “Currently, Delhi government has cold storage capacity of 74 lakh doses. However, this capacity will increase to 1.15 crore doses in the next seven days. The vaccine will be administered to only those people who have been registered in the priority categories, the process for which has already started. Such people will be contacted via SMS and given full information regarding the vaccine rollout,” added Kejriwal. The manpower required for administration of the vaccine, including officials and workers, was being readied and training for the task had started. Each team would have five people. Arrangements have been made for treatment of individuals who report any post vaccination issues. Health department officials told the CM that officials and workers who would be a part of the vaccination teams had been identified and trained. Delhi government is also making arrangements for identifying and marking sites and locations across the city where the vaccine would be administered. “We have sufficient locations,” Kejriwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shot-in-the-arm-delhis-ready-says-cm/articleshow/79947660.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 25, 2020||Surat||CBI books Surat firm for defrauding banks of Rs 121 crore||SURAT: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday registered a case against a Surat-based company for defrauding a consortium of banks through forgery and diversion of funds to the tune of Rs 121 crore. The company Surya Exim Pvt Ltd is into import of the non-cooking coal and polyester filament yarn. The CBI officials conducted searches at the premises of the company in Surat and Navsari based on the complaint registered by Canara Bank—lead bank—on behalf of four member banks against the company directors, unknown public servants and unknown others. It was alleged that, between 2017 and 2019, the company directors and other accused entered into a conspiracy to cheat a consortium of banks including Canara Bank to the tune of Rs. 121.05 crore by way of forgery and diversion of funds. The company was allegedly enjoying credit facilities, according to the official release issued by the CBI. It was further alleged that the company maintained accounts in private banks without obtaining a NOC from consortium member banks and also indulged in fraudulent practices to siphon off funds of the banks. The account became NPA (non-performing asset), thereby causing an alleged loss of Rs 121.05 crore to the consortium. On Thursday, searches were conducted at five places including official and residential premises of the accused in Surat and Navsari, which led to the recovery of the incriminating documents and articles. Sources said that the headquarters of the company is located at Yash Market on Ring Road in Surat and that its registered office is in Jalalpore taluka of Navsari district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cbi-books-surat-firm-for-defrauding-banks-of-rs-121cr/articleshow/79945419.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||Harish Rawat fasts over 'last minute cancellation of New Year parties'||DEHRADUN: Annoyed over the government's last minute decision to not allow public parties, events during Christmas and New Year in Dehradun and Mussoorie, former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat observed a symbolic fast on Thursday. He claimed that the move would lead to cancellation of hotel bookings causing heavy losses to hoteliers, who had already suffered due to Covid-19. The government, however, clarified that no tourist has been stopped, only the parties have been disallowed. The former CM said, “If we take such stands at the last minute, why would any tourist come to the state. The decision should have been taken in advance.” Rawat added that after a long lull, the hotel industry finally saw a ray of hope in the form of decent bookings for Christmas and New Year. “On the one hand, the government is claiming that the number of Covid cases has gone down, but at the same time it was coming up with decisions which are hard to understand,” the Congress veteran said. In his reply, government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “We have not stopped any tourist. Keeping in mind the Covid situation, as a precautionary measure, we have decided not to hold such parties. The Congress is misleading the people."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/harish-rawat-fasts-over-last-minute-cancellation-of-new-year-parties/articleshow/79945394.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||First in Covid: Kidneys & eyes of accident victim from city donated||Nagpur: A 54-year-old man from Manish Nagar, who met with an accident on December 21, and was declared brain-dead on December 24, gifted life to four persons. His two kidneys were donated to two needy patients in the city — a 22-year-old girl and a 40-year-old man. The man’s eyes will provide vision to two people. His liver was also allocated to a needy patient, but it was found to be unsuitable for transplant after retrieval and hence not utilized. Jugesh Gondane, who became the first brainstem dead donor from the city in Covid-19 times, had sustained head injury in a road accident at around 10.30am on December 21. He received first aid at Sanjivani Hospital and then shifted to Orange City Hospital & Research Institute (OCHRI). An emergency neuro-surgery was done but he was declared brain-dead after all tests on December 24. Gondane’s wife Chhaya and other family members decided to donate kidneys and eyes to the needy. His brother, who himself is a doctor, and other relatives proactively came forward for organ donation. Kidney transplants were done at OCHRI and Super Specialty Hospital (SSH) respectively. “This donation holds great importance for the region as it has successfully pulled us all out of the darkness of gloom, despair and negativity into an era of hope, health and happiness once again,” said Dr Sanjay Kolte, secretary of Zonal Transplant Coordination Center (ZTCC). “Restarting any programme after coming to a grinding halt is a big ordeal in itself. We were struggling to resume organ donation activity from the past six months. It’s not that brain-dead cases had not happened, but reporting by hospitals, counselling by experts, and readiness by relatives play important role,” he said. Retrieval and transplant teams of OCHRI, SSH, Seven Star Hospital and entire team of ZTCC including its president Dr Vibhavari Dani, coordinator Veena Vathode were on their toes throughout Thursday. Team of traffic police officials coordinated the green corridor arrangement for early transport of organs from OCHRI to SSH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-in-covid-kidneys-eyes-of-accident-victim-from-city-donated/articleshow/79946333.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Covid quota: Why keep hundreds of ICU beds empty, Delhi HC asks govt||NEW DELHI: It is “inhuman” to leave hundreds of ICU beds empty, keeping them reserved for Covid patients at a time when cases and positivity rate are going down, the Delhi high court said on Thursday. Justice Navin Chawla took a dim view of the AAP government’s policy to keep so many ICU beds reserved, underlining that this “cannot be sustained.” TimesViewThe high court has made a pertinent observation. Covid-19 or not, every bed can be potentially life-saving even for those suffering from other life-threatening ailments. Utilising every bed to its maximum potential should be the principle, not the disease.The high court asked Delhi government to take a decision by December 26 “if it intends to continue with the 80% quota or act on the recommendation of an expert panel that the quota be reduced to 60%.” It said if cases increased, the government could always bring back the quota. After hearing submissions by senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for Association of Healthcare Providers, the court fixed a deadline of December 28 by which the government has to inform it about the decision. The association has sought quashing of the government’s September 12 order to reserve 80 % ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in 33 private hospitals. Additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, appearing for the government, urged the court to grant some time till the committee took a decision on the basis of the panel’s recommendation. Jain said a decision would be taken after consulting two more experts— doctors — and the association could also make a representation if it wanted to. But Singh said the association had placed its case before the court and it was not going to make any representations to the government, which had taken a “populist measure” without considering its financial or economic implications on the private hospitals whose ICU beds mostly remained vacant. Contesting the association’s charge, ASG Jain highlighted that no patient had come forward saying he or she was denied treatment due to reservation of beds for Covid-19 patients in the 33 hospitals. He also said that “during the pandemic, a hospital cannot lay emphasis on commercial gains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-quota-why-keep-hundreds-of-icu-beds-empty-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/79947674.cms||Abhinav Garg
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Facebook page launched to address consumer issues||Jaipur: On the National Consumers Rights’ Day, chairman of the state consumer disputes redressal commission Kamal Kumar Bagdi inaugurated a facebook page for redressal of grievances and problems of the consumers. Through this page, notices can be issued for the complaints that are registered. He said that for the next three months, consumer awareness jingles will be broadcast on All India Radio. Meanwhile, civil society group CANS (Consumers Action & Network Society) claimed that in the last 34 years, if there were 1000 consumers in the country, only 4 approached the consumer court. Overall, 56 lakh cases have been registered so far in the country in 34 years. Meanwhile, three MoUs were signed by RSLDC on Thursday which will help in providing employment opportunities to youth and women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/facebook-page-launched-to-address-consumer-issues/articleshow/79947666.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie residents worry over tourists flouting Covid-19 guidelines||MUSSOORIE: A large number of tourists venturing freely across the town without wearing masks has been causing a worry for local residents, especially since the town is expected to witness a heavy footfall in view of the New Year. Concerned that such instances would lead to a spike in the Covid-19 cases in the town, the locals have urged the administration to go tough on such “lawbreakers”. “We have been seeing a lot of tourists roaming around without wearing masks, which is a worrying trend and could lead to the spread of Covid in the town. The police must take strict action,” said a resident who did not wish to be named. Asserting that restaurants and hotels should not operate on full capacity in order to prevent overcrowding, another resident, Gaurav Aggarwal, said, “Mussoorie will be packed during the next week with tourists from all parts of the country arriving in the town. The police need to be extra vigilant in ensuring that proper safety protocols are followed by the tourists while venturing out on the Mall road.” Meanwhile, police officers said they have been imposing heavy penalties on those found without masks and added that Friday onwards more checkpoints would be set up on the Mall road. “We have been issuing 50 to 60 challans per day to those found without masks. Currently, checking is being done at two points on the Mall road. From tomorrow, we would be increasing the checking points,” said Devendra Aswal, station officer Mussoorie. Notably, shooting for a Bollywood film is also taking place in the town due to which a large crowd was witnessed on the Mall road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-residents-worry-over-tourists-flouting-covid-19-guidelines/articleshow/79945422.cms||Anmol Jain
December 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Third panel likely to be set up to resolve Metro 3 shed impasse||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to set up another committee to find a solution to the Metro 3 car shed impasse. It may be headed by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, sources said, reports Manthan K Mehta. If set up, it would be the third panel to look into the issue. The first, formed in 2015 and headed by then MMRDA chief U P S Madan, favoured Kanjurmarg provided the land was made available in three months as any delay, it said, could impact the project’s timeline. The Devendra Fadnavis government chose Aarey as the Kanjurmarg land was under litigation. The second panel, set up by the MVA government and headed by additional chief secretary Manoj Saunik, recommended Aarey, but the Thackeray government, keen to take the depot out of Aarey, chose Kanjurmarg. The HC recently stayed the state order giving possession of the Kanjurmarg land to MMRDA as the Centre and some private individuals have claimed it as their own. The Mumbai suburban district collector had in October handed 102 hectares of land to the MMRDA. The MVA government had planned an integrated car shed there for Metro 3 (Colaba to Seepz), Metro 6 (Jogeshwari to Vikhroli), and Metro 4 (Wadala-Thane-Kasarvadavli). Sources said the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government was of the view that Aarey was not a suitable spot. “The state government thinks that the depot site on 25 hectares of land at Aarey can accommodate only 312 coaches (39 rakes), whereas according to traffic projections, the total requirement would be 336 coaches (42 rakes) by 2031, and the eventual requirement would be for 440 rakes. For that, five more hectares will be required, and thus more green cover would be endangered,” sources said. At Kanjurmarg, sources said, the total land available is 102 hectares, of which 18 hectares will be used for Metro 6, 30 hectares for Metro 3 and 43 hectares for Metro 4. Officials said the MMRDA too has conveyed to the state government that having an integrated depot at Kanjurmarg would ensure that there will be no need to acquire more land for Metro 4 at Mogharpada in Thane and at Pahadi Goregaon for Metro 6. A senior official said, “The Metro 4 depot land, originally identified at Mogharpada in Thane, is not government land, and its acquisition will cost Rs 2,700 crore. For Pahadi Goregaon, the state will have to acquire the land against issuance of Transfer of Development Rights. By having a depot for all three lines, however, the problem of land acquisition at multiple locations can be avoided. The entire cost of building a depot for all three lines at Kanjurmarg will be Rs 1,600 crore.” Moreover, the Metro 3 line is likely to commissioned by June-July 2023, hence there are three years available to complete work on the depot if land is made available early to MMRDA, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/third-panel-likely-to-be-set-up-to-resolve-metro-3-shed-impasse/articleshow/79948707.cms||Manthank Mehta
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||116 officials reshuffled in cooperatives department||Jaipur: In a big reshuffle, 116 officials were transferred in the controversy ridden cooperatives department on Wednesday.The department is gripped in controversy as its funds were recently used to distribute silver coins to bureaucrats and others at a time when the farmers are fighting for proper prices for crops, promised loan waivers and also battling the corona pandemic.During the AGM of the cooperative apex bank, a total of 10kg of silver was distributed among 40 persons, including collectors and chairmen of co-operatives, according to sources.Rajeev Lochan, who was holding additional charge of apex as managing director, was removed and was replaced by M P Yadav. “In view of the pandemic, it was decided by the state government to maintain economic austerity in expenditure. However, the coins were distributed among the officials despite the circular. The circular strictly barred the departments from distributing gifts. Later, an order was issued by the department to return the coins. The practice has been going on in the apex bank AGM since 2004,” said a senior official. It was learnt that cooperatives minister Udai Lal Anjana had expressed displeasure over distribution of silver coins.BJP had called the move insensitive and said it reflected the state of affairs in Rajasthan during the pandemic. BJP state president Satish Poonia tweeted, “This is what we are saying that people in the state are yearning for Covid treatment and right under your nose officers are busy in silver cutting. This is why your management is seen as an example in the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/116-officials-reshuffled-in-cooperatives-department/articleshow/79947673.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Tanker scam’ at the centre of ugly row||NEW DELHI: Rejecting the charge of Aam Aadmi Party that “goons of BJP” had vandalised the Delhi Jal Board office, Delhi BJP on Thursday instead claimed that “miscreants from AAP” had attacked its party workers, which left many injured. Demanding the resignation of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta in a press conference said, “During a demonstration outside the DJB office, AAP goons attacked our workers, one of whom hurt his backbone and has been admitted to the trauma centre. Four others suffered serious injuries.” Gupta claimed that BJP workers had organised a peaceful demonstration against the “tanker scam” in the interest of the people of Delhi. “AAP members barged into the DJB headquarters, vandalised the office and attacked BJP workers. The attack was planned to avoid answering questions related to DJB’s Rs 25,000 crore scam. The Kejriwal government has conspired to defame BJP by sabotaging the DJB office,” he alleged. “As soon as the BJP workers reached outside DJB headquarters, the CEO and other officials left the place. After a few hours, the officials admitted that there was a serious water problem for the past 22 days. They assured that within the next two days, they would provide a solution to the problem,” said Gupta. The Delhi BJP chief was joined by Leader of Opposition in Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and others, including municipal councillors. “Delhiites have been suffering for the past 22 days as the water tanker supply is not available. Before coming to power, Kejriwal had promised 24-hour supply of potable water. People are being forced to buy water from the tanker mafia. To hide its failure, Delhi government has been claiming that dirty water is being released into the Yamuna from Haryana,” claimed Gupta. Bidhuri claimed that Kejriwal had reduced the supply because of which 40% of the population was not getting water. “The CM has failed to deliver on his promises and should resign immediately,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tanker-scam-at-the-centre-of-ugly-row/articleshow/79947687.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||Noted photographer Swami Sundaranand passes away||UTTARKASHI: Swami Sundaranand, a renowned photographer, yogi and author, died at a private hospital in Dehradun on Wednesday night. He was 96, and was reportedly suffering from age related issues. Final rituals of Sundaranand will be held at his Gangotri based ashram on Friday, sources said. "After recovering from Covid-19 in October, Swami Sundaranand was staying in Dehradun. A few days ago he fell sick and later passed away during treatment," Dr Ashok Luthra said. Sundaranand's disciple Amod Panwar said, "The passing away of Swami Sundaranand has left everyone in pain. He was a photographer, mountaineer and author, and devoted nearly 60 years of his life towards conservation of the Himalayas and the Ganga."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/noted-photographer-swami-sundaranand-passes-away/articleshow/79945425.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||Kumbh 2021 preparations: Tusker from Haridwar radio-collared||DEHRADUN: In a bid to radio-collar most of the rouge elephants ahead the Kumbh 2021 celebrations in March, a team of experts from the Wildlife Institute of India and the forest department intensified the drive and radio-collared a male elephant in Haridwar on Thursday morning. The tusker was darted at around 8:30 am in Dassowala area of Haridwar— an area frequented by elephants. Haridwar forest department and the Rajaji Tiger Reserve authorities have identified selected villages which are in and around the elephant corridors and often get into human habitation to raid crops. “The elephant has been radio-collared and it has gone into the wild. It is under constant monitoring and by the time Kumbh starts in March, we are hopeful that all the identified elephants will be collared,” said JS Suhag, chief Wildlife Warden, Uttarakhand forest department. Prior to it, an elephant was radio-collared in Haridwar on October 15, but it died of electrocution after it came in contact with a transformer in Bishanpur Kundi village of Haridwar. The forest department aims to radio-collar ten elephants before the Kumbh commences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-2021-preparations-tusker-from-haridwar-radio-collared/articleshow/79945415.cms||Shivani Azad
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Financial frauds peaked during lockdown||NEW DELHI: Six out of 10 complaints received by Delhi Police’s Cyber Cell pertain to online financial fraud, an analysis of the crimes has shown. Police also found that after witnessing a sharp spike during the lockdown, cybercrime witnessed a significant decrease. A few months ago, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava had reviewed the performance of the Cyber Cell and issued directions for enabling easy filing of complaints and their redressal. A study by police showed that the number of complaints regarding cybercrime hovered around 1,500 in January this year. “During the coronavirus lockdown months and immediately thereafter, there was a significant increase in cybercrime incidents in the capital with the number of complaints peaking to around 4,500 in April, May, June and July,” a police officer claimed. The rise in cases prompted the Cyber Cell to organise awareness campaigns, put up posters and broadcast advertisements, along with radio jingles and videos urging people to not share their personal information or credentials with unknown people for monetary benefits. A crackdown was initiated on cyber criminals and raids were conducted at hotspots from where a majority of the accused were operating. As a result, the number of complaints came down to around 3,000 by November. In total, 214 cyber offenders were arrested this year. “The predominant cybercrime cases pertained to online financial fraud, accounting for around 62 per cent of the total incidents. While 24 per cent of the complaints were related to social media, primarily online harassment, the remaining 14 per cent were of hacking, identity theft, data theft, etc,” said deputy commissioner of police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy. Roy added, “A major contributor to online financial fraud outnumbering other such crimes by a huge margin is lack of due diligence or carelessness on the part of the victims.” A perusal of the complaints also showed that cases of extortion by morphing videos of people, especially those related to sexual conduct, had increased manifold. Apart from this, reimbursement of fake reward points or cashback, SOS messages through fake Facebook accounts, customer care number manipulation through search engine optimisation, frauds in the guise of refund of airline tickets and other online payments, etc were other modus operandi adopted by cyber criminals to dupe people. Police found that various regions in the country had specialised in different types of cybercrimes. In a concerted action against one such hotspot, 43 cases were registered against frauds pertaining to resale apps originating from the Mewat region. “In these cases, 41 people were arrested. In crimes related to tech support, immigration and IRS call centre scams, 125 people were arrested,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/financial-frauds-peaked-during-lockdown/articleshow/79947705.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Injured over 32 hours ago, nilgai yet to be traced||NEW DELHI: A nilgai that had strayed from the Jahanpanah forest and got hit by a vehicle in Chirag Dilli over 32 hours ago is yet to get any treatment. Singer Mohit Chauhan’s family members informed the forest department on Wednesday, but, Chauhan alleged, forest staff who came to the spot could not take it for treatment. Forest officials said the animal managed to flee to the nearby Jahanpanah city forest and they were trying to trace it. The department has installed two camera traps in the forest to trace the nilgai, hurt on the left hind limb, but is yet to spot it. Chauhan’s sister-in-law, Shaguna Gahilote, said, “When we learned about the animal, we informed the forest department. The staffers who reached the spot said they would take the nilgai in a tractor but it could jump off at traffic signals. We said the nilgai couldn’t be taken in a tractor. The animal wasn’t treated.” The singer tweeted around 7pm on Wednesday seeking “urgent help”. “I tweeted when we didn’t receive any help. I hope that it gets proper treatment soon,” he said. A forest official said they were rescuing another nilgai at Pragati Maidan when they had got the call around 1pm. “The same team reached the spot, but the nilgai that was sitting at one place escaped to Jahanpanah city forest when our team, along with a veterinarian, tried to rescue it with a net in the afternoon,” he claimed. “We wanted to shift it for treatment. However, as it is moving, the injury may not be serious.” Deputy conservator of forests (south) Amit Anand said, “Our teams are trying to trace it for treatment. We are taking help of a veterinarian from National Zoological Park and we are fully prepared to treat it.” He said the department had increased their efforts to trace it. Forest officials claimed that the search operation would continue on Thursday night with the help of night vision binoculars. Animal activist Gauri Maulekhi, who contacted senior officials for the treatment, said, “The Delhi forest department has no veterinarian, rescue centre and rescue vehicle of its own. It is not prepared to deal with such incidents.” Principal chief conservator Ishwar Singh said, “When we receive calls for help, we hire private vehicles according to need. Our staff take assistance of NGOs and the Delhi zoo for treatment of animals.” Construction of a wildlife rescue-cum-rehabilitation centre in the Rajkori range and recruitment of a veterinarian and two compounders are in the process, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/injured-over-32-hrs-ago-nilgai-yet-to-be-traced/articleshow/79947728.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Raj govt ignoring Muslims: BJP Minority Morcha||Jaipur: BJP Minority Morcha on Thursday staged a protest against the Congress government in Rajasthan, accusing it of neglecting Muslims.“The state government has talked about its achievements in the past two years but nowhere does it mention the work done for the minorities,” said morcha president M Sadiq Khan during their protest at the civil lines railway crossing here. “Muslim students are not getting scholarships in the Congress rule. The government is neglecting the community. Therefore, the morcha decided to hold the demonstration against the government,” he said. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-ignoring-muslims-bjp-minority-morcha/articleshow/79947682.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||ACB likely to file assets case against IAS officer||Jaipur/Kota: After the arrest of former Baran collector Inder Singh Rao in a graft case, the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) is now collecting evidences to file a separate case of disproportionate assets (DA) case against the accused officer.In the searches so far, the sleuths of ACB have found a big list of properties owned by the IAS officer in posh localities in Uttar Pradesh, Jaipur, Gurugram and New Delhi.Inder Singh Rao who was promoted with IAS cadre in 2017 was arrested by the ACB on Wednesday in connection with the Rs 1.4 lakh bribe received by his personal assistant Mahesh Nagar. On December 9, a team of ACB officials had arrested Nagar for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs1.4 lakh in lieu of issuing a no objection certificate for a petrol pump. On December 10 Rao was made awaiting posting orders (APO).“We have got the papers of the property owned by the accused at various places and they are all very expensive property. We are also into checking other details of his bank accounts and other moveable and immovable assets. Prima facie, it is a clear case of DA. Thus, we are into collecting as much as evidence against him to consolidate this case. We will file a separate case of DA under the Prevention of Corruption Act,” said MN Dinesh, additional director general (ADG), ACB on Thursday.ACB so far have found registration papers of the houses and villas that belong to Rao situated at Jaipur, New Delhi, Gurugram, and Uttar Pradesh. “These are huge properties which includes a 663 square metre house at Civil Lines, 411 square metre house at Civil Lines, 428 square metre house at Airport Enclave, Agriculture land 7.02 bighas at Phulera, a flat at Vasundhara Enclave, New Delhi and few other flats. We are also getting the bank details of the officer,” said an officer.Meanwhile, Rao was produced before ACB court in Kota in the afternoon. The court has given one-day police remand to the ACB. “Court has granted us one-day remand for interrogation,” said CP Sharma, additional SP, ACB who is also the investigating officer of the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-likely-to-file-assets-case-against-ias-officer/articleshow/79947700.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Call of swanky lifestyle behind fraud BPOs||NEW DELHI: Around a decade ago, 33-year-old Amit Kumar graduated in electronics from a prestigious engineering college in Greater Noida and had a fairly successful career while working with various companies, including IT outsourced firms. However, his life changed in 2018 when he met some scamsters at a party. Kumar then became a part of the illegal call centres that had mushroomed in and around Delhi. Now arrested, Kumar is among scores of youths and middle-aged men caught in the web of illegal BPOs, which from the outside seemed to have a perfect corporate setup with hiring of staffers at a swanky office and the latest computers. It’s only what went on behind the scenes that was disturbing. From duping job aspirants, to a bank staffer in Seattle and a school teacher in New Jersey approaching retirement, these young men, who could speak English fluently, gave a whole new meaning to the booming BPO industry that had kicked off two decades ago in Gurugram. Posing as US Marshals Service and Drug Enforcement Administration sleuths, hundreds of youths donned different roles each night and siphoned off crores. A recent crackdown ordered by Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava exposed the huge scale of these operations as over half a dozen illegal call centres were busted this month itself. In November, the Cyber Cell arrested 17 people from a fake call centre in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden that was duping foreign nationals by impersonating Microsoft tech support personnel. It is estimated that the gang duped 2,268 people between October 2019 and November 2020 of USD 1,081,365 (around Rs 8 crore). The main accused, Sahil Dilavari, a graduate, had been operating for the past three years. Last week, another call centre in Peeragarhi was raided and 42 employees impersonating law enforcement agencies to cheat unsuspecting people abroad by threatening them with legal action were arrested. The call centre had a huge infrastructure setup and 90 computers and devices were seized, apart from Rs 4.5 lakh in cash that was to be paid to the callers as salary and holiday bonus for Christmas and New Year. The callers had extorted around Rs 70 crore from 3,500 people in the past one year. The call centre busted in Laxmi Nagar had duped over 250 people of more than Rs 75 lakh. In Keshav Puram, the fraudsters had amassed over Rs 27 lakh in just one month. The Cyber Cell found that most people involved in the racket were graduates belonging to middle-class families lured into crime for easy money. “The mastermind was usually a person who had started his career as a caller for a genuine BPO. To make easy money, he/she started the fake call centre. The data and contact details of prospective victims could be readily bought online or on the DarkNet,” said a senior officer. “While the callers were youths aged 18-22 who could speak fluent English, the managers had proven skills to make a good ‘sales pitch’. The suspects had a strong liking for a good lifestyle, especially high-end cars,” the officer added. Investigation revealed that each caller was paid a minimum of Rs 20,000-25,000 as monthly salary, while the team leaders and closers/managers were paid Rs 45,000-50,000. The salary of the shift manager was around Rs 75,000 per month. In addition to this, all employees were paid incentives. For every dollar scammed, the caller got Rs 2 and the team leader/closer Rs 4 as incentive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/call-of-swanky-lifestyle-behind-fraud-bpos/articleshow/79947699.cms||Raj Shekhar
December 25, 2020||Surat||Surat: Two booked for raping 15-year-old multiple times||SURAT: Police booked a 21-year-old man in Limbayat police station for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl working as contractual employee with a waste collection agency. Police said that this was second case of rape on the minor registered in a month. Earlier police had booked one named Ganesh for allegedly raping the minor which had led to pregnancy. Police booked Ejaz Shaikh, a resident of Fulwadi locality, for allegedly raping the minor multiple times in past few months. The accused was booked for kidnapping, rape and sexual assault under Indian Penal Code and various sections of POCSO Act as well. Earlier this month, the medical examination of the minor was done after she complained of pain in the abdomen. Tests revealed that she was pregnant and during questioning she named one Ganesh with whom she had physical relations. Police nabbed Ganesh and during questioning found that Shaikh also had a physical relation with the minor. After the fresh revelation police registered a separate offence against Shaikh and attempts are being made to nab him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-booked-for-raping-15-year-old-multiple-times/articleshow/79945441.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Illegal arms-making unit busted, 1 held||Jaipur: In a crackdown against illegal trade of arms, the Jaipur (Rural) police on Thursday raided a factory involved in the illegal manufacturing of country-made arms at Panditpura village under Pragpura police station area on the Jaipur-Delhi highway. Police have also seized raw materials and gadgets used in the manufacturing of weapons. One Ramjilal Jangid has been arrested.Following the directions of Shankar Dutt Sharma, superintendent of police (Rural), a team was constituted to raid the premises where the factory was making weapons.“We have seized a weapon and also various parts of the weapons which are used to make it. The seizure included one newly made single barrel weapon ready for delivery, the weapon parts included 10 trigger-cum-spring and sear, seven trigger guard made of brass, six butt plates, 80 bolts used in the manufacturing of weapon, 25 iron barrels,” said Ramkumar Kaswan, additional SP, Kothputli.He added that police have also seized instruments used to manufacture the arms illegally. “The instruments included three wooden prototype of gun, chisel, hammer, iron cutting machine, pump machine and other things,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/illegal-arms-making-unit-busted-1-held/articleshow/79947703.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: 1,000 active Covid cases, positivity rate dips to 5%||PANAJI: Goa reported 90 new cases of Covid-19, taking its count of active cases to 1,000 on Thursday. The health department also recorded 88 recoveries and one death. A 68-year-old man from Merces who was rushed to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital died within ten hours after his treatment commenced. Dr S M Bandekar, GMC dean and in-charge of Covid hospital, said that the man was unwell for four days prior to his admission to GMC. “He had fever, cough and was breathless for two days, yet he neglected his condition. When he was brought to casualty, his condition was critical and the patient was detected having sepsis shock, immediately after which he was admitted,” Bandekar said. He also suffered from diabetes and hypertension and died despite optimum treatment, he said. With 1,677 samples tested on Thursday and 90 fresh infections, Goa’s case positivity rate dropped to 5%. The recovery rate has been pegged at 96%. A few days prior when recoveries rose sharply, it had gone up to 97%. Since March, Goa has seen 48,725 people cured of Covid-19. With five new five cases found, Panaji’s caseload rose to 68 while that of Porvorim dropped to 61. Margao urban health centre also witnessed a drop and its tally reached 104.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1000-active-covid-cases-positivity-rate-dips-to-5/articleshow/79947719.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||Met experts predict rain, snow from December 27||DEHRADUN: The weather experts have predicted a fresh spell of rain and snowfall in Uttarakhand from December 27. The officials said the mercury is expected to witness a dip by a few notches in the December-end. Meteorological department firector Bikram Singh told TOI, "Light to moderate rains will be witnessed in most parts of the Garhwal and scattered areas of Kumaon regions from December 27. The spell is expected to continue till the afternoon hours of December 29." He said snowfall is likely be witnessed at a height of 2,000 metres and above. "This means, we may see snowfall in areas of Chakrata, Dhanaulti and Surkunda Devi from December 27." He said the weather is expected to clear up from December 30. Meanwhile, the air quality index for particulate matter (PM) 10 remained at 158, while Kashipur and Haridwar recorded 167 AQI each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/met-experts-predict-rain-snow-from-december-27/articleshow/79945440.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||Rape & murder of 11-year-old: U’khand govt raises reward on accused; DIG Garhwal to head probe||Dehradun: Amid rage seething among the locals and the opposition Congress turning up the heat against the BJP government over the rape and murder of a 11-year-old Haridwar girl, the Uttarakhand government on Thursday increased the reward on the accused from Rs 20,000 to Rs 1 lakh who is still at large.Besides, the state government has directed to form an additional team under DIG Garhwal to probe the matter.Urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “The issue was raised by the Congress in the House. We have taken three decisions in the matter. The first is to raise the reward from Rs 20,000 to Rs 1 lakh on the one absconding person. Secondly, an additional team headed by DIG Garhwal will probe the matter. The trail would be carried out in a fast track court so that the guilty are given the strictest form of punishment like death penalty.”He asserted that the police officers have been directed to collect “strong evidences and put up a fact-based argument in the court so that the guilty are hanged for the heinous crime.”Meanwhile, Congress’ Kedranath MLAs Manoj Rawat slammed the police and the state government for the “laidback” approach in the case.“Four days have passed and one of the accused is still at large. Uttarakhand is a state known for peace and good law and order situation. Such acts of crime are a matter of serious concern and the authorities need to act promptly so that a strong message is conveyed to criminals,” Rawat said.On last week Sunday, a 11-year-girl was allegedly raped and murdered by the landlord and his friend. The minor, who had gone missing from home on Sunday evening was found strangled at a neighbour’s place, just 100 metres away from her house in Haridwar.Police have registered a case on basis of the complaint by parents against two persons under sections 376 A (Punishment for causing death or resulting in persistent vegetative state of victim), 376 (D) (gang rape), 363 (Punishment for kidnapping), 366 A (Procuration of minor girl), 302(Punishment of Murder), 201 (Causing Disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of Indian Penal Code and POCSO act.One of the accused Ram Teerth Yadav, native of district Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh, who is a relative of the house owner, was arrested, whereas accused Rajiv Kumar is still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rape-murder-of-11-year-old-ukhand-govt-raises-reward-on-accused-dig-garhwal-to-head-probe/articleshow/79945445.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai locals may be open for all in January first week: Vijay Wadettiwar||MUMBAI: The state government may throw open the suburban local trains for all Mumbaikars in January, minister for relief and rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar said on Thursday. Wadettiwar told mediapersons that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray “is positive about allowing the general public to travel by suburban locals in the first week of the new year.” The minister added that he had discussed the subject with Thackeray. In October, Wadettiwar had written a letter to the railways, directing that all commuters be allowed to board local trains during non-peak hours, but had faced resistance. Currently, suburban trains are open only for specific categories of commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/locals-may-be-open-for-all-in-jan-1st-wk-min/articleshow/79948725.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||New Cov cases at 3-month low in Bidhannagar areas||Kolkata: The Bidhannagar area, which includes Salt Lake and Rajarhat, recorded its lowest daily new Covid cases in three months on Wednesday. Only 47 new cases were reported on Wednesday and the rate of active Covid cases have now dropped to 5%.After the trend of daily average of over 100 new cases continuing for the last three to four months till the second week of December in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area, the civic authorities now expect some relief with the curve going down over the last seven days. The last time the number of daily fresh Covid cases was reported below 50 was on September 22, when 49 new patients surfaced. The total number of Covid cases back then stood at 5,484. It has now increased to 14,743 as per figures available till December 23.There has also been a decline in the Covid fatality rate this month, with 11 deaths from December 1 to 23. As many as 23 Covid deaths had occurred in November, which was the highest in a month since the outbreak in March this year. Twelve Covid deaths were reported in October and four in September.The number of active Covid cases are now about 693, which is also the lowest within the Bidhannagar area since October. Also, the recovery rate, at 94%, has increased significantly, with over 13,951 persons recovering. However, with the winter festivities setting in, civic authorities have urged residents to continue following Covid safety protocols. Officials said despite conducting regular awareness drives, but many did not heed to their advice, which might have caused the coronavirus to spread over the last few months.“Many had started letting their guards down and stopped wearing masks and maintaining social distancing since Puja, which may have resulted in the increase in Covid cases. We are urging people to soak in the New Year festivities with caution,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-cov-cases-at-3-month-low-in-bidhannagar-areas/articleshow/79946312.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Metro breaches 1.5-lakh mark before Christmas||KOLKATA: On Christmas Eve, Metro breached the 1.5-lakh passenger mark. On Wednesday, the north-south corridor, which is the city’s transport lifeline, had clocked 1,49,925, only 75 short of the milestone. When the carrier resumed services after a 175-day hiatus on September 14, the footfall was only around 20,000. Since then Metro Railway has almost doubled its services — gradually taking the total number of trains from 110 to the present 216 and easing e-pass norms. The e-passes, downloaded in advance from a URL to access the 24 north-south Metro stations, have been Metro’s tool for restricting the number of passengers to 400 on each train. From this weekend, e-passes were waived throughout the day. Since December 14, the weekday e-pass hours were reduced to two-and-a-half in the morning and three in the evening. Over the last one week, Metro has added 17,000 to the daily passenger count — from 1,37,051 last Thursday to 1,50,454 this week. It remains to be seen how many take the Metro on Friday. Although it’s a holiday, a large number of people are expected to ride. In fact, anticipating the Christmas rush, Metro has tweaked its e-pass rules for Friday. The digital passes will have to be booked in advance for rides from 3pm to 8pm when most people are expected to travel. The normal weekday e-pass hours — 8.30am to 11am and 5pm to 8pm — have been changed just for Christmas, even though the weekday services will be available. Women, kids below 15 years and the elderly will be exempt from downloading the e-passes as they normally are. The last trains will leave Kavi Subhas and Dum Dum at 9.30pm and Noapara at 9.25pm. Trains will ply every 7 minutes during the morning- and evening-peak hours. No tokens are being issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-breaches-1-5-lakh-mark-before-christmas/articleshow/79946349.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Police to file early chargesheet in girl’s murder||JAIPUR: Two days after arresting a man for allegedly raping and murdering his 7-year-old niece at his home in Vishwakarma police station area, police on Thursday said they were now aiming at filling an early chargesheet against the accused. Senior police officers of Jaipur police commissionerate have asked the Jaipur (west) police to file the chargesheet in next 15 days or even earlier. “I have specifically asked the police station and officers to ensure the chargesheet in this case be filed within 15 days or even earlier. The accused has been arrested and the body of the girl recovered from the house of the accused,” police commissioner Anand Srivastav said. Senior officers of Jaipur (west) too have said an early chargesheet followed by prosecution will fetch justice to the family. “We will depend on FSL and medical reports. Yes, we are planning to file an early chargesheet,” said Bajrang Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (west) The deceased went to her uncle’s house at noon on Tuesday. When she did not return home till 4pm, her family informed police control room. On arrival, police found activities of her uncle suspicious and checked his houses where they found the body inside a drum. The accused was arrested and police lodged a case of rape and murder under appropriate sections of IPC and POCSO Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-to-file-early-chargesheet-in-girls-murder/articleshow/79947734.cms||Ashish Mehta
December 25, 2020||Jaipur||Journalist attacked in scuffle succumbs to injuries, one arrested||JAIPUR: A 26-year-old journalist working with a private news channel succumbed to his injuries late on Wednesday evening almost two weeks after he was thrashed by unknown assailants under Mansarovar police limits. Though police arrested one of the accused on the charges of murder, the family demanded more arrests as they have also provided the CCTV footage of the incident. Preliminary investigation suggested that the journalist only resisted to eve-teasing by unknown group of youths at the eatery which led to a violent scuffle. According to police, the deceased Abhishek Soni was having dinner at a roadside eatery almost two weeks ago along with a girl. “Some persons came and were eve-teasing the girl along with the journalist. Thus, he resisted to it and the persons involved in eve-teasing started beating him up with batons and iron rods,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, ACP (Crime) on Thursday. The CCTV footage of the incident has indicated that soon after the attack, the injured journalist was on the road, but passersby did not help him. “He was rushed to the hospital in an ambulance. On Wednesday late evening, he succumbed to the injuries. Thus, we have registered a case against three persons out of which one identified as Shankar Lal Chaudhary, 19, has been arrested. Two of the accused are named in the FIR. We were not disclosing their names now as their age is not known,” said a senior police officer at Mansarovar police station. Police claims that teams are raiding places, including the villages of the accused on the run, however, the family claimed that police have only arrested one person and have not been sensitive in dealing the case. Meanwhile, police also summoned the girl who was along with the deceased when the scuffle took place. “Her statements would be big evidence in the case. She has been called and she turned up once so far,” said Dilip Soni, circle inspector, Mansarovar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/journalist-attacked-in-scuffle-succumbs-to-injuries-one-arrested/articleshow/79947741.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||NGT seeks status report on wetlands||Kolkata: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has sought a status report from the state environment department, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and East Kolkata Wetland Management Authority (EKWMA) on the compliance of it’s previous orders on unauthorized constructions in the wetlands, fencing the entire area and coming up with an integrated management plan for its upkeep. The East Kolkata Wetlands is a Ramsar Site. The updated status report will have to be submitted before the bench when the matter comes up for hearing next on February 3, 2021.The NGT has also sought a report from the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on the status of fencing off the Mollar Bheri dumping ground and assessment of the environmental damage caused due to disposal of solid waste in the area.Green activist Subhas Datta, the petitioner in this matter, submitted that unauthorized encroachment has occurred on over 25% of the wetlands. “Only 4-5 of the unauthorized constructions have been demolished, but nothing has been done for the rest,” he said.Bidhannagar civic officials said that they had stopped dumping waste at Mollar Bheri last year and were disposing off waste at Dhapa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ngt-seeks-status-report-on-wetlands/articleshow/79946358.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 436 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand on Thursday reported 436 fresh Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths, taking the tally of positive to 88,376 while overall deaths have mounted to 1,458. Continuing with the trend, state capital Dehradun had highest number of cases (143) followed by Nainital (103), Haridwar (61), Almora (38), Pithoragarh (31), Pauri (17), Udham Singh Nagar (12), Champawat (12), Uttarkashi (08), Tehri (7), Chamoli (2) and Rudraprayag (2). Among deceased include an 80-year-old woman, who breathed her last at Kailash Hospital Dehradun, while youngest death was reported to be a 57-year-old woman who was undergoing treatment at Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital. Meanwhile, the containment zones have been reduced to 17 on Thursday. Uttarkashi has five containment zones, Naintial has four, three each in Dehradun and Pauri. The total number of recovered patients also saw a rise with 579 patients discharged/ cured on a single day. Overall, 80,467 patients have been cured in the state till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-436-new-covid-19-cases-11-deaths/articleshow/79945448.cms||Shivani Azad
December 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: FYJC admission list put on hold till December 28||PUNE: A complete mess is how most parents of students waiting to get into colleges for FYJC described this year’s admission process on Thursday after the centralised online admission process committee postponed the merit list for the special round till December 28. It was put off to incorporate the changes announced by the government resolution (GR) on December 23. The CAP committee said, now, Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) students can choose any Economically Weaker Section or general categories in their forms. For this, they need to upload their revised undertaking, lock the form and get it verified again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fyjc-admission-list-put-on-hold-till-december-28/articleshow/79949041.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||Winter break 'cancelled' for students of classes 10 & 12 in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The state education department issued a notification on Thursday to cancel the winter vacations for students of 'board classes', namely, 10 and 12. Only teachers who teach students of board classes should go to school. The decision has been taken to ensure students complete their board syllabus before the start of their exams. A large part of the academic year was already wasted due to the Covid-19. The reason behind leaving students of other classes from this order is that the schools aren’t reopened for them yet and the state education department is likely to "promote them without any exam this year", the order stated. The district magistrate can also take a call on the school's closure depending on the weather conditions, the order further stated. The order is applicable to the state government schools and the government-aided ones. The state government had allowed the schools to reopen for Classes 10 and 12 only from November 2, but the turnout has been low. Students had the option to attend their classes online as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/winter-break-cancelled-for-students-of-classes-10-12-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/79945454.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 25, 2020||Surat||Retd GLDC employee has DA worth over Rs 3cr||Surat: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has found assets worth Rs 3.41 crore of a retired employee of Gujarat Land Development Corporation (GLDC) in Valsad district.In a statement, ACB said it had received a complaint against Suresh Kishori, a field supervisor in Dharampur of Valsad district, who had amassing disproportionate assets and probe was launched.Primary investigation revealed that he had acquired disproportionate assets worth Rs 3.41 crore against his income of Rs 1.32 crore from his legal source of income. This turned out to be 334% of the disproportionate assets, ACB said.“Kishori has five children from his first wife. Out of these, he had shown two of his sons as gang leader or contractor in GLDC and the money had been deposited in their bank accounts. A separate case has been lodged in this regard,” ACB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/retd-gldc-employee-has-da-worth-over-rs-3cr/articleshow/79945452.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Severe’ air, fog deal double blow||NEW DELHI: The capital’s air remained in severe category for the third consecutive day, with an Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 423 on Thursday, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed. Meanwhile, around 50 flights scheduled to land and depart from the capital were delayed because of dense fog in the wee hours. Visibility dropped to 100 metres at Palam station, while moderate fog was recorded in the morning at Safdarjung. Track the pollution level in your cityCPCB’s central control room data showed that the 24-hour average PM2.5 concentration for Delhi-NCR was 270.9 micrograms per cubic metre on Thursday at 7pm. The standard for PM2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre. The 24-hour average PM10 concentration for Delhi-NCR was 416.6 micrograms per cubic metre at 7pm on Thursday while standard for PM10 is 100 micrograms per cubic metre. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Wind blew for only six hours on Thursday and mostly calm wind was recorded, which led to accumulation of pollutants. Besides, low temperature, high-moisture content and poor ventilation also affected the air quality.” According to an airport official, low visibility procedures are in progress at the Delhi airport due to fog. A senior official said that if someone wanted to get more details, they could get in touch with the airlines they are travelling with. Several flights like Vistara and Air India have also been updating their Twitter handles in case there are any diversions or cancellations. On Thursday, the minimum temperature was 4.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. VK Soni, head, environment monitoring and research centre, IMD, said, “ The air quality is likely to remain in severe category on Friday, too. However, the wind speed is forecast to rise after Saturday that may improve air quality.” The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the union ministry of earth sciences, has predicted better ventilation conditions for the next two days. SAFAR said the AQI is forecast to improve to the middle-end of very poor category on Saturday and Sunday. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature recorded on Thursday was 23.1 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. Met officials said the day temperature was recorded above normal due to lack of cloud cover. According to IMD, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to remain 22 and 5 degrees Celsius on Friday. Moderate to dense fog is predicted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/severe-air-fog-deal-double-blow/articleshow/79947815.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Work on Reach 2, 4 to finish within deadline: MahaMetro||NAGPUR: Work on Reach 2 (Sitabuldi to Automotive Square) and Reach 4 (Sitabuldi to Prajapati Nagar) of Nagpur Metro is going on in full swing and will be completed within the deadline, say MahaMetro authorities. A MahaMetro spokesperson said that the viaduct of Reach 4 was 89% complete. “The total length of the track to be laid on this stretch is 16 kilometres (up and down lines). We have laid 12km track by now,” he said. Work on the stations of this reach was also going on at full swing, he further said. “There are nine Metro stations on the 8.30km long stretch. They include Cotton Market, Nagpur Railway Station, Dosar Vaishya Square, Agrasen Square, Chitar Oli, Telephone Exchange, Ambedkar Square, Vaishno Devi Square and Prajapati Nagar,” he said. This reach contains a 231 metre long bridge over the railway track between Anand Talkies, Sitabuldi, and Cotton Market. “The length of the viaduct over the railway track is 100 metre,” said the spokesperson. Work on Reach 2 viaduct was 80% complete while stations were 62.5% complete. “Track has been laid from Sitabuldi to Kasturchand Park station. We have started laying track between Indora and Nari Road stations,” said the official. The stations on this route are Zero Mile, Kasturchand Park, Gaddigodam Square, Kadbi Square, Indora Square, Nari Road and Automotive Square. This reach contains a four-level transport arrangement at Gaddigodam near the gurdwara. “On the first level is Kamptee Road. The second level is the railway track. The flyover is on the third level while Metro viaduct is on the fourth. The height of the Metro viaduct is the highest at this point — 24.8 metre,” said the official. “Along with the viaduct we are also building a double decker flyover on Kamptee Road. It will begin at LIC Square and end at Automotive Square. The width of flyover will be 15 metre,” he further said. Meanwhile, Metro ridership of Reach 1 and 3 combined reached 17,562 on December 20, which is a new post-Covid high. This is comparable to 17,749 ridership on February 2 and 17,968 on February 9. However, the highest ridership was on January 26 — 21,258.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/work-on-reach-2-4-to-finish-within-deadline-mahametro/articleshow/79947808.cms||Ashish Roy
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||Many older industrial units face closure as NMRDA applies 2018 building norms||Nagpur: The Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA) move to retrospectively apply latest building plan norms and charges on industrial units set up earlier in the metropolitan region has put several micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in trouble. The state government had approved development plan and development control and promotion regulations (DCPR) for metropolitan region, 25km radius from city limit, in January 2018. Following this, NMRDA has started inspecting industries for verifying their building plan sanction from last year. President of Chamber of Association of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT) Dipen Agrawal told TOI, “Almost all industries are situated outside gaothan. Nearly 13% units in the metropolitan region were set up even before 1999, while 46% were set up between 2000 and 2012. The industries were then asked for conversion from agriculture to non-agriculture and also getting building plan sanctioned from gram panchayats, which was duly complied with.” “The industries were set up after taking permissions from industrial safety department, explosives department, district industry centre and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) etc. Now, citing 2018 DCPR, NMRDA is declaring these units unauthorized saying permission of gram panchayat is invalid and building plan needs to be sanctioned by collector’s office,” he said. Agrawal added that even now, industries are ready to get regularization done from NMRDA. “But the authority is applying building plan norms approved in 2018. Industries cannot modify their structures. Also, the NMRDA is applying latest building plan charges, which are very high,” he said. Agrawal also said, “NMRDA should come up with a scheme in which industries should be regularized with existing structures. The authority should also levy reasonable charges. MSMEs are already facing threat of closure and running in huge losses due to Covid-19 pandemic.” “Modifications and high charges will certainly lead to closure of industries. It will also make a large number of people jobless, heavy losses to industrialists and also loss of revenue for the government. NMRDA can earn good revenue by launching justified regularization scheme,” he said. Agrawal said, “Almost all industries are running by availing loans. If the units shut, banking sector will also be affected.” NMRDA officials told TOI, “We are conducting inspection and issuing notices as per DCPR approved by the government. Industries will have to go for regularization. They have a good scope of compounding in unified DCPR.” Ashok Ahuja from CAMIT said, “A sample survey was conducted by trade associations in metropolitan region. Around 13% units were established before 1999, 46% between 2000 and 2012, 26% units between 2013 and 2015 and 15% between 2016 and 2018. It will be injustice towards us if the latest norms are made applicable for old industries too.” Girish Liladia said, “Backwardness of Vidarbha region is well acknowledged. The region is far behind on industrialization front compared to other parts in the state. Action of NMRDA will further fuel the backwardness. Migration of industries to neighbouring states like Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh will be inevitable if proper solution is not chalked out immediately.” Agrawal said, “Amendments in the latest DCPR are likely to be discussed in near future. We request NMRDA officials not to take any coercive action against MSMEs till a decision is taken on the amendments.” A delegation of CAMIT met Union minister Nitin Gadkari, West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre and NMRDA commissioner Sheetal Teli-Ugale and requested for a reasonable regularization scheme. Thakre said he will take up the matter with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Maharashtra assembly speaker Nana Patole and urban development minister Eknath Shinde on priority basis. Sanjay Agrawal, Ashok Ahuja, Sarvashri Pramod Agrawal, Dilip Thakral, Natwar Patel, Girish Liladia and Sanjay K Agrawal were part of the delegation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-older-industrial-units-face-closure-as-nmrda-applies-2018-building-norms/articleshow/79946410.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 25, 2020||Chennai||Theatres & OTT are Tamil film industry’s tickets to stay afloat||CHENNAI: The Tamil film industry is at a crossroads. On the one hand, it is taking tentative steps towards embracing the new revenue stream being offered by online streaming platforms, and, on the other hand it is looking at ways to win back confidence of the audience and get them to troop into theatres as they did during pre-Covid days. Since it took eight months for theatres to reopen, during the period of waiting, a section of film producers looked at the option of going for a OTT release. Instead of grabbing the fresh content, these online platforms decided to play a wait and watch game by teasing producers with a revenue sharing model. Small producers who opted for this route hardly saw any big revenue coming their way. It was only after big names entered the scene, did OTT players open their purse strings. The scene changed with Jyothika’s ‘Ponmagal Vandhaal’, her husband Suriya’s ‘Soorarai Pottru’ as well as Vijay Sethupathi’s ‘Ka Pae Ranasingam’, which made money and attracted eyeballs too. Now Jayam Ravi’s ‘Bhoomi’ is getting ready for a Pongal release. "We don’t know in which way the industry is heading towards. In the beginning for four months, the audience rejected the OTT films. Then ‘Ka Pae Ranasingam’ and ‘Soorarai Pottru’ became a big craze. Some see OTT as a threat. But nobody knows what’s in store for the future," said producer G Dhananjayan, who is vice-president of the newly-formed Tamil Film Active Producers Association (TFAPA). "The year 2020 was a test of endurance for all with a choice between sentiments and practicality. Those who could withstand pressures opted for theatrical release and those who could not opted for OTT. But not every film had this choice," says S R Prabhu, producer and another vice-president of TFAPA. As cinema theatres have been struggling to draw crowds for want of good content, all hopes were pinned on actor Vijay’s film’s Pongal release ‘Master’. There are plans to release it big and in almost 90% of the theatres in Tamil Nadu and follow it up with at least one big film a month. But, a Christmas present from Hollywood has already set the cash registers ringing. ‘Wonder Woman 1984’ that released on Wednesday is getting huge responses from the audience across the state. "We had a premiere show for ‘Wonder Woman 1984’ in our theatre in Tirupur on Wednesday evening. It attracted 850 people. While 2020 was undoubtedly one of the worst years for the industry, with theatres closed for eight months and resulting in huge losses, we expect 2021 to be better and we are seeing green shoots emerging already," said Tirupur K Subramanian, president, Tamil Nadu Multiplex and Theatre Owners Association. A Telugu film ‘Solo Brathuke So Better’, releasing for Christmas, is also recording good advance booking numbers. "This clearly shows that people are willing to come to theatres for a good theatrical experience," Dhananjayan said. The pandemic seems to have had a positive impact on the creative front. "Those who had one story to narrate, now have three on their hands. Everyone is raring to get back to work and the first quarter of 2021 will see a lot of action. But with more projects getting completed, there could be bottlenecks over release in April/May. As a result, the revenue spread will become thin and not many films will be able to reap their true potential. That will be a big issue to follow up for the industry, after the impact of Covid," Prabhu said. As of now an estimated `600 crore of financiers’ money is stuck in films that are under production, or for which progress is stuck due to protracted lockdowns. "With theatres shut for long, they do not have the wherewithal to offer advance for new films. With no support from theatres, distributors may not be able to take territorial rights for new films. Without recovering a part of their money already lent to the industry, financiers may not be willing to bring in further investments. There is no rotation," says Prabhu. OTTs can remain an additional option, but may not become an alternative to theatres. While 200 films are produced on an average per year, the OTT platforms have been buying just one film per month. "Every week there are four films that are getting released, making it 16 per month. What happens to the rest," asks Dhananjayan. "Over the past 10 months, each OTT player has bought 3-4 films, while they should have consumed at least 15 films each. If we are to hit a balance in 2021, OTTs have to up their buying power. If one OTT app buys 50 fresh content, need not be just films, the opposite app will buy at least 25 and that’s how these can be scaled. Regional OTTs are gearing up and apps like Aha in Telugu is picking up one content every week. While there will not be any dearth of work, getting the desired revenue may not be easy for all and the impact could be felt in the third quarter of 2021," said Prabhu. Email your feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/theatres-ott-are-tamil-film-industrys-tickets-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/79946366.cms||D Govardan
December 25, 2020||Delhi||On relay fast, farmers say ready to die||NEW DELHI: Pukhvender Singh has a long to-do list — paying his loan instalment, looking after his crop and taking care of his family back home in Punjab’s Fazilka district — but nothing is bothering him more than the Centre’s “inflexible” stand of not revoking three “anti-farmer” laws. Sitting on a 24-hour relay hunger strike at the Tikri border on Thursday, Singh said farmers were ready to die for their demand. The strike will continue till Sunday, but farmers may also resort to an indefinite strike. “I will not think twice before going on an indefinite strike because this is all we can do to grab the Centre’s attention,” he said. “We are sitting here leaving everything behind, but nobody is taking us seriously. Our property, paddy fields and loan will automatically get settled if the laws are repealed,” said Singh, a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta Sidhupur. Uddham Singh, state committee member of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha Punjab, said farmers were ready to sacrifice their life as it would motivate others, including their families, to fight for the cause. “A farmer not just feeds his family but also supports families of labourers working in his fields for nine months. However, a situation has occurred when we are not even getting minimum prices for our crops,” he said. “While we are forced to sell onion for Rs 2-2.5 per kilogram in mandis, it is available in the market for Rs 50. If big companies or middlemen enter farming activities, commercialisation will increase, and farmers, their families and labourers will become jobless,” he added. They aren’t ready to return without winning this fight. “It’s not that we didn’t raise voice against the Bills, but the government didn’t take us seriously. Now that we have arrived in Delhi, there is no going back,” Uddham concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-relay-fast-farmers-say-ready-to-die/articleshow/79947817.cms||Vibha Sharma
December 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM Pinarayi Vijayan announces fresh 100-day action plan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has announced the second 100-day programme of the LDF government. The government has decided to increase the welfare pensions by Rs 100, making it a total of Rs 1,500 from January 1. It was Rs 600 when the LDF government came to power, he said. The LDF government has also decided to continue with free kits for all ration card holders for another four months till April 2021. This would benefit 80 lakh families in the state, he added. The chief minister said after the LDF government came to power there has been rapid progress in major projects. The GAIL pipeline between Ernakulam and Mangalore will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 5. Detailing other initiatives, the chief minister said the 100-day programme is aiming at providing jobs for 50,000 people. Additionally, 15,000 startup programmes will be launched by Kudumbashree. As many as 2,500 people will be given jobs in the chicken outlets and people’s hotel under Kudumbashree. Presently, there are 847 eating outlets and 153 more will opened. The Kerala Bank and primary cooperative societies will provide loans to 10,000 people for starting small-scale units. It has been decided to upgrade 20 Maveli stores into supermarkets and five into superstores. Including the defence park in Palakkad set up at an estimated outlay of Rs 113 crore, nine such major industrial projects will be inaugurated before March 31. Malabar coffee powder will be introduced in the market for which a special purpose vehicle will be formed. Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Ltd will produce drugs meant for patients who have undergone organ transplant. Five types of costly drugs in the market will be produced through KSDP to bring down the prices. A virtual coir trade fair will be held in February. This will be the first such biggest trade fair organized through virtual platform in the country. The government will take over Hindustan Newsprint Ltd, Velloor, by clearing the liability of Rs 146 crore. In the tourism sector, 27 projects of Rs 310 crore will be inaugurated in coming months. The inauguration of the first phase of K-FON (Kerala fiber optic network project) will be held in February. The first phase will see the setting up of a state-level control room and 14 district control rooms. In addition to this, networking of all important offices will be done in the first phase. The government aims to provide the services of K-FON to 30,000 government offices and to all BPL families in a few months. Oppn slams new package Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has alleged that the chief minister has once again cheated the people of the state by coming up again with a 100-day programme. “He has failed in implementing the first 100-day programme and now again he has come back with same tall promises, which he is never going to execute,” said Ramesh. “The first cheating was made during Onam time by coming out with a 100-day prorgramme. Now he has chosen Christmas time to cheat the people again,” he added. In the first 100-day programme, the chief minister had promised five lakh laptops, in the coir sector several factories, implementation of second Kuttanad package, one lakh drinking water connections, etc. Now the chief minister claims that all these schemes have been implemented in the state, he said. “Would like to know where these projects have been implemented and who all are the beneficiaries,” said the opposition leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-announces-fresh-100-day-action-plan/articleshow/79945472.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Sealing breather for local shopping complexes||NEW DELHI: The standing committee of South Delhi Municipal Corporation passed a resolution on Thursday stating that local shopping complexes and their properties coming under SDMC jurisdiction will not be sealed due to non-payment of conversion charge. Leader of the House Narendra Chawla said that the corporation is concerned about the issue faced by owners of such properties, hence has decided to bring in a resolution in this regard. He said that the move will provide a huge relief to the shopkeepers, traders, etc. as their properties will not be sealed. “We will sit down with the executive wing and review this entire process so that no harassment is caused to the traders. Meanwhile, no sealing will be carried out,” he added. Member of standing sommittee Shikha Rai, who had moved the resolution in the committee meeting, said that the same issue was taken up in the SDMC House meeting in 2019, but the owners of such properties had some confusions. “The corporation — through this resolution — has cleared the confusion so that they don’t face any issue in future. The shopkeepers, property owners and people engaged in commercial activities are already facing hardships due to Covid-19,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sealing-breather-for-local-shopping-complexes/articleshow/79947853.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Dehradun||In a first for Uttarakhand, tigress shifted from Corbett to Rajaji Tiger Reserve||DEHRADUN: In a first for Uttarakhand, a team of around 50 forest officials with the help of two sniffer dogs and two elephants after a week-long recce succeeded in tranquilising and translocating a five-year-old female tiger from the Bijrani area of Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) to the Motichur area of Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) on Thursday. The translocation was required to boost the tiger population in the western part of RTR. The operation started on December 16. The terrain was not too friendly. Tross, 3, (Belgian Malinois), Ariel, 3, (German Shepherd), Aasha and Gomti (both cow elephants and 64) were a "huge support". Teams extensively scanned the vast dense forests of the Corbett, which houses around 232 big cats - the highest density of tigers in the wild, globally. At 3pm on Wednesday, the teams succeeded in rounding up the adult tigress. A dart was shot by Dr Dushyant Sharma, senior veterinary officer of CTR, from one of the elephants. “To tranquilise a tiger is never easy. The Corbett landscape is over 1,200 sq km. We had been trying to track the tigress with the help of a Belgian Malinois and a German Shepherd. The sniffer dogs took us to areas which are often difficult to access, but eventually we made it," Corbett director Rahul (who goes by his first name) said. After all the hard work, on Wednesday, the sniffer dogs took us to the exact coordinates and the operation was a success, he added. The "healthy" big cat was rescued, medically examined and radio-collared - all under the watch of veterinary doctors, watchers, home guards and forest officials. It was then safely translocated in a transport cage to its new home after an eight-hour journey. “We conducted its vital checks while passing through each forest range from Corbett to Rajaji. The vehicle also moved at a speed of 20 km/hr,” Dr Sharma, the senior veterinary officer, said. The "soft" release of the big cat took place in Motichur - in the western part of Rajaji - at 5:30am on Thursday. Soon, it will be released into the wild after acclimatization, said Dr Deepti Arora, another vet who is also monitoring the project. It should be in the wild on Saturday, said JS Suhag, the chief wildlife warden of the state forest department. Significantly, a total of five big cats, including three females, are slated to be translocated from the CTR to Rajaji in a phase-wise manner. “A male tiger has already been identified and we will tranquilise it at a conducive moment, and bring it to Motichur. After studying both the male and female tigers in western Rajaji and after a gap of around two months, we will bring another pair of tigers to the RTR,” said DK Singh, director, RTR. The western part of the Rajaji has a decent prey base, according to senior scientist Dr Bivash Pandav, who has closely studied the landscape and led the entire project from Wildlife Institute of India. Rajaji is spread across 557 sq km. It has a tiger capacity of 83, but currently has 37. In the western part, where the tigers from CTR are being brought, it only has two female siblings. They are around 18 years, well past their reproductive age. The eastern part with 35 tigers is separated from its western side by a traffic corridor, making it near impossible for any big cat to migrate. Thus, Thursday's translocation of the female tiger and more planned at a later stage will be great for the western landscape making it ideal for the big cat to thrive here, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-for-ukhand-tigress-shiftedfrom-corbett-to-rajaji-tiger-reserve/articleshow/79945475.cms||Shivani Azad
December 25, 2020||Nagpur||UK returnee tests -ve in RT-PCR; sample meant for NIV Pune still lying in city||Nagpur: The 28-year-old youth from Nandanvan admitted by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Wednesday as suspected patient of new variant of Covid-19 has tested negative in RT-PCR on Thursday. Meanwhile, his swab samples collected on Wednesday, meant to test for new strain at National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, were still in Nagpur on Thursday night, and will only be sent on Friday morning. In yet another order to check and contain new strain of coronavirus, which emerged in UK, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Thursday directed private hospitals not to admit positive patients who returned from countries in Europe, Middle East and South Africa. He has also asked private hospitals to refer such patients to special ward developed at GMCH. Private hospitals will also have to take an undertaking from all positive patients that they have not returned from these countries. The private hospitals have been asked to submit list of positive patients who returned from these countries in last three weeks and took treatment in their establishments with NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar (9404824848). TOI had on Thursday reported the youth from Nandanvan had returned from UK on November 29 and tested positive in rapid antigen test on November 15, which was 17th day from his arrival. All four family members of the youth also tested positive, two with him on December 15, and remaining two next day. The youth had visited his relatives in Gondia before testing positive here. He informed GMCH officials his relatives too tested positive. GMCH had taken two swab samples of the youth, who works at an IT company in the city. One sample was tested by RT-PCR at GMCH and another was to be sent to NIV, Pune. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande told TOI, “Swab sample of the patient tested negative. Decision on his discharge will be taken after arrival of results from NIV, Pune. He has no fever and facing mild symptoms like cough and sneezing.” NMC additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane said, “Samples of all four family members have also been collected and sent for RT-PCR test.” Meanwhile, sources from GMCH and NMC said, “GMCH handed over the youth’s swab samples to be sent to NIV, to NMC on Wednesday. NMC gave samples to IGGMCH, which is likely to send them on Friday morning. Also, swab samples of his four family members will also be sent to NIV.” On Wednesday, NMC officials had given statement that samples were sent to NIV on Wednesday itself. An NMC official said, “IGGMCH is the only laboratory which sends samples to NIV. IGGMCH sends samples once in two days so it got delayed.” Also, on Thursday, the team from NMC Nehru Nagar Zone did not find any close contacts of the youth. “Inquiry revealed he has been in the house since he returned from UK, apart from travel to his relatives in Gondia. Further investigations are on.” A passenger from France landed at the city airport on Thursday and was sent to quarantine at one of the nine hotels. His samples will be tested on days 5 and 7. Five flyers from the United States, two from Japan and one from South Korea also landed at city airport on Thursday. NMC took their contact numbers and did not quarantine them, citing government quarantine only of flyers from countries in Europe, Middle East and South Africa. Radhakrishnan along with Nipane inspected airport and reviewed arrangements for air passengers coming from these countries. “We identified nine hotels for quarantine facility, where charges are to be borne by air passengers. We will also make available quarantine facility at VNIT soon, if anyone does not wish to stay in hotels. It will be free of cost,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/uk-returnee-tests-ve-in-rt-pcr-sample-meant-for-niv-pune-still-lying-in-city/articleshow/79946429.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 25, 2020||Surat||‘Rape survivor didn’t resist, raise alarm’||Surat: The sessions court here has granted bail to a 25-year-old man accused of rape, observing that he and the survivor had engaged in physical relationship several times and the woman had never resisted or raised alarm during the crime.The court took note of the FIR which mentioned that they had engaged in a physical relationship at the woman’s house and at some public place named ‘Couple Box.’ during the last one-and-a-half-year.“There is nothing on record to show that at any time the victim had tried to raise an alarm or offered resistance, despite she being at her home. Thus, when the accused and victim had built a physical relationship in the victim’s own house, that too on several occasions, there is prima facie reason to believe that such relationship was consensual and not forced,” the court observed.The accused, Nilesh Solanki, was booked for rape and criminal intimidation in Kapodara police station earlier this year.According to the FIR, Solanki and the woman came in contact with each other through Instagram and later fell in love. Solanki’s advocate PD Mangukiya argued that the woman is an adult and the relationship was consensual. The FIR, he argued, was lodged by the women under the duress of her family members.Public prosecutor argued the accused had built a physical relationship with the woman by promising her of marriage. However, the court ruled that the issue of false marriage promise to which the woman actually fell prey or engaged in a physical relationship out of affection is a matter of trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rape-survivor-didnt-resist-raise-alarm/articleshow/79945463.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
December 25, 2020||Ranchi||Embargo on promotions for all state govt employees in Jharkhand||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government on Thursday put an embargo on promotions for staff across all state departments till further orders after concerns were raised over compliance of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe reservation norms. Soon after chief minister Hemant Soren gave directives in this regard, the state personnel department issued an order to all the departments, including in the districts, and said the order will be effective immediately. Earlier in the day, Soren attended a meeting of the Jharkhand assembly’s special committee constituted under the aegis of Chaibasa MLA Deepak Birua to review the actual status of compliance of SC/ST reservation norms in the state government jobs amid concerns raised by several tribal MLAs in the past. Later, Soren said, “The embargo is temporary till the time the government reviews the provisions and the current status of the SC/ST reservation in promotions.” Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey said the assembly formed the special committee for a review after he raised the issue in the House and red-flagged the non-compliance of the reservation rules. Tirkey, who is a special attendee in the committee, said, “There are several instances where promotions were not done in sync with the established reservation norms, thereby denying equal opportunities to SC/ST employees working in different government departments.” Sources in the state personnel department further said the government’s move to enforce the embargo is also linked to its mega recruitment drive to fill vacant posts across the departments from next year. “In the recent review meetings held earlier this month, the CM has asked the personnel department to identify pending vacancies cutting across the departments and frame recruitment rules and regulations wherever required for roster clearances so that the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) and the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC) can begin recruitments from next month,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/embargo-on-promotions-for-all-state-govt-employees-in-jharkhand/articleshow/79946267.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 25, 2020||Ranchi||East Singhbhum records zero Covid deaths in 16 days||Jamshedpur: The situation in East Singhbhum, as far as the mortality count due to Covid is concerned, is seemingly becoming better with the district recording no death due to the virus in the last 16 days since December 8. This month, till December 23, the district clocked four deaths. The figure assumes importance in the backdrop of a total of 355 Covid deaths in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic here. Currently, the mortality rate stands at 2.2% in East Singhbhum. Between December 8 and December 23, 360 fresh cases were recorded against 439 recoveries. “Our primary target now is to bring down the positive cases to zero,” said additional chief medical officer cum district surveillance officer Sahir Pall. Of the total deaths in the district since July 4, as much as 67.91% were people above 60 years of age. The high number of the deaths of elderly people was due to comorbidities,” said secretary of the Jamshedpur chapter of the Indian Medical Association Mrityunjay Singh. However, Pall said the number of elderly persons dying could have been more, but timely awareness drives helped save a larger group of those above 60 years from contracting the virus. With a cure rate of 97%, the district has reported a total of 17,133 recoveries against 17,684 cases. Currently, 196 are still undergoing treatment for Covid in the district. Data showed, till date, 2,068 senior citizens have been affected by the virus in East Singhbhum. The health department has also appealed to the people to get tests done and said surprise random testing will continue at public places to identity, isolate and administer treatment to infected persons. “The recovery and mortality rates come later. The primary issue is the number of positive cases which are being reported daily. All of us need to cooperate with each other in order to prevent the spread of the disease,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/east-singhbhum-records-zero-covid-deaths-in-16-days/articleshow/79946164.cms||B Sridhar
December 25, 2020||Goa||Christmas a time of love & joy: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has extended his greetings and best wishes to the people of Goa on the occasion of Christmas. In his message, the chief minister has said that Christmas signifies a time of love, joy and peace, and that the festival reminds people to be compassionate towards one another. “May the joys of the season fill our heart with goodwill and cheer. May Lord Jesus grant us the strength to overcome our sorrows and difficulties faced during the time of pandemic. Let us consolidate the bond of unity and fraternity,” Sawant said. Archbishop of Goa and Daman Filipe Neri Ferrao wished that Christmas dispel the darkness of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Christmas, however, has the power to overcome all shades of darkness. It will always remain a joyful event, bringing, as a famous carol says, ‘Joy to the world!’ Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat in his Christmas message said, “Let us all celebrate this Christmas with self-care and caring for others. Let us all be humble and kind and work to preserve the secular fabric of Goa.” He added,“Let us all pray to Lord Jesus to bless our tiny state of Goa with peace at all times and encourage us all to preserve the identity of Goa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/christmas-a-time-of-love-joy-sawant/articleshow/79947859.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ranchi||Projects worth Rs 2.5k crore to be rolled out on Hemant govt anniv||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren will inaugurate and lay foundation of projects worth Rs 2,500 crore on the first anniversary of his mahagathbandhan government on December 29. He will also roll out 15 new schemes for tourism development, sports promotion and to reduce agri-distress, besides distributing welfare grants to about five lakh beneficiaries. Soren held an extensive meeting with secretaries of all the departments at Project Building on Thursday, to take stock of the preparations ahead of the anniversary celebrations amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. As per the official communiqué issued from the chief minister’s office, the state-level programme will be held at the Morhabadi stadium for two hours from 12.30pm on December 29. Programmes will also be held throughout the day across the state in strict adherence to Covid safety norms. The CM will inaugurate a total of 19 projects worth Rs 1,458.95 crore and lay foundation for 11 projects worth Rs 1,091.92 crore. Some of the significant schemes awaiting a formal launch are farm-loan waivers, new tourism and sports policy and extension of services of National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) for management of dairy activities in the state for another five years, among others. Notably, the state cabinet had on Wednesday given its nod to farm-loan waiver scheme sanctioning Rs 2,000 crore initially for the purpose. State agriculture director Abu Bakr Siddique said that loans up to Rs 50,000 will be waived under the scheme. About the new tourism policy, state tourism director A Dodde said, “The aim of the policy is to woo investments for revival and development of tourist spots and generate jobs. A subsidy of 30% on capital investment or up to Rs 10 crore, whichever is lesser, will be given to the investors under the new scheme.” To begin the roll-out of the tourism scheme, the CM will kick start eco-tourism projects during the anniversary celebrations. Some of the projects to be inaugurated during the anniversary celebrations are water distribution scheme in Giridih and Chakulia, command control and communication centre under Ranchi Smart City project, electronic manufacturing cluster in Adityapur, collectorate building in Hazaribag, sub-divisional courts in Chandil and Seraikela-Kharsawan, sub-divisional jail in Barhi, polytechnic colleges in seven districts and dairy plant in Deoghar, among others. Foundation will also be laid for revival of Nehru Park in Dhurwa (Ranchi), Phase-II of Ranchi water distribution scheme, pharma parks in Ranchi and leather park in Dhanbad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/projects-worth-rs-2-5k-crore-to-be-rolled-out-on-hemant-govt-anniv/articleshow/79946128.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 25, 2020||Vadodara||Minister, 6 others acquitted in 31-year-old rioting case||Vadodara: A judicial magistrate’s court on Thursday acquitted minister of state for urban housing Yogesh Patel, former deputy mayor Suresh Rajput and five others in two cases of rioting and hurting a public servant dating back to 1989. The court of additional chief judicial magistrate C P Charan gave benefit of doubt to all seven accused as the prosecution could not produce any evidence which could prove charges against them. As per the account of old timers, Patel, Rajput, current spokesperson of BJP’s city unit Mukesh Dixit, Ajay Dave, Ratnavijaysinh Chauhan, Bharatkumar Thakor and Pankaj Patel had held a ‘havan’ under the banner of Heet Rakshak Samiti. Following the ‘havan’ against private schools charging high fees they had started a march from Jubileebaug to Tower crossroads. However, the original police records state that during their march with swords in their hands on July 31, 1989, they damaged public property and pelted stones at vehicles including a bus. Police commissioner’s notification banning gathering of four or more persons was already in place and they had not taken any permission for their ‘havan’ or march. All seven were charged for rioting, violation of public notification and Public Property Damage Act among other offences. Patel and Rajput also faced a separate case of assault and hurting a police constable. The accused were represented by their lawyers Hitesh Gupta, Sohil Godia and Siddharth Pawar. During the hearing of the rioting case, all 17 witnesses and material witnesses were declared as hostile as they did not remember the events of the day. The court noted that most of the witnesses are above the age of 60 years and their health is not fine due to which they have stated that they are unable to recall the incidents from the day of offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/minister-6-others-acquitted-in-31-year-old-rioting-case/articleshow/79945428.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM asks banks to spend more to facilitate loans for farmers||Ranchi: The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) has assessed a credit flow potential of Rs 28,643.64 crore for the upcoming 2021-22 fiscal under different priority sectors to enhance farmers income in Jharkhand. The figure was announced at the daylong State Credit Seminar 2021-22 held at a city hotel on Thursday. The sectors identified for a push in the coming fiscal included agriculture, MSME, education, housing, social infrastructure, renewable energy among others. Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Hemant Soren asked banks to be more forthcoming with their spending to facilitating loans to farmers and people of the state for their progress. “In 2020-21, around Rs 2,033 crore was approved as loans to 65,000 farmers, but there is a need for more disbursement to help poor and marginal farmers get access to financial resources to pursue agriculture. In West Bengal, which has almost an identical geography as this state, Rs 7,000 crore was given as loan. I think leading banks, which do good business in this state, should also focus on spending their profits for betterment of the people of this state,” he said, asking different stakeholders to work with synergy along with the state government for overall betterment of the state. Citing how every sector suffered stagnation in the last one year due to the pandemic, Hemant said 2021 should be a year for renewed approach. “We should think out of the box to boost not just the ailing sectors, but also improve lives of the people here,” he said. Those present during the seminar included Sanjiv Dayal, officer in-charge, Reserve Bank of India, Rajendra Man Pandey, G M,SLBC, controllers of banks, representatives from various research and voluntary organisations etc. A K Padhi, chief general manager, Nabard Jharkhand highlighted the works done by them in the state and said that their focus for 2021-22 is, “Collectivisation of agricultural produce for enhancing farmers’ income”. “The Union government has set a target to double farmers’ income by 2022. Due to highly fragmented, scattered and heterogeneous landholdings, rising cost of cultivation, inadequate market infrastructure, increasing risks due to climate change, limited access of farmers to public resources, modern technologies and affordable credit, agriculture has gradually become less profitable for most farmers. A sustainable solution lies in collectivization of agricultural produce, value addition and collective marketing through organising farmers into Farmer Producers’ Organisation (FPO),” he said. “There is tremendous potential for formation and nurturing of new FPOs to encourage collectivization for increasing the income of farmers and boosting the overall growth of rural economy of the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-asks-banks-to-spend-more-to-facilitate-loans-for-farmers/articleshow/79946305.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 25, 2020||Ranchi||No vax laxity in Covid-free Pakur||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government has decided to go ahead with the vaccination drive in Pakur as per protocol even if no new cases have been reported from the district. For the first phase, around 2,300 frontline health workers have been identified and school buildings are being earmarked for carrying out the vaccination process. Principal health secretary Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni said although the district is covid-free as of now, the vaccination drive will commence. “We are following the vaccination protocol laid out by the Centre and there will be no discrimination in case of Pakur,” he said. Some health experts believe that a low infection rate in Pakur might have some connection with high sero-prevalence and a large section of the population has already developed antibodies. “Vaccination is the process of triggering production of antibodies against any identified pathogen so identifying the underlying reason for low infection rate in Pakur can help decide a vaccination strategy,” said one of the senior health experts unwilling to be quoted. Talking about the success of Pakur in becoming Covid-free for the first time since May, civil surgeon Dr Ramdev Paswan gave credit to the doctors. The district has one sadar hospital and six community health centres, but the number of government doctors is as low as 24. “There are 99 sanctioned posts, of which 62 are lying vacant and nearly a dozen of those posted have not joined for some reasons or the other. Even with such manpower crunch, we have never felt a crisis,” Paswan said. A covid centre was established at the tribal welfare hospital, a few kilometres from the district headquarters. Paswan said doctors worked in batches to take personal care of each and every patient. “Fortunately, we managed to prevent patients from turning critical. We went ahead with not just allopathic treatment, but also used home remedies to give maximum relief to patients,” he said. Admitting that the challenge to remain-Covid free is bigger, Paswan said there is no compromise in the collection of samples and daily testing. Samples from Pakur are sent to Dumka and till date, nearly 12.46% of the population of the district have been tested. “We are going to identify, isolate and treat patients more diligently now because stopping the first infection would mean maintaining the status quo,” he said. With the highest spike of 65 cases on July 21, Pakur did not report any fresh case since December 14. Till date, the district has reported 900 cases and two deaths, both lowest among the 24 districts of Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-vax-laxity-in-covid-free-pakur/articleshow/79946230.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 25, 2020||Goa||More lifeguards in north beaches for year-end season||230 words Saligao: With the festive season having commenced and Goa entering the peak of its tourist season, Drishti Marine, the state appointed lifesaving agency, has deployed additional lifesavers across many of North Goa’s beaches. The beaches of Bardez taluka in particular are thronged by hundreds of domestic tourists in the run-up to the New Year. According to Drishti, patrolling hours have been also been extended till 11pm to ensure the safety of visitors to the beaches through this festive season. This arrangement will be in place till the first week of January 2021. North Goa beaches of Candolim, Calangute, Baga, Vagator and Anjuna are already seeing a spike in tourist footfalls. “We have made arrangements to deploy additional lifesavers across these beaches. They will continue to patrol the beaches and keep a vigilant eye on beach goers till 11pm now,” said Ravi Shankar, who heads operations at Drishti Marine. Additionally, on December 24, 25 and New Year ’s Eve, i.e. December 31, lifesavers will keep a watch on the coast till 1am. Drishti has especially cautioned adults to keep a very close watch on children while on the beach and not to allow children to venture into the waters under night fall, no matter how shallow the waters. The agency has also advised locals and tourists not to enter the waters after sunset and most certainly refrain from doing so if under the influence of alcohol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/more-lifeguards-in-north-beaches-for-year-end-season/articleshow/79947883.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Goa||A year on, Rs 300 crore Canacona bypass riddled with potholes||POINGUINIM: A year after it was thrown open to the public, the much-touted Char Rasta to Mashem bypass in Canacona is now riddled with potholes. The 7.7km-long stretch which cuts the distance between Char Rasta and Mashem by 10km is turning into a nightmare for drivers and riders as they have to negotiate with the potholes. PWD officials informed that the inspection has been carried out and the contractor has been asked to carry out the repair works immediately. Assistant engineer Subhash Pagi said the contractor for the four-lane road, MV Rao, has accepted the directives to take up the repair work on priority basis. He said the maintenance work will start either in the first or second week of January 2021. Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson Sandesh Telekar had alleged a scam in the construction of the sea link road in Canacona. “The road has been washed away within a year and rendered useless for public. The four-lane road named after late defence minister Manohar Parrikar is in a bad shape,” said Telekar. “From the present condition of this road, it appears the road has been constructed using substandard material which is why a lot of potholes have appeared within a year of its commissioning. A whopping Rs 300 crore has been spent on this stretch which now has been marred with big potholes,” said a local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-year-on-rs-300cr-canacona-bypass-riddled-with-potholes/articleshow/79947933.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Christmas Eve sees mad rush at beef shops||PANAJI: Fresh beef was selling like hot cakes at Goa’s meat markets on Christmas Eve on Thursday, with buyers shouting their orders of preferred cuts across the counters. Despite the hustle bustle, meat traders remain apprehensive about the fate of their business in the coming days. “The Goa Meat Complex is not yet operational, but we have received a green signal from the directorate of health services to carry out beef trade in Goa. Thanks to the chief minister’s intervention, currently we are procuring fresh beef from Belagavi,” said general secretary of the Quraishi Meat Traders Association, Anwar Bepari. A delegation of meat traders had held a meeting with the authorities at the Goa Meat Complex and director of health services on Wednesday to discuss reopening of the government abattoir. “We require 15 tonne of beef for Goa, but we are getting eight to nine tons only. Despite the shortage, we have not hiked rates,” Bepari said. A seller from Panaji, Hussain Khatib, said that for now the meat trade has normalised owing to Christmas and New Year celebrations, but the future remains uncertain. “What will happen after the festive season ends, we are not aware. We hope that the Goa Meat Complex resumes operations so that there is no problem in carrying out our business,” he said. A beef seller from Margao, Shabbir Shaikh said that despite the government nod to reopen the government abattoir, operations will commence only once animals are brought in for slaughter. “Goa doesn’t have any cattle eligible for slaughter owing to which we must depend on Karnataka for their animals. If Goa was self-sufficient in terms of live cattle, we would not have faced such a crisis,” he said. With the help of suppliers in Karnataka, meat traders are able to procure beef from Belagavi. However, the quantity is still 50% of the regular volume. “Annually, Christmas eve is a day of maximum sale for us, with some celebrators also rushing to our stores on the day of the festival as well. December 25 and 26, therefore, are very crucial for us. With the drastic drop in quantity, we are not able to make a good sale. Looking at this, we don’t anticipate good momentum in footfalls for the New Year’s Eve,” Shaikh said. “Beef is the pride of any Christmas spread and to not have it will not feel very festive. The shortage of beef last week had us worried for a while. We are glad that the CM has allowed the sale of beef, especially for this festival, but there should be enough for all. We hope that the supply continues,” Antonio D’sa, a buyer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/christmas-eve-sees-mad-rush-at-beef-shops/articleshow/79947966.cms||Nida Sayed
December 25, 2020||Goa||ESG announces special Goan films section during Iffi 2021||PANAJI: The Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) announced a special Goan section on Konkani and Marathi feature and non-feature films for the 51st Iffi which is scheduled to be held in January 2021. Films made between November 1, 2019, and December 31, 2020, are eligible in this section. Applicants can log on to the ESG website to submit their entries. A jury will select feature and non-feature films of cinematic, thematic and aesthetic excellence in the special Goan section for the promotion of film art through the non-profit screening of such films. The last date for submitting the applications along with supporting material is January 4, 2021. ESG has said that applications received after the last date may be rejected without any reference to the applicant. ESG said that the jury panel who are from the film industry will consist of non-Goan members to ensure a non-biased selection. To ensure that there is no language barrier, the applicants have been urged to add sub-titles to their film submissions. After the entries are selected slots will be decided for the screening of each of the films. The 51st Iffi will be held from January 16 to 24, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/esg-announces-special-goan-films-section-during-iffi-2021/articleshow/79947992.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Faridabad||Gurugram-Faridabad metro to connect with Rapid Metro at Sector 56||GURUGRAM: The Gurugram-Faridabad metro corridor, whose detailed project report was approved by the state government earlier this year, will connect with Rapid Metro at Sector 56, which will be a bridge with Delhi Metro’s Yellow Line. A GMDA official said an interchange facility has been proposed at Sector 56, which will allow passengers to switch trains without having to exit the metro premises. 'The link will also help increase footfall in Rapid Metro,” said a senior GMDA official. Rapid Metro, which was built and operated privately, was taken over by the Haryana government in 2019. The state government has handed its operations over to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). According to the detailed project report of the Gurugram-Faridabad metro, which is scheduled for a 2025 launch, the passengers per hour per direction traffic (PHPDT) is estimated at 8,304 with a total 1,24,769 passenger trips daily in the launch year. The PHPDT for the years 2031 and 2041 is estimated to be 11,059 and 12,553, respectively. The 32km corridor between the two Haryana NCR cities is proposed to have eight stations, two of which are underground. The stations include Bata Chowk (Faridabad), which has a station on the Violet Line, Aravali Golf Course, Badkhal Enclave, Pali Stone Crusher Zone, Police Chowki Mangar, Mandi, Sector 56 and Vatika Chowk. A 4.19km portion of the corridor will pass underground. A train maintenance depot for the corridor has been proposed at Sushant Lok. The project was announced by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in 2016. After several delays, the DPR was completed this March. The DPR has now been placed before the public undertaking committee of the Haryana assembly. The metro corridor is expected to reduce vehicular traffic between the two cities as a large number of people travel every day in personal vehicles for work in the absence of a public transport system. The interchange facilities are critical because they put passengers in the metro grid once they board a train on this corridor, giving them seamless access to the Yellow Line, one of the Delhi Metro’s busiest and most important corridors, between Huda City Centre and Samaypur Badli. DMRC, the executing agency, HSVP and the Haryana Mass Rapid Transport Corporation (HMRTC) have already conducted the first field survey to check the alignment of the route, spots for developing stations and status of land. The corridor, which will be developed along the Gurugram-Faridabad road, will not require any major acquisition of the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/gurgaon-faridabad-metro-to-connect-with-rapid-metro-at-sector-56/articleshow/79953746.cms||Shubhra Pant
December 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram-Faridabad metro to connect with Rapid Metro at Sector 56||GURUGRAM: The Gurugram-Faridabad metro corridor, whose detailed project report was approved by the state government earlier this year, will connect with Rapid Metro at Sector 56, which will be a bridge with Delhi Metro’s Yellow Line. A GMDA official said an interchange facility has been proposed at Sector 56, which will allow passengers to switch trains without having to exit the metro premises. 'The link will also help increase footfall in Rapid Metro,” said a senior GMDA official. Rapid Metro, which was built and operated privately, was taken over by the Haryana government in 2019. The state government has handed its operations over to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). According to the detailed project report of the Gurugram-Faridabad metro, which is scheduled for a 2025 launch, the passengers per hour per direction traffic (PHPDT) is estimated at 8,304 with a total 1,24,769 passenger trips daily in the launch year. The PHPDT for the years 2031 and 2041 is estimated to be 11,059 and 12,553, respectively. The 32km corridor between the two Haryana NCR cities is proposed to have eight stations, two of which are underground. The stations include Bata Chowk (Faridabad), which has a station on the Violet Line, Aravali Golf Course, Badkhal Enclave, Pali Stone Crusher Zone, Police Chowki Mangar, Mandi, Sector 56 and Vatika Chowk. A 4.19km portion of the corridor will pass underground. A train maintenance depot for the corridor has been proposed at Sushant Lok. The project was announced by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in 2016. After several delays, the DPR was completed this March. The DPR has now been placed before the public undertaking committee of the Haryana assembly. The metro corridor is expected to reduce vehicular traffic between the two cities as a large number of people travel every day in personal vehicles for work in the absence of a public transport system. The interchange facilities are critical because they put passengers in the metro grid once they board a train on this corridor, giving them seamless access to the Yellow Line, one of the Delhi Metro’s busiest and most important corridors, between Huda City Centre and Samaypur Badli. DMRC, the executing agency, HSVP and the Haryana Mass Rapid Transport Corporation (HMRTC) have already conducted the first field survey to check the alignment of the route, spots for developing stations and status of land. The corridor, which will be developed along the Gurugram-Faridabad road, will not require any major acquisition of the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaon-faridabad-metro-to-connect-with-rapid-metro-at-sector-56/articleshow/79948985.cms||Shubhra Pant
December 25, 2020||Business||Failing to refund overcharged sum lands cab aggregators in a soup||NEW DELHI: The recently set up Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA) will send show cause notices to taxi aggregators on the complaints of not refunding the overcharged amount even after accepting their mistakes and adding the refund amount to wallets or issuing coupons rather than paying back the amount to the customer. Sources said the authority is also examining the issues of non-refund of air ticket price in case of cancellations and adding the refund amount to wallets. They added that in such cases, CCPA will write to the civil aviation regulator, DGCA, to address the issue. Recently, it had referred reports of adulterated honey to the food safety regulator, FSSAI for necessary action. Addressing a discussion on the occasion of National Consumer Day on Thursday, CCPA commissioner, Nidhi Khare, who is also additional secretary in the consumer affairs ministry, said there have been some instances of taxi aggregators charging more fare that what had got reflected in their app while booking cabs. She said when the consumers raised a complaint, the aggregators agreed to pay back through coupons. Khare added that this is a case of unfair trade practice and consumers should have the choice of whether to get the cash back or take a coupon. Though CCPA has the power to recommend class action suits in cases which impact a section of consumers, Khare said the authority will take any such step only after having a solid case that can stand in any court of law. “The main aim is to send a message to sellers, service providers and consumers that the authority is keeping a close watch on anyone taking consumers for a ride. The business entities should ensure that they protect consumers’ interest,” said a source. Meanwhile, CCPA on Thursday sent a show cause notice to the CEO of company manufacturing bathroom and toilet cleaner seeking response to its claim of a product “effective against Coronavirus” and killing the virus. Recently, it had sent notices to a reputed RO purifier manufacturer and a wall paint company for making similar claims in their advertisements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/failing-to-refund-overcharged-sum-lands-cab-aggregators-in-a-soup/articleshow/79949310.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Cambridge University to help transform Andhra Pradesh municipal schools||AMARAVATI: The state government has stamped its nod for taking up Transformation of Municipal Schools (TOMS) project under the guidance of the prestigious Cambridge University during the current academic year. Cambridge will provide training in communication skills to all teachers in municipal schools. It will also set up career guidance centres with the help of Cambridge University. The university will hold upskilling programs for the faculty and training programs for schoolchildren. The required faculty, trainers, software, counsellors will be provided by Cambridge University free of cost. It will also set up digital e-curriculum content creation studios as part of Municipal Learning Management System (MLMS). The state government has also directed the commissioner and director of municipal administration (CDMA) to take measures for conducting an international Olympiad for municipal schoolchildren. The state government gave the green signal for the Annual Education Work and Finance Plan (EWFP) plan proposed by the CDMA. About Rs 36 crore would be spent on the two-phase programme. About Rs 15 crore would be spent for providing language training certification course for the municipal teachers. A team from Cambridge University will also take up continuous up-skilling programme for teachers. While 8,000 teachers have been identified for training and certification, nearly 13,000 teachers would undergo up-skilling course. Cambridge University will set up students’ guidance and training centres in municipal schools. The Centre would have exclusive integrated international lab for English, maths and sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cambridge-university-to-help-transform-municipal-schools/articleshow/79945743.cms||Samdani MN
December 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pandemic worry prompts many to ready wills||Visakhapatnam: Following the Covid-19 outbreak, uncertainty about the outcome of the disease and fears surrounding mortality has propelled many to make wills and gift deeds. There has been a 30–40% increase in enquiries related the same, say advocates in Vizag. The pandemic has seen entire families or legal heirs perish resulting in litigations among family members and relatives in the absence of properly executed wills. Only last month, a 61-year-old advocate from Vijayawada, his wife, mother and son passed away within days after suffering from Covid-19. In the absence of a will, the next of kin and extended family started squabbling over property and approached the court. This, lawyers say, could have been avoided had the advocate left behind a will. According to advocate IM Ahmed, “The unpredictability of life due to Covid attacks has instilled a kind of fear especially among the rich, who are more inclined these days to make wills about distribution of property to legal heirs, charitable institutions, trusts or unrelated people of their choice.” “In a few cases, the entire family has perished in the pandemic. We are getting at least 30% more queries related to making or executing wills than we used the get before the onset of coronavirus disease,” Ahmed said. Senior advocate and president of Forum of Legal Professionals (FLP) Kuppili Muralidhar said that the executant should make the will listing out all the properties and his chosen inheritors in presence of two attesters (witnesses) and it is better to get the will registered though registration is not mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pandemic-worry-prompts-many-to-ready-wills/articleshow/79945777.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Temperature drops to 12°C at Akkireddipalem||Visakhapatnam: Vizag city continued to shiver in the cold on Thursday as minimum temperatures continued to slide. Akkireddpalem in Pendurthy under Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) limits recorded a temperature of 12°C in the last 24 hours, the lowest so far this year, according to Andhra Pradesh State Development Planning Society (APSDPS). “Agency areas in Visakhapatnam such as Lammasingi, Araku and GK Veedhi registered below 15°C,” said a senior weather official. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) director for AP, S Stella, most parts of the state may continue to experience the harsh winter for a few more days. This is due to the presence of low-level north-easterlies and easterlies over the state. Humidity levels in the city also registered a high. Pendurthy, located 15km away from the centre of Vizag city, registered a humidity level of 95 per cent and saw a wind speed of around 9kmph. Agency areas such as G Madugula saw 100 per cent humidity levels and recorded a minimum temperature of 3.5°C. GVMC chief medical officer KSLG Sastry said that instructions have been issued to prepare urban health centres and night shelters have been asked to accommodate the destitute. “GVMC is also ready to support any NGOs working for safeguarding the welfare of people,” Sastry told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/temperature-drops-to-12c-at-akkireddipalem/articleshow/79945787.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 25, 2020||Vijayawada||27 injured as bus turns turtle||Vijayawada: Over 40 passengers had a miraculous escape after their bus lost control and overturned on NH-65 near Anumanchipalli village, in Jaggaiahpet mandal of Krishna district on Thursday morning. The incident happened at around 4.30 am. The private travels bus was going to Hyderabad from Visakhapatnam. Chillakallu sub-inspector V Venkateswara Rao said 27 passengers suffered injuries and were taken to a local government hospital. Police suspect that the driver might have dozed off leading to the mishap. The driver and conductor of the bus fled from the spot after the mishap. Of the 43 passengers, 15 are from Odisha while the rest are from Vizag. Another bus was arranged and all of them were transported to their destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/27-injured-as-bus-turns-turtle/articleshow/79945796.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Vijayawada||AP high court declines to stay house site distribution scheme||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Thursday declined to give a stay on the government’s house site distribution programme under the Navaratnalu-Pedalandariliki Illu scheme. A PIL was moved in the HC seeking directions to stay the distribution of house sites on the grounds that people from one constituency were being given houses in another constituency which could potentially change the demographics of reserved constituencies. However, the high court said it cannot grant a stay on those grounds and asked the state government to file a counter affidavit. Arguing on behalf of the petitioners, senior counsel Prasad Babu said people from urban areas like Vijayawada and other cities are being given houses in rural areas which are more than 20 km away from the city. He said most of the beneficiaries are people from below poverty line who work as daily wagers, and will face hardships in commuting to their work places if they are moved out from the cities. He further argued that the demographic composition will change if people are shifted from one place to another. As the delimitation of constituencies were made based on the population of reserved castes, shifting people from one constituency to another will change that composition in reserved as well as unreserved constituencies. He appealed to the court to grant interim stay on distribution of house sites pending disposal of the petition. The bench, headed by Chief Justice J K Maheswari and Justice J Uma Devi, observed that they cannot stay the house site distribution process based on the grounds raised in the petition. However, the high court asked the state government to file a counter affidavit on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-high-court-declines-to-stay-house-site-distribution-scheme/articleshow/79945824.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh high court sets aside GO reducing seats in private junior colleges||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Thursday gave verdict on three different aspects pertaining to admissions to intermediate and degree courses in the state. While setting aside the GO reducing the number of seats in private junior colleges, the court also directed not to conduct online admissions for intermediate. However, the court dismissed the petition challenging online admission process for degree courses. Separate petitions were moved in the HC challenging the online admission process for intermediate and degree courses. The court observed that there are set guidelines for online admissions into degree courses and dismissed the petition stating that there were no procedural violations. In the case of intermediate online admissions, the court said the government has not issued any guidelines in advance before adopting to the new system. If the government wants to conduct online admissions for intermediate, it can do so by releasing guidelines in advance for the next academic year but not for the current academic year, the court said, and directed that the state conduct this year’s admissions as per the old system. On reduction of seats in private junior colleges, the court allowed the petition and set aside the GO. Private college managements argued that the student strength was earlier decided by the government according to certain parameters. If there are any deficiencies, action has to be initiated against only that college, they said, adding that te government should not generalise the orders by applying it to all colleges. They further argued that there is an increased demand for seats this year because of Covid-19 as all students were promoted to higher level without sitting in exams and students would get affected if there is a reduction in number of seats. Justice DVSS Somayajulu allowed the petition and set aside the GO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-sets-aside-go-reducing-seats-in-pvt-jr-colleges/articleshow/79945834.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 25, 2020||India||Indian seafarers stranded, Delhi questions ‘Covid logic’ of Beijing||NEW DELHI: India on Thursday questioned China’s contention that Covid restrictions had prevented crew changes in ships berthed in numerous Chinese ports where many Indian seafarers have been stranded for months. Responding to questions, the MEA spokesperson said, “We understand that some other ships, which arrived after the ships with Indian crew members, have actually managed to discharge cargo and leave.” TOI reported on Wednesday that Korean ships which had come after the ships with Indian crew members had been allowed to offload cargo. Since China’s ban on Australian coal, a number of merchant ships with Australian coal as cargo have been stranded off China’s ports for months on end. The MEA spokesperson said there is “considerable” stress on the Indian crew members. The Chinese foreign ministry on Wednesday promised “necessary facilitation and assistance”, he noted. “Our embassy in Beijing has been in constant touch with provincial and central government authorities in China, requesting that the ships be allowed to dock and/or the crew be allowed to be changed. The Chinese authorities have conveyed that on account of various Covid-19 related restrictions imposed by the local authorities, crew change is not being permitted from these ports,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-seafarers-stranded-delhi-questions-covid-logic-of-beijing/articleshow/79949341.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Vijayawada||One more arrest in Anantapur murder case||VIJAYAWADA: Another youth was arrested on Thursday for his alleged involvement in the brutal murder of a 19-year-old bank employee, at Badannapalli village in Dharmavaram mandal of Anantapur district. The second accused, identified as Karthik, is believed to have helped main accused Gutti Rajesh, who killed M Snehalatha and set her body ablaze in a field near Dharmavaram-Anantapur road on Tuesday night. Both accused were presented at a local mahila sessions court which sent them to judicial custody. Main accused Rajesh, police said, is a former boyfriend of the victim. They broke up recently, due to which he developed a grudge against her. On the day of the crime, he persuaded her to meet him one last time to settle their differences, and impulsively choked her to death following some argument. Karthik, too, was present there and helped Rajesh in setting her body ablaze to destroy all evidence. However, Snehalatha’s mother Lakshmi Devi named both Rajesh and Karthik as suspects in her complaint to the police which led the police to them. In fact, on the day of the incident, the victim’s parents first went to Rajesh’s house after their daughter did not return home till 7.30 pm and her phone remained switched off. Rajesh feigned ignorance about her whereabouts. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has announced an ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh, 5 acres of land and a government job for a member of the girl’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/one-more-arrest-in-anantapur-murder-case/articleshow/79945841.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Gold worth Rs 30 lakh stolen from resort||VISAKHAPATNAM: With only a few hours left before a wedding ceremony, burglars decamped with Rs 30 lakh worth of gold, around 53 tolas, belonging to the bride-to-be in Vizag. The incident took place at a well-known resort near Rushikonda beach in the wee hours of Thursday while family members were asleep. Family members of both bride and groom were staying at Sai Priya Resorts on Wednesday evening for a wedding ceremony scheduled on Thursday 11am. The bride is a software engineer from Thotada Sirisapalli village in Visakhapatnam district while the groom is the son of a tehsildar from Visakhapatnam tribal area. According to PM Palem police, both families were busy making arrangements for the ceremony till midnight. Burglars managed to steal gold ornaments from room number 301, which cops suspect was not locked properly. PM Palem circle inspector, D Ravi Kumar, said that even though the resort has CCTV cameras, the entrance of the room is not visible. Police are now planning to verify CCTV footage of roads near the resort. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gold-worth-rs-30-lakh-stolen-from-resort/articleshow/79945852.cms||Siva G
December 25, 2020||India||India condoles death of Baloch activist in Canada||NEW DELHI: India has expressed condolences to the family of Baloch activist Karima Baloch, found dead under mysterious circumstances in Canada, even as the Toronto Police tweeted to say they did not suspect any foul play in her death. The 37-year-old Baloch activist had gone missing on Sunday. Her body was found on Monday. On Wednesday, the Toronto Police tweeted, “The circumstances have been investigated and officers have determined this to be a non-criminal death and no foul play is suspected. We have updated the family.” According to officials, the police statement came before the post-mortem of the body. Another Baloch activist, Fazila Baloch, said in a tweet: “Karima Baloch @KarimaBaloch had raised alarms about Pakistan Army officials settling in #Canada & questioned Canadian govt for allowing this. She feared that this will lead to attacks against Baloch in Canada,”. Karima is the second Baloch activist to be die in mysterious circumstances in foreign land this year. Earlier, the body of Baloch journalist Sajid Hussain Baloch was found outside Uppsala in Sweden, weeks after he went missing. Karima Baloch was a former chairperson of the Baloch Students’ Organization-Azad (BSO-Azad), and included in BBC’s list of 100 inspirational and influential women for 2016, in which she was described as a campaigner “for independence for Balochistan from Pakistan”. She fled Pakistan in 2016, saying she feared for her life due to threats from the army and intelligence agencies and sought refuge in Canada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-condoles-death-of-baloch-activist-in-canada/articleshow/79949345.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Driver arrested for stealing tyres of truck he was driving in Vizianagaram||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizianagaram police on Thursday arrested a truck driver for stealing tyres of the truck he used to drive. The strange incident was reported under Vizianagaram rural police station limits on December 22. The accused has been identified as 23-year-old Deepak Shahu, a resident of Madhya Pradesh. Police said that Deepak was working as a driver of a 14-wheeler truck for the last few years. Recently, he took the truck to Gangavaram Port where it was loaded with coal. The coal-laden truck was heading towards Raipur in Chhattisgarh. On his way, the driver stopped the vehicle near Vizianagaram and removed four tyres from the truck and informed the truck owner that the tyres had been stolen. He then tried to sell the tyres in Vizianagaram when he was caught by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/driver-arrested-for-stealing-tyres-of-truck-he-was-driving/articleshow/79945857.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Vadodara||MLA objects to allotment of houses to minority community||Vadodara: Heavyweight Dabhoi BJP MLA and a former Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) corporator from the party Shailesh Mehta has sparked a major controversy by demanding that the allotment of houses meant for the urban poor to members of the minority community in Bhayli area of the city should be cancelled. Mehta aka Sotta wrote a letter in this regard to the Vadodara Urban Development Authority (VUDA) chief executive and VMC commissioner regarding the recent draws to allocate houses to the urban poor. It transpired that some houses in three different schemes had gone in favour of persons from minority community. The letter points out that residents of the area were objecting to this allotment and had made representations to Mehta. The MLA added that earlier VMC to had ensured that members of different communities got houses with their societies. He wrote that while the minority community had the right to housing, but they should be accommodated in different housing schemes to ensure that peace and harmony prevailed. Earlier, allotment of houses to members of the minority community by VMC in areas dominated by the majority community had sparked a row in the city. The VMC had to accommodate these beneficiaries elsewhere to resolve the issue after a series of protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mla-objects-to-allotment-of-houses-to-minority-community/articleshow/79945446.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Loan denied, sanitation workers dump garbage outside bank in protest||Vijayawada: Sanitation workers from Vuyyuru panchayat staged a protest by dumping garbage at the main entrance of a nationalised bank’s branch for not releasing loan sanctioned under various government schemes. The incident happened on Thursday afternoon when a group of sanitation workers gathered outside the bank premises and raised slogans against the manager and dumped garbage at the main entrance. They alleged that the bank authorities were denying them loans. They also said that municipal commissioner Dr. Prakash spoke with the authorities a few times but still there was no response from the bank authorities. Bank officials and customers were shocked by the municipal sanitation workers’s action. The bank authorities deployed men to clean the garbage and have lodged a complaint with the municipal authorities. Meanwhile, All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) condemned the action of municipal workers. “The bank sanctions loans considering many factors and reject loans based on the credit score and repayment history of customer. We condemn the act of municipal workers in Vuyyuru. Higher authorities of municipal department has indirectly supported the act. This is not fair and we cannot work against our rules and regulations,” said K Anand Kishore, representative of AIBEA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/loan-denied-sanitation-workers-dump-garbage-outside-bank-in-protest/articleshow/79945866.cms||Venu Lanka
December 25, 2020||India||Mamata defends Amartya on land row, says Bengal won’t tolerate attack on its icons||The CM’s sharp reaction came over reports that Visva-Bharati had written to the Bengal government on land encroachment, including a land parcel of several decimals belonging to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen. “On behalf of Bengal, I apologise to you, Amartya da, for this. I have a deep personal respect for him. Not just me, he is respected across the world,” Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mamata-defends-amartya-on-land-row-says-bengal-wont-tolerate-attack-on-its-icons/articleshow/79949311.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Two girls die as lorry rams container truck carrying passengers on EPE||GHAZIABAD: Two girls, aged 10 years and 14 months, were killed after a speeding lorry rammed a container truck illegally carrying two families on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in the Masuri area early on Thursday morning. Police said the accident happened when visibility was low due to dense fog. The deceased have been identified as Kashish (10), daughter of Kamal, and 14-month-old Nisha, the daughter of Sanjay. The two families were returning to their hometown in Hathras in UP from Kaithal in Haryana in Kamal’s container truck when the accident occurred around 6am. Eight others, including the driver and the helper of the lorry, sustained injuries in the crash. Raghvendra Singh, SHO of Masuri police station, said a police team rushed to the spot as soon as they were alerted about the accident by passersby. “The impact of the crash was such that Kashish who was sitting next to her father landed on the road after smashing through the truck’s windshield. “She died on the spot, while Nisha who was sitting on her mother’s lap in the container sustained severe injuries. Nisha died during treatment at a local hospital, where other members of the two families were rushed to by cops,” the SHO said. However, Kashish’s father Kamal claimed that he was driving his vehicle at 40-50 kmph when the speeding lorry hit the truck from behind. “My son Mayank and wife also received injuries in the accident. My daughter passed away barely a fortnight before her 11th birthday.” Masuri SHO said they have detained the driver of the lorry, though the families of the victims are yet to file a complaint. When contacted, Iraj Raha, SP (rural), said it’s illegal to ferry passengers in a container truck. “However, in this case, the driver of the container truck was travelling with his family and his friend’s family,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/2-girls-die-as-lorry-rams-container-truck-carrying-passengers-on-epe/articleshow/79948351.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 25, 2020||Business||Centre gets vigilance plaint in Bharat Process liquidation||Kolkata: A vigilance complaint has been lodged in the Union ministry of corporate affairs alleging a scam of Rs 475 crore regarding liquidation of the Bharat Process and Mechanical Engineers (BPEML), a Central government undertaking. The vigilance cell of the ministry has already taken cognizance of the complaint filed by an advocate, A P Roy. It has been alleged that BPEML is suffering following wrong undertaking issued by the official liquidator in the Calcutta high court in January 2013. As per the complaint, BPEML went into liquidation in 2004. It had three leasehold mines in Odisha which was entrusted to The Orissa Mineral Development Company (OMDC) to operate the mines. In the beginning, OMDC was a Bird Group company, later it became a step down subsidiary of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam (RINL). The official liquidator in an affidavit to the Calcutta high court in November 2012 contended that as per the documents with registrar of companies (ROC), it reveals that the said three iron ore mines were used and operated by OMDC and recovered and enjoyed the profits in this regard. So OMDC should make payment to BPEML which was in liquidation by way of profit share. It was also stated that in the facts and circumstances of the case OMDC should hand over the mines and also to make payment of outstanding dues. However, in January 2013, the official liquidator allegedly changed the stance and told the High Court that there is no need to press for the application (transfer of mines) since an affidavit has been filed by OMDC and from the affidavit it appears that it is a wholly owned government company. Since BPEML is also a wholly owned government company, such handover is not needed. IT has been alleged that by this affidavit, Rs 73 crore worth of Central government fees and royalty of more than Rs 400 crore has been lost. According to the complaint, OMDC was never a fully owned government company and the Centre holds 50.01% in the company through Eastern Investment, which is a 51% subsidiary of RINL. In the case of OMDC around 49.9% is public shareholding as per latest filing at the stock exchanges. Among public shareholding, there are investors like city-based NBFC, 3A, Capital Services (2% stake), foreign portfolio investor Gothic Corporation with 1.1%, lots of individual shareholding and 11% holding by LIC. “Therefore OMDC is not 100% owned by the Centre contrary to what was the submission by `official liquidator. BPEML and its employees could have a new lease of life if the truth prevails,” it was stated in the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-gets-vigilance-plaint-in-bharat-process-liquidation/articleshow/79947091.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Business||Dalmia Cement boosts mfg capacity in state||Kolkata: Dalmia Cement (Bharat), one of the leading Indian cement companies and a subsidiary of Dalmia Bharat, has completed capacity addition of 2.3 million tonne at its Bengal Cement Works (BCW) unit in West Midnapore. The investment for this expansion is Rs 360 crore and the total investment in the state is Rs 600 crore. The company has claimed that following the expansion, the BCW unit would have a combined capacity of 4mt. “With the capacity addition, BCW unit will become the largest cement plant in the state of West Bengal. The addition also aligns with our business pillars ‘Sustainability and ‘Reputation’ and thus makes it one of the most sustainable plants in the state to create job opportunities and give a boost to the region’s economy,” an official added. According to Dalmia Cement, the total direct employment for this added capacity would be 150-250 while indirect employment would be over 2,000. Dalmia Cement as a group is the 4th largest cement manufacturer and has a capacity of 29 million tonne and by the third quarter of the next fiscal it would have a capacity of 34 million tonne. Speaking on the addition of the cement plant in West Bengal, Ujjwal Batria, COO, Dalmia Cement (Bharat), said, “At the outset, I extend my gratitude to the Government of West Bengal and people of Salboni for their continuous support and enabling us to be a part of the Bengal growth story. Under this project, we now have an installed capacity of 4.0 million tonne per annum (MTPA) at Bengal Cement Works, Midnapore. We have deployed latest machinery and technology for this addition and will be producing only 100% blended cement so as to ensure reduced carbon footprint as part of our commitment to become carbon negative by 2040. This addition will play a pivotal role in addressing demand for cement, ensure sufficient and timely supplies and further help in the growth of infrastructure in the region.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dalmia-cement-boosts-mfg-capacity-in-state/articleshow/79947121.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Hotels, pubs cheer government reversal on night curfew||BENGALURU: Hospitality and other sectors on Thursday welcomed the state government’s U-turn on night curfew, but sought more clarity in future decisions that could affect their business. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced movement curbs during the hours 11pm-5am from December 24 to January 2.  After remonstrations from citizens and commercial establishments, he withdrew the order the next day, lifting the spirits of restaurants, malls, pubs and hotels that had feared losing crucial business of year-end festivities. KM Chandrashekar Hebbar of the Karnataka Pradesh Hotels and Restaurants’ Association said that the government should not take hasty decisions. “They (government) are inconsistent, though they have now supported us by going back on the night curfew decision. I personally believe that the government should stand by its decision,” he said. Sharath Rice, who owns Hangover pub in Koramangala, said that he was happy with the move to drop nighttime restrictions. “Pubs and hotels across the city have taken necessary precautions to operate safely. This confusion was avoidable,” Rice said. Many in the hospitality sector believe that back and forth on hours of operation causes anxiety among owners and forces them to constantly revise their plans. They add that the government should be clear while making decisions. Chetan Hegde, the owner of 1522 chain of pubs, said that the government should issue a fresh clarification. “Just saying that the order has been revoked does not help. We need to know how to proceed. We cancelled our reservations for Christmas and New Year’s Eve because of the earlier order. Though the order has been withdrawn, we are not sure if people will come as planned before,” he said. Malls were under pressure to down shutters much before 11pm, so the staff could reach home without violating nighttime restrictions. They are relieved after Thursday’s decision. “Christmas and yearend shopping are a major source of revenue for retail outlets and malls. The night curfew would have dealt a body blow to our business at a time when we are looking to overcome the losses resulting from the Covid-linked lockdown,” said Uday Garudachar, owner of Garuda Mall chain and a BJP legislator. Suresh Singaravelu, the executive director of Prestige Group, which owns malls such as UB City, said that the festive season starting with Dasara had given a fillip to mall business. “We were hoping Christmas and New Year would push it further. It was wise on part of the government to withdraw the curfew order,” he said. MV Raghavendra Rao, the managing director of Kadamba group of hotels, also welcomed the step, saying it would help businesses. “We thank the government. Many people, who eat at our restaurants on highways, will now have a comfortable journey and we will be able to operate as usual,” Rao said. KN Vasudeva Adiga, the chairman of Paakashala group of restaurants, said night curfew might not have affected eateries that anyway shut at 10pm. “We believe hoteliers should have the opportunity to celebrate New Year’s and Christmas and make certain profit,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-hotels-pubs-cheer-government-reversal-on-night-curfew/articleshow/79949343.cms||Nithya Mandyam
December 25, 2020||India||TMC attacks BJP, says Tagore was against narrow nationalism||KOLKATA: The Trinamool Congress expressed “surprise” at PM Narendra Modi’s “sudden enthusiasm” to establish the connection that Rabindranath Tagore and his family had with Modi’s home state, Gujarat. “Tagore is not just Bengal’s poet. He is a visva kavi (world poet). Why is the PM trying to confine Tagore to a particular region?” Bengal science and technology minister Bratya Basu said, hours after the PM’s virtual Visva Bharati speech on Thursday. Basu referred to Tagore’s novels and essays to assert that the bard’s world vision was more open and much above religious bigotry, narrow nationalism and “cow vigilantism”. “Will the PM take responsibility for the cow vigilantes who are killing people?” he asked. Basu read out extracts from Tagore’s writings, where the poet criticised the narrow use of religion. He cited Tagore’s novel, ‘Ghare Bhaire’, to argue how “artificial nationalism” intoxicated people, adding: “Tagore’s alter ego, Nikhilesh, in ‘Ghare Bhaire’ talks about the bigger truth of a life based on brotherhood.” Basu also accused the PM of “belittling” Kolkata and Bengal. “He referred to the contributions of universities in Delhi and Lahore to the freedom struggle. But he did not name Calcutta University or Jadavpur University that has its roots in the National Council of Bengal. He now names Khudiram Basu and Prafulla Chaki. But he ignored the long list of freedom fighters sent to Andaman Cellular Jail and named it after V R Savarkar,” said Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tmc-attacks-bjp-says-tagore-was-against-narrow-nationalism/articleshow/79949397.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC drive finds 434 TB patients, up 2.5 times from 2019; leprosy cases dip||MUMBAI: In a home-to-home survey covering more than 50 lakh citizens, the BMC has diagnosed 434 patients with tuberculosis and 12 with leprosy. The survey began on December 1 and will continue till the 31st. “We are happy that positivity for TB, as per this survey, seems low,” additional civic chief Suresh Kakani said on Thursday. However, in comparison to the findings of a similar drive last year, the results are 2.5 times higher for TB, as merely 170 patients were found in the 2019 survey. Rise in TB figures not surprising as many missed checkup: BMC officerBy contrast, at 36, more leprosy patients were found in the 2019 survey. Leprosy is an infectious disease that causes severe disfiguring skin sores and nerve damage. BMC deputy executive health officer Dr Daksha Shah said this year’s increased numbers were not surprising because many people had missed out on going for checkups or treatment during the complete lockdown in the March-to-June period due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “In fact, the aim of this year’s survey was to find more patients who had ignored their symptoms,” she said. Government services for TB patients had come to a standstill during the initial lockdown. In Maharashtra, detection of new TB cases dropped 47.8% in comparison to the same period last year. Similar data for Mumbai isn’t available, but the city has 60,000 cases annually. The city is known as the country’s TB capital; it is also the worst-hit as far as drug-resistant TB strains are concerned. During the present door-to-door survey, which was carried out in high-risk and crowded areas, BMC health teams screened 50,00,434 people. “Our teams found 9,501 people with TB like symptoms,” said Kakani. After the samples were picked up for testing, only 434 tested positive. They will be enrolled into the government’s free TB treatment programme. While the BMC teams found 984 people with suspected symptoms of leprosy, only 12 finally had it. The BMC had planned to end the house-to-house visits by December 15. It has extended the exercise now by another fortnight in order to allow more patients to be detected and enrolled into the system. “Houses that were locked will be revisited in this period,” said Kakani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bmc-drive-finds-434-tb-patients-up-2-5-times-from-2019-leprosy-cases-dip/articleshow/79949389.cms||Malathy Iyer
December 25, 2020||Business||Digest 2412||The 19th Edition of India International Mega Trade Fair was inaugurated on Thursday. It is being organized by Bengal Chamber of Commerce and GS Marketing. Deb A Mukherjee, President, BCC&I said “The Bengal Chamber as part of its inclusive approach gives equal focus to business and community in value creation and the 19th IIMTF promoted by BCC&I and delivered by GS Marketing is a worthwhile initiative in that direction where there is ' something for everybody’. And what is noteworthy is that, despite Covid challenges, we could put together this year's Trade Fair which should hopefully help small and medium enterprises and generate consumer demand and confidence.” Vikram Solar, India’s leading module manufacturer and a comprehensive EPC solutions & rooftop solar provider commissioned a rooftop solar project on their manufacturing facility in Falta, West Bengal earlier this month. The 919.73 KWp (kilowatt peak) plant consists of 2,574 solar panels covering an area of 6,500 square meters. The solar plant will cater to more than 27% of the entire manufacturing unit’s electricity consumption during normal day time operation. This is a unique project since it uses 12 different types of modules from a mix of Vikram Solar’s SOMERA Monocrystalline, half-cut and full-cut cell modules manufactured by Vikram Solar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/digest-2412/articleshow/79947395.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka to upgrade PHCs into 24/7 medical facilities||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Thursday said it will upgrade its 2,380 primary health centres into 24/7 facilities with staff quarters, labs and radiology units to offer better healthcare facilities to people at the grassroots. Health minister K Sudhakar and his department officials made a presentation about the plan to chief minister BS Yediyurappa. “Each PHC will be upgraded at a cost of Rs 6 crore to Rs 8 crore, and this will be in line with the PM’s plan of establishing health and wellness centres in every village,” the minister told reporters. The government is planning to raise funds from the World Bank for the Rs 19,000-crore project. “Each PHC will have quarters for staffers, including doctors. This will address the problem of doctors not willing to work in rural areas. Each centre will have an ambulance,” he said. He said the PHCs will be linked to state-run specialty hospitals through the internet to provide tertiary treatment for patients at grassroots centres. Taluk and district hospitals will also be modernized, with each district hospital set to have 500-700 beds from the existing 200. The hospitals will have cardiology and cancer wings to avoid people from coming to big cities for treatment, the minister said. “As we require around Rs 15,000 crore implement the project, we plan to adopt PPP model and pay private entities in yearly instalments,” Sudhakar said. “The CM has said he will allocate funds in the upcoming budget. We will seek adequate financial assistance from the World Bank and implement the project in phases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-will-upgrade-phcs-into-24/7-medical-facilities/articleshow/79949337.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai University cuts summer vacation to 13 days, teachers not happy||MUMBAI: Summer vacation for Mumbai University and its affiliated colleges will be cut short to 13 days in this academic session—from June 1 to 13. To ensure delays in the current academic session do not spill over to the next, the university has cut down heavily on holidays. The administration finally issued the academic calendar for 2020-21, after almost a term. The current academic year will end on May 31, as opposed to the usual April 30, and the new term is likely to start from mid-June. “A lot of thought has gone into making the academic calendar to ensure that this year’s delay has minimal impact on our next academic session. The current session started on August 7 this year instead of June, so it was expected to get extended by a month,” said a university official, adding that they would need the support of all stakeholders to make it work. He said that the vacations had to be cut short in order to regularize the schedule. The calendar, however, may not be applicable for first-year students in professional courses, such as engineering, law, architecture-—whose admissions are ongoing. “For these courses, the term may be extended till August. These students are yet to join college, so a separate schedule may be considered later,” said an official. Colleges across courses get a Christmas vacation of seven to eight days, while the summer vacation is of 36-50 days, depending on exams. Overall, the UGC norms allow colleges to give a vacation of 10 weeks (or 70 days) in a given academic calendar. A principal said these are unprecedented times and rules need to be flexible. “A little compromise can be made to bring the academic schedule back to normalcy. It is better to cut down on vacation now, than have a delayed start to the next year,” he said. The academic calendar, however, has not gone down well with the teachers’ community, who are surprised at the university’s ‘lackadaisical’ attitude. “They are issuing the calendar after almost one term is coming to an end. They also have scheduled exams for first-year arts, science and commerce colleges in the first week of January, without completing the mandatory 90-day teaching period set by the UGC,” said a representative of the Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union, which appealed to the chancellor, and is hoping for him to intervene. The general secretary of Mumbai University and College Teachers’ Association, Subhash Athavale, said principals of several colleges took advantage of the university’s mismanagement and delay in issuing the calendar. “Many principals compelled their teachers to start taking online lectures for second and third year classes in June. For them, not having a summer vacation will be unfair. The university has taken arbitrary decisions throughout the pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-university-cuts-summer-vacation-to-13-days-teachers-not-happy/articleshow/79949410.cms||Yogita Rao
December 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Cop carries fatigued woman for 6km to Tirupati hospital||VIJAYAWADA: In a remarkable feat, a special party police constable carried a 58-year-old dehydrated pilgrim on his back for six kilometres to a hospital in Tirupati. Though the incident happened on Tuesday, it came to light on Thursday. The cop, identified as Shaik Arshad, found the woman, Mangi Nageswaramma, lying unconscious in a highly dehydrated condition. She was trekking to the hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara in Tirumala when she suddenly developed health complications. Without wasting a moment, Arshad carried her on his back to the hospital where she was given first aid. Police said Nageswaramma was part of a group of devotees trekking their way up the hill. The special party police was appointed to ensure that the devotees make their way to the hill temple safely. After walking for some time, Nageswaramma fainted due to exhaustion. Arshad noticed that there were two other pilgrims who accompanied her for the Srivari darshan but they were not in a position to carry her back. Arshad quickly carried her on his back and reached the hospital where she was treated. DGP D Gautam Sawang, after coming to know about the news, appreciated the constable for his resilient duty. Watch AP policeman carries sick woman on back for 6 km to hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-cop-carries-fatigued-woman-for-6km-to-tirupati-hospital/articleshow/79949413.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||Retd IAF man returns honour in support of farmers’ agitation||LUDHIANA: Upset over the farmers’ agitation being called ‘China- and Pakistan-sponsored’ and questions being raised about the patriotism of the protesters, a retired Indian Air Force (IAF) warrant officer has returned a prestigious medal. Seventy-six years old Gurtek Singh Virk had participated in the 1965 and 1971 wars against Pakistan before retiring in 1993. The retired veteran, who lives in Ludhiana, told TOI that he had returned majority of the 13 awards he was conferred during his service in Air Force (from 1963 to 1993) during the OROP issue. Now, he has returned the prestigious Commendation Medal awarded to him by Chief of Air Staff in 1990s. The award is given to a selected few personnel for their dedicated and selfless services in IAF. “I am unwell and unable to travel… With deep pain I gave the medal to the ex-servicemen Welfare Society, whose members went to Singhu border to support the farmers’ agitation, and asked them to return the medal to President of India in Delhi who is Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces,” Virk said. “It is painful that a representative of the government is saying that this agitation is China and Pakistan sponsored. If they have proof, why don’t they file a case? Whoever is the culprit should be punished, but no one should cast aspersions on our patriotism. I want that these laws should be repealed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/retd-iaf-man-returns-honour-in-support-of-farmers-agitation/articleshow/79949414.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 25, 2020||India||Rift in Maha alliance over sops to builders||MUMBAI: A rift of sorts seems to have broken in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) over giving 50% reduction in premiums for developers in urban areas, reports Chaitanya Marpakwar. The proposal to reduce premiums charged by local municipal corporations and other state agencies was discussed in the state cabinet on Wednesday, but was reportedly deferred after the Congress expressed reservations on giving doles to builders without ensuring that buyers benefit. While the proposal was discussed for the first time, it has been on the cards for almost two months. “We have no issues giving discounts to builders...but it should be a win-win situation for both builders and homebuyers,” said a Congress minister. Sources said that the plan may get stuck since the Congress has demanded changes in the scheme. A NCP cabinet minister said that Congress was upset since it was not consulted before the scheme was finalised. “We have already made it clear that builders who take advantage of this scheme must pay the stamp duty for the flats and not charge stamp duty from home buyers. So the buyers will also get some benefit of the discount in premiums,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rift-in-maha-alliance-over-sops-to-builders/articleshow/79949420.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Goa||No penalty if shacks not set up this season: Ports mantri||CALANGUTE: Due to the unprecedented situation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, beach shack owners will not be penalised if they have not erected shacks or not paid their licence fees during the ongoing tourism season, ports minister and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo told reporters on Thursday. The tourism department will waive off the relevant clauses of the beach shack policy in view of the pandemic, said Lobo and added that no beach shack licence would be cancelled. As per the beach shack policy, any beach shack licence holder who does not pay the licence fee or does not erect his beach shack within the stipulated time stands to lose his licence and gets blacklisted for three years, which means a shack owner is demoted from the ‘experienced’ to the ‘newcomers’ category. Some shack owners in the Calangute-Candolim beach belt have not yet erected their shacks as there have been no charter tourist arrivals this year and the footfalls of even domestic tourists have been poor. The shacks owners have maintained that erecting shacks in this situation was not viable. However, many have put up their shacks “just for the sake of it” to avoid being penalised by the tourism department. The Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS) had last week urged the state government to waive specific clauses of the beach shack policy because of the dismal tourism season. Earlier, the SOWS, anticipating a poor season, had urged the state government to reduce the beach shack licence fee by 50%. The previous season had also come to an abrupt end in March due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Following this, the tourism department had reduced the fee by 50% and had given shack owners time till December 31 to renew their licences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-penalty-if-shacks-not-set-up-this-season-ports-mantri/articleshow/79947676.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy to launch house sites distribution programme today||AMARAVATI: The stage has been set for the launch of house sites distribution programme across the state. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the distribution of house sites at U Kothapalli village in East Godavari district on Friday. All legislators have been asked to take part in the programme in their respective constituencies. Elaborate arrangements have been made for the distribution of house sites to nearly 30 lakh beneficiaries. The programme will be organised over the next fortnight as it involves distribution of documents to the poor. The government is also issuing sale agreement for Tidco houses to about 2.62 lakh beneficiaries. The chief minister has directed district collectors to issue assurance letters to the beneficiaries where the distribution of house sites was put on hold due to legal issues. Jagan had originally planned to launch the programme on Telugu New Year day (Ugadi) on March 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-mohan-reddy-to-launch-house-sites-distribution-programme-today/articleshow/79949422.cms||Samdani MN
December 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man’s two lovers get life imprisonment for his grisly murder||MUMBAI: Almost seven years after the mutilated body of a 50-year-old labourer was found on the terrace of a Chembur building with his head and private parts chopped off, a sessions court on Thursday convicted and sentenced two women and a man to life imprisonment for the murder. Among those sentenced are sisters-in-law Shankaribai Rathod and Shantabai Chavan. Both worked with the victim, Basu Rathod, and were romantically involved with him too. The third convicted, Shankar Rathod, is the women’s relative. Wage dues, ‘family honour’ behind foul murder of 2014He too got involved in the crime as he was sexually involved with both women as well. Additional sessions court judge Kishore M Jaiswal also fined the trio Rs 20,000 each. While Shankaribai and Shankar have been in jail since their arrests in 2014, Shantabai was granted bail. She was taken into custody after the verdict. Among the 18 witnesses examined by public prosecutor Iqbal Solkar were the victim’s son, police and medical officers. It was alleged the trio wanted to teach Basu a lesson as he had not paid them their dues for the labour work. The women’s kin also wanted him killed as his alleged sexual involvement with them had brought “dishonour” to their family. The prosecution submitted that on February 23, 2014, Shankaribai asked the victim to come to the terrace of the building. It was further submitted that Shankar and Shantabai hid on the terrace. The prosecution said Shankaribai and the victim soon got intimate and were in a compromising position when she attacked him with a sickle and severed his private parts and head. The victim’s son, Prakash Rathod, told the court in his deposition that on that day, his father had left home for some work but did not return. He said the family then began to look for him in nearby areas and subsequently his brother lodged a missing person’s complaint with the RCF police station. Prakash said two days later, his mother, two sisters, and he went to a colony in the neighbourhood looking for his father. He said his uncle and a cousin were also with them. Prakash recalled that when the cousin went to the terrace of one of the buildings, he saw a person lying on the terrace of another building. He said that when his uncle and cousin went to that building they identified the person as his father and told him about the mutilation. Prakash found the body and alongside it were an iron crowbar, a screwdriver and a wristwatch. The cops were then called and his statement was recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-mans-two-lovers-get-life-imprisonment-for-his-grisly-murder/articleshow/79949421.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Halal meat forbidden for Hindus, Sikhs: SDMC draft||NEW DELHI: The BJP-led South Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to make it mandatory for restaurants and meat shops in its jurisdiction to prominently display whether the meat they are serving is halal or jhatka. For good measure, the proposal states that consuming halal meat is “forbidden and against religion in Hinduism and Sikhism”. The standing committee of the civic body approved the proposal on Thursday. It will now go to the house where BJP has a majority. Standing committee chairperson Rajdutt Gahlot argued that the objective is to let the consumer know about the kind of meat being served, so that they can make an informed choice. “Right now, we have a situation in which a licence has been issued for one type of meat while something else is being sold,” he added. The resolution, moved by Chhattarpur councillor Anita Tanwar, was tabled by the medical relief and public health panel on November 9, 2020. ‘No intention to stop any form of meat’The resolution states that “thousands of restaurants are running in 104 wards of four zones falling under SDMC and meat is being served in 90% restaurants but it is not displayed by them whether…(it) is halal or jhatka.” A similar situation prevailed at meat shops, it adds. The resolution observes, “According to Hinduism and Sikhism, eating halal meat is forbidden and against religion... Therefore, the committee resolves that this direction be given to restaurants and meat shops that it should be written mandatorily about the meat being sold and served by them…that halal or jhatka meat is available here.” Most consumers usually do not bother to find out at a restaurant whether the meat is halal or jhatka. A civic body may ask for a declaration for consumers to make an informed choice but the invocation of religion in the proposal makes it somewhat prescriptive and presumptive. Tanwar said the intent behind the move was not to stop anyone from eating one form of meat. “This is not to ban one form of the meat or the other. The change is to respect religious sentiments. Everyone is free to eat the kind of meat they want. Hindus don’t like to eat halal meat. If we put up a board at each restaurant, people will know what kind of meat is being served to them,” she added. All eateries have to obtain an annual health trade licence from the corporation and the councillors want the condition to be part of that process. There are more than 2,000 eateries in south Delhi. An SDMC official said if the proposal goes through, enforcement may be difficult as eateries will be reluctant to adopt it. “If they mention one type of meat, some people may avoid it. Who would want to lose business?” he asked. In the last couple of years, the civic bodies have been obsessed with proposals regarding meat. A few months back, the east corporation had passed a resolution stating that meat shops should not be allowed among the 24 trades permitted in residential lanes in DDA’s new master plan. In August 2018, it had cleared a similar proposal to make halal-jhatka boards mandatory. Watch Mandatory to display whether meat is halal or jhatka: SDMC proposal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/halal-meat-forbidden-for-hindus-sikhs-sdmc-draft/articleshow/79949435.cms||Paras Singh
December 25, 2020||Goa||For better jobs, GU offers 6-month computer courses||Panaji: Goa University is offering a six-month certificate programme in computer fundamentals for those with Class XII qualification, to improve their employability in the job market. GU said the course has been designed in consultation with the industry. Similarly, the university will also be offering a 12-month diploma in advanced instruments, gadgets and appliances. “Admissions to the certificate programme shall be based on the entrance test. The minimum qualification required is a Higher Secondary School Certificate in any stream such as arts, commerce, science and vocational. The last date for submission of application is January 8, 2021, at 6pm,” GU has said, calling for application submission through the online mode on the Goa University portal. The entrance test will be held on the University website by January 12, 2021, and the merit list will be declared by January 14 on the GU portal. The fee per semester will be Rs 4,000 and the programme will commence from January 20, the varsity said. “Credit (30 per semester) based course structure. Supports National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) and National Education Policy 2020 vocational education,” GU stated. For selection for the programme, 50% weightage will be given to the students’ HSSC score and 50% to their performance at the entrance test. The advanced instruments, gadgets and appliances curriculum will see flexible delivery mechanism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-better-jobs-gu-offers-6-month-computer-courses/articleshow/79947783.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 25, 2020||Goa||Voluntarily undergo Covid testing: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday appealed to travellers who have come to Goa from the UK to voluntarily undergo a RT-PCR test for Covid-19 and requested them to remain in isolation until the results are received. He said that the state government has not taken any decision on imposing night curfew in Goa. The administration has started identifying the people who have arrived in the state from the UK and as per the new standard operating procedure issued by the ministry of home affairs, those travellers have to compulsorily undergo a RT-PCR test, Sawant told reporters. “Even if the results are negative, they should remain in isolation and can even go for another round of testing,” Sawant said. The passengers who have come from the UK in the last six days are being monitored, he said. Sawant urged the travellers to undergo these tests in their interest and as well as that of the state. He said that the samples have been sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, for further examination. More than 900 travellers who landed in Goa from the UK between December 9 and 20 will be subjected to RT-PCR tests and most of the them are based in South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/voluntarily-undergo-covid-testing-cm/articleshow/79947818.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 25, 2020||World||6.2-magnitude earthquake rocks Philippines: USGS||MANILA: A 6.2-magnitude earthquake rocked the Philippines Friday, the US Geological Survey said, with residents in the capital Manila reporting buildings shaking but there were no immediate reports of damage. The quake struck in Batangas province on the main island of Luzon at a depth of 108 kilometres (67 miles) at 7:43 am local time (2343 GMT), according to USGS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/6-2-magnitude-earthquake-rocks-philippines-usgs/articleshow/79949431.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Rabindranath Tagore’s vision doesn’t gel with bigotry, cow vigilantism: TMC||KOLKATA: The Trinamool Congress has expressed “surprise” at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s sudden “enthusiasm” to establish the connect that Rabindranath Tagore and his family had with Modi’s home state, Gujarat. “Tagore is not just Bengal’s poet. He is a visva kavi (world poet). Why is the PM trying to confine Tagore to a particular region?” Bengal science and technology minister Bratya Basu said hours after the PM’s virtual Visva-Bharati speech on Thursday. Basu referred to Tagore’s novels and essays to assert that the bard’s world vision was more open and much above religious bigotry, narrow nationalism and “cow vigilantism”. “Will the PM take responsibility for the cow vigilantes who are killing people?” he asked. Basu read out extracts from Tagore’s writings, where the poet criticised the narrow use of religion. “Tagore, at times, sounds like an atheist though he was a believer with his philosophy of humanism rooted in the Upanishad. Tagore in his essay, ‘HinduMusalman’, also frets over the influence that religion has over people’s lives. And, in his novel, ‘Gora’, the protagonist follows aggressive Hindu nationalism but finds he has Irish lineage,” Basu said. ‘PM belittling Kolkata & Bengal’Then, in a nod to the phenomenon of majoritarian politics making inroads among the bhadralok, he cited another Tagore novel, ‘Ghare Bhaire’, to argue how “artificial nationalism” intoxicated people, adding: “Tagore’s alter ego, Nikhilesh, in ‘Ghare Bhaire’ talks about the bigger truth of a life based on brotherhood.” Basu also accused the PM of “belittling” Kolkata and Bengal. “He referred to the contributions of universities in Delhi and Lahore to the freedom struggle. But he did not name Calcutta University. He did not name Jadavpur University that has its roots in the National Council of Bengal. He now names Khudiram Basu and Prafulla Chaki. But he ignored the long list of freedom fighters sent to Andaman Cellular Jail and named it after V R Savarkar,” Basu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tagores-vision-doesnt-gel-with-bigotry-cow-vigilantism-tmc/articleshow/79948667.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Hills parties eye ST tag for 11 Nepali groups before Bengal polls||Jalpaiguri: Hills outfits across political camps have long been seeking Scheduled Tribe status for 11 “left out” Nepali communities. They now want the BJP-led government at the Centre to deliver. Representatives of GNLF, Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), All India Gorkha League (AIGL) and others, who met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi recently, expect a decision ahead of the Bengal assembly polls. They fear that Gorkha leader Bimal Gurung, who has switched loyalty and is supporting chief minister Mamata Banerjee, will corner BJP and its allies on the ground that the state government had sent a favourable recommendation to the Centre six years ago. GNLF spokesperson Mahendra Chettri and CPRM’s Kishor Pradhan claimed that the Centre would make an announcement before the polls. However, the proposal is still lying with the Registrar General of India (RGI). “The RGI and the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes have to concur on the state proposal before the same goes as an amendment into a legislation,” Pradhan said. BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, who met junior home minister G Kishan Reddy on Thursday, said: “The MHA is in touch with the RGI and has requested the latter to expedite the process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hills-parties-eye-st-tag-for-11-nepali-groups-before-bengal-polls/articleshow/79948857.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||PM Modi stresses Rabindranath Tagore’s Gujarat connect, vision of self-reliance||SANTINIKETAN: Rabindranath Tagore’s vision for Visva-Bharati was based on the concept of “atmanirbhar Bharat”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday at a virtual meet to celebrate Visva-Bharati’s centenary, seeking to find commonality between his own slogan of “atmanirbharata” and Tagore’s dream of a self-reliant India. Tagore’s idea of nationalism was also about cultural plurality and not isolationism, Modi reminded the audience, extolling Bengal’s sac-rifice for India’s freedom and self-respect and alluding to Tagore’s Gujarat connect. The PM’s speech, which quoted from Tagore’s writings, came four days after Union home minister Amit Shah’s political rally in Santiniketan. Shah, too, had spoken of Tagore’s Gujarat connect as he sought to deflect the Trinamool Congress’s barbs at the BJP’s Bengal unit’s “complete dependence on outsiders”. Shah has also declared that the next CM of Bengal would be from the BJP and a “bhoomiputra” as several BJP leaders, including former Trinamool minister Suvendu Adhikari, have repeatedly questioned the Trinamool narrative of trying to paint the BJP’s national leadership as “outsiders”. “Look at the name of your institution: Visva-Bharati. It is the confluence of Mother India with the world. Gurudev’s vision was one of plurality. This also forms the basis of self-reliance. Atmanirbhar Bharat also strives to achieve global welfare making our nation better,” the PM said. History is witness to that the fact that a strong, self-reliant India has always helped the world community,” the PM said, adding: “Our development is not in isolation. Gurudev, too, spoke of self-empowerment. Gurudev’s nationalism is evident in the manner in which he integrated India’s cultures, its practices to give shape to Viva-Bharati. And, in doing this, he also gave impetus to global friendship.” Modi also referred to how Bengal fought for India’s self-respect and named Khudiram Bose and Prafulla Chaki, who gave up their lives in their teens for the nation’s independence, also alluding to the sacrifices of Bina Das and Pritilata Waddedar. “We need to fulfil their dream of India, a self-reliant India,” he said. Modi took into account that Pous Mela would not be held this year. “This is the third time in the institution’s 100-year-old history that Pous Mela is not being held,” he said, urging students to reach out to artisans and help them market their products to a larger world-wide audience through social media tools. “I cannot help but remember Gurudev’s connect with Gujarat. We should always remember this as it imbibes us with the thought of ek Bharat-shresth Bharat (one India-best India). It shows how we can learn from our differences,” Modi said, adding: “When (Gurudev’s elder brother) Satyendranath Tagore was in the ICS and was posted in Gujarat, Gurudev would often visit him and stay there for long periods.” Modi also referred to how Satyendranath Tagore’s wife, Jnanadanandini Devi, helped local Gujarati women drape their sarees in a way so that they could work, stressing on the need to learn from different cultures. Wasn’t invited, says Mamata BanerjeeChief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said she wasn’t invited to the Visva-Bharati centenary celebrations. “I do have an office. Where did they send the invite? I received no invite, not even a call,” she said in response to reporters’ queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/modi-stresses-tagores-gujarat-connect-vision-of-self-reliance/articleshow/79948591.cms||Someswar Boral
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta HC appoints panel for Maidan upkeep, orders urgent clean-up||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court on Thursday set up a committee to draw up a blueprint on the Maidan’s upkeep. As an immediate measure, it also directed the authorities to take prompt steps to keep the city’s lungs litter-free during the year-end rush. The court will hear the matter again after a fortnight. The division bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee had on Monday directed the filing of a suo motu public interest litigation on the filth and litter in the Maidan and illegal parking around it. The court-appointed panel will consist of state advocate general Kishor Datta and additional solicitor general Y J Dastur. The two will take the help of relevant state government departments and the Army to devise a plan to clean and maintain the Brigade Parade Ground and the extended greens, including the areas around club tents and extending up to Shahid Minar to the north, Fort William to the west, Chowringhee to the east and Circular Road to the south. While the Army is the custodian of the Maidan, the state PWD is entrusted with its daily upkeep, including sweeping the roads and flanks. In winter, the agency hires labourers to clean the litter. NGOs and schools have also participated in clean-up drives in the past. Urging better coordination between the Army and PWD to ensure that the city’s lungs remain clean and healthy, the court also urged Kolkata Police to help safeguard the environment during the winter when a large number of people flock to the Maidan. High court praises prompt police action after notice“Since this is the best season for Kolkatans and others to use the Brigade Parade Ground, the state will make every endeavour to keep the grounds clean, make snack-vendors aware of the need to maintain a degree of hygiene and cleanliness and even make public announcements so that visitors do not litter the grounds. Adequate garbage bins may be placed at strategic points to ensure that paper plates and the like are not thrown across the grass,” the HC order states. With Covid restrictions curtailing footfall at other entertainment zones, visitor count at the Maidan has shot up this year resulting in increased presence of hawkers and food vendors and consequently generating more waste. In the absence of adequate waste bins, discarded cups, plates, packaged water bottles and polythene bags are now strewn across the greens. The court also directed prompt cleaning of horse droppings in the Maidan and the roads around it. Horse-drawn carriages meant for joyrides are usually stationed on adjacent roads and the owners often let the animals loose on the greens. Expressing its happiness over prompt police action to free the area of parking after the court issued notices to the Army and state government on the matter, the division bench observed: “Noticeable change in and around the Maidan area over the last two days could not have been missed by anyone driving through the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-appoints-panel-for-maidan-upkeep-orders-urgent-clean-up/articleshow/79948097.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal won’t stand attacks on icons like Amartya Sen: CM Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: Bengal will not tolerate attacks on its icons, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday while appealing to the state’s intellectuals to rise in protest against the “disrespect and lies” being peddled against people “who are revered in every Bengali household”. The CM’s sharp reaction came over reports that Visva-Bharati had written to the Bengal government on land encroachment, including a land parcel of several decimals belonging to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen. “On behalf of Bengal, I apologise to you Amartya da for this. I have a deep personal respect for him. Not just me, he is respected across the world,” Banerjee said. “Bengal will not tolerate an attack on its icons,” she continued. “Amartya Sen is a Nobel laureate; he brought us global recognition. Every Bengali household reveres him, respects him. He took Bengal to the world. Do you really believe he will encroach on land in Santiniketan to stay? As far as I know, his family has been there for seven to eight decades. His family has deep links with Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore.” Sen was named Amartya by Tagore. His maternal grandfather, Kshiti Mohan Sen, worked closely with Tagore and was also VB’s vice-chancellor. Sen’s father Ashutosh Sen, a former Bengal Public Service Commission chairperson, too had worked in Santiniketan. “These are people who were blessed with Gurudev’s proximity,” Banerjee said. “They (BJP) desecrate Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar’s statue. They say Gurudev was born in Santiniketan. They want to change the history and geography of Bengal,” she added. “Those who are saying such things, what were they doing all these days? What do they know of Bengal? They have no right to insult Amartya Sen. Because he is ideologically opposed to BJP, he is being accused of encroachment for setting up hawkers at his Pratichi home. Insulting Amartya Sen is insulting Bengal. I apologise to him again,” the CM said. Continuing her attack on BJP, Banerjee said: “They think attacking Mamata Banerjee is easy. She is a simple neighbourhood woman, so she can be abused. I ignore this. For I know, at the end of the day I will win. But now, to attack me, they are attacking Bengal’s icons. We want answers, inch by inch.” “I appeal to Bengal’s intellectuals: we need to rise in protest. Protest in whatever medium you can,” she further said. “I will go to Bolpur on December 28-29 and will seek all answers. Why wasn’t Pous Mela held? A few people there are trying to spread their rabid ideology. But this is temporary. Santiniketan is a century-old institution that has withstood several storms. This too shall pass. This is only for a few days because their days are numbered,” Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-bengal-wont-stand-attacks-on-icons-like-amartya/articleshow/79948719.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool will come second in all 34 Midnapore seats: Suvendu Adhikari||KANTHI: In his new avatar, Suvendu Adhikari hit home turf Kanthi with a bang, giving BJP a home-grown slogan — ‘Hare Krishna Hare Hare, BJP Ghare Ghare’ — that would touch the Vaishnavites in East Midnapore more than the party’s central ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan. Suvendu’s next big rally is at Nandigram on January 8, a day after Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee holds a public meeting there. “I know the CM will tell many things about me in Nandigram on January 7. I will give my reply the next day. I approached BJP Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and have got the go-ahead to hold the Nandigram rally,” he said. Prior to this, the new BJP leader will hold a public meeting at West Midnapore’s Dantan on December 27. On Thursday, people thronged the 5km BJP Yuva Morcha roadshow at Kanthi town. “Trinamool will come second in all 34 assembly seats in the two Midnapores in the coming polls. BJP will be the first party. I won’t rest without blooming lotus in the state,” Suvendu said on Thursday, adding that BJP will get more than 200 seats from Bengal. BJP leaders Jayprakash Majumdar and Soumitra Khan accompanied him on the roadshow. Buoyant with the turnout, the new BJP leader hit back at Trinamool seniors Saugata Roy and Firhad Hakim, who criticised from a rally at Kanthi on Wednesday. “Let the man set his eyes on the television set and watch the rally,” he said, without naming Hakim. Responding to Roy who called him a traitor, Suvendu said: “People living in glass houses shouldn’t throw stones at others. He didn’t do the right thing by divulging discussions in an internal meeting. I won’t do that because it is unethical.” Suvendu’s father and Trinamool’s Sisir Adhikari led from all seven assembly segments under Kanthi Lok Sabha seat in 2019. BJP finished second. Trinamool now faces the challenge of retaining the seats while Suvendu is determined to wrest all seats in East Midnapore. “BJP has a strong presence in Kanthi. Now, BJP will be the first party,” Suvendu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-trinamool-will-come-2nd-in-all-34-midnapore-seats/articleshow/79948868.cms||Suman Mandal
December 25, 2020||Vadodara||Suicide victim from Gujarat gives hope to seven||VADODARA: Losing hope she ended her life, but this 17-year-old Class XI student from Halol has ensured that critically ill patients don’t despair. In the first case of organ donation by a suicide victim, heart, lungs, liver, kidneys and eyes of this brain dead girl were given for transplantation in needy patients in Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad, on Thursday. Nandani Shah, whose parents run a beauty parlour in Halal town, was admitted to the city-based Savita Hospital on December 19 after she consumed poison. She breathed her last on Wednesday evening. “Nandani was brought in a serious condition. She underwent treatment for five days, but we couldn’t save her. After brief counselling by doctors, her family agreed to donate her organs,” said Dr Tarang Sharma, medical administrator, Savita Hospital. Dr Pranjal Modi, convenor of State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (SOTTO), said, “This is the first instance of organ donation from a suicide attempt with poison consumption. We were apprehensive about the liver getting affected by organophosphorus compound. But we could successfully retrieve the organs as they were not affected by the poison.” This is the first time that heart and lungs have been donated in Vadodara. The heart has been taken to AIIMS , Delhi and lungs to a private hospital in Mumbai. It will take some time to match the recipient’s blood samples with the donor’s organs to decide in whom they will be transplanted. Her liver was transplanted into a 55-year-old man who was suffering from organ failure while the eyes were given to Baroda Medical College. “This has opened a new direction in organ donations as the majority of them from the accident or fall victims or those in medical settings,” said Dr Modi. “When the doctors declared my daughter brain dead, we were traumatized. But after some discussions within our family and with the doctors, I decided to donate her organs,” said Krima Shah, who was inconsolable. On Thursday, the city police made a green corridor to ensure that the organs reached the airport quickly. Nandani was a student of VM School in Halol and was a brilliant student. “She always wanted to become a beautician,” said Krima. “I had decided to donate my vital organs and help the needy after my death. But I never thought that someday I will have to donate my daughter’s organs. I pray that those who receive Nandani’s organs live a long and healthy life,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/suicide-victim-gives-hope-to-seven/articleshow/79945469.cms||Tushar Tere
December 25, 2020||Mumbai||Body of woman found in bag at Malad’s Aksa beach, no ID yet||MUMBAI: The body of a young woman who was murdered was found stuffed in a gunny bag at Malad’s Aksa beach on Thursday. The body was decomposed and the police suspect that it might have been in the bag for three to four days. An autopsy will establish the cause of death. While her identity has not been established yet, the police are verifying whether her description matches that of a woman reported missing from Kandivli (E) earlier this month. Around 9.30 am on Thursday, the Malwani police were informed about a gunny bag that had surfaced in the water at Aksa beach, near INS Hamla. When the police found a woman in her mid-twenties in the gunny bag, they rushed her to the hospital. Doctors told the police that the woman had a tattoo on her left arm, which might help them identify her. She was also wearing a necklace made of red beads and a mangalsutra. “Her face was disfigured beyond recognition, so we will take some time to positively confirm her identity. It is not clear yet if the gunny bag was dumped at Aksa beach itself or floated there from another water body,” said a police officer. A case of murder has been registered. The police are checking with other police stations if a woman in her mid-twenties was reported missing. At Samta Nagar, a domestic help was reported missing on December 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/body-of-woman-found-in-bag-at-malads-aksa-beach-no-id-yet/articleshow/79949444.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||Farmers may soon receive DBT for fertiliser purchase||NEW DELHI: The reliance on the technology to identify and transfer scholarship money to four crore students belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC) have brightened the prospect of government using the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) route also for depositing subsidy into the accounts of farmers. Sources in the government said the ambitious DBT for fertiliser is also expected to roll out soon, offering direct subsidy transfer into the accounts of farmers instead of handing over the funds to manufacturers, whose bills are often tough to verify. This year’s fertiliser subsidy bills adds up to over Rs 71,000 crore. The scholarship for Dalit students cleared by cabinet committee on economic affairs is to be conducted through online platform, with states tasked to conduct a robust verification of potential beneficiaries, using Aadhaar, while providing bank account details on the portal. The tool is seen to be both foolproof and faster in handing out the benefits, something that the government deployed effectively to hand out assistance during the Covid-19 lockdown. The Centre sees DBT as the route to marginalise the bureaucracy and intermediaries, who would routinely pocket a chunk of the subsidy and assistance. “Dalit students were particularly vulnerable to the extortion rampant in the exploitative and insensitive offices of welfare offices,” said an official who was involved in designing the scheme for the disbursement of schemes worth Rs 59,000 crore among students across states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-may-soon-receive-dbt-for-fertiliser-purchase/articleshow/79949434.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||Academicians write to PMO in support of new farm laws||BENGALURU: At a time when the protest against the central government’s three new farm laws is getting support from various quarters across the globe, a group of academicians from top institutions in the country has written to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) supporting the legislations. In the letter written early last week, the academicians say “this moment should not be missed”. The letter reads: “This is a golden opportunity for reforms, which have been eluding agriculture since the industrial reform in 1991. We are convinced that the moment has arrived for agriculture and if these reforms are missed, agriculture will have no future in India.” The letter has been written by 34 academicians from Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore, Indian Institute of Technology-Madras and Roorkee, Indian Institute of Science and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, among others. These academicians believe the laws will usher in better price discovery mechanisms, which will ultimately help farmers as well as end-consumers. By giving autonomy to farmers to trade their produce, the legislations will free them from the clutches of middlemen, they say in the letter. “It places the power of the market in the hands of farmers, small and large, and our farmers are far more intelligent than what critics would credit them with. If they still want to sell to the government in the mandis and at MSP, they are at liberty to do so. These laws will make the market transparent and leave no scope for any rent-seeking behaviour. Information technology will completely transform the way the market will be played,” the letter reads. G Ramesh, professor, Center for Public Policy at IIMB, who has signed the letter, told TOI: “The government is sensitive to the two main issues of MSP and continuation of mandis. The farmers can offer suggestions for operationalising the alleviating measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/academicians-write-to-pmo-in-support-of-new-farm-laws/articleshow/79949488.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
December 25, 2020||India||Ambala SP shifted after black flag row||Two days after Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar was shown black flags in Ambala and vehicles in his convoy attacked by farm union activists, the state government on Thursday shunted out Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia. The government appointed Hamid Akhtar, a 2008-batch IPS officer serving as SP (security) CID, as the new SP of Ambala. Kalia, a state police service officer, has been posted as SP (security) CID. On Tuesday, BKU (Charuni) activists protested against Khattar during his visit to the city to address meetings for the civic body elections. On Wednesday, the district administration charged 13 people with "attempt to murder" and "rioting".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ambala-sp-shifted-after-black-flag-row/articleshow/79949502.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: 11 months after death of three-year-old, mother arrested for murder||CHENNAI: Nearly eleven months after a three-year-old boy with learning difficulties died, police on Wednesday arrested his mother on charges of murder in Korukkupet. Police said that the accused, Nadiya, 33, and her husband Sakthivel, 34, are residents of Ilaya Street in Korukkupet. After Nadiya's first child died, she gave birth to a boy, Ishanth, four years ago. As the child was differently abled and also had learning difficulties she was upset and even told her neighbours that it was difficult for them to bring him up, said police. On January 25, Nadiya admitted her son to the Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital after telling doctors there that Ishanth had tripped and fallen down while playing. On January 28, Ishanth died on his injuries. Since doctors at the hospital raised no suspicion over the death of the boy, the family took Ishanth’s body. But since the boy died due to a fall, police registered a case of suspicious death and the body was sent for postmortem. After receiving the postmortem report, police found that the boy had not started walking due to nervous disorder and determined that it would have been impossible for him to have sustained an injury while playing. They then questioned Nadiya who confessed to killing him by smashing his head against a wall as she was unable to take care of him. Police altered the case to murder and picked up Nadiya on Wednesday. A court later sent her to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-11-months-after-death-of-three-year-old-mother-arrested-for-murder/articleshow/79949514.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Vadodara||Jail inmate booked for hunger strike in protest of quarantine||Vadodara: A murder convict from Ahmedabad lodged in Vadodara Central Jail was booked for observing a hunger strike in protest of the move of quarantining him in jail. Anil alias Anno Purabiya and several other inmates of barrack one in yard 5 were placed under quarantine after one of the prisoners from same barrack tested positive for Covid-19. According to jail officials, while other prisoners did not object, Purabiya intermittently objected and violated quarantine norms. He also started avoiding food and on December 22 evening he told jail staff that he is observing a hunger strike. The jail authorities shifted him to the jail hospital, however, he continued to observe his strike. As Purabiya continued his demands, the jail authorities lodged an offence at Raopura police station. Purabiya was convicted for murder by Ahmedabad sessions court in 2008 and in April 2019 he was transferred to Vadodara Central Jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/jail-inmate-booked-for-hunger-strike-in-protest-of-quarantine/articleshow/79945478.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Noida||Another farmers’ outfit moves apex court||NOIDA: The Bharatiya Kisan Union-Lokshakti, the farmers’ outfit protesting at Dalit Prerna Sthal, has moved the Supreme Court for impleadment in the petition that is being heard against the Centre’s three new farming laws. Earlier, the BKU-Bhanu, which is leading the protests at Chilla border, had also moved the Supreme Court, seeking impleadment. RJD MP Manoj Jha, DMK MP Nadu Tiruchi Siva and Rakesh Vaishnav of Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress have moved the SC, contending that the three laws are unconstitutional. The BKU-Lokshakti petition, which contends the laws would make farmers vulnerable to “corporate greed”, goes on to add, “These laws would dismantle the agriculture produce market committee (APMC) system intended to ensure fair prices for farm products.” The plea was filed on Thursday through advocate AP Singh, who had also moved the SC on behalf of BKU-Bhanu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/another-farmers-outfit-moves-apex-court/articleshow/79949532.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 25, 2020||India||Rahul, Singh once backed FDI in farm sector: BJP||New Delhi: On the day when a Congress delegation called on President Ram Nath Kovind against three farm laws, BJP termed the opposition party’s allegations “baseless and illogical” and also shared purported videos of former PM Manmohan Singh, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi hard-selling FDI in retail as means to empower farmers sell their produce directly, increase storage and decrease wastage. Citing videos of the Congress leaders - from Manmohan Singh to Sonia and Rahul, supporting FDI in agriculture and asking for doing away with middlemen, BJP said they are proof of the opposition party's hypocrisy in opposing what they had proposed to do while in power. Talking to media, party spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi took a swipe at Gandhi calling him "perpetually young, disenchanted, frustrated and agitated" and said his "baseless and illogical" broadside against the government is in line with his nature. In the video, Congress working president Sonia Gandhi is heard saying farmers will get better price for their products only if they sell directly in markets without involvement of " bichaulias" (middlemen). “Farmer can get right prices only when he can sell his produce directly without middlemen,” Sonia is heard saying at a public gathering. Both Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi are heard making strong advocacy of FDI in the farm sector saying it will not only fetch better prices for farmers but will also save produce from damages. Terming allegations against the Centre as “baseless and illogical”, BJP challenged Rahul Gandhi for an open debate on what Congress did for farmers’ welfare when in power and what the Modi government has done for them. Union minister Prakash Javadekar accused Congress of ignoring farmers’ interests and keeping them poor to ensure cheap grain prices, and asserted that the Modi government empowered them by implementing the Swaminathan Commission report to give them remunerative prices through MSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-singh-once-backed-fdi-in-farm-sector-bjp/articleshow/79949529.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||Rahul, Cong netas meet Prez, seek withdrawal of farm laws||New Delhi: Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury met President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday and sought the withdrawal of the recently-enacted controversial farm laws even as party leaders were prevented from taking out a march to Rashtrapati Bhawan. Submitting a memorandum to the President, which Congress said was backed by signatures from nearly 2 crore farmers in the country, Rahul Gandhi said the laws were “anti-farmer”, would make them suffer huge losses and would also threaten India’s food security. The Congress delegation also said all opposition parties stood with the farmers protesting on Delhi borders for nearly a month. Speaking to the media outside Rashtrapati Bhavan, Rahul Gandhi said, “You have an incompetent man running the system on behalf of three-four other people who understand everything.” He said the system of agriculture was being destroyed and anyone opposing the PM was deemed a "terrorist”. “I want to tell the Prime Minister that these farmers are not going to go back home until the laws are repealed. The government should convene a joint session of Parliament and take back the laws,” Gandhi said. On Thursday morning, a Congress contingent of 78 leaders comprising Members of Parliament, Congress Working Committee members, and PCC presidents from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Rajasthan attempted to march to Rashtrapati Bhavan to demand withdrawal of the farm laws. However, leaders including general secretaries Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and K C Venugopal, Kumari Shelja, Kudeep Bishnoi and Randeep Singh Surjewala were detained for a few hours for violating prohibitory orders. Reacting to the government’s preventing Congress leaders from marching, Rahul Gandhi said, “India is walking on a dangerous path. Being detained, beaten is a norm for this government. There is no democracy in India. It is in one’s imagination, not in reality.” Priyanka said it is the government’s duty to listen to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-cong-netas-meet-prez-seek-withdrawal-of-farm-laws/articleshow/79949542.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||Kerala gold case: ED attaches 1.9cr assets||New Delhi: Kerala-UAE gold smuggling case, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs 1.9 crore, which includes Rs 1 crore belonging to M Sivasankar, former principal secretary of Kerala chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan. “The ED has provisionally attached fixed deposits along with seized cash recovered from the bank lockers totalling to Rs 1.85 crore in the Kerala gold smuggling case. Amongst the attached assets, Rs 1 crore belongs to M Sivasankar, IAS, former principal secretary to CM of Kerala,” the agency claimed on Thursday. The money laundering probe is based on a first information report (FIR) registered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Kochi against Sarith P S, Swapna Suresh, Faisal Fareed and Sandeep Nair after customs officials seized 30kg gold worth Rs 14.82 crore at the Trivandrum International Airport on July 5 this year. The seized gold was camouflaged as diplomatic baggage to UAE consulate, which enjoys immunity from checking at airport as per Vienna convention, the ED said. The anti-money laundering agency has arrested M Sivasankar, who is presently in judicial custody, and its probe revealed alleged kickbacks received by the IAS officer in several other state government projects. The ED has questioned Swapna Suresh where the latter has told the investigating officers that money seized in bank lockers were those of the IAS officer and she was merely acting as per his directives. The money trail in the Kerala-UAE gold smuggling case has embroiled the office of Kerala CM with the ED tracking alleged payoffs of Rs 4 crore in the CM’s pet project Life Mission — a housing scheme for the flood displaced and landless citizens. Sivasankar has been questioned on the alleged bribes received in the Life Mission project and contract awarded to Kochi-based Unitac builders, according to sources. The huge cash is alleged to be part of the payoffs deposited in the bank account jointly operated by gold scam main accused Swapna Suresh and Sivasankar’s chartered accountant Venugopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-gold-case-ed-attaches-1-9cr-assets/articleshow/79949572.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sets 2-day target for testing UK fliers||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Thursday set a target of two days for tracing, surveillance and testing of all travelers who arrived from the UK in the last four weeks. A total of 3,322 people from Punjab have returned from the UK from November 25 till December 23, of these 1,822 arrived at the Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport and 1,550 at Guru Ram Dass Ji International Airport, Amritsar. Of 1,550 passengers landing at Amritsar, the Airport Authority of India has shared details of 709 passengers with the Punjab government and the details of remaining 841 passengers are yet to be shared. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said 262 travellers, who arrived from the UK on December 21-23, were kept under observation and 8 of them tested positive and are under treatment. Samples of these patients will be sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune for genomic sequencing. Those who arrived in first 2 weeks to be monitoredSidhu divulged that 216 contacts of these passengers have been identified and traced and are being put under quarantine. Tracing of remaining contacts is being carried out on war footing so as to ensure the safety of people in Punjab. He said that civil surgeons were also instructed to submit the report of all travelers to the state headquarters by December 27. Instructions have already been issued to all deputy commissioners and civil surgeons regarding surveillance and testing of passengers travelling from or transiting through the United Kingdom. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said people who arrived in the first two weeks of the said period will be put on surveillance for another two weeks while passengers who arrived in the last two weeks will be tested as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) framed by the central government for epidemiological surveillance and response for new variant Covid virus detected in the United Kingdom. Those who will test positive will be sent to institutional isolation facilities while those testing negative will have to stay in home isolation for two weeks. All the contacts of travellers who test positive will be subjected to institutional quarantine in separate quarantine centres and will be tested as per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. On December 23, one infected passenger had managed to reach Ludhiana from Delhi, sending the local administration, the Centre and state health authorities into tizzy. The passenger, who is a resident of Amritsar, was sent back to Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punbaj-sets-2-day-target-for-testing-uk-fliers/articleshow/79949585.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||Indian History Congress put off due to Covid||NEW DELHI: The 81st session of the Indian History Congress, scheduled for December 28-30, has been indefinitely postponed due to the pandemic. Instead, an online event will be held on December 28 and 29. The IHC on Thursday stated that in view of the importance of the institution in raising issues of crucial academic and national importance, it has been decided to hold an online event – Professor S C Mishra Memorial Lecture. The lecture will be delivered by historian Prof Mridula Mukherjee on ‘Punjab Kisan Protests: A Legacy of Heroic Non-Violent Resistance’ on December 28. Prof Kesavan Veluthat, the general president-elect for the 81st session, will chair the event. A webinar on ‘Indian Civilization: Historical Perspectives’ will also be held online on December 28 and 29. The inaugural address will be delivered by historian Prof Irfan Habib and chaired by current general president Prof Amiya Bagchi. Other speakers at the webinar include Aditya Mukherjee, Shireen Moosvi, K M Shrimali, Rajan Gurukkal, Deepak Kumar, Kumkum Roy, Syed Ali Nadeem Rezavi, Sucheta Mahajan and Selva Kumar. The event will be live-streamed on YouTube and also Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-history-congress-put-off-due-to-covid/articleshow/79949589.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Delhi||Magnitude-2.3 earthquake hits Delhi's Nangloi||NEW DELHI: A low-intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.3 hit Delhi's Nangloi on Friday morning, the National Centre for Seismology said. The quake occurred at 5.02am at a depth of 5 kilometres.  The epicentre was located at Latitude 28.7 N and Longitude 77.04 E. On December 18, an earthquake of medium intensity of magnitude 4.2 hit Rajasthan's Alwar, with its tremors being felt in Delhi-NCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/magnitude-2-3-earthquake-hits-delhis-nangloi/articleshow/79949583.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Nashik||167 in Maharashtra Police Academy test positive for Covid since December 16, 35 recover||NASHIK: A total of 165 cadets and two trainers at the Maharashtra Police Academy (MPA) have tested positive for Covid-19 since December 16 and 132 cadets are currently being treated at different Covid care centres in the city. Highly-placed sources at the academy said that 33 cadets and the two trainers have recovered from the disease while the remaining cadets are on the path to recovery. Aswati Dorje, the director of MPA, confirmed that 132 cadets are under treatment, saying that their condition is stable. “All of them are asymptomatic. There is nothing to worry about them,” she told TOI. The academy, located in the heart of Nashik city, is equipped with modern facilities and trains officers. Sources at the academy said that Dorje has apprised the police headquarters in Mumbai about the development. “Presently, 669 cadets are undergoing a one-year training for sub-inspectors that was to conclude next month. It will, however, be delayed as many cadets are yet to recover from Covid to join the outdoor training,” said the academy sources. An academy source said, “The outdoor training programme, which is a part of the curriculum, started on November 19 but had to be stopped on December 16, when two cadets tested positive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/167-in-maharashtra-police-academy-test-positive-for-covid-since-december-16-35-recover/articleshow/79949590.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 25, 2020||India||Kerala to seek guv nod again for session||The Kerala cabinet has once again recommended a special assembly session on December 31 to discuss the farmer agitation. The state government had earlier decided to convene an assembly session on December 23 but the request was turned down by the governor. Following a cabinet meeting on Thursday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state is concerned about the crisis faced by the farmers and hence, the state government believes that such a public issue should be discussed in the state assembly. “It is an emergency situation, with the farmers’ agitation not ebbing. Kerala will be affected too. Hence, it is necessary to discuss ways to overcome a crisis, if and when it happens” said the CM. tnn “In a parliamentary system, the governor does not usually turn down a request for convening an assembly session. The agenda of the meeting was informed well in advance to the governor. It is the assembly which decides what has to be discussed inside the House,’’ said Vijayan. Meanwhile, Kerala Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan said, “The governor should take the state government into confidence when such a request is presented before him. In a democratic system, the government has the authority to seek the governor’s nod for convening an assembly session. The democratically elected assembly should be given the responsibility to decide on issues that have to be discussed and when. The governor can seek clarification, if need be,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-to-seek-guv-nod-again-for-session/articleshow/79949601.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Louis Kahn-designed iconic IIM-Ahmedabad dorms set to be razed||AHMEDABAD: More than a dozen iconic buildings at Indian Institute of Management - Ahmedabad (IIM-A), designed by the famous American architect late Louis Kahn, will soon pave way for new structures after plans to restore and rehabilitate fell apart. As many as 14 dormitories, out of 18, made of exposed bricks, domes and arches by the acclaimed architect will be pulled down as plans to restore them apparently failed to yield desired results. “Our hearts have been ripped open while taking the call of doing all it takes to preserve the plaza of the library, the faculty wings, and the class rooms, and the dorms on the edges of the complex so that we do not lose a gift bestowed on us. For a few of the dorms, however, there will be a new history that we will strive to have in a relationship of continuity with the surrounding buildings of Kahn rather than otherwise,” wrote IIM-A director Errol D’Souza in a letter to the alumni. Dorms accommodate 500 studentsThe letter by IIM-A director Errol D’Souza, dated December 23, came only a day before the December 24 deadline for submission for expression of interest (EOI) invited by the country’s top bschool for selection of architectural/design firm that will help create student living spaces by replacing existing 18 dorms. They presently accommodate about 500 students. “The EOI will be modified and it will mention 14 instead of 18 dorms. It will be put on the institute’s website sometime in January perhaps,” said an official close to the matter. TOI has reviewed a copy of the letter and the EOI document. IIM-A is renowned for the architectural beauty of its heritage campus that was created by Kahn. “We felt it necessary to keep you informed as we are the custodians of the Louis Kahn buildings that have the potential to inspire future generations. Over the past couple of decades, the buildings have undergone dilapidation and structural deterioration,” D’Souza said in his letter to the alumni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/louis-kahn-designed-iconic-iim-ahmedabad-dorms-set-to-be-razed/articleshow/79949609.cms||Maulik Pathak
December 25, 2020||India||Ladakh’s Tso Kar wetland complex added to list of Ramsar sites||NEW DELHI: India has added one more wetland, Tso Kar Wetland Complex in Ladakh, in its list of Ramsar sites under an international convention, meant for preserving ecological character of selected wetlands across the globe. Tso Kar wetland is India 42nd Ramsar site and the second in the UT of Ladakh. The aim of the Ramsar list is “to develop and maintain an international network of wetlands which are important for the conservation of global biological diversity and for sustaining human life through the maintenance of their ecosystem components, processes and benefits”. Wetlands play a key role in hydrological cycle and flood control, and help in providing fresh water, food, fibre and raw materials. "The Tso Kar Basin is a high-altitude wetland complex, consisting of two principal waterbodies, Startsapuk Tso, a freshwater lake of about 438 hectares to the south, and Tso Kar itself, a hypersaline lake of 1,800 hectares to the north, situated in the Changthang region of Ladakh. It is called Tso Kar, meaning white lake, because of the white salt efflorescence found on the margins due to the evaporation of highly saline water," said a statement from the environment ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ladakhs-tso-kar-wetland-complex-added-to-list-of-ramsar-sites/articleshow/79949608.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||Gang-rape survivor alleges rape by SI in thana||Bareilly: A 35-year-old woman, who went to a police station in UP’s Shahjahanpur district to file a complaint allegedly after being gang-raped by five men, later accused a sub-inspector of sexually assaulting her on pretext of filing the case. The alleged incident took place at Jalalabad police station on November 30. Additional director general of police (ADG) of Bareilly Avinash Chandra has ordered an inquiry. Superintendent of police (city) Sanjay Kumar said “police are investigating it. The woman claimed that she was gang-raped by five men on November 30. “The five accused forcibly dragged me inside the car, took me to a nearby field and raped me. Soon after that, I went to Jalalabad police station where the SI also raped me,” the woman, a widow, claimed. According to the woman, when local police refused to file a case, she approached senior officers. She met ADG Avinash Chandra who then ordered a probe. But, sources in police said she has filed several such complaints in the past too. A policeman, on condition of anonymity, said, “The woman is being used to settle scores. She had already registered four cases of sexual assaults in Shahjahanpur and had given over two dozen complaints so far.” Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand told TOI, “The woman never approached us with the complaint against the sub-inspector. She directly went to the ADG.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gang-rape-survivor-alleges-rape-by-si-in-thana/articleshow/79949636.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Tamil singers hit ‘right’ notes at farmers’ stir||JALANDAR: Themed on Iqbal Bano’s rendition of Faiz Ahmad Faiz’s ghazal ‘Hum Dekhenge’, a song has been produced in Punjabi and Tamil. In Punjabi, it has been titled Hai Sada Haq (it’s our right) and in Tamil, it is Nee Ajanthey (fear not). What is more remarkable that even the Punjabi version has been sung by two Tamil singers – Vedanth Bharadwaj and Bindhu Malini. In the 4.24-minute song, images and video footage of farmers’ protest, including those when they were crossing barricades, have been used. Uploaded on YouTube by Vettiver Collective, the song is a ‘Justice Rocks’ initiative by #Madrasis4Punjabis, a hashtag created to convey solidarity from the deep south of India to protesting farmers from Punjab and Haryana. The producers said, “We share your pain and resonate with your concern…” Nityanand Jayaraman, a freelance journalist who conceived this idea, said that they wanted to convey a message of solidarity from people of Tamil Nadu to the farmers of Punjab and wanted the latter to understand. “We feel very strongly that the protesting farmers are correct in demanding scrapping of farm laws. It is also being projected as if it only concerns Punjab, the farmers are Khalistanis or terrorists. This is very dangerous way to deal with the people who have difference of opinion and are protesting. It does not affect just farmers of Punjab, but farmers of Tamil Nadu also. In fact, farmers of Punjab are speaking out for the farmers of the entire country,” Jayaraman said while speaking to TOI over the phone from Chennai. “Their protest has touched our hearts and we felt that rather than doing in the form of a letter, it should be done as a song. We also thought that people who are protesting may not understand English or Tamil and then decided to translate and sing it in Punjabi,” he added. He revealed that he spoke to young Tamil songwriter P Kadirmozhi who agreed to write the song in Tamil. “She did her own research about the farmers’ protest before penning it,” he said. “The song was then translated into English by Kavita Murlidharan and then into Punjabi by Rivi Ghuman who also helped the singers in proper pronunciation with her voice notes and also explained the meaning,” Jayaraman added. “What amazed me was the discipline the protesting farmers have showed. They showed courage, tenacity and then their commitment to remain peaceful even as they faced negative propaganda also. We wanted to tell the farmers that their protest has reached far south,” he said. Explaining his reason to associate with the project, singer Vadanth Bharadwaj said, “We identified with protesting farmers’ cause and when a protest is backed up with any form of art its reach is better and is more digestible.” Asked that how they could sing in Punjabi so well, Vedanth said he and his cosinger Bindhu Malini were singing in several languages. “We have sung Kabir and Guru Nanak also. At our performances we sing from Bhakti and Sufi tradition,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tamil-singers-hit-right-notes-at-farmers-stir/articleshow/79949565.cms||IP Singh
December 25, 2020||India||Pandemic on wane? 7-day average of daily Covid cases falls below 25k||NEW DELHI: The seven-day rolling average of daily Covid-19 cases in India has fallen below the 25,000 mark as the pandemic continues to recede in the country. For any given day, the seven-day rolling average of daily cases is the average of the number of infections detected over the last week, including that particular day. It provides a more reliable estimate of Covid trends by evening out the day-to-day variations. So, while there have been daily variations with the case count rising on some days, the seven-day rolling average has consistently declined on all days in December so far, highlighting the overall falling trend in cases. The last time the average was below 25,000 was on July 10, when the Covid count in the country was steadily rising. The average fell below 25,000 on Wednesday.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); On Thursday, India recorded 23,454 fresh cases, nearly 1,700 less than the tally on the previous day. At 336, the day’s death toll remained at nearly the same level as the past seven-eight days although it was the highest in the past five days.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Although the case count has fallen significantly in Maharashtra, the state continues to report a relatively high number of fatalities. On Thursday, it registered 89 deaths, accounting for more than a fourth of all fatalities from the virus. Delhi recorded a rise in deaths, with 37 on Thursday, the second highest in the country, followed by Bengal (32), UP (23), Kerala and Chhattisgarh (both 22).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pandemic-on-wane-7-day-average-of-daily-covid-cases-falls-below-25k/articleshow/79949650.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||33% of 60+ Mumbai slum dwellers wary of vaccine: Survey||MUMBAI: In the growing anti-vaccine din, eight out of 10 slum-dwellers surveyed around Cuffe Parade said they would be willing to take the vaccine against the Covid-19-causing coronavirus if and when it becomes available. However, a closer look at the survey results showed that a third of the 60-plus residents were not in favour of vaccination. One in four housewives said she wouldn’t want to take the vaccine, according to the survey, perhaps the first of its kind in slums. This is unfortunate because the 60-plus age group is most vulnerable to Covid-19 and mothers mould their families’ decisions, said Dr Nishant Kumar, founder of the NGO Eyebetes Foundation that conducted the survey among 1,352 residents. Incidentally, a sero-survey done in this area, that is the Cuffe Parade slums of Machimar Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Ganesh Murthy Nagar part 1 & 3 and Geeta Nagar, in October found that 75% of those surveyed had antibodies to Covid-19. “It is reassuring that 8 in 10 slum residents are willing to be vaccinated. Similar surveys in Europe, South Africa and Brazil reported acceptance rates ranging between 50 and 60%,” said the doctor. Online surveys done in India too have shown growing resistance to vaccination. A recent survey by LocalCircles, a social media platform, found that only three out of every 10 Indians want to take the Covid-19 vaccine when it becomes available. The remaining 70% of the participants in a national survey said they would not rush to take the vaccine The reason for vaccine hesitancy range from ‘herd immunity among Indians’ to ‘the worst of the pandemic being over’ to ‘side-effects of the vaccine’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/33-of-60-mumbai-slum-dwellers-wary-of-vaccine-survey/articleshow/79949660.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Lucknow||Two minor students killed, three injured in road accident on Jhansi-Mirzapur highway||LUCKNOW: Two boys aged 12 were killed and three others were injured when a truck knocked them off on Jhansi-Mirzapur highway in Mahoba on Thursday. The minors were cycling their way to their coaching when the accident took place. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced Rs 2 lakh compensation each to the kin of the deceased and best possible treatment for those injured. The CM also offered condolences on the death of the students in the accident and instructed stern action against the culprits. The deceased were identified as Kapil and Dharmendra Sahu. The injured were identified as Devendra, Jitendra Gupta and Sachin, said police. Soon after the accident, angry villagers blocked the highway demanding arrest of the truck driver. Later, senior officials intervened to pacify the protesters. The accident took place in Sugira village under the limits of Kulpahad police station. According to the police, the three students who suffered serious injuries are recuperating at the local hospital. “Around 6.45 am, five students were peddling to their coaching institute when an unidentified speeding truck crushed them. The driver managed to flee from the incident site,” said additional superintendent of police, Mahoba, RK Gautam. He said that a case was being registered against the errant truck driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-minor-students-killed-three-injured-in-road-accident-on-jhansi-mirzapur-highway/articleshow/79949665.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Bhopal||Poll cash row: MP govt yet to take call on EC’s order||BHOPAL: A meeting presided over by CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday to discuss the course of action on Election Commission’s recommendation to file criminal cases against “everyone named in the CBDT report” on the alleged cashin-poll row ended without any conclusion, say sources at the state secretariat. The government is in a tizzy since EC has summoned chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bais and additional chief secretary-home with ‘action taken report’ on January 5. Bais and principal secretary to CM, Manish Rastogi, were present at Thursday’s meeting. The government has sought the opinion of the advocate general, and Rastogi has been asked to study the CBDT report, say sources. According to officials, one of the main dilemmas for the government is that EOW is not mandated to investigate cases described under Representation of the People Act, 1951. “The government will have to issue a notification before giving this case to EOW,” said an officer. However, some other officers feel investigation can start under Prevention of Corruption Act. Eight days ago, the Election Commission had asked the Madhya Pradesh CEO to lodge a criminal case against three IPS officers and others in connection with the alleged use of black money during the 2019 general elections. Two views in BJP on CBDT reportThe 904-page report hints at the role of many individuals in the “widespread and wellorganised racket of collection and transaction of unaccounted cash of about Rs281crore in MP during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls”. The tumult over CBDT’s report has created a divide within the state BJP. While one faction is pressing for immediate FIRs against those named, the other seeks a formal inquiry first, alluding to the hawala scandal in which Supreme Court ruled that entries in loose sheets are irrelevant and inadmissible as evidence under section 34 of Indian Evidence Act. On April 8 last year, CBDT had said in a statement that tax officers recovered Rs 14.6 crore “unaccounted” cash in raids, and seized diaries and computer files of suspect payments. It also detected a trail of Rs 20 crore suspect cash allegedly being moved to the “headquarters of a major political party in Delhi” from the residence of a senior functionary at Tughlaq Road in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/poll-cash-row-mp-govt-yet-to-take-call-on-ecs-order/articleshow/79949678.cms||P Naveen
December 25, 2020||India||Punjab to carry out vaccine dry run on Dec 28-29||CHANDIGARH: For smooth roll out of Covid vaccination drive, the Centre has selected Punjab for conducting a dry run on December 28 and 29. The drive will be carried out at five locations each in Ludhiana and Nawanshahr districts. Sharing the details, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the exercise is aimed at testing the mechanisms for the vaccination drive. It will provide insights on any gaps or bottlenecks so that those could be addressed before the commencement of the Covid-19 drive, he said. The minister said that immunisation partners UNDP and the WHO at state level would support this activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-to-carry-out-vaccine-dry-run-on-dec-28-29/articleshow/79949679.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||AP woman traced, tested for UK strain||Health officials on Thursday sent swab samples of the 47-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 on return to India from the UK on December 21, to check if she was infected by the existing wild strain of novel coronavirus or its new highly mutated variant found in the UK, reports Samson Raj. The woman, a native of Rajahmundry, had gone to the UK 45 days ago and landed at Delhi airport where she was subjected to Covid-19 tests. She reportedly gave a slip to officials at the airport and boarded a Visakhapatnam-bound train without informing the authorities. She also switched off her phone. After reaching Rajahmundry in the early hours of Thursday, she was immediately quarantined. The woman is asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ap-woman-traced-tested-for-uk-strain/articleshow/79949680.cms||Samson Raj
December 25, 2020||Bhopal||64 found in Bhopal with UK travel history||BHOPAL: The number of people with travel history to the UK doubled overnight, with 64 people now contact-traced by the health department. According to top health department officials, 40 more people with recent travel history to the UK were traced in Bhopal on Thursday. “Twenty of the 60 are being traced. It is believed that these people have moved to other cities or returned to the UK,” an official said. On Wednesday, 20 people with UK travel history underwent RT-PCR Covid-19 test. They had returned to India between December 6 and 21. On Thursday, 20 more samples were collected. “We expect the RT-PCR reports to be available by late Thursday night. If anyone is found to be positive, a gene sequencing test will be conducted to see if they have the mutant variant (VUI–202012/011) of Covid-19,” the official added. Big four cities have most UK returneesThe mutated strain of the virus is a ‘superspreader’ as it is up to 70% more transmissible than the previously dominant strain in the UK. “People with travel history to the UK have been traced to 19-districts of Madhya Pradesh,” said a health department official. Most of them are from Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur and Gwalior. The other districts — Ujjain, Shivpuri, Sehore, Satna, Sagar, Rewa, Ratlam, Rajgarh, Morena, Mandsaur, Khargone, Hoshangabad, Dewas, Dhar and Guna — have UK travelers in the single digit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/64-found-in-bhopal-with-uk-travel-history/articleshow/79949685.cms||---
December 25, 2020||Indore||64 found in Bhopal with UK travel history||BHOPAL: The number of people with travel history to the UK doubled overnight, with 64 people now contact-traced by the health department. According to top health department officials, 40 more people with recent travel history to the UK were traced in Bhopal on Thursday. “Twenty of the 60 are being traced. It is believed that these people have moved to other cities or returned to the UK,” an official said. On Wednesday, 20 people with UK travel history underwent RT-PCR Covid-19 test. They had returned to India between December 6 and 21. On Thursday, 20 more samples were collected. “We expect the RT-PCR reports to be available by late Thursday night. If anyone is found to be positive, a gene sequencing test will be conducted to see if they have the mutant variant (VUI–202012/011) of Covid-19,” the official added. Big four cities have most UK returneesThe mutated strain of the virus is a ‘superspreader’ as it is up to 70% more transmissible than the previously dominant strain in the UK. “People with travel history to the UK have been traced to 19-districts of Madhya Pradesh,” said a health department official. Most of them are from Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur and Gwalior. The other districts — Ujjain, Shivpuri, Sehore, Satna, Sagar, Rewa, Ratlam, Rajgarh, Morena, Mandsaur, Khargone, Hoshangabad, Dewas, Dhar and Guna — have UK travelers in the single digit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/64-found-in-bhopal-with-uk-travel-history/articleshow/79949686.cms||---
December 25, 2020||India||Dawood’s nephew dies of Covid in Pakistan||Gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s nephew died of Covid-19 in a private hospital in Karachi on Wednesday, reports Ahmed Ali. Sources told TOI Dawood’s late elder brother Sabir Kaskar's son Siraj Sabir Kaskar (38) battled for life for over a week. Indian security agencies learnt about the death while keeping tabs on suspected calls routed from Karachi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dawoods-nephew-dies-of-covid-in-pakistan/articleshow/79949669.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 25, 2020||World||Sinovac vax more than 50% effective, but data withheld||A Covid-19 vaccine developed by Chinese firm Sinovac Biotech Ltd was found to be more than 50% effective in a Brazilian clinical trial, though researchers delayed releasing more information at the request of the company. A 50% efficacy rate is a minimum standard set by US regulators for emergency authorisation of Covid vaccines. As millions of healthy people count on transparency in trials before taking a shot, the lack of more specific results from Sinovac’s trial risks eroding confidence in Chinese vaccines. Sinovac didn’t respond to repeated calls seeking a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/sinovac-vax-more-than-50-effective-but-data-withheld/articleshow/79949663.cms||---
