December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||COVID-19 fails to dampen Bengaluru’s Christmas spirit||The pandemic could not dampen the city’s festive spirit as many were seen ushering in Christmas Day with songs, music and smiles at Church Street and other places around the city. On Christmas Eve, activities like carol singing, Christmas skits and dance sessions enlivened the streets, with people of all age groups participating in the celebrations. City churches were brimming with people who sang carols with their loved ones. However, amidst all the merry making, many were seen celebrating without wearing their masks and not following social distancing protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-fails-to-dampen-bengalurus-christmas-spirit/articleshow/79957656.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Hacker booked for stealing data from 2 gaming websites||BENGALURU: An entrepreneur has filed a complaint against Srikrishna alias Sriki — arrested last month by Central Crime Branch sleuths for alleged hacking and drug peddling — accusing him of stealing data and money from his two gaming websites. Complainant Aravind Balakrishna, director of Pacific Gaming Pvt Ltd, said the two websites, Casino 143 & Pokersaint, were hacked in March and he later got to know from police that Sriki — currently in CCB custody — was behind it. Cybercrime police registered a case against Sriki on Wednesday based on the complaint from Balakrishna. The complainant told police his company has two gaming websites but their business dipped drastically since the beginning of 2020. On verifying, they learnt someone had hacked the websites and stolen money, causing loss to the company. Sriki, a resident of Jayanagar and computer science graduate from the Netherlands, is a software engineer. He was arrested in November for sourcing drugs through the darknet using bitcoins. After hacking websites and stealing data and money, he used to convert it into bitcoins. He would also lock websites and demand money to release them. He had hacked government websites as well, including the state’s e-procurement portal, siphoning off crores of rupees. According to a CCB officer, a few cases are registered against Sriki in various police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hacker-booked-for-stealing-data-from-2-gaming-websites/articleshow/79959086.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Senior executive cheated us of Rs 54 lakh: US-based firm||BENGALURU: A US-based multinational e-commerce firm with its office on Dr Rajkumar Road has lodged a cheating and criminal breach of trust complaint against one of its senior executives. The complaint filed by R Sanganna, legal advisor of the firm, and the FIR identifies the prime accused as Mohammed Javed, the firm’s financial transactions head. Along with Javed, police have booked eight agents working with the company for their alleged role in the case. However, no arrests have been made. In his complaint, Sanganna stated Javed knowingly made an excess payment of Rs 54 lakh between July 2015 and September 2020 to the company’s agents. “Javed joined the firm in July 2015 as the chief of financial transactions. He was vested with the power of deciding and allocating commission for agents selling products on behalf of the firm. Misusing his powers of distributing commission to agents, Javed made excess payments to persons of his choice, eight in particular. The fraud came to light during a recent internal audit and when questioned about the excess payments, Javed confessed to the crime and sought time to return the money. The firm’s management also questioned the eight agents and they too confessed to have received surplus commission for their job. By his fraudulent act, Javed has cheated the firm to the tune of Rs 54 lakh,” the complaint copy read. Subramanyanagar police said they will summon the accused in a couple of days for questioning. “The complainant has provided the required documents and we will take statements from the suspects soon,” an investigating officer said. The other accused mentioned in the FIR are: Yogesh Shukla, Vijesh Khanna, Umesh Jai Kisan, Pragati Singh, Sourab Kumar, Surender Singh, Deepender and officials of another firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/senior-exec-cheated-us-of-54l-us-based-firm/articleshow/79959087.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Murder accused celebrates birthday in jail, video goes viral||BENGALURU: A video showing a history-sheeter arrested under the Goonda Act celebrating his birthday inside the barracks of Central Prison (Parappana Agrahara) went viral on Friday, raising questions over the use of smartphones inside the jail, which is strictly prohibited. The birthday man was identified as Rizwan alias Kulla (short) Rizwan. A rowdy-sheeter from Subramanyapura police station limits in south Bengaluru, Rizwan is imprisoned since December 2019 after cops arrested him in two separate murder cases, including a double-murder case reported this April. In October, south division police led by DCP Harish Pandey had booked him under the Goonda Act. In November, the committee formed to review Rizwan’s arrest concurred with police action. Accordingly, Rizwan will not get bail until November 2021. The 15-second video taken from a mobile phone shows Rizwan, accompanied by a few associates, walking into the barracks and heading towards the cake placed on a table. A couple of co-inmates, said to be suspects arrested in the same double-murder case, are seen greeting Rizwan. A Kannada movie song plays in the background. The video went viral. “Celebrations of birthdays, festivals and other happy occasions are allowed inside the barracks. But we are not sure how the video was taken. Senior prison officials may order an inquiry into the matter,” prison sources said.  Sources said in the double-murder case, Subramanyapura police had arrested 24 persons. “Rizwan, who was in the prison then, was named as the mastermind and also the financier. Some his of accomplices are seen in the video,” they added. Rizwan’s men had hacked rowdy-sheeter Mukund and his friend Manoj to death in Subramanyapura limits on April 12. Asked about the cake, a prison official said, “Small cakes are available at the prison canteen. In this case, it looks like Rizwan’s aides had prepared it using biscuits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/murder-accused-celebrates-bday-in-jail-video-goes-viral/articleshow/79959095.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Man from Bengaluru drowns while trying to rescue son||A family outing to Malpe Beach took a tragic turn following the drowning of a 43-year-old man. The victim, Mahesh Jayaraman, along with his wife and two sons, went to Malpe Beach on Thursday, and took a boat to St Mary’s Island.  Once on the island, one of his children waded into the sea for a swim, but was drawn by a very strong current. Mahesh jumped in and saved his son, but he drowned while doing so. Based on a complaint from Mahesh’s wife, Soumya GS, a case of unnatural death has been registered. Mahesh, a native of Tamil Nadu, was a resident of Mallasandra in Bengaluru north.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-from-bengaluru-drowns-while-trying-to-rescue-son/articleshow/79959096.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Three teenage boys fight over sharing earnings, 1 dead||BENGALURU: Police are looking for two teenagers who allegedly battered their friend to death after a dispute over sharing earnings from a job. The incident took place around 6pm in Byatarayanapura on Friday. The three, aged about 14, are children of construction workers and often took up odd jobs like cleaning shops or washing utensils at eateries, splitting the money they got. After one such shift on Friday, they argued over sharing the earnings. “A fight broke out and two boys were seen beating up their friend. The two later fled the scene,” said a police officer. “Passersby rushed the injured boy to Victoria Hospital, where he was declared brought dead.” Police suspect the boy was struck on the head with a stone. “The three teens were neighbours and their families knew each other well. The deceased boy’s father was drunk when he was informed about the incident. He was in no state to understand what had happened,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-teenage-boys-fight-over-sharing-earnings-1-dead/articleshow/79959097.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru cops get court nod to probe fight over mutton dues||BENGALURU: A fight between a meat seller and his customer has forced cops to approach court and obtain permission to investigate the case. RT Nagar police had on December 17 registered a Non-Cognisable Report (NCR) case after mutton seller Nadim Pasha from Ganganagar filed a complaint that his friend Abdul Razak had beaten him up. “Razak had a function at his residence and had invited around 75 guests. For meat, he had approached Pasha and the latter had sold 80kg of mutton for an agreed amount of Rs 44,000 (Rs 550 per kg),” police said. Razak promised to pay later. “However, Razak paid Rs 40,000 and when Pasha asked for the remaining Rs 4,000, he allegedly attacked him on December 17. The same day, Pasha filed a complaint. Considering there were no injuries on Pasha and a few men, known to both of them, urged us to drop the case, saying they’d get the two to reach a compromise, we registered an NCR. Pasha visited us next day and said he wanted to pursue the case. Since we had already filed the NCR and a proper FIR was needed to continue probe, we approached court. Now, we have obtained permission and have converted the NCR to an FIR,” RT Nagar police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cops-get-court-nod-to-probe-fight-over-mutton-dues/articleshow/79959100.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||More trouble for Karnataka CM? SC to hear another denotification plea||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa recently received a major jolt after the high court turned down his appeal to quash an FIR pertaining to illegal denotification of land in 2006-07 when he was the deputy CM in the BJP-JD(S) coalition government. The opposition is demanding his resignation and has threatened to protest if he fails to quit. There’s more. On January 21, the Supreme Court will hear a plea by Anti-Corruption Bureau against stay on the probe launched against Yediyurappa for denotifying 257 acres of land from Shivaram Karanth Layout. In its petition, ACB has claimed that Yediyurappa misused his office as CM and passed orders between 2009 and 2010 to drop 257 of the 3,546 acres meant for layout formation. This caused huge loss to the exchequer, it has alleged. ACB had registered two FIRs in 2017 on a complaint filed by D Ayyappa (ex-VC of Alliance University who was killed in October 2019) after conducting preliminary inquiry. On a writ petition filed by Yediyurappa, the HC had stayed the probe and later, ACB had filed a special leave petition. In 2018, the apex court, in a separate judgement, had pulled up the Karnataka government and Bangalore Development Authority for creating a mess around planned development of Bengaluru, directing them not to drop acquisition of about 650 acres of land for Shivaram Karanth Layout. It had taken strong exception to alleged “connivance of influential political persons or otherwise” in excluding large tracts of land from acquisition. The court had asked former Karnataka high court judge, Justice KN Keshavanarayana, to conduct an inquiry for “fixing responsibility” on BDA officials and the government for excluding the land. When the state authorities failed to provide sufficient material to the inquiry officer, the court had again taken the government to task, asking it to cooperate and place the requisite records before him. While senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi is representing Yediyurappa, senior advocate Abhishek M Singhvi is fighting on behalf of ACB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/more-trouble-for-cm-sc-to-hear-another-denotification-plea/articleshow/79959115.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka orders inquiry into information leak||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Friday ordered an inquiry into the alleged leak of classified information on the tender process related to the Rs 620-crore Bengaluru Safe City Project, which seeks to make the city safe for women and children by installing 7,500 surveillance cameras and implementing technology-based predictive policing. The government order named Bengaluru City police commissioner Kamal Pant the inquiry officer. The tender process snowballed into controversy after the additional commissioner (administration -Bengaluru) sent a complaint to chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar on November 9 stating that an “unauthorized person” had “impersonated home secretary to access classified information with respect to the request for proposal (RFP) before the publication of tender”. The complaint was enclosed with an email communication sent by the representatives of an independent project management consultancy firm (engaged to prepare the RFP), where the latter had named a woman IPS officer as the one who sought details. TOI reported about the complaint to the chief secretary in a report, ‘Cop poses as home secy to get tender info’, on Friday. The tender for the project was uploaded on November 11, but the city police stated that the officer, who was not related to the project, had contacted two project consultants on November 7 (before the tender was uploaded) and sought details about the previous RFP that got cancelled and the allegations made by one of the bidders, the status of the new RFP, the Make-in-India weightage and the process followed for the current RFP. The IPS officer’s alleged interference came to the fore when the independent project management consultant reverted to the city police on November 9 seeking to know if the details should be shared. The project faced rough weather earlier too. The spotlight was on the tender process when a public-sector undertaking, Bharat Electronics (BEL), complained about alleged lapses on June 29. Subsequently, the project was put on the back burner as the state government issued an order on July 16 stating all tender processes involving procurement of products manufactured in China should be halted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-orders-inquiry-into-information-leak/articleshow/79959142.cms||Kiran Parashar
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||119 KPCL engineers challenge HK quota in promotions||BENGALURU: About 119 engineers working with the state-owned Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) have moved the high court, challenging the validity of Article 371(J )(2) of the Constitution (98th amendment) as it seeks to provide reservation in promotions to employees hailing from the Hyderabad-Karnataka region. Justice R Devdas, who heard the petition on Wednesday, ordered notice to both the state and central governments as well as KPCL. The judge further observed that any promotion granted to 110 engineers named as respondents will be subject to the court’s final decision. Said to be the first challenge to the said amendment, the petition filed by CK Justus and others claims that reservation as well the concept of backlog in promotional posts, consequential seniority and retrospective promotions based on domicile violate Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution. Petitioners’ counsel Narayan M Bhat argued that KPCL is seeking to fill up promotional vacancies by importing the principles of Article 16(4), 16(4A) and 16(4B), (which is meant for SC/STs and OBCs), in favour of everyone from the local cadre and the same is impermissible. He further claimed that backlog in the promotional vacancies and consequential seniority are totally alien to part XXI of the Constitution and original Article 371. ‘Providing reservation in promotion on the basis of place of birth and domicile is opposed to Articles 14, 15 and 16 of the Constitution. Granting preferential seniority to juniors over their seniors through a constitutional amendment is a mockery of the amendment process,” the petitioners stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/119-kpcl-engineers-challenge-hk-quota-in-promotions/articleshow/79959154.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Mysuru||Bengaluru: 55-year-old conman promised govt jobs to aspirants||BENGALURU: A 55-year-old conman, who has allegedly cheated several people of crores of rupees, claimed that he’s an RSS worker with links in high places, police said. Nagarbhavi resident Yuvaraj, who is now in police custody, took care to be seen in dhoti and vermilion on his forehead to flaunt his political affiliation. He was frequently seen in the portals of Vidhana Soudha and Vikasa Soudha and his victims included second-rung BJP functionaries. Yuvaraj flaunted photographs of himself with the functionaries in the state, includingCM BS Yediyurappa. “He used to claim that he can get any work done using his contacts. Many ground-level functionaries paid him crores of rupees to fulfil their desire of becoming head of the boards and corporations,” an officer said. Meanwhile, Gururaj Ravi, 53, real estate businessman from Mysuru approached High Grounds police with a complaint against Yuvaraj. A cheating case was registered on December 19. He was arrested last week for cheating government job aspirants of over Rs 1 crore. Police have recovered Rs 26 lakh and several bank cheques from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/55-yr-old-conman-promised-govt-jobs-to-aspirants/articleshow/79964387.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 55-year-old conman promised govt jobs to aspirants||BENGALURU: A 55-year-old conman, who has allegedly cheated several people of crores of rupees, claimed that he’s an RSS worker with links in high places, police said. Nagarbhavi resident Yuvaraj, who is now in police custody, took care to be seen in dhoti and vermilion on his forehead to flaunt his political affiliation. He was frequently seen in the portals of Vidhana Soudha and Vikasa Soudha and his victims included second-rung BJP functionaries. Yuvaraj flaunted photographs of himself with the functionaries in the state, includingCM BS Yediyurappa. “He used to claim that he can get any work done using his contacts. Many ground-level functionaries paid him crores of rupees to fulfil their desire of becoming head of the boards and corporations,” an officer said. Meanwhile, Gururaj Ravi, 53, real estate businessman from Mysuru approached High Grounds police with a complaint against Yuvaraj. A cheating case was registered on December 19. He was arrested last week for cheating government job aspirants of over Rs 1 crore. Police have recovered Rs 26 lakh and several bank cheques from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/55-yr-old-conman-promised-govt-jobs-to-aspirants/articleshow/79959159.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bail no licence to commit any number of crimes: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: Bail is not a licence for committing any number of crimes, the high court observed while dealing with a petition filed by a foreign national. The court, however, granted bail to Aluka Sandra Orewa alias Benny, considering that she’s a woman, her passport and visa have been seized, instruments and devices have been recovered from her and it can’t be said that she won’t be available for trial. “Though bail is related to the liberty of a person, misuse of liberty is not justifiable. And crimes which are not targeted against an individual, but perpetrated against society must be viewed quite differently,” Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar observed. Benny was told to furnish a bail bond for Rs 1 lakh with two sureties for like sum, and mark her attendance before Yelahanka police station every Sunday between 9am and Noon, till the conclusion of trial. The judge directed her to furnish her address proof and mobile telephone numbers (if more than one) to the trial court. In case she changes her residence, the new address has to be submitted in court. She should retain the same mobile number till the conclusion of trial and assure police of the same when she goes to mark her attendance. Benny is accused of using a skimming device to duplicate a debit card and withdraw Rs 90,000 from the bank account of a woman from Ramanagara. Pavithra D, the complainant, had alleged that between 9.58pm and 10.05pm on February 24, she received messages on her mobile that Rs 10,000 each was withdrawn nine times from her account. Benny and two others were arrested by Ramanagara CEN police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bail-no-licence-to-commit-any-number-of-crimes-hc/articleshow/79959177.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Volunteers clear govt school of grass, garbage||BENGALURU: A government school ground covered with overgrown grass and filled with waste got a makeover on Friday, thanks to a group of volunteers. They came together to transform Sri Kempegowda Government High School in Kumaraswamy Layout to mark former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, Vaikuntha Ekadashi and Christmas. Spearheaded by Citizens Task Force (CTF), a city-based trust which has adopted the school, the event had about six other organisations, including Swastha Samruddha Bharatha, KAI OTG (Kumaraswamy Layout and ISRO Layout Organic Terrace Garden), Sasya Sankalpa and Prathibimba Trust, participating. Hasiru Mitra Ashok Kumar of KAI OTG said a 30 to 40 volunteers cleared the school of overgrown grass and waste material to welcome students back to the campus whenever it reopens in January. The instituion has 160 students (up to class 7) on its rolls. “This is not a one-time event. We have a similar cleaning and maintenance activity scheduled for the next weekend. Volunteers from Tejasvi Surya’s Fans Association also joined us on Friday,” Kumar said. Abhinand PM, general secretary of CTF said they had adopted the school three and a half years ago. “We hold regular meetings with the school’s authorities and address their needs at regular intervals,” he said, adding: “The organisations and volunteers joined us because they believe in our goals.” Mahadev PM, founder of CTF, the event was a collective effort and part of their larger vision to take up several social tasks and solve citizens’ problems. “We should all join hands to develop government schools. CTF aims to work with like-minded people who wish to improve the lives of everyone around us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/volunteers-clear-govt-school-of-grass-garbage/articleshow/79959305.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Amit Shah’s proposed visit to Karnataka sparks buzz on cabinet rejig||BENGALURU/VIJAYAPURA: Union home minister Amit Shah’s proposed visit to the state next month has reignited speculation on the much-awaited cabinet expansion and leadership change in Karnataka. On January 16, Shah will visit Vijayapura to inaugurate a unit of Indian Reserve Battalion and Bhadravati in Shivamogga, chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s home district, to lay the foundation stone for a new RAF unit. Yediyurappa and ministerial berth aspirants are hoping to get a green signal for the cabinet expansion, which has been on the cards for over six months now. The fact that Yediyurappa will be meeting Shah for the first time in over eight months has only raised hopes. The CM, who had been to Delhi thrice in as many months to discuss the reshuffle, hadn’t got the chance to meet Shah, who’s expected to have the final word on the issue. Yediyurappa has been under pressure from BJP legislators, especially MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar and Munirathna, who switched to the saffron party to form the government. It’s being said that Nagaraj and Shankar, who have been waiting to become ministers ever since they were elected to the legislative council three months ago, have had verbal altercations with Yediyurappa on two occasions over the delay in cabinet expansion. But the high command has maintained a stoic silence on the issue, leaving the CM perplexed. On Thursday, Yediyurappa’s son and state BJP vice-president BY Vijayendra met party general secretary Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh in Delhi, reportedly to persuade him to let the CM take up cabinet expansion and put an end to speculation over change of guard. After the meeting, Vijayendra is said to have told his associates that the party will soon give its nod for the exercise after holding another round of consultations and four to five ministers will be dropped to make way for new faces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/shah-state-visit-in-jan-sparks-buzz-of-cabinet-rejig/articleshow/79959310.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19 vaccine: Districts in Karnataka ready storage units, train staff||BELAGAVI\HAVERI: Health officials in Belagavi have readied facilities to safely store Covid-19 vaccines, which are expected to arrive in January. Vaccine boxes from Hyderabad, Chennai and Pune will arrive at these facilities, which will then supply the shots to districts in North Karnataka. Bagalkot, Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Karwar, Vijayapura and Koppal are among the places that will get supplies from Belagavi. A district health official said a large storage unit with walk-in freezers and a cooler was ready and waiting for shipments. “We have also worked on protocols for sending vaccine boxes to other districts. Proper attention will be given to the smallest details and all care will be taken for handling and storing boxes,” a health official said. In other arrangements, 180 deep freezers and ice-lined refrigerators have been installed at primary healthcare, community, taluk-level and district drug centres. In the first phase of vaccination, 28,195 people, mostly healthcare workers and other frontline staff on pandemic duty, will get jabs in Belagavi district. In the second phase, more than 2 lakh police personnel and ASHA, anganwadi and civic workers will be vaccinated. More than 50 lakh people will be covered in subsequent stages. District health officer SV Munyal told TOI that vaccines would be stored at a temperature of 2-8 degrees Celsius. “To maintain the temperature, an electronic vaccine intelligence network will be used. Like in pulse polio, Covid-19 vaccine will be transported in special vehicles,” Munyal added. In Haveri district, preparations are being made to train healthcare workers who will administer shots to priority groups. At least 170 staffers will undergo training. The first phase of inoculation in the district will cover 6,700 frontline workers. Haveri surveillance medical officer Dr Siddalingayya, RCH officer Dr Jayanand and quality consultant Sridhar Bengeri trained 17 vaccinators in November. Dr Jayanand said that they were educating more people and creating a standard module. “We have 92 cold chain points in Haveri, where vaccination will take place. For that, we have to train a lot of manpower; initially, it will be 170 vaccinators,” he said. A dedicated team of officials will oversee the entire exercise at every cold chain point that will need at least three rooms. The first-level officer will verify the person, the second will check the documents and the third-level will handle crowd management. The fourth will track adverse events for at least 30 minutes. Haveri deputy commissioner Sanjay Shettanavar said that a plan had been drawn up to distribute the vaccine within the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/belagavi-gears-up-for-storage-supply/articleshow/79959344.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
December 26, 2020||India||Opposition ‘misguiding farmers’, says PM, attacks Didi & Left||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Friday renewed his attack on opposition parties for “misguiding” those agitating against new agri laws, singling out Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee for “denying” PM-Kisan benefits to 70 lakh farmers and accusing Left Front of spreading disaffection in Punjab without raising genuine issues that affect agriculturists. Addressing farmers for the second time within a week, Modi said the Centre was ready to talk to the unions on all issues, but said political interests were taking the stir in a different direction. Insertion of demands for the release of persons accused of serious crimes and making toll gates free did not square up with apprehensions over the continuation of Minimum Support Price (MSP), he said. “There could be flaws in our policies, which should be pointed out. We have a democracy and we can’t claim God has made us perfect. But there should be talks. We are ready… to keep options open to break the deadlock,” the PM said. “I can understand that there might have been doubts about MSP...but where did the call to free persons in prison come from,” the PM wondered. He said Mamata Banerjee was responsible for denying farmers in West Bengal PM-Kisan benefits. Without naming the Left, he said parties responsible for the state’s “ruin” in the first place had nothing to say about this. “There are no mandis in Kerala and APMC Act is also not effective in the state and the parties ruling the state are talking about them in Punjab,” Modi said. He emphasised the new farm laws did not mean closing mandis and dismantling APMCs. He reminded the virtual audience that it has been several months since the laws came into effect (as ordinances first) and no report of any mandi being closed has been received. He said the laws will increase choices for the farmers and that the contract farm rules were in their favour. "If the price of a crop goes up, the buyer will have to pay a better rate," he said, pointing out that there is no provision for land to be forfeited. Looking to counter allegations that the government has acted in an "anti-farmer" way, he said Rs 18,000 crore was credited in the accounts of over nine crore farmers of the country and this was done by using technology that eliminates cuts and leaks. He again accused opposition parties backing the farm stir of paying lip service to the cause, saying they failed to act on the recommendations of commissions that proposed measures to hike farm incomes. The Prime Minister referred to late Atal Bihari Vajpayee recalling the words of Rajiv Gandhi about leakage in the central funds, saying "jab rupaiya chalta hai, to ghista hai (when the rupee travels, it wears out)". He said sheer political considerations was preventing West Bengal farmers from accessing the funds. “You can imagine… several lakh farmers have applied online but the state government is cooling its heels over their applications too.” “I am perplexed and sharing it with acute pain with people of the country that the party which ruled West Bengal for over 30 years… if you listen to the 15-year old speeches of Mamata ji, you will realise how this political ideology had ruined the state,” the PM said. “Are people of the country not aware of this game? Why are the opposition parties silent over this issue?” Modi questioned. While defending the new laws, Modi said the agitation was delayed so that procurement could get over, as it would have been hard to convince people that MSP was being done away with when record payments were being made. There are several parties which have given statements in favour of agri-reforms but their language has changed now and they are trying to misguide farmers, the PM said. He said there are parties which don’t believe in democracy, who made unusual allegations and the language they used. “Despite all these, we are ready to hold talks even with those who are hell-bent on opposing us but talks should happen on facts,” the PM said. The Prime Minister, while concluding, urged the farmers that they should not be misguided and not accept the lies being spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-misguiding-farmers-says-pm-attacks-didi-left/articleshow/79959964.cms||---
December 26, 2020||India||Private hospitals finally beat Covid blues||NEW DELHI: Hospital admissions that had declined significantly due to the Covid-19 outbreak in the country early this year have started picking up with the private healthcare sector gaining momentum to even surpass pre-Covid levels, data from Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme show. So far, during the ongoing October-December quarter, 21.36 lakh patients have been admitted to hospitals under the scheme, up 56% as compared to 13.7 lakh during April-June. Of the total 21.36 lakh admissions, the private sector accounted for 12.54 lakh or 58.70% hospitalisations. When compared with the pre-Covid period, hospitalisations in the private sector during the last three months is up by 10.6% as compared to 11.33 lakh during the same period (Oct-Dec) last year. However, overall hospitalisations under the scheme are still slightly below pre-Covid level as admissions in public sector are lower. Around 23.53 lakh hospital admissions — together in public and private sector — were recorded under the insurance scheme during October-December last year. Hospitalisation in government hospitals remains low as compared to pre-Covid time. During ongoing October-December quarter, 8.82 lakh admissions were recorded in public sector, as compared to 12.20 lakh in the same period a year ago. However, the numbers are better as compared to around 7 lakh admissions during April-June after the pandemic hit the country. India reported the first confirmed case of Covid-19 on January 30 and a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which imposed travel restrictions. It also impacted the health-seeking behaviour amid the fear of infection as many health facilities were diverted to cater to Covid patients. Services in private healthcare sector were impacted as many had initially stopped services after the Covid-19 outbreak. “A large share of beds in government hospitals have been dedicated for Covid patients. There is also a tendency among beneficiaries of the scheme to go to private hospitals due to fear of infection,” Indu Bhushan, Chief Executive of National Health Authority said. He added the private sector gaining momentum in last few months has also helped hospitalisation pick up pace. So far, over 71,000 patients have received Covid treatments and over 6.86 lakh Covid tests have been conducted under the scheme. There are 24,155 hospitals empanelled under the AB-PMJAY scheme where beneficiaries can seek care with a free health cover of Rs 5 lakh per annum. While 45% of the hospitals are in the private sector, so far 54% of 1.5 crore hospitalisation were in private hospitals. The AB-Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) is touted as the world’s largest government-run health insurance scheme. So far, 12.79 crore e-cards have been issued under the scheme. The NHA data show Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh have recorded largest number of hospitalisations under the scheme in last over two years since its inception in September 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/private-hospitals-finally-beat-covid-blues/articleshow/79960346.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 26, 2020||India||Probe 6 child homes set up by MP Ajmal, one of them ‘linked to Qaida’: NCPCR||NEW DELHI: The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has found misuse of funds by six childcare institutions in Assam and Manipur, running under the aegis of “Markazul Maarif”, of which one home received funds from an international NGO allegedly linked to al-Qaida. The apex child rights body also pointed out discrepancy in the number of children. “The information made available to the inspection team about the number of children residing in these homes was 778, however, as per the information made available by MP Maulana Badruddin Ajmal (who has established these Darul Yatama homes) in his bio on the Lok Sabha website, these homes are housing 1,010 children. The website of Markazul Maarif also states that it is housing 1,080 children,” it said in a report after inspection. “It is important to investigate this discrepancy and find out as to the status of these 300-odd children,” NCPCR said. A response from Maulana Badrudin Ajmal was awaited till the time of going to the press. The commission has strongly recommended production of all children currently lodged in all the six homes before the Child Welfare Committee and shifting of these children from these homes to a suitable institution for them. The inspections were led by NCPCR following a complaint about irregularities in the functioning of these homes located in Dhubri, Goalpara and Nagaon in Assam and one in Thoubal in Manipur. The NCPCR report states that during the inspection of a home in Dhubri, the team had been informed about funds being received from Turkey-based International NGO, IHH, which had been interrogated by the Turkish law enforcement agencies for their alleged links with al-Qaida. “It is pertinent that the number of children must be verified who’s details must have been sent to IHH and also, verify the status of those children who are being sponsored by IHH and who’s details have been sent to IHH so as to ensure their well-being and safety,” the report states. NCPCR said the “safety and security of children living in these homes is severely compromised”. Besides calling for a probe into multiple sources of funding and utilisation of funds, the Commission also asked Assam and Manipur police to probe complaints of corporal punishment and mental cruelty that emerged during inspections and registration of FIRs against those responsible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/probe-6-child-homes-set-up-by-mp-ajmal-one-of-them-linked-to-qaida-ncpcr/articleshow/79960592.cms||---
December 26, 2020||India||File FIR against IIT-R head, staff in fraud case, court tells cops||ROORKEE: Months after a former staff member of the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, exposed an alleged fraud to the tune of Rs 1 crore, a local court in Roorkee has now directed the police to file an FIR in the matter against its director and four other officials. According to Manpal Sharma, the former IIT-R employee who brought the alleged fraud to the fore, government funds for IIT-R were directly transferred into the personal bank account of one Dhiraj Kumar Upadhyay, who was the senior assistant at dean’s office of IIT-R. “In June this year, a bank manager informed the institute authorities how the government money was being transferred into a personal account,” said Sharma. He added that a cumulative amount of Rs 1,05,35,753 was transferred into the bank account of Upadhyay between 2017 and 2020. “I took the matter to IIT-R director AK Chaturvedi in June 2020. A departmental probe was ordered and Sharma was removed. However, carrying out such a financial fraud is not possible without the signatures of the director, dean, registrar, and other officials. So, I approached the court,” said Sharma. IIT-R director AK Chaturvedi told TOI that the institution has already acknowledged that a fraud was carried out and has reported it to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/file-fir-against-iit-r-head-staff-in-fraud-case-court-tells-cops/articleshow/79960665.cms||Tapan Susheel
December 26, 2020||India||Muslim boy walks Hindu girl home; thrashed, arrested||MEERUT/BIJNOR: A Muslim teenager has been incarcerated in Bijnor jail for 10 days as he walked a Hindu girl home in a Bijnor village one night after attending a friend’s birthday party. It appears to have begun with an allegation of “theft” which, turned into one of “love jihad”. At 11pm on December 14, the two were walking through a street in Nasirpur village. “Locals spotted them, attacked him and handed the two over to police,” the boy’s mother said. In a purported video of the incident, the mob is seen armed with rods and sticks, beating him up. There had been a theft at the village earlier that day. “They suspected us of being thieves and stopped us and beat him up,” the girl, 16, said. “Four members of her family, including her father, said they wouldn’t press charges,” gram pradhan Vinod Saini said. An hour later, the father filed a complaint saying: “The boy had told my daughter he was Hindu and would speak to her on the sly … (That day), he was running away with her to marry her and convert her.” However, the girl said, “He was not trying to convert me.” “The accused was booked under Sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (abduction to compel marriage) of the IPC, Section 18 of the Pocso Act (sexual harassment), Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act (offence carrying 10 years’ jail term against a member of the SC or ST community), and sections 3 (conversion by fraud, misrepresentation, coercion, allurement or marriage) and 5(1) (punishment for forced conversion) of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/muslim-boy-walks-hindu-girl-home-thrashed-arrested/articleshow/79960670.cms||Piyush Rai
December 26, 2020||India||HC grants cop protection to couple in Uttarakhand||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court has granted police protection to an interfaith couple while also directing the district magistrate of Haridwar to inquire why the application for conversion of the woman from Islam to Hinduism has not been processed yet. The HC bench was hearing a plea filed by a woman called Afsanaon Wednesday. The woman alleged that her brothers were against her marriage and conversion. They are now threatening the couple. Though the court observed that the marriage and the conversion were prima facie in violation of the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018, as no permission was taken from the DM, it said that the protection was being given “in the interest of justice” and based on the law laid down by the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-grants-cop-protection-to-couple-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/79960679.cms||Prashant Jha
December 26, 2020||India||HC increases rapist’s jail term from the original 3 yrs to 7 yrs||MUMBAI: More than 28 years after a man from south Mumbai was accused of raping an “adolescent” domestic help and 14 years after the trial court delivered a guilty verdict, the Bombay high court has enhanced the original three years’ rigorous imprisonment to seven years. “A sentence should be proportionate to gravity of the offence. Social position of the accused is totally irrelevant,” the high court said. The HC bench of Justice Sadhana Jadhav and Justice N J Jamadar directed the man to pay a fine of Rs 1.1 lakh instead of the Rs 10,000 imposed by the sessions court in 2006. The bench said Rs 1 lakh would be paid as compensation to the survivor. “Once the court finds the evidence of the victim to be trustworthy, conviction follows,” the HC said. “Passage of time will not be a justifiable reason to take a lenient view. Courts can’t be oblivious of the impact of such a heinous offence.” The man had challenged his conviction, and the state had challenged the “meagre sentence” that was fewer than seven years of rigorous imprisonment, the minimum under the law existing at the time, and sought its enhancement. As the man was out on bail, the HC said his bail bond stood cancelled and directed him earlier this month to surrender by January 4. It said rape was a heinous offence, one which could not be viewed with any leniency. “The sexual harassment of a woman at a place where she is working to earn her livelihood is a disgrace meted out to her at the hands of the abuser, which needs to be deprecated and set right,’’ the bench said. The high court noted that in case of handing out of a lesser punishment than the minimum, the trial court has to give special and adequate reasons. In this case, the high court found that the sessions judge had assigned no such special reasons. The man is now 47 years old. His counsel Girish Kulkarni argued that he was innocent and the girl had offered no plausible explanation for “inordinate delay in lodging the FIR”. The high court said she was “almost kept in confinement and was not allowed to communicate with anyone”. The HC held that false implication is a “lame defence” taken by the accused without any effort to “probablise it”. “Rape tantamounts to a serious blow to the supreme honour and dignity of a woman,” it said. “It is a violation of human rights.” It said it is not just a physical injury but “an injury to her womanhood”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-increases-rapists-jail-term-from-the-original-3-yrs-to-7-yrs/articleshow/79960699.cms||---
December 26, 2020||India||2 virus mutations per month, no need for alarm: AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria||PUNE: Delhi AIIMS director and member of the national task force on Covid management, Dr Randeep Guleria, said here on Friday that the coronavirus had undergone several mutations, an average of two per month, and that new strains should not warrant unnecessary concern. “The mutations have not led to any change in symptoms and treatment strategy. According to current data, the vaccines in the trial phase (which are up for emergency authorisation) should also be effective against the new (UK) strain,” he told TOI. He added that the next six-eight weeks were crucial in India’s battle against the virus as cases and fatalities have been declining. Read AlsoVirus strain to cause more deaths in Britain: StudyA mutated coronavirus strain spreading in Britain is on average 56 per cent more contagious than the original version, scientists have warned in a study, urging a fast vaccine rollout to help prevent more deaths. The new variant, which emerged in southeast England in November and is spreading fast,Guleria said the UK strain was red-flagged solely because the mutated virus was more infectious. “It, however, does not require extended hospitalisation. Neither does it cause more deaths. There have been many mutations during the last 10 months and it is quite common,” he said, while ruling out the impact of the mutations on the vaccines. “If required, manufacturers can tweak vaccines to make them more effective against major changes in the virus. Currently, there doesn’t seem to be a major change in the virus. So, I don’t really think we need to look at a major change in the vaccine,” Guleria said. Read AlsoNew Covid strain found in UK not seen in India so far, says govtThe new strain or Coronavirus mutation found in the United Kingdom has not been seen in India, so far, the health ministry said on Tuesday. "Mutated SARS-CoV-2 strain detected in UK has increased transmissibility but this mutation isn't affecting disease severity, case fatality," the health ministryOn continuing international flight services, especially to the UK, Guleria said if these were resumed, the authorities should ensure gene sequencing of at least 10% of the flyers testing positive after arrival in India. Gene sequencing is currently carried out in six-seven laboratories. Emphasising on a combined network of clinical, epidemiological and gene sequencing data, Guleria said, “We are thinking about giving more country-specific mutation data to a consortium of laboratories in India as part of an overall strategy by planners and the health sector.” Read AlsoSouth Africa rejects claim its Covid variant more dangerous than UK strainJOHANNESBURG: South Africa's health minister has rejected his British counterpart's claim that a new coronavirus variant in the country is more contagious or dangerous than a similar one in spreading the UK. "At present, there is no evidence that the 501.V2 (variant) is more transmissible than theOver 50 vaccines are in clinical trials the world over. He said the country would have six-seven vaccines by the middle of next year. With enough data, a long-lasting vaccine could also be developed, he said, adding, “At present, the vaccine for frontline workers will be free of cost and the expenses will be borne by the Union government.” On the possibility of herd immunity against Covid-19 in the country, the AIIMS director said plans were afoot to carry out more serological surveys across states to understand how many people had developed antibodies against the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-virus-mutations-per-month-no-need-for-alarm-guleria/articleshow/79960703.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 26, 2020||India||Shah leads ministers in big outreach to farmers||NEW DELHI: On a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed opposition parties for their stand on three farm laws, a host of Union ministers reached out to farmers with home minister Amit Shah assuring that the agri-reforms will not do away with the minimum support price (MSP). The ministers joined people from different locations to listen to the PM’s speech and have interactions with the farmers. “Opposition parties are left with no issues. They are spreading pure lies. PM Modi has clarified, our agriculture minister has repeatedly said and I am making it clear once again that the MSP will always remain,” Shah asserted while addressing a “Kisan Chaupal” at Mehrauli here. Shah said the three farm laws are in the interest of farmers and will not cause any harm to them. “Neither mandis will be closed nor an inch of farmers’ land will be taken away. As long as Narendra Modi is the PM of this country, corporates can’t take land from farmers,” he said. The home minister dared opposition parties to explain as to which part of the three laws says that mandis will be closed. “Please come forward with the provision which says so … we are ready for discussion,” he said, adding that several delegations of farmers had met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to extend support to the laws. Shah said the government is ready to hold talks with farmers’ unions about any of the provisions about which they have apprehensions. “For decades, farmers kept demanding that MSP should be increased, which was not done by the Congress and PM Modi has done it,” Shah said. Defence minister Rajnath Singh was in Dwarka, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan was in Odisha, railway minister Piyush Goyal was in Meerut and textiles minister Smriti Irani was in Amethi to listen to the PM’s address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shah-leads-ministers-in-big-outreach-to-farmers/articleshow/79960747.cms||---
December 26, 2020||India||Daily Covid toll falls below 300, a first since June||NEW DELHI: India’s daily death toll from Covid-19 fell below 300 for the first time since June 9, as 253 fatalities were recorded in the country on Christmas day, the lowest toll in more than six months. Most of the states reported a fall in fatalities as compared with the previous day, even as fresh cases dropped to under 23,000 — the lowest single day tally so far for any day other than a Monday since July 2. However, despite the steady decline in Covid numbers for more than three months now, India has still recorded the fourth highest count of cases in the world so far in December after the US, Brazil and Russia. Till December 24, the month’s tally of new cases in India was 6,84,896. This puts December in line to register the lowest monthly case count since June. However, India’s December numbers are still high enough have been surpassed so far by only three countries — the US, which has reported a staggering 51 lakh cases in December alone, Brazil (nearly 11 lakh) and Russia (6,97,052), as per data from worldometers.info. Turkey is a close fifth so far with 6,69,064 cases detected till December 24. December is likely to log the highest number of Covid cases worldwide since the outbreak of the pandemic. On Friday, India recorded 22,469 fresh cases, around a thousand less than the previous day. With the extended Christmas weekend coming up, numbers are likely to remain low over the next three days. With this, India's total caseload rose to 1,01,70,390. The death toll fell sharply from 337 recorded on the previous day to 253. This was the lowest count of daily deaths recorded in 206 days since 219 fatalities reported on June 2. Several big states reported a sharp drop in fatalities from Thursday’s toll. Maharashtra’s toll fell from 89 to 71, Delhi’s from 37 to 30 and Uttar Pradesh’s from 23 to 13. Similarly, Punjab reported nine deaths from Covid, down from 17 on Thursday while fatalities fell from 22 to 14 in Chhattisgarh. India's death toll from the pandemic now stands at 1,47,331. Meanwhile, there was a drop in the number of recoveries as well, leading to a rise in active cases since November 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/daily-covid-toll-falls-below-300-a-first-since-june/articleshow/79960780.cms||---
December 26, 2020||India||Vaccination drive: 50k medics trained, dry runs in 4 states||NEW DELHI: Gearing up to carry out the mega vaccination drive against the coronavirus infection, the government has already trained 49,604 medical officers in 681 districts across the country on operational guidelines to ensure smooth inoculation of the ‘priority’ population even in remote areas of the country, once the vaccine is available. The training includes all operational aspects like organisation of vaccination sessions, use of Co-WIN information technology platform for management of the entire vaccination process, deployment of human resource, cold chain preparedness, management of adverse events, communications and inter-sectoral coordination, biomedical waste management and infection prevention protocols. The Centre plans to conduct a mock drill on December 28 and 29 in four states — Punjab, Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat to assess the readiness for the massive exercise that is expected to begin in January once the vaccine gets approval for use. Each state will plan the dry run in two districts and preferably in five different settings — district hospital, community health centre or primary health care centre, urban site, private facility and rural outreach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccination-drive-50k-medics-trained-dry-runs-in-4-states/articleshow/79960804.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Festive lunches turn into reunions at clubs||KOLKATA: The setting was perfect and so was the weather, and the lawns and the food looked good. At other times, a Christmas luncheon meet would be peppered with hugs and kisses, but this year required a different celebration. So members of the city’s different clubs enjoyed the socially distanced lunch arrangements, grateful that they could at least meet and sit down for a meal together. Among the city’s clubs that organized Christmas lunch were Tolly Club, RCGC, CC&FC and Saturday Club. A slew of restrictions were brought in apart from sanitization — temperature checks, masks and only a small number of guests. However, club authorities said they were happy to make a start and fight the gloom that has set in. They also said the Christmas lunch was also an acid test for the New Year’s Eve arrangements that are underway. “Despite restrictions, we didn’t give up on tradition when it came to the food. We could just have 200 people over for the lunch on first-come- first-served basis,” said Tolly Club CEO Anil Mukherji. Members were delighted to be served their familiar orange ginger roast chicken, grilled mutton in mint sauce, broccoli mornay and fish in leek sauce. The food made up for the lack of physical contact as members restricted themselves to waving hello. Saturday Club had cancelled the Children’s Carnival that used to be part of its annual calendar and brought in the Christmas lunch on the lawns. Favourites like mushroom ragu with cheese crepes, chermoula assorted vegetables with corn rice, mutton shepherd’s pie and pork chops with pineapple sauce were served to members, though very few could be invited because of the protocols, said president Dipu Doshi. The lunch was spiced up with music by Christopher Lobo and Mishtie Subhalakshmi. A total of 250 members lunched on the lawns of RCGC. “We had to refuse many because of the restrictions. We had a dedicated table service to avoid crowding at the bar and multiple food service counters,” said Devrishi Singhal, club CEO. The colour scheme of red and white added to the cheerful décor. The Christmas lunch at CC&FC had the traditional menu, but this time only 200 could be invited instead of 700. There was an a la carte arrangement. “Members paid only for the items they chose to eat. We had turkey, chicken, pork and everything that we used to serve earlier, but there was no point going for a fixed charge for the entire spread to prevent wastage. The lunch was spread out over the lawns with a lot of distancing,” said club president Dinyar Mucadum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/festive-lunches-turn-into-reunions-at-clubs/articleshow/79958648.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 26, 2020||Business||Lower interest rates make India Inc less default prone||MUMBAI: A sharp reduction in interest rates and an increase in revenues led to a sharp improvement in interest coverage or the ability to service debt for most corporates in the July-September quarter. However hospitality, retail and infrastructure sectors are still struggling to generate enough money to repay loans, while real estate and telecom are on the fence. RBI’s repo rate cut to 4% from 5.15% post-lockdown had resulted in the weighted average lending rate on new loans falling to 8.29% in September from 9.26% in February, according to an analysis of 3,542 companies’ financials by CARE Ratings. Interest coverage for these companies had fallen to 2.6 times of earnings in March 2020 from 4.3 in the preceding quarter. This ratio improved marginally to 2.7 in the June quarter and jumped to 5.3 at the end September. An interest coverage ratio of below 1.5 is considered low, while a number below 1 indicates that a default is likely. The September quarter saw improvement across all sectors except non-ferrous metals — its interest coverage was at 4.9 times compared to 6.7 in the April-June period. At the end of the June quarter, retail and infrastructure sectors had interest coverage of below 1, while for telecom and real estate it was 1.4. The ratio for these sectors improved to 3 and above in the September quarter. Hospitality was the only sector, which continued to have a negative interest coverage at the end of the September quarter. According to CARE Ratings, in the March quarter, only seven out of 31 sectors saw an improvement in coverage ratio, while five sectors saw profits turn into losses resulting in a negative interest coverage. The June quarter also saw five industries with negative interest cover — textiles, alcohol, gems & jewellery, telecom and hospitality. However, telecom sector’s losses were due to non-Covid reasons. A negative interest cover meant that the company is making losses in its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (ebitda), said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, CARE Ratings. The last week of a financial year is typically the biggest in terms of sales. As a result, the lockdown, which began in the last week of March, had brought down earnings for the entire quarter. The April-June quarter was hit the most as it saw the maximum period under a strict lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lower-interest-rates-make-india-inc-less-default-prone/articleshow/79959999.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Eight home guard jawans held in rifles theft case||SASARAM: Eight home guard jawans were arrested and sent to jail on Friday in connection with the theft of two rifles and 50 cartridges from the guardroom on Rajpur circle office premises in Rohtas district Tuesday night. They were arrested on the written complaint of Rajpur circle officer Raghewndra Dayal. DSP, Bikramganj, Raj Kumar said three special teams have been formed to trace the stolen items. Police sources said four home guards jawans were sent to Rajpur circle office from the district police headquarters at Dehri-on- Sone to take over from another group of four jawans. Since the reliever jawans reported late in the evening, the outgoing group left their arms and ammunition in the guardroom and left for their village. When the jawans from Dehri reached Rajpur circle office on Wednesday morning to collect their arms and ammunition, they found two rifles and 50 cartridges missing from the guardroom. The DSP reached the spot and recovered a bamboo ladder behind the window of the room. “All the eight jawans were taken into custody and after 30 hours of interrogation, they were sent to jail on Friday evening. The circle officer has lodged a named FIR against the eight jawans,” DSP Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/8-home-guard-jawans-held-in-rifles-theft-case/articleshow/79958324.cms||Alok Chamaria
December 26, 2020||Patna||Bike stolen from Patna found in use by Dumka cop||PATNA: A bike stolen from Boring Road area in Patna five years ago was found in use by an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of police at Dumka in Jharkhand. On December 23, an SMS to the owner, Diwakar Kumar, from the authorized service station of the two-wheeler company where the bike was for servicing, led to its recovery. He had purchased the bike in June 2012. It was stolen from his residence near AN College in Patna on May 28, 2015 and police had not been able to trace it till now. Diwakar told TOI over phone on Friday that he had forgotten about the theft. “I was confused, shocked and was also excited after suddenly receiving the SMS at around 6.30pm on Wednesday. I rushed to S K Puri police station where a police officer guided me to ignore the SMS citing it as a fraud,” he said. Kumar, a contractor by profession, said he contacted a friend who suggested him to immediately call the company’s customer care number. “I remained on call with customer care for almost 45 minutes. They verified the details like name, place of showroom from where bike was purchased, engine and chassis number,” he said. Kumar said they asked him repeatedly to read complete SMS. “As I was nervous, I didn’t realize that part of SMS was to be expanded in which mechanic’s number was mentioned. I finally got to know that my bike was at a service centre in Dumka town. I contacted Town police station in Dumka, but didn’t get any help,” he said. He said an email complaint was sent to senior police authorities in Dumka on Thursday after which he received a call from Dumka SP, who took case details. “I later came to know that the SP suspended the ASI who was using my stolen bike,” he added. An assistant sub-inspector of police named PK Singh from S K Puri police station was sent to Dumka on Friday. SHO Satish Kumar Singh said things would become further clear once the ASI reaches Dumka and carries out further investigation. “We will wait for direction from the senior authorities that if the Jharkhand police ASI could be arrested or not for using a stolen bike,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bike-stolen-from-patna-found-in-use-by-dumka-cop/articleshow/79958855.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 26, 2020||Patna||Churches in Danapur and Khagaul celebrate Christmas||PATNA: Centuries old Churches in Danapur cantonment and Khagaul areas celebrated Christmas with fervour on Friday. Christmas revellers, however, took care to maintain social distancing norms against the backdrop of Covid-19. Churches were tastefully decorated with lights and a variety of flowers. Chiming of bells atop the tower houses of the churches was an attraction for the people irrespective of their religious faiths. Carols were sung and candles were lit as per rituals in Christmas celebrations. Reverend Bipin of St Luke Church at Danapur cantonment said Christmas was celebrated at the 191 years’ old church with full austerity. “About 10 to 15 faithful of the Danapur Army cantonment turned up around 11.30pm on Thursday and lit the candles at the altar of the church. Prayers were held late Thursday night. About 100 faithful turned up on the church campus on Friday morning and greeted each other Merry Christmas,” he said. At St Stephen Army Church, faithful of Bihar Regiment Centre (BRC) celebrated Christmas by singing carols, lighting candles and holding service inside the 190 years’ old church. Army men with their families visited the church on Friday morning and took part in the special Xmas service. Though the number of visitors was not much due to Covid-19 pandemic, faithfuls greeted each other and prayed for peace on earth. Dipak Samuel, a member of 124 years’ old Anglican Church (Protestant Church) at Khagaul, said Covid-19 pandemic and migration of large number of Anglo-Indians took sheen off the Christmas celebrations in Khagaul this year. Men, women and children dressed in colourful attires attended the special service. After attending the special service in the morning with family members and friends, the faithful gathered in church to greet each other and distributed cakes among visitors. There was a special congregation of railway officials on the church premises on Friday morning. Carol singing was also held on the sprawling church compound. The Baptist Union Church at Khagaul also celebrated Christmas with full fervour. The faithful offered special prayers in the morning. Candles were lit and Christmas gifts were exchanged among the visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/churches-in-danapur-and-khagaul-celebrate-christmas/articleshow/79959019.cms||Kumod Verma
December 26, 2020||Patna||Prez, PM & CM condole death of Union min’s mother in Patna||PATNA: Vimla Prasad, a political and social worker by her own right and wife of former minister Thakur Prasad and mother of Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, died here on Thursday following her critical illness. She is survived by three sons, three daughters and grandchildren. The funeral rites of the deceased will take place at Digha ghat here on Saturday noon. President Ram Nath Kovind, PM Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, CM Nitish Kumar, BJP national president J P Nadda, Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi, Bihar deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi and a host of other notables talked to Ravi Shankar on phone and condoled him. Nitish said the death of Vimla Prasad had left a void in the field of social work. He recalled her as a very energetic and active woman. Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey said she was always very affectionate towards him. Vimla remained a member of the Bharatiya Jan Sangh and its new avatar the BJP right through. She had also participated in the 1974 JP movement. Her husband had been a founding member of the Jan Sangh. At their house, she played host to the Jan Sangh and BJP leaders of yore like Deendayal Upadhyaya, Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Nanaji Deshmukh and L K Advani. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prez-pm-cm-condole-death-of-union-mins-mother-in-patna/articleshow/79958404.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Patna||‘Over 79.5L farmers in state get benefited’||PATNA: On the Good Governance Day celebrated as part of the birth anniversary celebration of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, a host of state BJP leaders on Friday hailed PM Narendra Modi for his agriculture reform initiatives and his appeal to the agitating farmers to come forward for a dialogue for the resolution of their confusions.The state BJP leaders also hailed PM Modi for the direct transfer of money into the accounts of registered farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana (KSNY) since December 1, 2018. Union minister Nityanand Rai participated in a function organized by the state agriculture department at Patna. State agriculture minister Amrendra Pratap Singh also addressed the function. The agriculture minister said Rs 5,972.93 crore had been transferred into the accounts of 79.56 lakh farmers of the state till now since December 1, 2018 when the PMKSNY was first launched.State BJP chief Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said the arrangements for listening the PM’s address was made at 3,000 places in the state. As many as 5 lakh persons listened to him, while 4.5 lakh others heard him on the Facebook, which was a record, he added.On the occasion, deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, as well as the BJP’s Union ministers from the state and other senior leaders participated in several functions. A function was held at the party’s state headquarters. Rajya Sabha member and former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and former minister Nand Kishore Yadav, among others, spoke on the occasion.Before the start of the PM’s address, a health camp was organsied at the state BJP headquarters by the state convener of the party’s health cell, Dr Manoj Kumar. The health check-up was done for such ailments as diabetes, blood pressure and cholesterol, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-79-5l-farmers-in-state-get-benefited/articleshow/79958356.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Varanasi||BHU experts use drone to plant seeds in Mirzapur field||Varanasi: Villagers at Khutahan village in Mirzapur recently woke up to drones hovering over their neighbourhood, creating an incessant buzz. Mistaking it for a military exercise, they were in for a surprise when they found that agricultural scientists were using the technology to disperse seeds on a field. A team of experts, led by the director of the Institute of Agricultural Sciences, BHU, Prof Ramesh Chand had recently visited Khutahan to demonstrate the use of drones in farming. “It technology will help farmers reduce the cost of farming and increase their efficiency,” Prof Chand told TOI on Saturday, adding that locals were satisfied with the experiment. According to him, the drone was used in the fields of the ‘rice-wheat cropping system’, where tractors could not be used for tilling due to wet soil. This cropping system is the main feature of the Indo-Gangetic plains. Both rice and wheat have different soil requirements. If rice needs stagnant water conditions, wheat requires well-pulverised soil balanced with moisture, air and thermal regime. Due to this, a key feature of the rice-wheat cropping system is the annual conversion of soil from aerobic to anaerobic and then back to aerobic conditions. He said the use of drone could not only enhance overall performance but also encourage farmers to solve other assorted barriers and receive plenty of benefits through precision agriculture. Demand for drone technology, equipped with artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and remote sensing features, is rising because of its advantages. The system allow drones to shoot pods, seeds, and crucial nutrients in the soil. This technology not only reduces the cost, but also increases consistency and efficiency. “It took just 15 minutes to sow the seeds in a field of one bigha,” he said. He, however, added that some R&D is needed for further improvement in drone sowing, which can also be used in paddy plantation. The other members of the team included agricultural engineer Prof K Nema, wheat breeder Prof V K Mishra and drone specialist Abinav Kumar Singh Thakur from Global Engineering College, Jabalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-experts-use-drone-to-plant-seeds-in-mirzapur-field/articleshow/79970613.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Patna||AP episode against spirit of coalition politics: JD(U)||PATNA: Coming a day before the start of its two-day national executive meet at Patna and around four months ahead of the West Bengal assembly polls, JD(U) on Friday received a big jolt as six of its seven MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh (AP) joined BJP with which it has been an alliance partner both at the Centre and in Bihar. AP state BJP chief B R Waghe has accepted the desire of the six JD(U) MLAs to join his party. Expectedly, JD(U) has not taken the AP development charitably. “Was it necessary?” the party’s general secretary K C Tyagi asked and added: “It was not necessary at all. What has happened is against the spirit of coalition politics. The matter will be definitely discussed at the party’s two-day national executive committee meeting at Patna from Saturday and the decision as to the party’s stand on it will be taken.” In the 60-member AP assembly, BJP emerged as the single largest party winning 41 seats in the 2019 assembly elections, followed by JD(U) with seven seats, Congress and National People’s Party (NPP) four seats each with one to the People’s Party of Arunachal Pradesh. As BJP and JD(U) were not in alliance in AP, the latter became the main opposition party in the House. “It was the best democratic scenario for BJP and JD(U). BJP was the ruling party and its friendly party JD(U) in the role of the lead opposition party. That could not sustain,” Tyagi said. Observers feel BJP had option as not to accept the letters of intention expressing JD(U) MLAs’ desire to join it. JD(U), however, has been bracing up to contest the assembly elections in West Bengal and Assam. BJP is ruling Assam and has been trying hard to dislodge TMC from power. Further, the BJP-JD(U) relation in Bihar might also enter rough weather, depending upon what stance CM Nitish Kumar takes as the JD(U) national president on the AP developments, observers feel. “The party has served show-cause notices to three of the six MLAs and had also suspended them from the party for their anti-party activities last month. Now they have done what is visible to everyone,” JD(U) general secretary incharge of the North East, Afaque Ahmad Khan, said. The six JD(U) MLAs who joined BJP are Talem Taboh, Hayeng Mangfi, Jikke Tako, Dorjee Wangdi Kharma, Dongru Shongju and Kanggong Taku. Nitish downplays Arunachal issue Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Friday sought to downplay the split suffered by his party JD(U) in Arunachal Pradesh. Kumar, who is JD(U) national president, sought to dismiss with a bitter laugh the development in the north-eastern state. “We are focusing on our proposed meeting. They have gone their own way,” Kumar said in response to queries from journalists about the split that came ahead of the JD(U)’s national executive and national council meetings scheduled here this weekend. JD(U) has been contesting assembly polls in a number of states without having a truck with BJP, he said, insisting that its tie-up with the saffron party was “confined to Bihar”. The party made an exception only in the Delhi assembly polls earlier this year which it fought in alliance with BJP though the coalition suffered a humiliating defeat at the hands of Aam Aadmi Party. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ap-episode-against-spirit-of-coalition-politics-jdu/articleshow/79958318.cms||Abhay Singh
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||3 held for killing man in Alwar||Jaipur: The police on Friday arrested three persons in connection with the murder of a 27-year-old man in Alwar on December 20.The deceased Ram Khiladi Meena’s half burnt body was recovered from Dhiroda Road by the police. The instigation by the police revealed that Meena was killed by three persons identified as Sudhir Panchal, Ajay Panchal and a woman Laxmi Sharma over recovery of Rs 50,000.“Meena owes Rs 50,000 to prime accused Sudhir and has been demanding the recovery with interest for long. The accused was missing the deadlines for giving the money back to him. On December 17, both the deceased and the accused had a major tiff over the issue. The accused decided to take the revenge and planed to teach him a lesson,” said a police officer.The accused called his cousin Ajay from Dausa and took the help of a woman Laxmi also from Dausa. The accused invited Meena at Senthal Flyover in Alwar to collect his money. The accused unaware of their plans has visited the site alone. The trio beat him up badly with batons and tyres. He sustained severe injuries and fearing that he can go to the police which would land them in jail they decided to kill him, said Tejasvi Gautam, SP of Alwar.The trio took him to the Dhiroda road and poured petrol on him. They left him after they ensured he died on the spot. Police nab the accused on the basis of call records and location. The trio have been sent to the custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-held-for-killing-man-in-alwar/articleshow/79958885.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Patna||Fervour, enthusiasm mark Christmas celebrations||PATNA: Christmas was celebrated with great zeal and enthusiasm in the city on Friday. Prayer services were offered and carols sung in various churches to mark the birth of Jesus Christ amid the Covid-19 pandemic. During the prayer service, the parish priests and heads of churches recalled the teachings of Jesus Christ and gave the message of love, peace and brotherhood. Limited devotees were allowed for the prayer services at churches due to Covid-19. Devotees lit up the candles after the Eucharistic celebration at churches. Angela, a resident of Ashok Rajpath, said, “I am glad that the prayer service was conducted at the church. During the mass, the devotees were encouraged to help the less privileged.” Abhishek Patrick, a resident of Patna City, said he offered prayers with his family at Padri Ki Haveli and greeted his friends and relatives after the mass. “We did not hold any party like previous years,” he added. The relatively less chill in the air added to the spirit of the Christmas celebrations with many spending quality time with their family at parks and hangout places. The Christmas celebrations were held till midnight as malls, restaurants and eateries witnessed gatherings. “We had lunch at a restaurant after prayer service. We also decorated the tree at home and baked Christmas cookies in the evening,” said Cyril, a resident of Kurji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fervour-enthusiasm-mark-christmas-celebrations/articleshow/79959072.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 26, 2020||Patna||Patna records 273 fresh Covid cases||PATNA: Altogether 640 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection were reported in Bihar in the last 24 hours, taking the corresponding tally up to 2,49,975 as on Friday evening. Active cases, on the other hand, stood at 5,347 as 2,43,255 people have recovered from the infection till date. The health department bulletin said only two deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. However, four deaths were reported by All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna on Friday. The deceased included one each from Patna, Buxar, Nalanda and Bhagalpur. One Covid patient died at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Patna as well. The deceased was a resident Khajekalan in Patna City area. Besides, three new patients were admitted in the Covid ward at NMCH. Of the 640 fresh patients, Patna had the highest number of 273 cases. Among other districts, 48 cases were reported from Muzaffarpur, 33 from Aurangabad, 28 from Begusarai and 23 from Saran. Altogether 481 persons recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours. With new cases and discharged patients, Bihar’s recovery rate improved to 97.31% as on Friday evening, which was 1.54 % higher than the national average of 95.77%. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Friday that as many as 1,13,777 new samples were tested at health facilities and laboratories in Bihar in the last 24 hours, taking the number of total samples tested so far to more than 1.76 crore in the state till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-records-273-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/79959112.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Patna||Book in memory of Dr Swami Nandan||PATNA: The family members of late Dr Swami Nandan Prasad paid tribute to him on his centenary birth anniversary by releasing a biography written by his daughter Subhashini Sinha on his medical journey. Dr Prasad had a distinct position in the medical world. During the late 1970s, he had the rare opportunity and honour to hold four topmost posts in medicine — chairman of medical division, PHCH, head of the department of medicine at PMCH, dean faculty of medicine and director of Indira Gandhi Institute of Cardiology. He was conferred with the honour of Emeritus Professorship. He was also honoured with ‘Dhanvantari’ Award for his outstanding service to humanity. Dr Prasad was the president of IMA-Bihar in 1958. He passed away in 1983. To give him recognition, the state government has named a roundabout near his home on Fraser road after him. The book, ‘Revisiting the Legend,’ was released on December 19. Subhashini said the year 2020 marked the 100th birth anniversary of her father and she dedicated the book in his memory. “There is no better way than this to express my gratitude and respect for him. Every word written in this book is not by mind, but by heart,” she said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/book-in-memory-of-dr-swami-nandan/articleshow/79958381.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Patna||Take action against junior doctors on strike: Bihar govt to hospitals||PATNA: The state government has decided to penalize the junior doctors for going on strike without prior notice. The junior doctors in the state continued their strike for the third day on Friday, paralysing the health services at all government medical colleges and hospitals demanding an increase in stipend. They complained that their demands have not been met for the last three years. Health department’s additional secretary Kaushal Kishore on Friday instructed the superintendents and principals of the government medical colleges and hospitals to take action against the junior doctors and postgraduate students on strike by deducting their stipends under ‘no-work, no-pay’ rule for the period of their absence from work. The order also asked the authorities to initiate legal action against the junior doctors who were involved in obstructing essential services like emergency and outdoor patient departments (OPD) services. The additional secretary said colleges should immediately call the disciplinary committee meetings and take decision accordingly. The superintendents and principals have also been asked to submit a daily status report about examined and admitted patients through OPDs, the number of patients examined in emergency and admitted through emergency wards and the number of operations conducted. PMCH principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary said the emergency services remain uninterrupted while the other services like general operation theatre and OPDs were hit due to the ongoing strike. “Around 140 registrations were done in emergency while 57 patients are admitted in emergency unit. The senior residents, interns and assistant professors, including surgeons, are working round-the-clock,” he said. Junior Doctors’ Association president Dr Harendra Kumar said they will not end the strike till their demands were fulfilled. “We have not got any assurance from the state government about the hike in our stipend. The principal secretary visited the PMCH on Thursday, but did not interact with us,” he said. NMCH superintendent Dr Dr Binod Kumar Singh said they tried to talk to the junior doctors, but they were not ready to listen. “The patient outflow was low on Friday due to Christmas. However, no patient returned without treatment. I inspected different departments to ensure that no patients faced any problem because of the strike. I have increased the number of physicians on duty from one to two in each department to ensure that the health services remained unaffected,” Dr Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-hospitals-take-action-against-junior-doctors-on-strike/articleshow/79959343.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Booking-fraud plaints pour in from year-end vacationers||KOLKATA: A few tourists who wanted to ring in the new year at tourist spots, like Darjeeling and Purulia, have approached police after being duped while trying to book hotel rooms. Cops said a section of online fraudsters is cashing in on the holiday rush. The frauds are happening on two levels. People are either posing as agents of popular hotels and claiming an advance to their own accounts or floating names of fake home stays and extracting money. The police have advised tourists not to pay the booking amount unless they are sure of where they are investing their money. “We have received multiple complaints on social networking sites and police stations about tourists getting duped. People have to cross-check before making the payment. Call on the hotel landline and check for availability. Cross check the account details sent via WhatsApp or SMS,” said an officer, adding that those going on solo trips are being targeted the most. Sinjini Banerjee, who tagged the Kolkata Police on Facebook where she complained that she had lost Rs 36,000 while trying to book a hotel on Darjeeling’s MG Road, said, “We were asked to pay in full for hotel confirmation and were sent the bank account details. Now, after paying, the person at the other end of the phone who claimed to be the hotel owner’s son is neither confirming the room by email or WhatsApp, or even picking up our calls. Most of the time, the phone is switched off.” She alleged that the person they exchanged messages on WhatsApp with had asked her to consult the website for all queries. “When we called him up on Thursday, he used foul language when we insisted and even told us to lodge a police complaint saying that he was not afraid,” Banerjee said. The victim, however, has not let the incident hamper their stay in the Hills, saying they would make alternative arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/booking-fraud-plaints-pour-in-from-yr-end-vacationers/articleshow/79958596.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Afghan nationals held in Katihar taken on remand||PATNA: The five Afghan nationals, who were arrested from Katihar On December 16, were taken on police remand for interrogation on Friday. They were lodged in a separate cell of Purnia central jail for security reasons. Katihar SP Vikas Kumar said the foreign nationals were taken on 48-hour remand on the directive of the court. “The officials of the district police and other intelligence agencies are interrogating them,” he said. Earlier, police searched the rented house of the arrested Afghan nationals at Choudhari Tola and seized some incriminating documents. “The house was sealed in the presence of a magistrate,” the SP added. The sixth Afghan national identified as Alman Khan and the owner of the house, Md Monazir, are still evading arrest. “Raids are on to apprehend the absconding accused,” Katihar DSP Amar Kant Jha said. Purnia deputy jail superintendent Mritunjay Kumar said, “We have received an order from a Katihar court on Thursday for handing over the arrested Afghan nationals to police on remand. We complied with the order of the court concerned.” Initial interrogation of the arrested foreigners had revealed that they were staying in Katihar for about five years and engaged in money laundering in different districts of the Seemanchal region. Evidences of money transactions through hawala were also found during investigation. “The anti-terrorism squad of the state police is trying to ascertain their role in funding sleeper cells of a banned terror outfit,” an investigating officer said. The Katihar police officials are also in touch with their counterparts in Guwahati to gather more information about Md. Kamran, who had lived there for a while before shifting his base to Katihar. “We will send a team from Katihar to Assam, if required,” Katihar SP revealed. Kamran was among the five Afghan nationals arrested from Katihar on December 16. All the arrested foreigners, stated to be residents of Paktika province in Afghanistan, were booked on charges of violating Indian Foreign Act and forging documents related to Indian citizenship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/afghan-nationals-held-in-katihar-taken-on-remand/articleshow/79958337.cms||Ramashankar
December 26, 2020||Patna||Youth shot at over puppy’s ownership in Bihar||PATNA: A 22-year-old youth was shot at and critically injured following a dispute over ownership of a dog’s puppy in Aurangabad district on Friday. Police said the incident took place around 6pm at Karma Khurd village under Daudnagar police station area when one Raju Kumar was fired upon and subsequently injured by Sudhir Kumar and Roshan Kumar after the former refused to hand over the puppy. SHO Arvind Kumar Gautam said Raju had handed over the puppy to his acquaintance after the pet was found on the road. When Sudhir came to know about it, he reached Raju’s house and pressurized him to return the puppy, leading to an altercation. In a fit of rage, Sudhir whipped out a countrymade pistol and fired at Raju, causing grievous injuries to him. He was rushed to a local hospital from where he was referred to Patna for better treatment. The SHO said Sudhir was arrested while his brother Roshan, both residents of neighbouring Bharosa Bigha village, is absconding. An FIR was lodged against the two, he added. The SHO claimed that the injured was is stated to be out of danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youth-shot-at-over-puppys-ownership/articleshow/79958331.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Pune||Admission to professional courses delayed, yet again||PUNE: The last dates to register for admission to all professional courses in the state have now been revised to December 29 or 30, depending on the course. The extension has been issued following a government resolution on December 23, seeking to accommodate socially and educationally backward classes students in the EWS and general categories. Students and parents are unhappy with the frequent postponing of admission process. Many say that the students, who had their hopes pinned on state colleges, would suffer in comparison to the ones admitted in deemed university colleges where the academic year started online in September-October. Kshitij Salunke, an engineering aspirant, said he had been allotted a college via JEE marks but didn’t take it up as he wanted to wait for admission in a state college. “However, there has been a huge delay. Many of my friends who are in private universities say that their classes have already started. As there has been no allotment yet, none of us has joined any tuition classes either,” Salunkhe said. Soham Dhumane, another engineering aspirant, said his parents are extremely frustrated with the delay and keep wondering when the academic year will start. “The process had been delayed twice already,” Dhumane said. Yash Kulkarni, a student, has added concerns. “The other colleges, especially the deemed universities, have gone really ahead. Some of my friends who go to these colleges have their term-end examinations next week and here we are, yet to even get first merit list. My biggest concern is how the colleges will finish the syllabus. There is a huge chance that the teachers will now try to rush through the syllabus, hoping to complete it as soon as possible. Engineering syllabus is very vast and tough. With poor fundamental knowledge, it will be very hard for us to study the subjects in the coming years. All of us were already stressed when the CET exams got delayed and now this extension is really frustrating,” Kulkarni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/admission-to-professional-courses-delayed-yet-again/articleshow/79958890.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Revellers let guard down at party hubs||KOLKATA: Thousands descended on Park Street on Christmas evening, forcing police to yank traffic off the road at 5pm. Police estimated the crowd to be 25% less than that of previous years owing to the Covid situation, but those who were out on the streets appeared fearless and didn’t care about wearing masks or maintaining soc-ial distance. The morning did not show the day, as crowds were thinner than usual. But as the afternoon wore on, the crowd surged at hot spots, like Alipore zoo and Victoria Memorial Hall. Soon after, they headed for Park Street. As the crowd grew by the hour, police started increasing their presence. By 6.30pm, there were 1,200 cops deployed at Park Street alone and a further 3,500 at other spots across the city. On Christmas eve, checking at intersections led to anti-drink driving and anti-crime prosecutions. There were complaints of disorderly behaviour in higher numbers than the past two years. Woman cops were deployed around Victoria Memorial and Indian Museum. Live footage from CCTVs were monitored constantly. Around 20 new CCTV cameras were installed at strategic locations in south Kolkata in addition to surveillance from eight watch towers and drones. Though cops initially tried to prosecute those not wearing masks and then began appealing to people, they soon gave up. Though Park Street was choc-a-bloc, the restaurants there suffered as it became inaccessible. Those who wanted to dine out chose pubs outside the zone. The large police deployment, though, ensured there were no untoward incidents. Other spots that witnessed incidents of misconduct were pockets off EM Bypass, which has emerged as a new party zone. In all, there were 683 prosecutions between 10.30pm and 1am on Christmas eve night, mostly for rash driving and breaking traffic rules. About 231 were prosecuted for disorderly conduct on Christmas day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/revellers-let-guard-down-at-party-hubs/articleshow/79958594.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 26, 2020||Patna||Waste to Wonder Park in Patna by next month||PATNA: In a bid to promote recycling of waste material and make city clean, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to develop a ‘Waste to Wonder Park’ on the premises of Maurya Lok here. The park, to be constructed with an estimated expenditure of Rs 15 lakh, is likely to be ready by January next year. It will have different sections for people from all ages. There will be open garden library, kids’ zone, selfie spot, eateries and illuminated pathways at the park. Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the open garden library would be something new for the people of the city. “In this park, all the furniture, gaming set-up, lights and recreational areas would be made of scraps. The objective is to motivate people to reuse and recycle the waste products,” he added. Sharma said in the open garden library, the table, chairs and lamps would be made of discarded materials like tyre, can lids, kettles, tins and drums. The decorative statues, on the other hand, would be made of parts of automobiles, rods, nut-bolts, iron sheets and non-functional appliances. Though the civic body will buy some books for the open garden library, the collection will largely depend on crowd sourcing and donation. The reading zone will have multiple library shelves to house theme-based books on sports, politics, fiction and non-fiction, leisure and biographies. “The entire area will be covered with greenery using tyres and tins as pots. It would be a perfect hangout place for people, who wish to read, play and eat. There will be specific areas dedicated to selfie lovers. The kids’ zone will be a hit among children,” Sharma added. PMC’s public relations officer Harshita said the park would help the civic body get more points in the Swachha Survekshan, which is conducted annually by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoUHA) under the Swachh Bharat Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/waste-to-wonder-park-in-patna-by-next-month/articleshow/79958964.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 26, 2020||Patna||Patna: ‘Kidnapped’ woman, accused get married||PATNA: Police on Friday said the 24-year-old woman allegedly kidnapped by one Mohammad Afroz (40) from her residence at Nausha under Phulwarisharif police station are in Patna has released a video with the accused from Delhi saying they have got married with each other. SHO Rafique-ur-Rahman said the accused and the woman released the video on Friday morning and forwarded it to several of their acquantances in their locality and family. “The woman, who is a teacher by profession, could be heard saying they have married each other and were happy and the case lodged by her family against Afroz was not true,” he said. Rahman said the video was released after police got blocked the eight bank accounts being used by Afroz, who is a contractor by profession. “These bank accounts together had around Rs1.25 crore deposited in them. Three of them were in Afroz’s name while two more were in her wife’s name. Rest were in the name of other family members,” he said. SHO Rahman said police were trying to recover the woman so that she could be produced before a judicial magistrate to record her statement. Afroz’s first wife has also given her consent to their marriage and their lawyer has confirmed about it. “Both are present in Delhi,” he said. The woman’s father Lal Mohammad Miyan had lodged an FIR against Afroz and 18 others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kidnapped-woman-accused-get-married/articleshow/79958396.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Business||Condom, rolling paper orders spike in 2020: Study||CHENNAI: Stuck indoors for most part of the year, Indians purchased more condoms during the day than night and doubled down on purchases of rolling paper in 2020, according to a delivery trends report by concierge services app Dunzo. While condom ordered during the day through the Dunzo app were 3 times more than night on average, Hyderabad saw a 6x surge, Chennai 5x and Jaipur 4x. Mumbai and Bengaluru recorded a 3x surge in day-time condom orders. Bengaluru citizens literally let “the good times roll” as they ordered 22 times more rolling paper than neighbour Chennai. The speciality paper is used for making cigarettes, among other applications. When it came to other wellness products, Bengaluru, Pune, Gurgaon, Hyderabad and Delhi topped in orders of emergency contraceptive iPill, while Jaipur recorded the most number of orders for pregnancy test kits. Several users also took to the app to satisfy their hunger pangs too, chicken biryani was the most-ordered dish by those in Bengaluru, while Mumbai found solace in dal khichdi. Chennai stuck to idli, and aloo tikki burger was Gurgaon’s go-to food. Pune binged times more on Maggi than Mumbai, while Delhi, Chennai and Jaipur preferred to order more coffee than tea. As ‘remote workers’ consumed more cups of coffee and tea, milk was the most-ordered grocery item in Pune and Hyderabad. Delhi preferred to cool down with soft drinks. The pandemic increased the overall focus on wellness with users across the country ordering healthier alternatives to daily foodstuffs. Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai picked more jaggery over sugar, and Delhi went the quinoa and kale way. The healthier brown bread was Pune’s pick, while broccoli and avocado orders topped the charts in Mumbai. People also used Dunzo to take care of their pets’ needs. Gurgaon’s top pet order was dog food, while Bengaluru, Pune, Chennai and Hyderabad saw more cat food orders. The reading habit also seemed to have grown this year. The top book orders were ‘Wild Himalaya’ by Stephen Atler, ‘Rhododendrons in the Mist’ by Ruskin Bond, and ‘Ultimate Grandmother Hacks’ by Kavita Devgan, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/condom-rolling-paper-orders-spike-in-20-study/articleshow/79958548.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 26, 2020||Patna||Mumbai-Gaya flight becomes operational||GAYA: The Mumbai-Gaya inaugural flight of IndiGo airlines, Airbus 320 landed at the runway of Gaya airport at 12.28 pm on Friday. Gaya airport director (APD) Dilip Kumar said, “The inaugural flight had 62 passengers on board, who flew to Gaya from Mumbai. On return, the Gaya-Mumbai flight had 160 passengers on board, who flew to Mumbai from Gaya.” On arrival, the passengers were given water salute. In this welcoming ritual, also known as a shower of affection, two fire engines parked on either side of the runway use their water cannons to create a giant arc above a plane as it taxies to its gate. The airport director along with Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) deputy commandant BK Singh and IndiGo Gaya airport station manager Quresh Husain inaugurated the check-in process of the passengers. The direct flight service connecting Gaya and Mumbai will operate four days a week—i.e. Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mumbai-gaya-flight-becomes-operational/articleshow/79958384.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Patna||Lohia Path Chakra to be ready by December next year: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday said the Lohia Path Chakra Path under construction on Bailey Road will be completed by December next year. Officials of the road constriction department (RCD) assured the CM, who made a site inspection, that the first phase of the project comprising the stretch between BPSC office and Lalit Bhawan will be completed by June next year. Lohia Path Chakra (multi-junction interchange road project) of Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL) has short elevated roads and multiple underpasses being constructed at six traffic points between Lalit Bhavan and Vidyut Bhavan on Bailey Road. The project was initially slated to be completed by December, 2018. Nitish said he wanted to know the progress in the project as the work on it has been going from quite long. “When I asked why the project has not been completed yet, the officials came with the status report. But I told them that I will visit the site and see the actual progress,” he said. The CM claimed the works got slightly delayed after a stretch near Lalit Bhawan caved in last year after heavy rain. “The problem has been resolved and the underground water would be drained out in a canal. Also, the experts have made certain changes to prevent such incidents after completion of the project,” he said. “Changes have been made in the designs at three other traffic interjections under the project, so that construction will not be required to be done below ground,” Nitish said. Principal secretary of road construction department, Amrit Lal Meena, told the CM that the work on remaining stretch of the project will be completed by December next year. Elaborating on the conceptualization of the unique project, the CM said: “It was conceptualized around 10 years ago when we saw a proposal by IIT-Delhi on having a path chakra (road interjections). This road witnesses heavy traffic flow, which necessitated the need of a mechanism under which vehicles coming from any side would have a separate path. The proposal of IIT-Delhi was exactly as per our requirement. Accordingly, this unique concept was adopted for the first time in the country in Bihar and it was named Lohia Path Chakra.” He added: “There are 49 different paths under this project to allow the vehicles to move in 49 different ways on this stretch. There will be no obstruction in vehicular movement.” Nitish further said once the project is completed, it will be replicated at other places as well and people from other states will also come to see the new concept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lohia-path-chakra-to-be-ready-by-dec-next-year-nitish/articleshow/79959254.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 26, 2020||Patna||Railways to run special trains for BPSC examinees||PATNA: Railways will run at least four pairs of intercity express special and three pairs of MEMU/DEMU special trains on different routes for students appearing in the Bihar Public Service Commission ( BPSC) competitive examinations across the state from December 26 till further orders .The BPSC examinations are slated to begin on December 27. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said railways will run intercity express special (05201/05202) between Patliputra Junction and Narkatiaganj from December 26 another one (05215/05216) between Muzaffarpur and Narkatiaganj. Similarly, intercity special (03233/03234) between Rajgir and Danapur and another (03303/ 03304) between Dhanbad and Ranchi will run from December 26, he said. Besides, railways will run MEMU/DEMU special trains between Samastipur and Katihar (03315/03316) and MEMU/DEMU special (03253/03254) between Sonepur and Chhapra. Another MEMU/DEMU special (05217/05218) will run between Raxaul and Darbhanga during the examination period, he said, adding railways has agreed to reschedule departure of special trains as per examination schedule of the BPSC on later dates. Railways will ensure the Covid-19 health protocol for the examinees during journey by special trains. Mask is compulsory for examinees, he said, adding railways will keep additional rakes of special passenger trains in readiness at key points to run in emergency to benefit examinees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-to-run-special-trains-for-bpsc-examinees/articleshow/79958985.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||On special day, Kolkata churches ask people to love and share to get past pandemic||KOLKATA: If this pandemic year has thrown you off balance and made you question everything you have believed in, take heart as it is Jesus’s way of bringing you closer to him and showing you the way forward by making you his messenger of peace, for he too was born in troubled times. This was the gist of the Christmas messages that were given by priests of the Roman Catholic Church and the Church of North India (CNI). Since restrictions were in place, church-goers attended services both on-site and virtually and at the end of it, they felt happy and relieved to be able to connect with their spiritual leaders on the special day. Continuing with what was preached by Bishop Paritosh Canning at the midnight mass on Thursday, Reverend Swarup Bar during the Christmas mass at St Paul’s Cathedral on Friday morning reminded everyone that Jesus was himself born in the most difficult circumstances. “Today we are facing a similar circumstance and unwavering faith in Him will see us through,” Reverend Bar said. Many churches have cancelled their annual get-togethers this time. St Andrew’s Church, for example, has cancelled its feast and picnic this Christmas and has only put up the decorative lights. “In these trying times, God is trying to tell us to come out of our selfish shells and go out to spread love through charity among the poor and those who have been badly hit by the pandemic,” said Father Pradip Nanda, Presbyterian of St John’s Church and Union Chapel in his Christmas message. The vicar general of the archdiocese of Kolkata, Dominic Gomes, conducted the Christmas service at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary, the main church of the Roman Catholics. “It is a time to share and stand by those in distress as Jesus himself had. You should be the receptacle and let God’s love flow through you to those in distress,” the vicar general said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-special-day-churches-ask-people-to-love-and-share-to-get-past-pandemic/articleshow/79958589.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 26, 2020||Vadodara||Students bag laurels at startup and innovation awards||VADODARA: Parul University bagged seven awards in the Student Startup and Innovation Policy (SSIP) Prashansha awards held virtually. The university won the awards in seven different categories. According to the university, the number of awards it won was the highest for any university in the state. It won the awards in the Campus Startups, Women Startup, Young Innovators, Best Faculty Mentors and Best SSIP Coordinators category. The winners include a group of engineering enthusiasts who established the startup AR Explorer that was awarded a prize money of Rs 50,000 under the Best Campus Startup category. Hetavi Shah, founder of Vatsalya Bakers bagged a prize of Rs 1,00,000 under the Women Startup category. In the Young Innovators category, Bhavik Bosamiya was awarded a prize of Rs 30,000. Bosamiya had come up with an innovation that helped to determine the strength of concrete by using sensors in in real time. Apart from the students, a faculty at the university Shantanu Chakravarty won the award in the the Best SSIP Coordinator — Private University Category. Three faculties at Faculty of Pharmacy of the university – Asha Patel, Hiral Dave and Rakesh Patel – were awarded under the Best Faculty Mentor category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/students-bag-laurels-at-startup-and-innovation-awards/articleshow/79958711.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Viral creativity: Innovators awarded for out-of-box ideas||AHMEDABAD: Honey Bee Network and GIAN, city-based NGOs, got about 2,500 entries from 87 countries in its maiden Honey Bee Network Creativity & Inclusive Innovation Awards (HBNCRIIA) 2020. The event identified 10 international innovations, four ideas for coping with Covid pandemic and appreciated four entries for thinking out of the box and simple innovations. The organizers also announced the 2021 edition during the event. Dr Anamika Dey, CEO of Grassroots Innovation Augmentation Network (GIAN), said that the innovations prove that one doesn’t need elaborate laboratory or fancy gadgets to come up with impactful innovations. “Innovation to its core is problem-solving and we are happy that several of the entries spontaneously addressed pandemic-related issues,” she said. The winning innovations ranged from affordable internet – offering five minutes of surfing with 1 Philippine Peso (Rs 1.5) – to interactive soap – if a child washes hands, he/she can get toy inside the soap. From India, there were multiple innovations that included clothing for those having difficulty in movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/viral-creativity-innovators-awarded-for-out-of-box-ideas/articleshow/79960053.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Beginner politician, poor old woman helped crack transistor bomb case’ in 1985||NEW DELHI: In the summer of 1985, a series of transistor bombs exploded in Delhi leaving 49 dead, 127 injured and a city terrorised. The toll was much higher if you add those who died from similar blasts carried out in other states. But the case was cracked within 48 hours due to vital information provided by two unlikely informants: “a beginner-level politician cum-social worker and the other a poor old woman, a migrant from Rajasthan,” claims a new book. Those two pieces of “community-based intelligence” helped the cops set up a stake-out of prime suspect Kartar Singh Narang’s home in West Patel Nagar, says Khaki in Dust Storm, written by retired cop Amod K Kanth, then DCP (Central) of Delhi. He also supervised the Special Investigation Team set up to investigate the case. Ved Marwah, then officiating Commissioner of Police, Delhi, asked his officers “not to hurry into action or to conduct any open inquiry.” Instead, the cops set up a round-the-clock watch of Narang’s house. On May 12, about 2 pm, two individuals, later identified as Mohinder Singh Oberoi and Manmohan Singh alias Mohinder Singh Khalsa, were challenged by the police on grounds of suspicion as they were about to enter the house. According to the book, Khalsa took out a US-made .45 Remington Rand pistol and attempted to fire at the cops but was overpowered. Narang came out with aniron rod and along with the third accomplice, Mohinder Singh Oberoi, attacked the policemen. After a scuffle between them and the cops, the three were arrested. A search of Narang’s house allegedly provided a rich yield. Two boxes were found containing 67 transistor switches, batteries, wire cord, plastic explosives, detonators and 9-volt batteries, the book says. Many more arrests were made in the following weeks. However, 35 years later, in March 2020, a Delhi court acquitted 30 of the 49 accused owing to ‘defective, lopsided, unfair’ and ‘faulty investigation’. The Special Investigation Team had chargesheeted 59. According to a PTI report, “while five of the 59 are proclaimed offenders and never appeared to face proceedings, the trial court in July 2006 discharged five due to “insufficient evidence.” Of the remaining 49 accused, 19 died during pendency of the trial, leaving 30 accused who have been on bail since 1986.” All three “principal accused” — Narang, Oberoi and Khalsa — died during the trials. “It is yet to be seen how Delhi Police deals with this judgment and finally what happens to this case, with the crucial evidence in the form of original documents missing, several accused, approvers and a large number of witnesses dead and the remaining turning two generations older, who may have forgotten this case altogether,” writes Kanth. Whether the final word on the case has already been spoken or not, only time will tell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/beginner-politician-poor-old-woman-helped-crack-transistor-bomb-case/articleshow/79960105.cms||Avijit Ghosh
December 26, 2020||Pune||Duo snatch gold chain worth Rs 1.8 lakh||PUNE: Two men on a motorcycle snatched a 45-year-old woman’s gold chain, worth Rs1.8 lakh, in Kalewadi on Thursday around 9.30pm when the latter and her daughter were returning home after a walk. Assistant inspector Tanaji Bhogam of the Wakad police told TOI that the woman and her daughter had stepped out for a walk after dinner. “Two men on a motorcycle approached the woman, the pillion rider snatched her gold chain and the duo drove away,” Bhogam said. He said the spot where the robbery happened did not have any CCTV cameras. “We are checking CCTV footage from other cameras to trace the suspects at the earliest,” Bhogam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-snatch-gold-chain-worth-rs-1-8l/articleshow/79958933.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||BSF holds 63km cyclothon in Bikaner||Jaisalmer: The Border Security Force (BSF), Bikaner sector, on Friday organised a cyclothon of 63km from Bikaner to Nokha under Fit India Movement.More than 50 officers and jawans participated in the cyclothon which started from Dr Karni Singh Stadium. Notably, 100 basketball players from Bikaner also took part.The cyclothon was flagged-off by Bikaner collector Namit Mehta in presence of DRM S K Shrivastava and superintendent of police (Bikaner) Prahalad Krishnia under overall supervision of Bikaner DIG Pushpendra Singh Rathore.This is the fourth major event in the row. The first one being 200km walkathon in Jaisalmer followed by 100km cycle rally up to Sridungargarh, 180km night baton relay race along international border in honour of martyrs of 1971 Indo-Pak war.The cyclothon ended at Nokha where chairman of Nokha Shri Jhanwar, CO Nokha Nem Singh, SDM and large gathering of people welcomed participants. After reaching at Nokha, BSF also honoured martyr of CRPF Jagdish Bishnoi who attained martyrdom in Kashmir valley. It was a major event and local people have received and applauded the efforts of participants for generating spirit of fitness.DIG Rathore welcomed the guests, public and informed them about the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-holds-63km-cyclothon-in-bikaner/articleshow/79958925.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rape accused ends life in Bundi||Kota: A 42-year-old rape accused, who was posted as lineman in Jaipur Vidutt Vitran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) in Bundi, allegedly committed suicide by consuming poisonous substance outside his home under Bundi Sadar police station early on Friday morning.The police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem by a medical board and lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC.Circle inspector at Bundi Sadar police station Satyanarayan Malav said the lineman, identified as Hemraj Meena, a resident of Laxmi Vihar on Bundi railway station road in Devpura, allegedly committed suicide by consuming poisonous substance a few meters away from his house. On noticing him lying unconscious, the passersby informed the family members following which he was rushed to Bundi district hospital where the doctors declared him dead, he added.Malav said the reason behind the extreme step by the deceased is not yet clear as no suicide note was recovered from his possession. According to family members, he had left home at around 5 o’clock on Friday for defecation in open, he said.A woman of the city earlier this month approached Mahila police station and lodged a case of rape under Section 376 against Hemraj Meena, however, investigation into the matter is underway and the accused Meena was not interrogated so far, SHO at Mahila police station, Bundi, Anjana Nogia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-accused-ends-life-in-bundi/articleshow/79958934.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Pune||Alternative network to power core Pune areas||PUNE: Core city areas, including the Peth areas, will get power from an alternative supply network for 36 hours, as the Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Ltd will be carrying out maintenance, repairs and technical work at its 132KV extra high voltage gas insulated sub-station in Rasta Peth from 8am on Saturday till 8pm on Sunday. A statement issued by the MSEDCL said the closure of the Rasta Peth sub-station will disconnect power supply to six sub-stations of the distribution company. “The distribution company will have to manage 60 to 65MW load because of the closure. In case the load cannot be managed or if there is some fault, load shedding, lasting one-and-a-half to two hours, may have to be effected in rotation in the central parts of Pune,” said chief engineer Sachin Talewar in the statement. Areas in Rasta Peth, Padmavati, Parvati divisions that may face some interruptions in power supply include — Kasba Peth, Budhwar Peth, Rasta Peth, Bhavani Peth, Nana Peth, Old Modi Khana, parts of Camp, Gultekdi, Ganj Peth, Salisbury Park, Ghorpade Peth, Dais Plot, Lohiyanagar, Hyde Park, Maharashinagar and Mukundnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alternative-network-to-power-core-city-areas/articleshow/79958910.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Pune||Man wanted in 2014 crime held||PUNE: The Pune police crime branch arrested a suspect wanted in a six-year-old abduction case of a Navi Mumbai businessman for Rs40 lakh ransom, from his residence in Ahmednagar district on Thursday. The Shivajinagar police had then arrested 10 suspects and were looking for three others, including a Suresh Mahadeo Kasar (38). Sub-inspector Shashikant Shinde from crime branch (unit IV) on Friday said, “We had visited Kasar’s house in Walki when the 10 arrests were made and on numerous other occasions, but he was not there. We told the locals to alert us if Kasar returned home.” Shinde said, “A resident called informed our officer on Wednesday that Kasar was home. We then took him into custody on Thursday. Kasar admitted to his involvement in the crime. We brought him to Pune and transferred his custody to Shivajinagar police. He will be in police custody remand till Saturday.” The two other suspects are still on the run, the police added The Shivajinagar police, on an FIR lodged by the businessman’s wife, had arrested 10 suspects and filed chargesheet against them on July 27, 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-wanted-in-2014-crime-held/articleshow/79958956.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 26, 2020||Pune||Youth arrested on murder bid charge||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday arrested an 18-year-old youth on the charges of damaging 13 vehicles and attempting to knife a local resident in the Gharkul area of Chikhali late on Wednesday night. Sub-inspector Raghunath Bhoye of the Chikhali police told TOI, “Noor Mohammad Hamid Sayyad attacked local resident Akash Gaikwad (29) with a sharp weapon when the latter tried to prevent him from damaging the vehicles.” “We have arrested Sayyad for an offence under Section 307 (murder attempt) of the Indian Penal Code, among other relevant sections of the Arms Act following an FIR lodged by Gaikwad. A local court has ordered Sayyad’s remand in police custody for four days.” Bhoye said, “Around 10.45pm on Wednesday, Gaikwad heard some commotion in his building and and came down to check the matter. He saw Sayyad damaging parked vehicles with a sharp weapon and shouting: ‘I am the don of Gharkul and I would kill anyone who tries to challenge me’, the officer said. Bhoye said Sayyad attacked Gaikwad when the latter tried to stop him. “Gaikwad, however, managed to dodge the attack. Sayyad damaged six two-wheelers, three autorickshaw and four cars,” Bhoye said. The officer said Sayyad is a criminal on the police records. “He has eight cases, including robberies, thefts and body offences, against him. Most recently, he was booked on the charges of rioting,” Bhoye added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-arrested-on-murder-bid-charge/articleshow/79958949.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||NGT asks pollution board to keep vigil on mining in Chenupuria||Jaipur: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has sought a factual and action-taken report from Baran district magistrate Baran and the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) in connection with the allegations of illegal mining using crusher machine at Chenupuria village which damaged forest areas. In March, it was found that the department of mining and geology did not issue any permission/permit for mining on the land following which NGT asked the construction company to complete the work by April and penalised it for past violations. The matter was disposed of on Thursday after the tribunal ordered that the SPCB keep strict vigil. Following NGT’s order, an inspection was jointly by a team of officials from the district administration as well as mining, forest, agriculture and health departments in December last year. During the course of inspection, the stone crusher was found nonoperative for maintenance of machinery. It was also reported that looking at the site conditions, mining in the pit might have been done prior to the last rainy season around six months ago and there were no marks/ sign of recent mining activities. After this, it was decided that the project proponent shall complete the remaining work of construction of boundary wall by April and shall also submit bank guarantee of Rs 1 lakh as a surety. Also, environment compensation shall be imposed for the past violation as per guidelines of the State Board. The officials of the state board again inspected the unit in August to verify the compliances done by the unit with respect to the deficiencies observed during inspection in July. The officials in their inspection report submitted that the unit has provided required pollution control measures except adequate plantation within the premises. While disposing of the application, NGT said, “the state PCB may maintain vigilance against violation of environmental norms in accordance with law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ngt-asks-pollution-board-to-keep-vigil-on-mining-in-chenupuria/articleshow/79958948.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Christmas festivities lift spirit of Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In times of the pandemic, festivities through each season were a muted affair but spirits were always high. Same was the case with Christmas, where celebrations, even though home-bound, meant a bountiful of joy and delight. While the Christmas morning saw socially distanced prayers and worship taking place at churches, albeit with a barely limited footfall, many diligently logged on to their screens to participate in Christmas festivities. Pastor Sumeet Borge of the Seventh Adventist English Church in Maninagar, said, “We had a Christmas programme during the evening held online. It is not advisable to meet in person and therefore, everyone enjoyed the programme and festivities from their home.” A number of groups which used to practice carol singing also limited their celebrations to home itself. Churches across Ahmedabad have not organized the midnight mass, this time around. A number of churches did hold the morning prayers at the church, however, the worship and prayer was conducted with prior registrations and maintaining due social distancing. Churches which typically see 250-300 persons at the event had limited footfalls this time. David Colaco, a sports teacher, said, “I went for the mass to the church which was organized with prior registration for only 150 people. We were not allowed to click picture or gather anywhere. Entire church was sanitized before people went in and we were kept distanced.” “However, we did miss family and friends visiting us. Many people come home to see the Christmas tree and the Christmas cribs. However, this time around, we spent a quiet afternoon and feasting with family members only,” he further added. Many who are not Christians but still visit the church every year on Christmas, almost ritually, too missed going. “Like all festivities, Christmas too was quite a muted affair. Attending the midnight mass is indeed a joy but this time due to the curfew as well as the pandemic, it was not possible. I, my husband and son spent some quiet time at home,” said Preeti Dave, a Bopal resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/feast-festivities-mark-christmas-spirits/articleshow/79960125.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Pune||Savitribai Phule Pune University signs MoU with CA institute, to help pupils||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to help students at the university, pursuing commerce, to gain industry experience with accountants. The move is supposed to help with skill development of the university faculty as well. The agreement was signed at a city hotel on Thursday by Nitin Karmalkar, the vice-chancellor of SPPU, and officials of the ICAI, including Nihar Jambusaria, the vice-president of ICAI, along with functionaries of regional, state and local chapters of the ICAI.  “The MoU will provide practical, skill and employment oriented education to commerce students and faculty. It will be helpful to extend academic cooperation for various commerce courses, conduct faculty development programmes, help students seeking jobs with CA firms and enhance skill sets of students through webinars and seminars. We are signing MoU’s with different institutes and this is a positive step towards new education policy implementation,” said Karmalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-signs-mou-with-ca-institute-to-help-pupils/articleshow/79958961.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Meerut||40% government schools in Uttar Pradesh inspected for state schemes||MEERUT: Despite the Uttar Pradesh government directing the state schools to conduct monthly inspections to keep a check on various government policies such as mid day meals, Prerna mission and others, only 40% of the total schools were inspected, according to the state report. “Instructions were given to each district to conduct inspections of schools every month to keep a check on the state schemes and see that all of them are being executed well. These schemes include mid day meals, distribution of school uniforms, books, school bags and others,” read the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, school education, UP. It was found during analysis of the reports submitted by all the 75 state districts that inspection of only 40% of the total schools in the state was completed in November. “According to the target given in November, as many as 76,350 schools were to be inspected. However, only 30,189 schools were inspected,” Anand said. Anand further instructed that disciplinary action will be taken if improvement is not done. “All the district magistrates are instructed to ensure that the inspection is conducted as per the target or will invite action,” Anand added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/40-govt-schools-in-up-inspected-for-state-schemes/articleshow/79957586.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Single-window system for allotment of govt quarters||NEW DELHI: The urban affairs ministry on Friday launched an integrated online platform for booking of Holiday Homes, social function venues, such as 5 Ashoka Road and Vigyan Bhawan, and allotment for over one lakh government residential accommodations. Only Delhi has a giant share of nearly 65% of the residential accommodations for central government employees. The Directorate of Estates has 1,176 Holiday Home rooms and suits at 62 locations. This integrated online system “e-sampada”, which was launched by Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, will prove to be a big relief for lakhs of Central government employees and will eliminate any scope of discrepancies. The new application provides a single window for services, including allotment of office space to government organisations as well. Puri said this would boost transparency and accountability in providing various estate services like allotment, retention, regularisation and no dues certificate. All payments and dues have been made cashless. Union urban affairs secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said that “this system equips users with very specialised features, such as personalised dashboard, service usage archive and real time status on licence fees and dues.” The portal also provides online facility to users across India to lodge complaints, submit documents and appear for virtual hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/single-window-system-for-allotment-of-govt-quarters/articleshow/79960150.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Pune||Govt delayed report on farmers’ losses: Fadnavis||Pune: Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Friday accused the state government of delaying a report on the losses suffered by formers due to unseasonal rains and cyclones this year. Fadnavis made the allegation after attending a farmers’ rally in Pune, one of many organized across the district by the Bharatiya Janata Party to create awareness about the Union government’s farm laws. Fadnavis addressed a rally organized in Manjari, while state BJP president and Kothrud MLA Chandrakant Patil addressed a second rally held in Bhugaon. “The state government needs to submit a report on the losses suffered by farmers to the Union government. Based on that report, the Centre releases aid. But the Maharashtra government has not submitted this report on time,” Fadnavis said. Fadnavis was responding to a reporter’s question about the recent visit of a Union government committee and criticism over the state’s delayed response in assessing losses suffered by the farmers. The former chief minister alleged that the state government was making hollow promises about financial help to farmers. The government has announced many schemes, but they have remained on paper, he said, adding that the crop insurance schemes too were pushed to the back burner. Fadnavis claimed that the opposition parties (at the national level) were criticizing the farm laws just to gain political mileage. He also accused some parties sitting in the opposition of double standards regarding the farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-delayed-report-on-farmers-losses-fadnavis/articleshow/79958957.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Meerut||Man kills year-old daughter by slamming her on ground UP’s Saharanpur||MEERUT: A man allegedly killed his infant daughter by picking her up by the neck and slamming her on the ground early Friday morning in UP’s Saharanpur city. "The accused, Mohammed Chand, in his late 20s, is absconding. The reason why he killed his daughter could not be ascertained during the course of investigation," said Saharanpur SP (city) Vineet Bhatnagar. Sources said there was constant altercation over domestic issues between Chand and his wife, Uzma, whom he married a year-and-half ago. He may have killed the child in a fit rage. Another report said Chand was unhappy as he wanted a baby boy while the wife had delivered a girl child. Based on a complaint by Uzma, an FIR has been registered against Chand at city Kotwali police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-kills-year-old-daughter-by-slamming-her-on-ground/articleshow/79957590.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid vaccine dry run to be carried out at 6 healthcare set-ups, village||Ludhiana: With the Centre choosing Ludhiana and Nawanshahr districts to conduct dry run of Covid-19 vaccine on December 28 and 29, the district administration has identified six healthcare set-ups and a village for the purpose. During the dry run, the vaccine will not be injected to the recipients. It is a sort of a mock exercise that will enable the health department to check it’s system before starting the actual campaign.District immunisation officer Dr Kiran said, “After we learned about the dry run to be held in Ludhiana district, the deputy commissioner convened a meeting on Thursday. Six healthcare centres and a village have been chosen for it. They include civil hospital in Ludhiana, DMCH, sub-divisional hospitals in Jagraon and Khanna, government hospital in Raikot, community health centre (CHC) in Machhiwara and Dhamote village in Payal.” “The immunization will be done in phases. In the first phase, health-care workers will be covered. At the seven sites, we will register 25 healthcare workers each for the dry run and carry it out. We will have a waiting, a vaccinating and an observation room for the health-care workers,” she added.“It is a dummy practice wherein a health-care worker will get a message about getting vaccinated and (s)he come with an identity proof. The person will be taken to the vaccinating room where the vaccination procedure will be followed and after that (s)he will be monitored in the observation room,” she said.To ensure social distancing, not more than five persons will be allowed in the waiting or observation room. The district immunization officer said five officials would conduct the process in each centre. “Three officials, who might be from health, police, NCC or other departments, will receive identity proof of the recipient, verify it and then enter the data on the system. There will be a vaccinator and an observer who are trained in the process. As of now, all the three officials at the waiting room are from the health department as we will have to check the system at few sites for dry run of vaccine. But when the number of sites will be increased, we may ask for officials from other departments so that they can check and enter the data. However, the vaccinators and the observers will be from the health department. The whole process of vaccination might take half-an-hour,” said the nodal officer for the vaccination.During a meeting of 16-member district task force (DTF) for Covid-19 vaccine on December 10, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga had informed the deputy commissioner that the health department has registered names of around 15,000 healthcare workers in the district and the process of uploading their names was under way. Dr Bagga had said that they have set up 67 cold-chain points and have adequate number of ice-lined refrigerators and deep freezers in the district to preserve the vaccine. “There will be 805 session sites where vaccines will be administered to the beneficiaries in the district. As many as 442 ANMs would administer vaccination and 43 supervisors will be deputed to monitor the process,” he had pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-vaccine-dry-run-to-be-carried-out-at-6-healthcare-set-ups-village/articleshow/79958159.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 26, 2020||Pune||Lonavla to get 100-bed sub district rural hospital||PUNE: The Public Works Department (PWD) of Vadgaon Maval tehsil will soon start the work of constructing a 100-bed hospital at Lonavla. The state government recently sanctioned Rs40.94 crore for the project, deputy engineer Vaishali Bhujbal, PWD, said. “As per the plan, the existing Dr Babasaheb Dhanorkar clinic will be demolished and a four storey 10,867 sqft hospital will be constructed on the plot. The facility will be equipped with all medical facilities, including an intensive care unit. In next two weeks, we will submit our plan to the government for technical sanction. We will then float a tender. The actual work is expected to start in the next two months,” Bhujbal told TOI on Friday. Lonavla has a population of 75,000, but there is no state-run hospital. It has only an outpatient department facility. As a result, most patients either have to go to private hospitals or rural hospital in Talegaon Dabhade, around 35km from the town, said tehsildar Madhusudan Barge of Vadgaon Maval tehsil. Shridhar Pujari, vice-president, Lonavla Municipal Council, said that the project got delayed as the land of the existing clinic was handed over to the government. “The elected members of the council were not ready to hand over one acre of land to the government for the project. As a result, the project got delayed by almost a decade. But we have managed to convince all members and passed a resolution unanimously at the general body meeting,” added Pujari. Surekha Jadhav, president of the council, said, “Apart from the population in the council limits, around 50,000 villagers from surrounding villages near Lonavla will also receive medical care at the hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lonavla-to-get-100-bed-sub-district-rural-hospital/articleshow/79958963.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pothole death: Case falls in jurisdiction hole||AHMEDABAD: Cops of two police stations, Chiloda and Dabhoda in Gandhinagar district, took a month to decide which police station will register a fatal accident case of a 25-year-old woman. This happened because Chiloda police, who recorded the statement of the kin of the deceased in the case, refused to register a complaint, as they claimed that of two injurious jerks from potholes suffered by the deceased, the first occurred at a pothole in the jurisdiction of Dabhoda police. The question was whether the case could be considered from the first pothole — from where the alleged offence started, or from the second pothole — where the victim sustained injury for the second time. According to a police complaint, Kajal Patel, 25, and her husband Shailesh Patel, 27, were on their way to Daman from their native place in Prantij in Sabarkantha. The couple were travelling in a private bus from Prantij to Vapi on November 20 when the bus driver drove with negligence and at a speed due to which the bus suffered a big jerk when it passed from Limbadia village on Narmada canal. During that time, Kajal was sitting in the upper sleeper berth and her head banged on the roof of the bus inflicting an internal injury on her collar bone. After around two minutes, the bus again jumped a pothole and she again suffered injuries. Five minutes later, the driver stopped the bus and as Kajal was not feeling comfortable, she and her husband boarded an autorickshaw and went to a private hospital in Naroda. As the private hospital was costly, her husband took her to Himmatnagar Civil hospital. On November 21 evening, Kajal died during treatment in the hospital. Later on, cops of Chiloda police station, who had the second pothole in their jurisdiction, came and recorded Shailesh’s statement. But they raised the dispute that the first pothole, from where the offence began, fell in the jurisdiction of Dabhoda police, and so they did not register a complaint. The application to file a complaint by Shailesh was transferred to Dabhoda police and the FIR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pothole-death-case-falls-in-jurisdiction-hole/articleshow/79960154.cms||Ashish Chauhan
December 26, 2020||India||Gita motivates people to be compassionate: PM||NEW DELHI: Greeting the people on Gita Jayanti, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the holy scripture’s noble ideals motivate people to live life to the fullest potential and be compassionate. As per Hindu calendar, it is believed that Lord Krishna revealed the sacred Bhagavad Gita to warrior Arjuna on this day. “The noble ideals enshrined in the Srimad Bhagavad Gita have radiated across the world. They motivate people to lead life to the fullest potential and be compassionate. On Gita Jayanti, we celebrate the values mentioned in the Gita and recall the teachings of Bhagwan Shri Krishna,” Modi tweeted. In another tweet, Modi said, “On the auspicious day of Gita Jayanti, millions all over the world would chant verses from chapters 12 and 15 of the sacred Gita at 6pm IST. Sharing a link where you can find the audio of chapters 12 and 15.” Even in his address to the farmers after the distribution of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, Modi extended his Gita Jayanti greetings||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gita-motivates-people-to-be-compassionate-pm/articleshow/79960833.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man who abused NCW chief arrested||Ahmedabad: The cyber crime police on Thursday arrested a man from Vadoadara for allegedly using abusive language against the national commission for women (NCW) chairman in July on a social media platform. The accused had vented his anger on the NCW chief for not taking cognizance against a stand-up comic who had abused his follower. The accused identified as, Akash Jain, 25, a resident of Lakshmidham society in Gorwa area of Vadodara, was arrested on Thursday from his home after he confessed of writing obscene comments on Twitter. According to officers of the cyber crime, Jain, on July 15 had posted objectionable comments against NCW chairman Rekha Sharma. “In his comment on Twitter, tagging the NCW chairman, he used expletives against her asking on why she did not register a case against the stand up comic Kenneth Sebastian – who abused one of his followers on twitter,” states a statement issued by cyber crime police. “Sebastian, in one of his videos, abused one of Jain’s follower which did not go well with Akash who had made an appeal before the NCW to file a complaint against Sebastian. But NCW did not act, Jain in anguish posted abusive statements against NCW chairman,” reads the statement. An FIR regarding this was filed at the cyber crime police station reads that the NCW chief on July 15 had written a letter to then Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha about the comments and cops were directed to file a complaint against the accused. The cyber cell took around five months to file a complaint and nab the accused who is a commerce graduate from MS university in Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-who-abused-ncw-chief-arrested/articleshow/79960179.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Strawberries bloom in dry Kutch, farmers hopeful of better harvest||RAJKOT: Strawberry, a fruit traditionally flourishing in cold and hilly places, has wonderfully adapted itself even to the harsh and arid terrains of Kutch.  A farmer in Bhuj taluka of Kutch district was hugely surprised last week when he saw sweet success budding in the plants that he had planted on a trial mode. What helped his efforts was the fact that strawberry requires very less water compared to other fruits. While driving past the vast Kutch strawberry fields in Reldi village, barely 20km off Bhuj town, will surely remind you of Beatles’ glorious number, ‘Strawberry fields forever’. While you hum your way through Anjar highway from Bhuj, here’s who you need to meet — Haresh Thacker. He brought 30,000 plants from Lonavala in Maharashtra and planted them in two acre land. “I wanted this fruit in my farm despite knowing it grows in a cold area. But the winter in Kutch is cold and I believed I will be able to do it,” said Thacker who harvested the first samples last week. “What we need is proper fertilizer and should not allow evaporation of water. I used Israeli model of drip irrigation of cultivation,” said Thacker, one of the pioneers in cultivation of dragon fruit. He learned his farming from Youtube also. Many other farmers are also waiting for Thacker to get successful so that they too can start cultivation from next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/strawberries-bloom-in-dry-kutch-farmers-hopeful-of-better-harvest/articleshow/79958972.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 26, 2020||Ludhiana||At 1.6 degrees, city records coldest night in Pb||Ludhiana: The city witnessed the coldest night in the state on Friday, as the minimum temperature fell to 1.6 degrees C. It was the lowest December temperature the industrial hub recorded in two years.According to the Chandigarh meteorological department, the night temperature was five degrees less than normal. While Ludhiana was the coldest in the state, Jalandhar came second with the night temperature of 2 degrees C and Amritsar third (2.4 degrees).The lowest night temperature in the month in 2019 was recorded at 3.8 degrees on December 11. It was 1.4 degrees on December 22 in 2018. In the past seven years, December 30, 2013, night was the coldest when the mercury fell to 1 degree. As it was sunny during the day, the maximum temperature settled at 20.2 degrees, a degree more than normal.As the city shivered, a thick blanket of fog enveloped it, bringing the visibility down to below 50-metres in the morning.The minimum visibility was 0 metres and at 8.30am it was below 50 metres. It was between 50 metres and 200 meters by 11.30am. The visibility improved to 4,000 metres by 2.30pm.On Thursday, the day temperature was 21.4 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees more than normal.A department official said, “The next few nights will continue to be chilly. There are chances of light to moderate rainfall on Sunday and Monday. Expect fog, especially during the morning hours, in the next two days.”As per the meteorological department website, the day temperature is expected to rise to 22 degrees till next Thursday. The night temperature is likely to rise to 5 degrees till Monday and then fall to 2 degrees till Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/at-1-6-degrees-city-records-coldest-night-in-pb/articleshow/79958163.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 26, 2020||Ludhiana||39-year-old man dies, 43 positive||Ludhiana: A 39-year-old man of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 43 residents tested positive on Friday.As per the local media bulletin, the deceased was a resident of Mansura village in Pakhowal. He had hypertension and died at CMCH.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll has risen to 955 and that of outsiders to 440. To date, 5,25,915 persons have been tested.Of the 43 new cases, 24 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), four positive cases’ contacts, nine from OPD, three through tracing process, two healthcare workers and one pre-operative case.On the day, seven patients from outside the district also tested positive here.The local health department officials said the district case count was 24,558 and that of outsiders 3,633.So far, 23,171 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.35% of the total cases.There are 429 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,648.On Friday, 75 persons were quarantined and 2,223 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four of the government at CMCH. Two patients, including one of Ludhiana, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/39-year-old-man-dies-43-positive/articleshow/79958165.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||Temperature remained close to normal; expected to dip in the next few days||Dehradun: With rain showers expected from December 27 onwards, the mercury is expected to witness a decline in the next few days. While the maximum temperature was 19 degrees, the minimum went below 7 degrees. “The state is expected to receive rainfall in the plains and snow in higher reaches above 2,000 meters from December 27 evening,” said Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre in Dehradun. He further added the precipitation would lead to dip in the maximum as well as minimum temperature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/temperature-remained-close-to-normal-expected-to-dip-in-the-next-few-days/articleshow/79958173.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 26, 2020||Ludhiana||War veteran farmers enter Delhi agitation||Ludhiana: Many farmer ex-servicemen from the district have joined the Delhi agitation against three new agri-marketing laws, while some support it from home. They include more than 100 war veterans.Mullanpur's Colonel (retired) B S Tarla, 78, who farms 5 acres with his son, Jagdeep Singh, served the Army from 1961 to 2000 and went to the 1971 war. He said: "We ex-servicemen will always be with the farmers. We sent 35 veterans from Machhiwara, Mullanpur, and Dehlon to the Singhu border protest on Wednesday. From what we see, interpret, or gather from the agitation's leaders, the laws have nine discrepancies, which even the government has accepted."They say that being farming veterans, their natural sympathies are with the farmers. Machhiwara's Col (retd) Jaswinder Singh Garcha, another 1971 veteran, told TOI over telephone from near the Singhu border: “About 99% of the Army and Air Force has farming ancestry. The soldier-farmer bond goes a long way. After retiring from the Army in 1993, I took to tilling my 35 acres. One of my sons, Captain Gurminder Singh, is posted in Rajasthan, while another is abroad. We fought for the country and we want to tell the government that its bills are pro-corporate and anti-farmer.”He said many ex-servicemen back in his village also wanted the government to repeal those laws. Naik (retd) Balbir Singh, 58, who defended Batalik in the Kargil War, said: “From my village, 400 soldiers and 100 veterans have carried rations and firewood to the Singhu border. I'll join them on Saturday.” He is husband of Nathowal's sarpanch, Jasvir Kaur.Quote box:'Valid demand'The farmers have a valid cause, yet they have protested for a month and not been heard. If the farmers don’t want these laws, why impose. They didn’t demand itBrig (retd) S S Gill | 1971 war veteran, served in Kashmir||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/war-veteran-farmers-enter-delhi-agitation/articleshow/79958170.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Shoe seller ends life, five of credit firm among 6 booked||LUDHIANA: After a cheated man committed suicide, the Dehlon police have booked six people, including five of a finance company. The man consumed pesticide and left a suicide note that blames these six people. The victim, Kuldeep Singh, 43 of Raniya village of this district, owned a shoe shop at Gill village. On the basis of the suicide note found on the body, the Dehlon police booked five staffers of Aulakh Finance Company, who include Harjeet Singh, Ramesh Kumar, and Laddi. Another accused is Narinder Kaur of Shimlapuri. In her complaint to the police, Sarajit Kaur, wife of victim Kuldeep Singh, said: “About a year ago, my husband had taken Rs 2 lakh as loan from Aulakh Finance to invest in his business. The accused woman, Narinder Kaur, had introduced us to the company. My husband was paying all the instalments on time but the six accused changed the credit documents fraudulently to reflect a loan of Rs 6 lakh.” She said: “My husband raised an objection with the company but the accused did not listen. Thereafter, he even contacted Narinder Kaur, who promised to help him initially but, later, started to force him to pay up Rs 6 lakh due, to which my husband was stressed.” The complainant adds that on Thursday evening, her husband went to a field at Gill village, where he consumed pesticide after writing a suicide note naming the accused. The investigating officer, assistant sub-inspector Baljeet Singh of the Dehlon police station said: “On the basis of the suicide note and the statement of Sarabjot Kaur, wife of late Kuldeep Singh, we registered an FIR (first-information report) under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intent in crime) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the six accused and will proceed to arrest them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shoe-seller-ends-life-five-of-credit-firm-among-6-booked/articleshow/79958185.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||Rs 165 crore transferred in bank account of 8 lakh farmers of Uttarakhand under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi||DEHRADUN: On the occasion of the birth anniversary of India's former Prime Minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, a cumulative amount of Rs 18,000 crore was directly transferred into the bank accounts of nine crore farmers across the country under Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme on Friday. In Uttarakhand, a total of 8.27 lakh farmers benefited from the scheme as a total of Rs 165 crore was directly transferred in their bank accounts. Attending the event virtually, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the birthday of the former PM is celebrated as Good Governance Day. He pointed out that due to the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Rs 6,000 was being transferred in the bank account of each farmer annually. “Farmers are benefitting due to agricultural reforms. These reforms will help realise the aim of doubling the income of the famers,” he said. The CM added, “Some people are trying to spread false information with an aim to mislead the farmers. The BJP government believes in the welfare of farmers and works with the motto of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas.” The CM asserted that the BJP government is committed towards helping the farmers and people in rural areas. “Interest-free loan up to Rs 3 lakh is being given to farmers of Uttarakhand and interest free-loan up to Rs 5 lakh is being given to self-help groups,” said the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rs-165-cr-transferred-in-bank-account-of-8-lakh-farmers-of-ukhand-under-pm-kisan-samman-nidhi/articleshow/79958183.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||Owners of bars booked for holding parties on Christmas Eve||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun police booked the owners of two city-based commercial establishments for holding parties on Christmas Eve in violation of the district administration order which banned any such event in the wake of Covid-19. SSP Dehradun Yogendra Singh Rawat has directed his team to take strict action against those people who were found violating the guidelines and norms. He pointed out that gatherings and events have been cancelled for New Year and Christmas celebrations to check the spread of Covid-19. On Thursday night, the Dalanwala police raided a bar-cum-restaurant at Rajpur Road where it found that people were violating social distancing norms and not wearing masks. A case was lodged against Dharmendra Kumar and Shobit Agarwal — the owners of the bar-cum-restaurant — at Dalanwala police station. Similarly, the Cantt police found out that a bar in Rajendra Nagar area was holding a dance party without permission. Following which, a case was registered against bar managers Anil Agarwal, Anoop and Abhay Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/owners-of-bars-booked-for-holding-parties-on-christmas-eve/articleshow/79958191.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 26, 2020||India||Farmers firm on laws’ repeal, cold so far to govt talks offer||NEW DELHI: The government’s offer to talk, reiterated by PM Narendra Modi, failed to cut any ice with farmer unions opposing the new farm laws as they continued to press for their core demand of “repeal of three laws” and alleged the Centre was aiming to frustrate farmers without actually offering anything concrete. “We are in no hurry and are here to stay on the highways till the (farm) laws are repealed,” said the unions, underlining that they have never refused any talks, but at the same time making it clear that the agenda includes their main demands, including a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP). They appeared adamant after a discussion on the agriculture ministry’s third letter and Modi’s address where he highlighted why the central laws were important for the well-being of farmers and how certain people with political motives are propagating a false narrative around the farm reforms. The ministry on Thursday even agreed to discuss the MSP issue despite not finding it logical to club it with the issues of new farm legislations. “Farmers want legal guarantee to MSP and this is the only logic that will work,” said Avik Saha, national convenor of Jai Kisan Andolan and general secretary of AIKSCC, while articulating the farmer leaders’ collective stand. Leaders within the farmers’ umbrella body, AIKSCC, continued to hold a view that there cannot be any meaningful discussion unless the government spells out terms under which farm laws can be repealed and MSP can be legally guaranteed while keeping the new legislations in abeyance. They will meet on Saturday morning to draft their written reply to the ministry’s letter. “We may send our reply to the government by Saturday evening,” said a farmer leader. The working group of the umbrella body, meanwhile, called upon all units to observe December 26 — the occasion of completion of one month of protests — as “Dhikkar Diwas” as well as “Anti Corporate stir targeting services and products of Ambani and Adani”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-firm-on-laws-repeal-cold-so-far-to-govt-talks-offer/articleshow/79960758.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Bank locker of accused operated after his arrest||BOGUS BILLING CASELudhiana: Bank locker of a man, who is accused of committing bogus billing and is currently in judicial custody, was operated while he was under arrest. The Central GST commissionerate, Ludhiana, that arrested him, suspects that all the belongings stashed in this locker may have been taken away. The locker, which is in the name of the accused, was operated a day after his arrest and the bank’s entry register shows his signature. The facts emerged when a team of CGST officials visited the private bank to examine the locker and check all the belongings, which could be gold or cash or some documents about his assets. After this, the locker was supposed to be sealed. After being summoned by CGST, bank officials admitted to allowing the wife of the accused to operate the locker a day after he was arrested. A police complaint for FIR has been lodged by the CGST against the branch manager and the assistant manager for forgery, fraud and cheating, besides various other sections of the IPC.An official of the department said, “During the course of investigation by the anti-evasion wing of the Ludhiana CGST commissionerate in the Sahil Jain case, which involves Rs 393-crore fake invoices fraud, it was learned on December 24 that bank accounts and locker of the accused at a private bank in Sunder Nagar, Ludhiana, were operated on November 12 at 12.15pm. This alerted the tax department as Jain was arrested on November 11 and sent to judicial custody the same day. Jain is the main accused responsible for creating 23 bogus firms, leading to a GST scam involving an ITC fraud of Rs 33 crore. Thereafter, the branch manager and the assistant manager of the bank were summoned and their statements recorded on December 24. They confessed that the locker was operated by Jain’s wife and the branch manager admitted to have directed the assistant manager to allow her. She made the entry and forged the signature of Jain in the locker operation register on the directions of the branch manager.”The TOI has learned that wife of the accused is also a partner in a number of firms involved in issuing bogus bills and passing on fake input tax credit (ITC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bank-locker-of-accused-operated-after-his-arrest/articleshow/79958200.cms||Mohit Behl
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia set to visit Uttarakhand again||DEHRADUN: Delhi’s deputy CM Manish Sisodia is all set to visit Uttarakhand again in the first week of January to take further his challenge of an open debate with the BJP ministers on the issue of development works. Earlier, Sisodia had challenged the BJP government to enlist at least five works undertaken under the BJP government for the welfare of people in Uttarakhand. In his reply, urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “As for the debate, we will go to Delhi and tell Sisodia and inform him about the Uttarakhand model and the works being done in the state by the BJP government. If he wants, he can come to Uttarakhand but he should focus on his work.” Sisodia, in his recent tweet, said that he was ready for a debate with BJP leaders in Uttarakhand on the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th of January and that he would make himself available on whichever date suits the ruling party members. He further tweeted that after Trivendra Singh Rawat told him about the works done, he would invite the BJP leaders in the following week to show them the works done in Delhi under the ‘Kejriwal’ model. Media in-charge for AAP in Uttarakhand, Amit Rawat, told TOI, “Delhi Deputy CM has clearly mentioned the dates for the next visit and now the ball is in the court of the BJP members.” Earlier in August this year, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had announced that AAP would contest the 2022 assembly polls in Uttarakhand. In the last two weeks, Sisodia has already visited Uttarakhand twice and his next visit would be the third one in less than a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-aap-bjp-lock-horns-delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-set-to-visit-ukhand-again/articleshow/79958215.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Bail of 7 accused rejected; one more arrested for Rs 97.43cr bogus billing||Ludhiana: In the cases of bogus billing busted by the central GST (CGST) commissionerate, Ludhiana, bail applications of seven accused—all of whom are in judicial custody—have been rejected by courts during the past few days. The latest to be rejected was that of a prominent chartered accountant of the city, hearing on whose bail plea took place on Thursday. The case relates to alleged bogus billing of Rs 158.1 crore, involving input tax credit (ITC) of Rs 21 crore approximately. In another action taken by the CGST, a Ludhiana businessman was arrested for bogus billing of Rs 97.43 crore, involving ITC of more than Rs 8 crore through a network of firms created by him. Accused Amandeep Singh Bhui was running seven firms at common addresses and whenever the officials of any department came for physical verification, he just changed the board outside the premises. This is the eighth arrest by CGST commissionerate, Ludhiana, since November 11, in a drive against persons issuing fake invoices and fraudulently monetising ITC. The accused was found to be in connivance with another city businessman, Sahil Jain, who is already under arrest for involvement in bogus billing amounting to Rs 252 crore involving GST worth Rs 17.65 crore. Ashutosh Baranwal, principal commissioner, CGST, Ludhiana, said, “The name of businessman Amandeep Singh Bhui cropped up during our investigation into an ongoing bogus billing case in which accused Jain was arrested. Bhui is the son of Jain’s wife’s sister and he was found to be operating seven firms with different names and PANs. These firms were also involved in issuance of fake invoices and fraudulent availing of lTC. Bhui has admitted to have connived with Jain in issuing fake invoices and passing of ITC through additional 16 bogus firms (in addition to seven owned by Bhui) created or operated by him and Jain. Bhui has also confessed that all these firms only issued invoices without any actual receipt and supply of goods. It has also come to light that he had registered these firms on common commercial addresses, and merely changed the display boards outside the rented premises to fool the authorities visiting for physical verification.”Baranwal added, “Through his seven firms, the accused had issued fake invoices of Rs 97.43 crore, involving ITC of Rs 8.08 crore. Bhui has also admitted that through the additional 16 firms, in connivance with Jain, he issued fake invoices of Rs 296.48 crore with ITC amounting to Rs 24.94 crore. Therefore, Bhui with Jain issued fake invoices of Rs 393.91 crore involving fraudulent ITC of Rs 33.02 crore through 23 dummy firms. Bhui was arrested on December 23 and remanded in judicial custody up to January 6.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bail-of-7-accused-rejected-one-more-arrested-for-rs-97-43cr-bogus-billing/articleshow/79958204.cms||Mohit Behl
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||468 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths surface in Uttarkahand||DEHRADUN: Uttarkahand recorded 468 fresh cases and five more coronavirus-related deaths on Friday. With this, the overall tally of positive cases shot up to 88,844 and the toll of the virus reached 1,463 in the state. Almost half of the total cases found on Friday were recorded in Dehradun (160) and Nainital (110) districts. According to the data provided by the health department, as many as 14,239 people tested negative on Friday. “As many as 52 new cases were recorded in Pithoragarh, followed by 26 in Haridwar, 24 in Uttarkashi, 23 cases each in Udham Singh Nagar and Tehri, 21 in Pauri, 12 in Rudraprayag, 10 in Chamoli, five in Bageshwar, and two in Almora,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid 19 control room. Meanwhile, 271 patients recovered from Covid-19 infection on Friday, taking the total number of cured cases in Uttarakhand to 80,738. The state, till Friday, had a recovery rate of 90.8% and the sample positivity rate of 5.2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/468-new-covid-19-cases-5-deaths-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/79958205.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Desi device saved 6k-plus nursing hours at Covid peak||Nagpur: The first-of-its-kind contactless remote health monitoring equipment and health alarm system made by an Indian start-up Dozee has done a commendable job in Vidarbha during Covid-19 peak period. Company CEO Mudit Dandawate and hospitals in Vidarbha using these devices reviewed the performance earlier this week. It was revealed the device saved over 6,000 nursing hours during Covid-19 peak by monitoring vital health parameters of more than 8,000 patients. “We have more than 350 devices installed in Nagpur division and their results are good. I personally met with the patients for whom the device proved life saving,” said Dandawate. Two major government hospitals in Nagpur — GMCH and IGGMCH— started using this device and alarm system from August 2020 just when Covid-19 was surging. As all beds were full, it was difficult for the limited nursing staff to monitor vital parameters of all patients 24X7. These devices came in handy as they monitored vitals such as heart rate, respiration rate, oxygen saturation, sleep stages, stress-recovery and more of patients in high dependency unit (HDU). The system raised an alarm if any particular parameter for any patient deteriorated. “Early warning signs in 30-40% of the Covid-19 patients in IGGMCH was possible due to these devices,” said Dr Ravi Chavan, medical superintendent of IGGMCH. “Patients were treated promptly in HDU without needing to shift them to ICU. About 10-15% patients had moved to the critical stage and we had to move them to ICU for further treatment,” he added. The patients who were treated in ICUs were also detected quite early and it was possible to move them to HDU faster than expected. Dr. Avinash Gawande, medical superintendent, GMCH, said, “Dozee came to us at the right time. We were pleased to see that the doctors who used the device first were satisfied with the vitals reading process. Nurses, especially, are benefited as the device reduced their workload and cut down the time they spent in physical contact with the Covid patients.” How it works? * A sensor sheet is placed under the mattress and connected to SPO2 and portable device * Devices are connected to Internet * While sensors monitor the parameters readings are available on mobile phone app * In case a patient’s vital parameter deteriorates, alarm goes to the nurse * ICU-like monitoring in HDU was possible when beds were less * Company planning tie-ups with more hospitals, trusts, and individuals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/desi-device-saved-6k-plus-nursing-hours-at-covid-peak/articleshow/79958221.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||12 districts in Karnataka record zero Covid deaths in past 7 days||BENGALURU: Twelve of Karnataka’s 30 districts have been reporting zero Covid-19 fatalities over the past seven days. The plummeting Covid fatality rate saw Bengaluru Urban district reporting one death on Thursday. Yadgir, Shivamogga, Ramanagara, Mandya, Haveri, Gadag, Dharwad, Davanagere, Chitradurga, Chikkamagaluru, Belagavi and Bagalkot have not and any fatalities in the past week, according to the state Covid war room data for Thursday. Dharwad reported one death on Friday. In addition, no Covid patient has died in the past 15 days in five of these districts — Yadgir, Shivamogga, Mandya, Gadag and Bagalkot. Ballari district had worst CFR in state in last 7 daysCase fatality rate (CFR) is an important marker to determine the magnitude of the pandemic. In terms of CFR in the past seven days, the problem areas in the state are Ballari (where it is 2.7%), Chamarajanagara 2.6 % and Koppal, Hassan and Bengaluru Rural 2%. Bengaluru Urban has a CFR of 0.9%, same as the state. Though Ballari tops the state in terms of CFR, the district has seen five deaths in the past15 days, says SS Nakul, Ballari deputy commissioner. “The CFR is always calculated considering the active cases. We have had some cases that required prolonged hospital stay for more than 25 days and that way the number of active cases would look higher, giving a higher ratio. Besides, cases from neighbouring districts are also coming to us. We also get patients from Anantpur in Andhra Pradesh. When patients from neighbouring districts die in Ballari, they become part of Ballari’s statistics,” says Nakul. According to sources, patients from Koppal and Raichur are referred to Ballari. “In that way, some of our districts are bearing the fatalities of patients from other districts,” said health department authorities. Dr Anoop Amarnath, geriatrician and member of Critical Care Support Team for Covid management in the state government, says the standardization of critical care and gradual decline in the number of cases have helped in preventing deaths. “The e-ICU rounds are continuing every day. We look into severe cases. The local doctors have been managing the cases with standardisation of care,” says Dr Amarnath. According to Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist, member, Technical Advisory Committee for Covid management in the state, death audit must be beefed up in districts where a high fatality rate is seen. “There is no reason why Bengaluru Rural should have 2% CFR, when it is closer to Bengaluru which has required medical facilities available. Syndromic approach and early detection of cases have to increase in districts that have seen high CFR in the past 15 days,” says Dr Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/12-districts-in-ktaka-record-zero-covid-deaths-in-past-7-days/articleshow/79960936.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Repairs to potholed, skiddy Swargate underpass begin||PUNE: The Swargate underpass’s badly damaged road is being mended with a slight change in plan for the traffic flow. Vehicles will be allowed to use the underpass even as work to fix the road go on. It will now take 80 days to complete, double of what was planned earlier. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) that has begun the repairs had submitted a plan to the traffic police urging closure of vehicular traffic. However, the traffic branch of the Pune police has not consented as yet for a complete closure due to the heavy flow of vehicles using the underpass. MSRDC has started the work on one lane while the other lane has been kept open for traffic. The subway has just two lanes. MSRDC official Abasaheb Nagargoje said the plan was to complete the work in 40 days, but it will continue for longer because of the partial closure of the underpass. It will take double the time and may get over in 80 days, Nagargoje added. “We have started on one side. Work on other lane will begin only after completion of this lane. We are in touch with the traffic police about the vehicular movement. Efforts will be made to complete the work at the earliest,” he added. The underpass connects Shankarsheth Road to Sarasbaug Chowk and has one-way traffic with a high number of vehicles using it. Regular commuters said the underpass has become unsafe because of poor road condition, rough surface and a constant flow of water on the carriageway. The MSRDC has planned on concreting the stretch to eliminate recurring potholes and will provide water channels to drain the water. No additional expenses will be incurred for the repairs as it is in the defect liability period, MSRDC said. Sanjay Babar, who travels via the underpass frequently, said the work has already slowed down traffic movement. “It can be kept open for bikes and cars while movement of bigger vehicles can be diverted via Jedhe Chowk,” Babar said. Autorickshaw driver Javed Shaikh said the traffic police should deploy additional manpower at the entrance of the underpass to manage the vehicles during rush hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/repairs-to-potholed-skiddy-swargate-underpass-begin/articleshow/79959018.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 26, 2020||Pune||Section 144 in Koregaon Bhima, 16 other villages||PUNE: District collector Rajesh Deshmukh has imposed restrictions under CrPC Section 144 in 17 villages ahead of the anniversary of the Battle of Koregaon Bhima on January 1. The restrictions will be in place from December 30 to January 2. No outsiders will be permitted to visit these villages during this period, the collector’s order stated. In his statement, Deshmukh said Pune rural superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh had sought the restrictions to prevent crowds in view of the pandemic and the code of conduct for the gram panchayat elections. “Due to the pandemic, the state government has issued directives that the anniversary be observed in a symbolic, simple way. Only those who have been issued passes by the police will be allowed to visit the ‘Jay Stambh’ (victory pillar) in Perne village,” Deshmukh said. The passes are available at the Pune rural police headquarters in Pashan, as well as at the Shikrapur and Lonikand police stations, he said. The collector has further banned hoardings and banners, rallies, meetings, book stalls and food stalls. He said police were monitoring social media channels and would take strict action against anyone found spreading rumours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/section-144-in-koregaon-bhima-16-other-villages/articleshow/79959020.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||House site distribution prog launched, over 30 lakh to benefit||KAKINADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday launched the flagship welfare programme ‘Navaratnalu Pedalandariki Illu’ at Komaragiri layout in U Kothapalli mandal in East Godavari district, coinciding with Christmas and Vaikunta Ekadasi. He said the festive spirit would continue for the next 15 days across the state. Speaking at the launch, the chief minister said he had witnessed the plight of the homeless poor during his 3,648 km padayatra, which had driven him to take up this project, despite encountering hurdles. The chief minister said about 30.75 lakh beneficiaries have been identified across the state, of which 28.30 lakh houses will be given under 17,000 YSR Jagananna layouts and sale agreements for another 2.62 lakh TIDCO flats will be distributed. “We are not just constructing houses for the poor, we are constructing towns,” said the chief minister adding that the government will take up the construction of 28.30 lakh houses at a cost of Rs 50,940 crore. In the first phase, construction of 15.60 lakh houses will commence on Friday at a cost of Rs 28,000 crore while construction of 12.70 lakh house will commence next year. Although the government had planned to hand over registered pattas to beneficiaries, due to legal hurdles, beneficiaries will be given D-form pattas and land deeds will be handed over in the name of women beneficiaries once cases are resolved. All beneficiaries will be given 1.5 cents of land in rural areas and one cent in urban areas. The chief minister said the government has acquired 68,361 acres worth Rs 23,535 crore, of which each beneficiary will receive land worth around Rs 4 lakh. Beneficiaries can choose one of three options for constructing their houses, the chief minister said. Under the first option, building material and labour charges will be given by the government and the beneficiary can construct the house as per their choice. As per the second option, the beneficiary has to procure material and build the house on their own and the money will be released in phases. Under the third option, the government shall take up the responsibility of building the house. Each model house will consist of one bedroom, a living room, kitchen, bathroom and verandah, with a total plinth area of 340 square feet, and have basic facilities such as lights, fans an overhead tank and water connection. Referring to TIDCO housing, the chief minister said that for the first time in the country, a house site patta is being handed over for just one rupee. He said the previous TDP government had left a debt of Rs 3,000 crore for constructing 2.62 lakh houses. Now, the government shall allocate 300 sq ft houses to beneficiaries through a sale agreement at a payment of one rupee. Houses with an area of 365 sq ft and 430 sq ft will be handed over at a 50% subsidy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/house-site-distribution-prog-launched-over-30l-to-benefit/articleshow/79958229.cms||Samson Raj
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Tested at airport, 56 flyers from 4 states report +ve after reaching home||Nagpur: RT-PCR reports of 56 flyers, whose swab samples were collected at Nagpur airport on arrival from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa between November 25 and December 23, came positive for Covid-19 after they had reached their home in the city and other parts of Vidarbha. Of them, 35 are from the city and 21 from other parts of Vidarbha. The Maharashtra government on November 23 had made RT-PCR negative report mandatory for air passengers from these four states after they witness a fresh spike. The standard operating procedures (Sops) stated if the flyers had boarded flights without a negative report, their swab samples will be collected on arrival at airport. But there was no provision of sending such flyers to institutional quarantine for a specific timeperiod or till the receipt of results. As per data provided by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), 18,280 people had landed in the city from the four states between November 25 and December 23. In a silver lining, 16,302 (89.18%) flyers had boarded the flights with negative reports while swab samples of 1,978 flyers were collected for RT-PCR test. The testing takes from 12 hours to one or more days in the city’s laboratories. But the passengers were allowed to go to their home immediately after giving samples and were advised home quarantine. According to activist Narayan Ahuja, the 56 flyers who tested positive might have also infected co-passengers. “They went to their home in taxis or own vehicles, putting their drivers or family members at risk. Past experience shows that some flyers do not follow home quarantine norms. The government’s plan did not achieve cent per cent outcome,” he said. There is reportedly no testing done for road travellers at city’s borders while the Railways is screening passengers only with infrared thermometer and checking symptoms. This system has chances of asymptomatic patients going undetected. NMC officials said they have no powers to work beyond the SOPs. It is mandatory to test co-passengers who travelled with a positive patient in the same row, and two rows in front and rear. Officials of NMC and other districts are contacting such co-passengers asking them to get tested but the teams are not visiting their home. An NMC official said their team keeps calling such co-passenger on phone until s/she confirms about getting tested. 89% Carried -Ve Report* Fresh surge of Covid cases started in Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa in November * State government on November 23 issued Sops for flyers from these states * Latest RT-PCR negative report was mandatory to board flight * Swab samples collected after arrival at airport in case negative report was not carried * 18,280 people landed in the city from these states between November 25 and December 23 * 16,302 (89.18%) flyers carried negative reports * Swab samples of 1,978 flyers collected at airport before they were allowed to go home * RT-PCR test results take 12 hours to one or more days in city’s laboratories * No provision for sending such flyers to institutional quarantine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tested-at-airport-56-flyers-from-4-states-report-ve-after-reaching-home/articleshow/79958250.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 26, 2020||Pune||Amazon hub vandalised by MNS cadre over Marathi issue||Pune: MNS workers and supporters vandalized e-commerce giant Amazon’s warehouse at Burhani Industrial Estate in Kondhwa Budruk around 11.30am on Friday over the non-availability of Marathi language option in its platforms. Amazon officials lodged an FIR with the Kondhwa police on Friday night. The police have registered a case under charges of rioting and violation of prohibitory orders under the Indian Penal Code and the Maharashtra Police Act. Video clips of the incident were widely circulated on social media. The incident was reported on TV and news websites. Last week, MNS chief Raj Thackeray had observed that Marathi cannot be set as default on Amazon’s website and app. The party launched a protest in Mumbai, prompting Amazon to file a civil suit. A local court had issued a notice to Thackeray.MNS’s Kondhwa unit president Amit Jagtap, who led the vandalism, justified the act. An Amazon India spokesperson, in a statement, called it an “unfortunate incident”.Amazon gagged its officials from speaking to the media. Deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Mitesh Ghatte said Amazon’s other facilities in Pune were not targeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/amazon-hub-vandalised-by-mns-cadre-over-marathi-issue/articleshow/79959028.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 26, 2020||Pune||Relief mulled for defaulters with tax dues over Rs 50 lakh||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is contemplating widening the scope of the amnesty scheme to give relief to property tax defaulters who have dues a little over Rs50 lakh.The PMC had started the scheme in October for all but after opposition from activists and political parties, the decision to limit the scope of the scheme to Rs50 lakh was taken.The civic body has recovered Rs354 crore from this initiative in the last two months. “Some property owners have tax pending just above Rs 50 lakh. They also wish to avail of the scheme. Just because they have marginally high dues, they have been left out of the ambit of the scheme. So, we may take a call on extending the scope a little bit,” said Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee.He said that the amount of marginal increase will be finalised after discussion with all leaders. The standing committee members will also be consulted in this regard. According to PMC records, around Rs4,500 crore is to be recovered from property tax defaulters. It includes Rs2,000 crore as principal and Rs2,500crore as penalty. Around Rs350 crore has been recovered from the amnesty scheme.According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials, the administration has given several opportunities to defaulters to clear their dues. The scheme will continue till January 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/relief-mulled-for-defaulters-with-tax-dues-over-rs-50-lakh/articleshow/79959033.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||Tourists flock to Mussoorie for Christmas long weekend||MUSSOORIE: The long weekend brought a rush of tourists to the queen of hills on Friday, with hotels reporting around 80% occupancy. Serpentine queues of cars could be seen near Gandhi Chowk in the evening. According to sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Manish Kumar, two surveillance teams have been formed to make surprise inspections at hotels and restaurants to ensure the mandated safety protocols are being followed. Meanwhile, local businessmen were happy with the brisk business they did. “We had such a huge rush after a long time,” said a shopkeeper on Mall Road, who did not wish to be named. The SDM said, “We visited 13 hotels and restaurants. Most establishments were found to be following the SOPs prescribed by the administration. A few had some problems, we have asked them to start adhering to rules by Saturday or face action. Surprise inspections will continue till January 1.” Challans were issued for being on the Mall Road without a mask and parking vehicles in no-parking zones. “We have issued 50 challans today,” said Kumar. Also, random rapid antigen tests were conducted on 19 tourists. “All results came negative,” Kumar reassured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourists-flock-to-mussoorie-for-christmas-long-weekend/articleshow/79958242.cms||Anmol Jain
December 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Will move SC to lift stay in some places, says YS Jagan Mohan Reddy||TIRUPATI: Reiterating his commitment to allocation of house sites to the poor, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday said that the government will move the Supreme Court to fulfil the promise extended to the landless poor in the state. Addressing a public meeting at Pulivendula after taking part in Christmas celebrations at the CSI church in the town, Jagan said the government will move the apex court seeking vacation of the stay orders on distribution of house site pattas at some locations in the state. “It is unfortunate that the Opposition has been creating hurdles in the distribution of house site pattas to the landless poor. We will move the Supreme Court so that every landless poor family in the state can eventually get its house site patta,” the chief minister said. He added that he was sad that distribution of house site pattas could not happen in Pulivendula. “Someone moved the court to stay the distribution in Pulivendula claiming the land belongs to APIIC,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/will-move-sc-to-lift-stay-in-some-places-says-cm/articleshow/79958248.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Pune||Criminal assaults student for staring||PUNE: A man was arrested on the charge of attempt to murder on Thursday night after he brutally assaulted a 19-year-old student with a knife because the boy was allegedly staring at him. The accused is a criminal on the police record. The incident took place near Stella Mary High School on Gurudwara Road at Vadgaonsheri around 9pm on Wednesday. The victim Abhishek Thorat, a resident of Vadgaonsheri, sustained injuries to his left hand, shoulder and back. He is under treatment at a private hospital. Thorat and another suspect Ritesh Vishal Pawar (20), from the same locality, are known to each other. Pawar runs a tea stall. Sub-inspector Kiran Varal from Chandannagar police station said on Friday, “Thorat and his friend were chatting near the school, when Pawar reached there. Pawar asked Thorat why he was staring at him. After Thorat denied staring at him, the suspect turned furious and threatened to teach him a lesson.” Varal added, “The suspect pulled out a small knife and assaulted Thorat and ran away from the spot. After receiving information about the incident, we recorded the injured victim’s statement and took the suspect into custody.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-assaults-student-for-staring/articleshow/79959049.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-R research scholar bags Rs 1 cr research grant in the UK||Dehradun: A post-doctoral research fellow from IIT Roorkee, Dr Sudha Shankar, has bagged a whooping research grant of Rs 1 crore in the United Kingdom. Shankar, who is a student at the institute’s Department of Biotech, is one of the few students to be awarded the Newton International Fellowship, 2020. The fellowship will allow her to research antimicrobial peptide drugs and it will be broadly related to the cure for Covid-19 as well. The fellowship, which will start from the coming March, will allow her to conduct research for a period of three years. Shankar will have to serve her first two years in the University of Glasgow in the UK. She will come back to IIT Roorkee for the last year of her research. Notably, the Newton International Fellowship is co-partnered with the British Royal Society, the British Academy, and the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) which comes under the Union ministry of science and technology, Government of India. Shankar, a Noida-resident, has won several prestigious fellowships earlier as well. She aims to join government labs and contribute to the ongoing research landscape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-research-scholar-bags-rs-1-cr-research-grant-in-the-uk/articleshow/79958247.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 26, 2020||Pune||Man arrested for killing ex-colleague||PUNE: The Bibvewadi police on Friday arrested a former eatery employee on the charge of murdering his former colleague and brutally assaulting his friend with a centring rod ,over a dispute of consuming liquor, near Shriji lawns between 10.30am and 11am. Police identified the deceased as Salim Shaikh (44) from Upper Indiranagar in Bibvewadi. The injured, Tofique Shaikh (45), is recuperating in a hospital. The assailant, Anil Khachravat (45), was later taken into police custody. Khachravat and Salim had earlier worked together at an eatery. The duo and Tofique would meet daily to have meals and consume liquor. Senior inspector Sunil Zavare of Bibvewadi police said, “Tofique demanded money from Khachravat to consume liquor or told him to offer liquor. Khachravat picked up a dispute with him for demanding money from him regularly.” Zavare said, “Khachravat in a fit of anger assaulted Tofique on his head with a centring rod. He also attacked Salim severely on his head for intervening. The impact was such that Salim succumbed to the head injuries.” “We later arrested Khachravat under relevant sections of the IPC,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-arrested-for-killing-ex-colleague/articleshow/79959042.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||Hundreds of Terai farmers dodge police, use interior roads to reach Ghazipur border||RUDRAPUR: Farmers’ organisations from Terai region, Uttarakhand’s ‘rice bowl’, had announced “Delhi Chalo”, a protest march to the capital on December 25, day 30 of farmers’ protests. With security beefed up at the Uttar Pradesh - US Nagar border, farmers on Friday took uncharted roads to reach UP and proceeded to Ghazipur border near the national capital. While Rudrapur city remained peaceful, farmers clashed with police in the outskirts. In Kashipur, when farmers were stopped from crossing the border at IGL road, Parmanandpur village, a tractor ploughed through police barricades to make its way ahead. Station house officer (SHO) of ITI police station Vidya Dutt Joshi lay down in front of the tractor to stop it but was forced to retreat. A similar incident took place in Sitarganj, where sub inspector (SI) Sudhakar Joshi stood in front of a tractor, was forced to run backwards and eventually move aside as the driver refused to stop. In Nanakmatta, police put up barricades and formed human chains to stop farmers, who had blocked a national highway by sitting on dharna. After a clash broke out, farmers tore the uniform of SHO Nanakmatta Kamlesh Bhatt. The agitation was supported by Congress, with party leaders and special convoys, led by former state health minister Tilak Raj Behar managing to escape police vigil in the city and reaching Bilaspur. In UP, they joined hundreds of farmers who were led by Nawabganj Gurudwara's Kar Sewa chief Baba Anoop Singh, and headed to Ghazipur border. Residents were dismayed by the sporadic violence between farmers and police. Sartaj Singh, an octogenarian farmer from Rudrapur, said, “It’s unfortunate to see farmers and police lock horns. I never imagined they would clash in Terai region. It’s our children that are serving as police personnel and are trying to maintain law and order. These black laws by the Centre have made enemies of brothers.” District police said those challenging law and order situation will be identified and booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hundreds-of-terai-farmers-dodge-police-use-interior-roads-to-reach-ghazipur-border/articleshow/79958256.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Jumbo unit nursing staff alleges manhandling by security guards||PUNE: The nursing staff at the College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) Covid-19 jumbo unit have alleged that security guards manhandled them during salary distribution on Thursday evening. Activist Nayan Pujari said prior to the incident, the security guards indulged in taunting the nursing staff members for their earlier protests. “The prejudiced mindset of the security led to this scuffle. We intervened and held talks with the jumbo unit agency members in the evening and the nursing staff to resolve the matter,” he said. Jumbo unit dean Shreyansh Kapale, however, refuted the allegations saying that the nurses were not following social distancing protocol when issues about discrepancy in their salary were being heard. When the security staff told the nurses to follow safety protocol, they started quarrelling with them. The issue was resolved later. “There was no issue at all to begin with. But one thing led to another and there was a heated argument. With the way things have escalated in the past few days, we have started looking for an alternative arrangements of the staff members as most of the nursing staffers are not ready to work with us and neither are we,” he said. According to Kapale, the salaries of most of the staff members had already been paid. A nursing staff member, who is on leave, said his salary had been credited.  “However, it has been revised to half. I am not that sure if I should resume the duty once the leaves are over,” he added. It has to be noted that there is an active staff of around 550 healthcare workers at the CoEP jumbo unit, including 90 doctors, 150 nurses. They were paid partially because of the unavailability of the funds at the beginning of the month, leading to the protest by the staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-unit-nursing-staff-alleges-manhandling-by-security-guards/articleshow/79959071.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP reports 355 cases, two deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 355 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,80,430. The toll increased to 7,091 with two more patients succumbing to the novel coronavirus. Krishna and Guntur districts reported one death each. As many as 354 patients were declared cured. There are currently 3,861 active cases with 8,69,478 cumulative recoveries and 7,091 deaths. Chittoor reported 81 new infections, followed by Guntur (53). The remaining 11 districts posted less than 50 new cases. The state tested 56,409 Covid-19 samples to detect the 355 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.6%. Of the 56,409 tests conducted on Friday, 45,080 tests were done through RT-PCR method and the remaining 11,329 tests through rapid antigen kits. The state has so far conducted 1.15 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall positivity rate of 7.6%. The national average positivity rate stands at 6.1%. The state’s mortality rate remains stable at 0.8%. The health department has denotified about 150 hospitals in the last three months due to the declining case numbers and asked officials in the districts to take back the additional infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-355-cases-two-deaths/articleshow/79958261.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Villages in Anantapur district renamed to remove SC tag||AMARAVATI: In what could be an important move towards social transformation, villages and colonies with an exclusive population of Scheduled Castes (SCs) in Anantapur district are being renamed after freedom fighters and social activists. Andhra Pradesh is the first state in the country to remove caste-based names of residential areas. Last week, the Maharashtra government decided to follow AP’s initiative. Moved by the discrimination that SC communities in many villages in the district continue to face, district collector Gandham Chandrudu directed officials to not use the words Dalit, Harijan or Girijan in official communications and instead use only Schedule Castes/Scheduled Tribes to define persons belonging to these communities. The collector warned that disciplinary action would be taken against those whol violated instructions. Subsequently, Chandrudu directed the district panchayat officer (DPO) to make all village pachanayats pass a resolution seeking change of their names from the existing Harijanawada or Girijanawada (the prevailing trend in naming of villages with a high SC population). After getting the resolutions cleared by the village panchayats, a committee of senior officials was constituted to name SC colonies after renowned freedom fighters and social activists. Chandrudu ensured that all 390 SC colonies were renamed in official records. As many as 203 of the SC colonies were named after Dr B R Ambedkar, while others were named after Chandrasekhar Azad, Netaji, Indiramma, Nehru, Gandhi, Vallabhbhai Patel, Mother Teresa and Gautam Buddha. Thirty-nine colonies under the Rural Development Trust (RDT) have been renamed as either RDT Colony or after RDT’s founders, Mancho and Vincent Ferror. “We have carried out a massive exercise on this issue. After verifying the Centre’s instructions, an executive order has been issued to ban the usage of Harijan/Girijan name in all records including village/colony names,” Chandrudu told TOI. The collector added that titles such as Mala Palle-Madiga Palle were removed. “It is a courageous move towards ending discrimination against SCs and STs,” said Singanamala legislator Jonnalagadda Padmavathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/villages-in-anantapur-district-renamed-to-remove-sc-tag/articleshow/79958273.cms||Samdani MN
December 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Spl train from Dhanbad via Vizag from Jan 1||Visakhapatnam: To clear the rush of passengers, the Railways has decided to run special train services 03351/03352 between Dhanbad- Alappuzha-Dhanbad via Visakhapatnam from January 1. Train 03351 Dhanbad-Alappuzha special express train will leave Dhanbad daily at 11.40 am from January 1. It will reach Visakhapatnam the next day at 8.15 am, depart at 8.35 am and reach Alappuzha at 3.25 pm on the third day. Train 03352 Alappuzha-Dhanbad special express train will leave Alappuzha daily at 6 am from January 4. It will reach Visakhapatnam on the next day at 1.10 pm, depart at 1.30pm and reach Dhanbad at 10.20 am on the third day. Both trains will stop at Jharsuguda, Sambalpur Road, Bargarh Road, Barpali, Balangir, Titlagarh, Kesinga, Muniguda, Rayagada, Parvatipuram Town, Parvatipuram, Bobbili, Vizianagaram, Kottavalasa, Simhachalam, Vizag and Duvvada. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/spl-train-from-dhanbad-via-vizag-from-jan-1/articleshow/79958285.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Trichy||Reopened Trichy swimming pool gets good response from athletes||Trichy: As the swimming pool in Anna stadium in Trichy was reopened with strict guidelines, it received a good response from the swimming athletes who resumed their training to take part in the state, national and international competitions. The swimming pool in the Anna stadium resumed its operation on Thursday by following the standard operating procedure (SOP) for sports training in swimming pools.“As many as 15 athletes preparing for various competitions attended the training session yesterday. The safety protocols are strictly followed,” district sports and youth welfare officer, Trichy, K Prabhu told ToI. Prabhu also said that the athletes aged less than 12 and those down with fever and cough will not be allowed.The permitted sportspersons will be allowed to enter the stadium after their temperatures are checked. A monitoring and swimming pool management committee (MMC) will take care of all the safety protocols. The practice sessions should be conducted in batches of 10, 16 and 20 swimmers who will be allowed to practice for 20 m, 25 m and 50 m distances respectively.The use of sanitizers and disinfectants besides wearing masks is compulsory before the commencement of practice. All of them including the coaches should have the Arogya Setu mobile application downloaded on their phones.The SOP also insists on the periodical maintenance of the swimming pool with 2 ppm chlorination and Ph level between 7 and 7.4. The chlorine levels in the pool will be measured 45 minutes before the start of the practice. Water samples for checking chlorine level will be drawn uniformly from multiple points in the pool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/reopened-trichy-swimming-pool-gets-good-response-from-athletes/articleshow/79959088.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Trichy||Pandemic fails to quell joy of Christmas across districts||TRICHY: Early morning prayers and masses with families and friends was a common sight in churches across central districts as Christmas was celebrated in fervour despite Covid-19 concerns, on Friday. People also exchanged sweets and pastries among friends and neighbours to promote brotherhood. In churches, people adhered to the mandatory facemask rule while sanitisers were provided at the entrances. The seating was arranged in a manner ensuring social distancing. Special prayers were held in advance from Thursday night to prevent devotees from crowding during the late-night prayers. As the public are gradually venturing out and trying to get back to normal life after lifting of lockdown restrictions, Christmas was utilised as an opportunity to meet family members and friends outdoors. “We felt desperate to spend some time outdoors and the late-night mass with family members was very relaxing to overcome the fear of the viral infection. However, many senior citizens refrained from attending the mass,” said C Sagayaraj, a resident of Palakkarai. Thousands of devotees from various parts of the city with families and friends thronged St Lourdes church at Mainguard gate, St Fathima church at Puthur and St Mary’s Cathedral at Melapudur on Christmas. As people prepare festive dishes on Christmas, meat stalls and fish markets wore a busy look after a long time. At Velankanni, thousands flocked the Our Lady of Good Health Shrine Basilica on Thursday night and early hours of Friday as special prayers were rendered in various regional languages including Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam. Prayers were held in the open to ensure ventilation. Christmas trees and cribs (Kudil) resembling the cattle shed where Mother Mary gave birth to Jesus Christ was displayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pandemic-fails-to-quell-joy-of-christmas-across-districts/articleshow/79959128.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Trichy||‘Will cancel NEET after DMK comes to power’||Ariyalur/Perambalur: DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin has reiterated his party’s stand that it will do everything to cancel the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) for medical admission in the state after coming to power. “DMK has been fighting for the cancellation of NEET and I have been raising the issue in my campaigns. We will explore all legal avenues to cancel the test,” he told reporters in Ariyalur on Friday. Udhayanidhi visited the library constructed in memory of medical aspirant Anitha in Kuzhumur village, who ended her life after failing to crack NEET in 2017. After paying tribute to her, he also donated books to the library. He said AIADMK wanted to prevent DMK from holding gram sabha meetings as the party was getting jittery over people’s huge participation in these meetings. “Come what may, grama sabha meeting will be conducted in all villages,” he said. Udhayanidhi resumed his campaign in Ariyalur for the second day before moving to Perambalur on Friday. During his tour, he slammed chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami over the award of road contracts. He said DMK president M K Stalin had insisted on providing Rs 5,000 to ration card holders to help them tide over the loss of livelihood during the pandemic. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/will-cancel-neet-after-dmk-comes-to-power/articleshow/79959110.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Harvest season stubble-burning in South Bengal districts pollutes city’s air||KOLKATA: What was a problem in north India affecting the air quality of New Delhi is now afflicting Kolkata with south Bengal adopting the practice of stubble burning. Track the pollution level in your cityAnalysis of satellite images by West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) indicates the onset of stubble burning in seven south Bengal and one north Bengal districts in December after harvesting of the crop. Thus, despite proactive measures in Kolkata, the city’s air quality remained ‘very poor’ in December. TimesViewThe data indicate the desperate need for new policies and practices. Every day’s delay in acting sets us back further.“What was our suspicion has come true with the satellite mapping of the crop-residue burning in rural Bengal. We were a bit doubtful about the trans-border pollution of Kolkata and Howrah. But the satellite images are clearly hinting about the northerly wind blowing the pollutants to the city. We have started sending almost real-time alerts with Lat-Long specifications to the superintendents of police (SPs) of the districts, asking them to send us back action-taken-report (ATR),” said WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra. The satellite images have been captured by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and made public under their Fire Information for Resource Management System (FIRMS). More specifically, they come from satellite observation of NASA’s Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) aboard the Terra and Aqua satellites and NASA’s Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) aboard the Suomi National Polar orbiting Partnership (Suomi NPP) and NOAA-20 satellites. The raw data are being analysed at the WBPCB lab, set up in collaboration with IIT-Delhi. “The analysis of images from December 1 to December 19, revealed rampant stubble burning incidents in East Burdwan, Birbhum, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Hooghly, East Midnapore and Murshidabad. Since Kolkata and Howrah are surrounded by these districts, it has a direct bearing on the air quality of these two cities,” said a WBPCB scientist. “The agriculture department carried out a campaign against stubble burning,” Rudra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/harvest-season-stubble-burning-in-s-bengal-dists-pollutes-citys-air/articleshow/79959111.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 26, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh districts told to furnish details of villages with no primary school in 1km radius||MEERUT: As a part of CM’s Samagra Gram Vikas Yojana, the Uttar Pradesh government has sought details of villages which have a minimum population of 300 but no primary school within a radius of 1 km and no upper primary school within 3 km. The details have been sought to identify the areas where new government schools can be established. “The details will help in ensuring that students don’t have to travel much,” said Sarvendra Vikram Bahadur Singh, UP education director (basic). He directed that the information should be sent by December-end. He warned of disciplinary action in case of any lapse in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-dists-told-to-furnish-details-of-villages-with-no-primary-school-in-1km-radius/articleshow/79957670.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 26, 2020||Trichy||SH dept writes to defence min on land to finish RoB work||Trichy: After floating a tender for completing the pending portion of Trichy junction railway overbridge (RoB) near Mannarpuram, the state highways and minor ports department has written to the ministry of defence (Land and Works) seeking enter upon permission for commencing the remaining construction work. The delay from the defence ministry in ceding the defence land has disrupted the completion of phase I of the RoB for the past five years besides holding up the proposal to construct three more arms under phase II.The state government had in 2016 offered financial compensation for the defence land. When the defence ministry demanded compensatory land instead monetary compensation, the government had in 2018 offered a piece of land in Kancheepuram. But the ministry insisted on land in Chennai instead. When a piece of land was identified in Chennai, the ministry’s preferred location changed to Chengalpattu.Finally, the state government had an year ago identified a piece of land of equal size in the Tamil Nadu police battalion campus adjacent to the defence land for acquiring the 0.6 acres of land. “We have enclosed the no-objection certificate (NOC) issued by the Director General of Police (DGP) office for trading the police land to get the defence land. We hope that defence ministry will reply positively,” an official source told TOI. Apart from completing the pending RoB, the defence land is crucial for initiating the phase II of Trichy junction RoB. Once the Chennai arm is completed, the phase I of RoB will serve as alternative access way while the old RoB atop the railway track will be demolished. Unless phase I is complete, phase II cannot be taken up, officials added. “The MPs from the state should put pressure on the defence ministry to get the issue sorted,” M Sekaran, chairman, citizen forum, Trichy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sh-dept-writes-to-defence-min-on-land-to-finish-rob-work/articleshow/79959113.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||How Covid forced a paradigm shift in education sector||VISAKHAPATNAM: A look back at Covid-19 and the education sector in Andhra Pradesh in 2020 reveals a series of disruptions, right from the abrupt end of the 2019-20 academic session in March. As one of the effective non-pharmaceutical interventions to reduce the transmissibility of the virus, the government announced the closure of the schools, colleges and other higher educational institutions in March. But the unprecedented nature of the pandemic served as a catalyst to usher in unforeseen changes in the academic sphere. E-learning soon became the new normal with institutions heavily investing in and relying on IT infrastructure. Teachers had to adapt to the new reality of online lessons, as did students. Students of several classes were promoted without exams, while others had to undergo final exams online. Thousands of faculties lost jobs and syllabi of several classes were cut in an effort to compensate for days lost. Several institutions conducted convocations online. Given the situation, higher educational institutions could conclude final exams of various classes from the previous academic year only in November. However, several students from disadvantaged sections and rural backgrounds were left behind in the new online learning paradigm due to limited access to smartphones and computers, internet connectivity and an absence of a conducive learning environment at home. Nor were educational institutions an exception. Though private and some premier public institutions quickly adapted to the new normal many public institutions suffered in the initial months due to limited IT infrastructure, funds and resources. Speaking to TOI, director, Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy, Prof VSRK Prasad said Covid-19-induced online learning has come with several advantages and disadvantages. “The institutions and universities can avail a number of industry and international subject experts and the students can attend the classes irrespective of their location, thanks to remote learning. The institutes could attract the best faculty and talent. The students are exposed to technology at a younger age for good. But in terms of disadvantages, there are no peer group discussions among students and motivation would be low compared to conventional teaching,” said Dr VSRK Prasad. The government had announced holidays for all educational institutions from March 19 to 31 in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. However, the shutdown dragged on for almost seven months till classes 9 to 12 partially reopened under the Union home ministry’s Unlock 4.0 guidelines from September 21. Classes 9 and 10, junior colleges and higher educational institutions resumed conventional classroom teaching on November 2. Students of class 8 started attending face-to-face instruction from November 23, while physical classes for class 7 started December 14. Even as of today, students of classes 1 to 6 in the state are still limited to their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/how-covid-forced-a-paradigm-shift-in-edu-sector/articleshow/79958302.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 26, 2020||Trichy||Venmani martyrs remembered in Nagapattinam||TRICHY: The 52nd anniversary of the Venmani massacre where agriculture labourers were burnt to death for seeking more wages was observed at the Venmani memorial in Keezhvenmani village near Kizhvelur in Nagapattinam district on Friday. While thousands of people usually attend the martyrs day every year, the organisers from left parties had curtailed the participation of cadres from other districts due to Covid-19 pandemic. Every year, December 25, is observed as Venmani martyrs day for commemorating the sacrifice of the 44 Dalit labours and their family members including children and women, who were burnt alive with their huts by their landlord for seeking proper wages in 1968. Leaders and cadres from both CPM and CPI paid floral tributes at the monolithic red granite memorial and pillar etched with the names of the deceased victims. After paying tributes, CPM state secretary K Balakrishnan said, “Nothing has changed in the 52 years since the Venmani massacre. Dalits are still facing oppression; they are yet to get equal rights even when it comes to the cremation ground. Indifference persists for the scheduled caste people in worshipping place too.” He also added that appointment of all caste people as priests has got a long way to go in the state whereas in Kerala, more than 300 scheduled caste and scheduled tribes (SC/ST) have become priests under the Pinarayi Vijayan’s government. “When people were suffering due to the economic loss post Covid-19 outbreak, the state government provided only Rs 1,000 as assistance. But now, with state assembly election approaching, Edappadi Palaniswami has announced Rs 2,500 as cash assistance, which is still insufficient,” Balakrishnan added. CPI and CPM leaders including Nagapattinam MP M Selvaraj, G Ramakrishnan were also present in the event. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/venmani-martyrs-remembered-in-nagapattinam/articleshow/79959149.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Trichy||Paramapatha Vaasal opening remains low key amid Covid curbs||TRICHY: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, with no devotees allowed inside Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam this year during Vaikunta Ekadasi, the procession of idol of Namperumal was taken out through Paramapatha Vaasal on Friday morning. Vaikunta Ekadasi is celebrated in the pattern of Pagal Pathu (daytime celebrations for 10 days) and Ra Pathu (night time celebrations for 10 days). The first day of Ra Pathu that fell on Friday had marked the opening of Paramapatha Vaasal. As a part of the traditional rituals, clad in gem-studded armour, Kilimaalai (garland resembling parrots) and Pandian crown, Namperumal was taken out from the sanctum sanctorum in a golden palanquin. After 4.45 am, Paramapatha Vaasal gates, considered as the gateway to heaven (sorgavasal), was opened for the procession. Devotees said that for the first time, the centuries-old Paramapatha Vaasal proceedings were conducted without them. “The procession through sorgavasal every year shall witness a cacophony with people rushing against each to get the glimpse of the deity. This year, there was no scope for such anxiety. The conduct was smooth but the devotees were missed,” an official with HR&CE said. Usually, as devotees worship the deity at the sanctum sanctorum, Vaikunta Ekadasi is when the deity reaches out to the devotees. Earlier, the city police had blocked all the entries to Srirangam island from Thursday late evening.  The devotees queued up outside the temple were permitted to worship lord Namperumal’s idol positioned at Thirumamani Mandapam only after 8 am on Friday. The temple management had live-streamed the proceedings in www.srirangam.org. Mixed response for stringent regulations While a section of devotees embraced the regulations that prevented them from directly witnessing the auspicious happenings citing the pandemic, a few devotees expressed their disappointment. “The authorities could have allowed a minimum group of people to witness the Paramapatha Vaasal traversing. The event happens only once in a year, some relaxations could have been shown,” B Sudarsan, a resident of Srirangam said. Around 1,600 police personnel were stationed in the temple . While the temple claimed that only those who had booked for darshan online will be allowed, devotees complained that even those who did not book for darshan online were also allowed inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/paramapatha-vaasal-opening-remains-low-key-amid-covid-curbs/articleshow/79959146.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||Trains suspended due to doubling of rail tracks between Haridwar & Laksar||DEHRADUN: Several trains remained suspended due to work on doubling of railway tracks between Haridwar and Laksar Jn. The affected trains include '02017/18' Dehradun-New Delhi Shatabdi express, '02092/91' Kathgodam-Dehradun Jan Shatabdi express, '04113/14' Prayagraj-Dehradun Link Express, '05001/02' Muzaffarpur special train and '05005/06' Gorakhpur-Dehradun special train. The trains are likely to remain suspended from December 29 to January 5. Similarly, '04888/87' Barmer-Rishikesh and '04609/04610' Shri Mata vd Katra-Rishikesh trains will also remain suspended on the same dates, while the '02191/92' Jabalpur-Haridwar will remain cancelled on December 31. On Friday, Sitaram Sonkar, station master of Dehradun railway station, said, "Rail track doubling work will begin on December 29. So, the railway division has taken a decision to cancel some of these trains on the given dates." He also said, "The Dehradun-New Delhi Jan Shatabdi (02055/56) will remain suspended only on December 29."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/trains-suspended-due-to-doubling-of-rail-tracks-between-haridwar-laksar/articleshow/79958281.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Christmas celebrated without mass and carols||JAIPUR: The pandemic has put a dent on Christmas celebrations this year. Without any mass, carols and gatherings, the festival was a simple event. Earlier, the government had already banned any big religious gatherings or processions on the occasion. Hence, all churches in the city decided to connect with the public through social media. St Andrewes Church in Chandpol did not have any gatherings on December 24 and 25 and all prayers will live on YouTube and Facebook. Deepak Baristo, the reverend of Chandpol Church, said these were tough times so they were co-operating with the government. “We cannot gather hundreds of people and so our archbishop from Ajmer visited the church on Christmas which was streamed live. Carols were also streamed live on social media. Five people were allowed to visit the church at a time,” said Baristo. Similarly, Reverend Sandeep Samuel Hiskiel of All Saints’ Church at C-Scheme said that in solidarity with people who lost their lives because of Covid, Christmas celebrations were low-key. “We had just one prayer with a few committee members and the rest were live streamed on social media. Prayers were also held for the well-being of the nation,” he said. In St. Xavier’s Church, instead of a midnight mass on December 24, an evening mass was organised on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/christmas-celebrated-without-mass-and-carols/articleshow/79959147.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata lends a helping hand to farmers’ protest in Delhi||KOLKATA: Help from Kolkata is pouring in for agitating farmers in the Singhu border. From reaching out to the farmers in batches to setting up langars and medical camps, members of the Sikh community in the city are leading the efforts to help the farmers who have been camping for nearly a month on an eight kilometre-stretch along the Singhu border, braving the intense cold. A group of volunteers is expected to leave for Delhi on Saturday morning to help the people camping there. They will be carrying blankets and winter clothes for them. The volunteers are running a langar and a medical camp there. One group of volunteers had returned from the Singhu border to Kolkata a few days ago. Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, who, along with his IHA foundation volunteers, is camping at the protest site off Delhi, said, “We are running a langar and a medical camp. We are providing medical support to the elderly, women and children.” Ahluwalia, who heads the foundation, added, “We have worked in adversities but have never seen something like this. When we tried setting up the langar and medical camp, we were never short of people volunteering to help.” Gurmeet Singh, a Kolkata businessman, will be part of the team that will be leaving for the Singhu border on Saturday. “I was born and educated in Kolkata. For many of us, our grandparents owned land in Punjab. Every year, a month-and-a-half-long trip to Punjab is a must for many households like us. There we are taught by our parents the importance of farming, our legacy,” he said. Manjit Singh, who had organised the first set of volunteers from Kolkata to reach out to the protest site, said, “There are several aspects in the new farm bills, which are not being brought to the fore. These protests will continue till these are repealed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-lends-a-helping-hand-to-farmers-protest-in-delhi/articleshow/79959145.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag police to raise fine for illegal parking||VISAKHAPATNAM: While the government prepares to shift the executive capital to Vizag, the traffic department of the city police is planning on stringent action against motorists who violate parking norms. “Illegal parking has been a major menace in the city. We have to be very strict if we want to get rid of this problem. Besides organising awareness programmes at important intersections in city, we are going to increase the fine to Rs 1,000. In addition, we would also charge towing charges from owners,” a senior traffic official told TOI. On average, the city police issues over 300 challans against two-wheelers and four-wheelers everyday for illegal parking. Junctions such as Siripuram, Jagadamba, Daba Gardens, Maddilapalem, Gajuwaka, Gopalapatnam and the area adjacent to the Steel Plant are the most-affected zones where city police plan to hold awareness camps. “Besides, we are drawing up a list of commercial buildings that don’t have cellar parking facilities. We would try to find out an alternative for these buildings. However, the civic body must ensure that in future, constructions of commercial buildings without cellar parking will not allowed,” the official added. City police said they would extend the awareness drives to different schools and colleges to ensure that students are aware of the rules of traffic management. “Autorickshaws are a major concern. Since a highway passes through the city, the trucks also create problems. We would organise awareness camps for them through their respective unions,” the official added. City police officials are also exploring the possibility of booking repeat offenders under the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-police-to-raise-fine-for-illegal-parking/articleshow/79958311.cms||Arpit Basu
December 26, 2020||Trichy||Trichy butterfly park turns ideal habitat for birds||TRICHY: The lockdown has helped the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory Trichy (TBCT) to attract more butterfly and bird species as 15 bird species and 19 butterfly species were recorded in the last five months alone. In the five years since opening, 123 butterfly species and 95 bird species have been recorded. Improved green cover aided by good rain and almost no human activity for the last one year has transformed the conservatory to an ideal habitat for birds and butterflies. “As the conservatory remained undisturbed without much footfall and with good rain, it has became conducive for these species,” said R Santhosini, junior research fellow, TBCT. “We could observe more number of butterflies around Kollidam river bank adjacent to the conservatory before the lockdown when there were of visitors. But this trend changed once it was closed after the lockdown,” she said. Not only for butterflies, the conservatory has turned out to be but a great spot for bird watching too. “We recorded many winter visitors such as forest wagtail, Asian paradise flycatcher and Indian pitta. Bird like black naped monarch and blue throated blue flycatcher that were recently spotted are the winter visitors. Blue throated blue flycatcher comes all the way from the Himalayas,” she said. Continuous plantation drive by the forest department too has a role, say forest officials, adding that apart from nectar and host plants, continuous plantation of fruit bearing trees by establishing a nursery in the conservatory is playing a vital role. “Meticulously planned green cover by consciously planting host and nectar plants around the conservatory has helped,” Trichy district forest officer (DFO) D Sujatha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tbct-turns-ideal-habitat-for-birds-too-under-lockdown/articleshow/79959197.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||PWD made nodal dept for Dehradun road construction work||DEHRADUN: The Public Works Department (PWD) has been made the nodal department for coordinating all the work related to road construction in the city. Dehradun's district magistrate (DM) Ashish Srivastava has asked officials from MDDA, Municipal Corporation, Jal Nigam and PWD to submit details of all the ongoing road construction works by December 31. The DM has also fixed January 31, 2021, as the deadline for completion of roads related projects. In case any department digs a road for any work the officials from the department concerned will own the responsibility of getting it repaired. The officials have been asked to conduct a monthly meeting with all the departments to resolve any road related issue. The representatives from the telecom companies have also been made part of a joint Whatsapp group which will help keep a track on the road construction work and minimise delays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pwd-made-nodal-dept-for-city-road-construction-work/articleshow/79958306.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Devotees to take bath in Panchalinga falls||Tirupur: Devotees have been allowed to take bath in Panchalinga waterfalls in Thirumoorthy hills near Udumalpet here from Friday, after a gap of nine months.The falls, located close to Amanalingeswarar Temple in Thirumoorthy hills, was closed when Covid lockdown was imposed. The falls receive water from the jungle streams of the Western Ghats during the monsoons while during the summer, it would be dry. Whenever the falls had water flowing, it would attract a lot of devotees.Though, devotees were allowed to visit the temple for more than a month, they were not allowed to take bath in the falls. The disappointed devotees and tourists had been appealing to the forest department and temple authorities to let them take bath in the falls, citing the permission granted to tourists to visit Kovai Coutrallam falls.Acceding to the demand, the officials had a discussion and lifted the prohibition to take bath in the water falls. Security personnel have been posted there to ensure that safety precautions are followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/devotees-to-take-bath-in-panchalinga-falls/articleshow/79959198.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Trichy||Kerala man ‘chased by villagers’ dies, another in hospital||TRICHY: A man hailing from Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, suspected to be a thief, died after he was injured while being chased by a group of villagers at Allur near Jeeyapuram on the outskirts of Trichy on Friday. Trichy rural police said his accomplice was injured and admitted to a hospital. The deceased was identified as Deepu, 25 and the injured as Aravindan, 24, police said adding they were investigating to find out the exact details. Doctors at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) declared Deepu dead when Jeeyapuram police took him there in the evening. Sources said the duo was allegedly found attempting to break open a house in Sai Lakshmi Nagar at Allur in the afternoon when local youths intercepted them. Following heated arguments, the duo attacked them following which the irate locals called up residents of the village who allegedly attacked the duo. Police said the duo was injured after falling down when the villagers chased them. As Deepu fainted, the local people rushed to the spot and brought the two to the hospital. While Deepu was dead while undergoing treatment, Aravindan was under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kerala-man-chased-by-villagers-dies-another-in-hosp/articleshow/79959183.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Coimbatore||ICMR likely to conduct third sero survey in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The district recorded less than 100 Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day on Friday, when it saw just 95 fresh cases, taking the tally to 51,791. With 128 people getting discharged on the same day, the number of active cases fell to 914. The district also recorded one more death taking the toll to 643. So far, 50,234 people have recovered from the infection in the district. Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research is planning its third sero surveillance in Coimbatore, Thiruvannamalai and Chennai, a health department official said. ICMR has written to the public health authorities requesting for vehicles for their team to visit and travel for two days in next week to collect sero samples in the district. However, the team has decided to identify locations to collect the sero samples themselves. “The ICMR team is expected to collect about 400 samples from 10 locations. We do not know if samples would be collected from locations where previous sero surveys were conducted,” the official said. While the second sero survey conducted in September showed 7.2% of the people they tested in the district having antibodies, the first sero survey conducted in May showed only 2.5% of the people tested having antibodies. The count in the second round was lower than Thiruvannamalai, which had 8.5% of people with antibodies, and Chennai, which had 33.4% of people having antibodies. The state government conducted sero survey in October-end, showed presence of antibodies in 22.5% of the people tested. “Cases have reduced in our district to a large extent, even after a festive period. We expect number of people with antibodies to be much higher than the second sero survey,” said deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar. “Ideally it should reach 45% to break the chain of transmission,” he said. As of Friday, 59 people who have returned to the district from the United Kingdom since November 25 have tested negative and results of the remaining 37 are awaited. “The initial estimate of 133 people landing in the city airport from the UK was false as 25 were duplicated names, one person’s trip got cancelled, one person has already returned to the UK and eight were from other districts,” the deputy director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/icmr-likely-to-conduct-3rd-sero-survey-in-dist-soon/articleshow/79959185.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Pandemic tries to dampen Christmas spirit, but fails||COIMBATORE: Christmas was celebrated in a subdued manner in the city on Friday, with churches reducing duration of mass and placing some restrictions on children under 10 and people over 60. Family get-togethers got smaller because of old people at home and relatives not being able to fly in from abroad. However, video calls got longer and larger with more participants. Décor was minimalistic in most houses and the focus was more on a large lunch. Old churches in the city, including the Syrian Church on Brooke Bond Road, St Michael’s Church at Town Hall and Holy Trinity Church at Ramanathapuram were decked up in fairy lights. The masses were, however, conducted with less than 50% of believers and reduced duration. “Our church’s midnight mass, which is usually two-and-a-half-hour-long, was completed in an hour,” said city-based restaurateur P Johnson. “The crowd, which used to be packed to the brim with many people seated outside the church to listen to the mass, was absent.” All churches followed social distancing norms by requesting members to maintain about two feet gap between each other and if possible, listen to the mass from outside. Tech-savvy families with senior citizens decided to play it safe and attended masses online. “There are many online masses on YouTube that you can attend live. We attended one such mass at 8am,” said Erin Louis, general manager of ITC’s WelcomHotel. City-based DJ Vanessa Wilson’s parents also chose to attend the mass online. “We have a tradition of attending midnight mass at the Resurrection Church in Olympus and driving around the city to see decorations at churches. But the pandemic disturbed that tradition. As the family has people over 70, we decided to skip the mass altogether to avoid risk of exposure,” she told TOI. “The pandemic also hampered our tradition of having the extended family and friends over at home for Christmas. Usually, we have families flying down from the US, Australia and Dubai, but that did not happen. We used to have a large younger crowd of our friends, which we also cancelled, keeping in mind the senior citizens. It was just eight of us getting together.” Meanwhile, family get-togethers went on Zoom. “We loved our Zoom get-together, where we met in one large group, which we don’t get to do in person. We got to see how big the family has become and how united we are, which is our idea of Christmas. We got to see many cousins and even newborns properly after a long time,” added Louis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pandemic-tries-to-dampen-christmas-spirit-but-fails/articleshow/79959148.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress to start ‘Kisan Sanvad’ to support protesting farmers||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Congress would begin a state-wide movement from Monday in support of the farmers agitating against the three farm laws implemented by the BJP-led Centre government. The movement would be called "Kisan Samvad" and launched on the Congress foundation day, which is December 28. AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken said the Congress would not relent until the three laws were withdrawn. Maken, who is on a two-day state visit, was speaking at the dialogue with media held at the CM residence to mark two years of Congress government in Rajasthan. Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra and the council of ministers were present at the event. Maken said the farm laws were an attack on the minimum support price (MSP) system, which was crucial to the farmers. "MSP helps price fixation, it helps in deciding about buffer stocks time of calamities and it feeds the public distribution system," said Maken. The AICC leader alleged that the attack on MSP system was benefit PM Narendra Modi’s capitalist friends. Talking to TOI, Maken later said the long-pending PCC appointments would be completed by December 31 as declared earlier. "New PCC office-bearers will be deputed to build the organisation at the district and block levels," Maken said. PCC chief Dotasra said, "The party would take the state government’s welfare schemes to the common man in rural areas." Highlighting the state government’s achievements, Dotasra said farmers’ VCR problem in agriculture power bills were resolved and ban on digging tube-wells and wells was lifted. "There was no major agitation in the past two years, which shows our government has fulfilled the people’s expectations," Dotasra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-to-start-kisan-sanvad-to-support-protesting-farmers/articleshow/79959153.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Hidco invites bidders for New Town hospital||KOLKATA: The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has started inviting corporate healthcare organisations to bid for a seven-acre plot in New Town for setting up a medical college and teaching hospital. Two plots, plot numbers 119 and 120, in the central business district (CBD) area of New Town have been earmarked for the proposed project. The e-auction date has been fixed on January 25. The land cover area is about 30,000 sq mt and the land will be allocated on 99 years of leasehold basis. An official said bidders should be ideally non-profit oriented corporate bodies registered under the Companies Act or registered trust/society or any individual. “The bidder should also be a single entity. No consortium or joint venture company will be allowed to participate in the bidding. There should be at least three bidders to participate in the e-auction process or else the auction will be cancelled,” he said. The hospital will need to be set up in conformity with the guidelines of the Medical Council of India and construction work may be completed within five years. The idea to have a private- run medical collage and teaching hospital in the township has stemmed from feedback received from residents that there is a lack of affordable multispecialty hospital which also will have teaching facilities. Hidco has already started constructing a polyclinic medical centre in Action Area I opposite New Town Business Club. The medical centre, to be run by Hidco, will be set up on a two-acre plot and will be an approximately 4,500 square feet facility, with two floors. It will have five OPD units, an X-ray room, a USG room, an ECG room and a pathology unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hidco-invites-bidders-for-new-town-hosp/articleshow/79959176.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 26, 2020||Coimbatore||One-way traffic on Dr Nanjappa Road||Coimbatore: Only one-way traffic will be allowed on the Dr Nanjappa Road from Avinashi Road flyover from Thursday, the traffic police said.Vehicles from Gandhipuram should take left turn at Park Gate and reach the Avinashi Road through Jail Road and LIC signal. Police also plan to remove the median from Avinashi Road flyover to Park Gate.Several shops selling water pumps and electrical products are functioning on the stretch and hundreds of motorists park their vehicles along the busy road.Following the traffic diversion, the stretch witnessed heavy traffic during the peak hours on Thursday. “The one-way on Dr Nanjappa Road helped motorists easily reach Gandhipuram. We plan to remove the median,” said R Mutharasu, deputy commissioner of police. “We plan to allow only two wheelers on Addis street from Park Gate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/one-way-traffic-on-dr-nanjappa-road/articleshow/79959194.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Fulfilled 50% promises in just two years: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday claimed that his government fulfilled 50% of the election manifesto promises, including waiving Rs 14,000 crore in loans of 20.55 lakh farmers, in just two years. He regretted being unable to solve the problem of illegal bajri mining, which he said was leading to increase in crimes and has given birth to mafias in Rajasthan. Gehlot highlighted the efficient management of corona by his government and said the state was vigilant in taking precautions to prevent the spread of new strain of Covid-19 found in the UK. He demanded the Centre to announce free vaccination for all. From corona testing to treatment, everything was being provided free. The CM said he held over 200 video conferences to provide good governance during the lockdown and started the ‘write to CM’ email facility so that the common man’s voice could reach him. Gehlot praised the Centre’s "Har Ghar Nal" (water tap for each household) scheme but demanded that the Centre-State ratio for its funds be changed to 90:10 from the 60:40. "Waiving crop loans from cooperative banks was under the state’s jurisdiction so we fulfilled the promise in 48-hours of coming to power. Since the commercial, nationalised and regional rural banks come under the Centre, the state has one-time settlement proposal for waiving farmer loans to GOI," Gehlot said, addressing the media at his residence to highlight achievements of his two years in power. The CM added that he wrote twice to the PM and once to the finance ministry but the Centre’s reply was awaited. "We proposed to bear the financial burden of waived loans in 50:50 ratio with the Centre," Gehlot said. The CM said that Rajasthan was first in country to have MSME Act to give exemption from any kind of approval and inspection for three years on setting up new MSME industries in the state. Gehlot said the Raj Nivesh portal started as one-stop-shop system was bound to make Rajasthan the first preference state for investors and would help create jobs. The CM said Centre’s Ayushman Bharat Yojana has been expanded in the state by joining it with Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Yojana to have more beneficiaries and increasing the insured amount to Rs 5 lakh from Rs 3 lakh. Gehlot said the state was now working to control credit cooperative societies that vanish with people’s hard-earned investments. The CM urged people to put their money in banks and not in unregulated deposit schemes that lure the naïve with offers of high interest returns. Box: Other achievements Rs 741-cr spent as employment allowance to 2.45 lakh unemployed youth Indira Rasoi Yojana to provide cooked meal to urban poor at Rs 8 Nirogi Rajasthan campaign launched with 93K swasthya mitra to ensure its success 90 new colleges, 201 English medium govt schools. Raj first to have Saturdays as "no bag day" Farmer welfare fund with Rs 2000-cr created. Farmer’s land up to 5-acre can’t seized 33847 Gram Rakshaks enlisted to assist police in checking crimes in rural areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fulfilled-50-promises-in-just-2yrs-gehlot/articleshow/79959195.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Meerut||PM Modi has increased budgetary allocation in agri sector by 6 times in 6 years: Piyush Goyal||MEERUT: Outlining achievements of Modi government, Union minister for railways Piyush Goyal while addressing a gathering in UP's Hapur on Friday claimed the budgetary allocation in the agriculture sector has increased by six times. “As compared to the budget allocated in the agriculture sector in 2013-14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has increased it six times in six years. In the ongoing financial year, a total of Rs 1.34 lakh crore has been allocated in the agriculture sector,” Goyal said. “Till now, Rs 1 lakh crore has been directly credited into accounts of farmers and today another installment of more than Rs 18,000 crore will be transferred into their accounts. A total of Rs 1.25 lakh crore has been disbursed through PM Kisan Yojna,” he said. The Union minister was speaking at a function held in a school in the district to celebrate Good Governance Day which commemorates the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Senior ministers and party leaders addressing farmer meets across the country are a part of the massive outreach program in the backdrop of ongoing agitation by farmers’ unions against the controversial farm laws. Defending the controversial farm laws, Goyal said, “The (farm) laws will help farmers in freeing them from old shackles. We want them to have a free hand and another option to ensure the right price for their produce.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pm-modi-has-increased-budgetary-allocation-in-agri-sector-by-6-times-in-6-years-piyush-goyal/articleshow/79957678.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Coimbatore||58 children who went missing rescued||Coimbatore: In the past five months, the Tirupur city police have rescued 58 children who went missing. They have also saved 42 child labourers during a special drive in two weeks. On July 1, police commissioner G Karthikeyan formed a special team led by additional deputy superintendent of police S Mohan to deal with cases related to missing minors, child labourers and children who were forced to begThe police had registered 71 minor boys and girls missing cases since January 2020. Some of the rescued children were missing since 2017 and 2018. Another special drive conducted by the anti-child trafficking unit (ACTU) between December 10 and December 24 rescued 42 children. Some of them were working in garment units and others were forced to beg on the streets.The rescued children were produced before the child welfare committee (CWC) and later they were reunited with their families. Orphans were sent to a children home.Commissioner Karthikeyan appreciated the police teams for their work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/58-children-who-went-missing-rescued/articleshow/79959226.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Inclusion of kalaripayattu in Khelo India lauded||Coimbatore: Inclusion of kalaripayattu, a martial art that originated in Kerala, in the Khelo India Youth Games is a big boost for rural participation, Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev said.He was reacting to the recent announcement that four indigenous sports including kalaripayattu would make their entry into the games to take place in Haryana next year. “Kalaripayattu- an earthy, full-blooded sport must find its right place in the world; demands enormous levels of physical capabilities and mental discipline. Including it in National Sports contests a big boost for rural participation. Congratulations. #KheloIndia,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/inclusion-of-kalaripayattu-in-khelo-india-lauded/articleshow/79959223.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Gang drives away car with Rs 28 lakh||COIMBATORE: A realtor from Kerala was waylaid and robbed of Rs 27.5 lakh by a gang at Navakkarai on the Coimbatore- Palakkad road on Friday morning. Abdul Salam, 50, from Malappuram in Kerala was on the way to Malappuram from Bengaluru in a car. A Samsudin, 42, of Malappuram was behind the wheel. “When they reached Navakkarai around 4.05am, a sports utility vehicle waylaid the car and a multi-utility vehicle dashed the car from behind. When Salam and Samsudin got down from the car, seven people emerged from the other two vehicles, attacked the duo and drove away the car towards Kerala. Salam had kept Rs 27.50 lakh in the car,” a police officer said. The duo sought help from motorists, who dropped them at KG Chavadi police station. Inspector general of police (west zone) K Periaiah, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police (Coimbatore range) K S Narenthiran Nayar and superintendent of police Ara Arularasu inspected the crime scene and instructed cops to conduct vehicle checks across the interstate border and across the district. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Mohammed Ali, a Malappuram-based jeweller, had sent Salam and Samsudin to Bengaluru to receive the money from some people there, the officer added. “We have formed three special teams to nab the culprits. We plan to meet Ali to learn more about the money transportation,” said Arularasu. The KG Chavadi police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gang-drives-away-car-with-rs-28-lakh/articleshow/79959207.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Sai Nagar residents protest against sewage pumping station||COIMBATORE: The city corporation is constructing a sewage pumping station at the park site in Sai Nagar, Podanur, ignoring a Madras high court direction, said residents, who staged a protest in front of the site on Friday. “After the corporation refused to consider our request to change the location of the pumping station, we filed a writ petition before the HC. The court, on Wednesday, ordered status quo and told the corporation to stop construction work till the next hearing,” said Sai Nagar resident R Sivakumar. The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD Board) is constructing a pumping station at Sai Nagar as part of the underground drainage (UGD) project. The project aims to give sewage connection to 69,700 houses by laying sewage pipelines for 439km. There will be 11 main sewage pumping stations and 10 sub-stations. “The station site is in the middle of residential area and close to river Noyyal. It will cause health hazards, pollute the river and underground water. The corporation had earlier identified another piece of land for the project. We don’t know why that was not used,” Sivakumar added. Corporation and TWAD officials visited the place and held talks with the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sai-nagar-residents-protest-against-sewage-pumping-stn/articleshow/79959228.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jats get support from BJP MPs, drop decision to launch agitation||Jaipur: The Jat Aarakshan Samiti, led by Nem Singh Fauzdar, on Friday decided to drop their decision to launch a statewide agitation on the issue pertaining to inclusion of Bharatpur and Dholpur Jats in the central OBC list, after the state government assured them that a letter will be written to the Centre in this regard on Monday.Meanwhile, Lok Sabha MPs from Karauli-Dholpur (Manoj Rajoria) and Bharatpur (Ranjeeta Koli) have also assured them of raising their issue with the Centre.This was decided during a public meeting (mahapadav) organised by the Jats at Bharatpur’s Kherli Modh on NH-21 on Friday. The meeting was attended by around 2,000-3,000 people.“The MPs of Karauli-Dholpur and Bharatpur attended the public meeting today (Friday) and gave us an assurance that they will talk to the Centre on this issue. We have decided to put the agitation on hold for the time being. If the state government doesn’t send the letter to the Centre on Monday, we will again call an agitation,” said Fauzdar.Following the meeting between Jat leaders and officials of three departments on Thursday to discuss the issue pertaining to inclusion of Bharatpur and Dholpur Jats in the central OBC list, the government assured them that a letter will be written to the Centre in this regard on Monday.It was also decided to form a committee to address two of their demands. The two demands include - giving appointments to 94 candidates, who were selected between 2013 and 2017 and withdrawal of all police cases registered during Jat agitation in 2016-17. They had earlier given an ultimatum up to December 25 to address their concerns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jats-get-support-from-bjp-mps-drop-decision-to-launch-agitation/articleshow/79959227.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||BJP doesn’t give tickets to Muslims, uses them to topple governments: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said the BJP does not give tickets to "Muslims" in elections but uses them to topple the state governments. Gehlot referred to BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sayed Zafar Islam, whom he earlier blamed for the political crisis created by the rebellion of Sachin Pilot and other Congress MLAs in Rajasthan in July-August. The CM further said there were four "Bagula Bhagat" (person who pretends to be saint but is a cheat) in Rajasthan BJP and referred to Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore and BJP state president Satish Poonia. Gehlot accused the four of conspiring to topple his government in collusion with Union ministers Amit Shah and Dharmendra Pradhan. On AICC general secretary Ajay Maken’s recent remark that Pilot was an asset for the Congress, Gehlot said every worker was an asset for the party. The CM was addressing the media to highlight achievements of his government’s two years. "Over 400 tickets are distributed in Uttar Pradesh and around 250 tickets in Bihar but BJP gives not a single ticket to the Muslims. It uses Muslims to topple governments," Gehlot said on Friday. The chief minister was addressing the media at his residence as his government completed two years in office on December 17. During the Rajasthan assembly elections in 2018, BJP fielded Muslim candidate on just one of the 200 seats in the state. As the then chief minister Vasundhara Raje put her foot down, the saffron party gave ticket to her cabinet minister Yunus Khan at the eleventh hour but changed his constituency from Deedwana in Nagaur district to Tonk from Sachin Pilot was the Congress candidate. Pilot defeated Khan comfortably. The BJP, however, fielded 17 Muslim candidates in Jaipur’s municipal elections last month. Just one of them won. Gehlot, while addressing the media, sarcastically said, "PM Narendra Modi gave a wonderful speech at the Aligarh Muslim University last week. He is so generous hearted.. there is no religious or caste bias.. So much difference in words and deeds! Give at least one ticket (to Muslims) just to show." The chief minister targeted the Centre’s BJP-government on the farm laws issue too. Gehlot asked why Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra was not forwarding the amended farm laws passed by the state assembly to the President’s consent. "This is how democracy is being challenged. Rahul Gandhi was correct in saying that there was no real democracy in India, it was only imaginary. Why is the PM talking to farmers state-wise? Why he is not addressing the entire nation on the farm laws?" Gehlot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-doesnt-give-tickets-to-muslims-uses-them-to-topple-govts-gehlot/articleshow/79959210.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Palace On Wheels woos desi tourists with 30% fare discount||JAIPUR: With international tourist movement remaining frozen due to Covid-19 pandemic, Palace On Wheels is now wooing the domestic tourists by creating new itineraries and offering discounts on tickets. The luxury train, which depends on foreign tourists, cancelled its tours in March and April, and could not start journeys in the new season starting from September this year. But a senior official in Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC) said there is a plan to run the train for domestic tourists or groups for three months starting from February. “We have created two itineraries keeping in mind the interests of the domestic tourists. We have also decided to offer 30% discount as compared to the previous rates. With a minimum booking of 27 guests for a trip, we can start the journey,” said Alok Gupta, chairman and managing director of RTDC. In the three-day itinerary, the train will take tourists from Delhi to Jaipur, Sawai Madopur, Agra and back to Delhi. In the four day journey, Udaipur will be an additional destination after Jaipur. For February and March, the per day rates after 30% discount come to Rs 94,248 for a couple in super deluxe cabin, Rs 52,360 and Rs 34,034 per person in single and double occupancy seats respectively. Since April is considered as off season, rates are lower compared to February and March. The per day rates for April after 30% discount come to Rs 70,686 for a couple in super deluxe cabin, Rs 42,840 and Rs 26,180 per person in single and double occupancy seats respectively. Another senior RTDC official said that the corporation is optimistic that there will be demand from corporate houses, schools, colleges, and socially-connected groups besides individual tourists. Palace On Wheels is a profit making vertical of RTDC, which, in a revenue sharing arrangement, runs the train between September and April every year. Over 90% of the tourists in the 84-seat capacity train are foreign nationals or NRIs. But the pandemic has created uncertainty about the revival of foreign travel. GFX To Feel Like Royal Cost Less Now Category Normal Tariff Per day After 30% Discount Super Deluxe Cabin (2 pax) (Feb & Mar) Rs 134,640 Rs 94,248 (Apr) Rs 100,980 ` Rs 70,686 Single Occupancy (1 pax) (Feb & Mar) Rs 74800 Rs 52,360 (Apr) Rs 61,200 Rs 42,840 Double Occupancy (1 pax) (Feb & Mar) Rs 48,620 Rs 34,034 (Apr) Rs 37,400 Rs 26,180||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/palace-on-wheels-woos-desi-tourists-with-30-fare-discount/articleshow/79959232.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 recovery rate rises above 95% in state||JAIPUR: More people recovered from Covid than new infections in the state in December so far. While the overall recovery rate stand beyond 95%, this month’s figures are as high as 146.5%. In the last 25 days, 25,669 persons were found infected with the virus, while the tally of recovered cases was 52,277. The recovery rate in November was just 80.3%, but it rose to 146.5% in December. With 1,023 persons testing positive in the state on Friday, the overall tally rose to 3,03,732. Out of those, as many as 2,89,375 have recovered, while 11,700 are undergoing treatment. With seven deaths reported, the state’s toll rose to 2,657. “The recovery rate has improved in December. The percentage of patients recovered has gone above 95%. More than half of the reserved beds for Covid patients in hosptials are now vacant, which is a good sign,” said a health department official. Former health minister and BJP leader Kalicharan Saraf has asked the state government to dedicate Jaipuria Hospital for general patients. The health department had converted it into a dedicated Covid hospital when the state was witnessing increasing number of patients in October-November.Besides, for the second consecutive day, the state reported more than 1,000 daily new infections. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (168), Kota (98), Jodhpur (83), Pali (75), Alwar (73), Bhilwara (46), Nagaur (46), Udaipur (43), Chittorgarh (43), Ajmer (40), Rajsamand (35), Banswara (27), Sikar (22), Bharatpur (21), Dungarpur (21), Baran (20), Jaisalmer (20), Tonk (20), Jalore (14), Bundi (14), Sirohi (12), Barmer (11), Dausa (11), Churu (10), Sriganaganagar (10), Jhalawar (8), Bikaner (8), Dholpur (7), Hanumangarh (6), Sawai Madhopur (5), Karauli (5) and Jhunjhunu (1). Jaipur reported it 495th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 283rd, Ajmer 217th, Udaipur 109th, Jhunjhunu 52nd, Sawai Madhopur 26th and Bundi 18th Covid-19 death. Recoveries beat infections in December MonthCasesRecovered Recovery percentageMarch9322.15April249189135.77May6247513982.26June 9183818889.16July240691562564.91August396103696793.32September53,5994641386.59October 6170166759108.19November7107057,11480.36December35,66952,277146.56Total30373228937595.27BOX: Today’s positive: 1023Cumulative positive: 3,03,732Today’s death: 7Cumulative deaths: 2657Today’s recovered: 1075Cumulative recovered: 2,89,375Active cases: 11,700||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-above-95-in-state/articleshow/79959255.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Drive against vehicles with bull bar intensified||COIMBATORE: The transport department has intensified its drive against vehilces fitted bull bars following a direction from the state government. In the past one week, more than 300 drivers were fined for using bull bars in their cars. “Fitting bull bars on cars is a violation of the Motor Vehicles Act. A couple of weeks ago, the state government has directed the transport department to conduct intensified drives to curtail its usage,” a regional transport officer (RTO) said. Based on the directions, RTOs along with motor vehicle inspectors are conducting regular inspections on the roads apart from checking the vehicles that visit their offices for obtaining fitness certificates. “We are not giving fitness certificates to those vehicles that are found with bull bars and fine them upto Rs 1,000. We have been removing bull bars with the help of mechanics,” he added. The official said bull bars causes serious danger to pedestrians, sometimes fatally, and damage other vehicles. During collision, air bags failed to deploy because of bull bars, resulting in heavy damage to engine and its passengers. But car owners use it to reduce the damage to their vehicles during accidents, he said. The RTOs are planning to conduct a drive against bull bars on Saturday. “During the drive, cars found with bull bars will be taken to VOC Park, where it would be removed. We will seize the bars and fine the drivers,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drive-against-vehicles-with-bull-bar-intensified/articleshow/79959240.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jodhpur||811 people reached Rajasthan from UK, 35 still untraceable||JAIPUR: The aviation ministry has shared a list of 811 passengers, including 333 from the city, who returned to the state from the UK in November and December. While almost half of the passengers reached the state before 15 days, addresses of 35 haven’t been been found yet. Acting on the list sent, health department officials have started a search. “We have received the list from the aviation ministry. Directions have been issued to conduct their RT-PCR test and to keep monitoring their health on regular basis,” health director Dr KK Sharma said. The health department teams on Friday visited the houses of several passengers in Vaishali Nagar, Shastri Nagar, C-Scheme and Malviya Nagar areas. “We visited the houses of 76 people who returned from the UK in the last 10 days and samples have been collected for Covid test. We have not received the reports yet,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (CMHO-I) Jaipur. He said some of the names in the list are repeats. There are 333 names of Jaipur passengers in the list, but in reality there are 272. Othere passengers are from Jodhpur (73), Ajmer (70), Alwar (48), Udaipur (43), Kota (38), Sriganganagar (38), Jhunjhunu (24), Churu (22), Bikaner (13), Bhilwara (12), and other places. In Kota, reports of 24 persons who had travelled from the UK tested negative, said Dr BS Tanwar, chief medical health officer, Kota. A health department official said so far no person who returned from the UK has been found infected with the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/811-people-reached-state-from-uk-addresses-of-35-not-found/articleshow/79961177.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Udaipur||811 people reached Rajasthan from UK, 35 still untraceable||JAIPUR: The aviation ministry has shared a list of 811 passengers, including 333 from the city, who returned to the state from the UK in November and December. While almost half of the passengers reached the state before 15 days, addresses of 35 haven’t been been found yet. Acting on the list sent, health department officials have started a search. “We have received the list from the aviation ministry. Directions have been issued to conduct their RT-PCR test and to keep monitoring their health on regular basis,” health director Dr KK Sharma said. The health department teams on Friday visited the houses of several passengers in Vaishali Nagar, Shastri Nagar, C-Scheme and Malviya Nagar areas. “We visited the houses of 76 people who returned from the UK in the last 10 days and samples have been collected for Covid test. We have not received the reports yet,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (CMHO-I) Jaipur. He said some of the names in the list are repeats. There are 333 names of Jaipur passengers in the list, but in reality there are 272. Othere passengers are from Jodhpur (73), Ajmer (70), Alwar (48), Udaipur (43), Kota (38), Sriganganagar (38), Jhunjhunu (24), Churu (22), Bikaner (13), Bhilwara (12), and other places. In Kota, reports of 24 persons who had travelled from the UK tested negative, said Dr BS Tanwar, chief medical health officer, Kota. A health department official said so far no person who returned from the UK has been found infected with the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/811-people-reached-state-from-uk-addresses-of-35-not-found/articleshow/79961178.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||811 people reached Rajasthan from UK, 35 still untraceable||JAIPUR: The aviation ministry has shared a list of 811 passengers, including 333 from the city, who returned to the state from the UK in November and December. While almost half of the passengers reached the state before 15 days, addresses of 35 haven’t been been found yet. Acting on the list sent, health department officials have started a search. “We have received the list from the aviation ministry. Directions have been issued to conduct their RT-PCR test and to keep monitoring their health on regular basis,” health director Dr KK Sharma said. The health department teams on Friday visited the houses of several passengers in Vaishali Nagar, Shastri Nagar, C-Scheme and Malviya Nagar areas. “We visited the houses of 76 people who returned from the UK in the last 10 days and samples have been collected for Covid test. We have not received the reports yet,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (CMHO-I) Jaipur. He said some of the names in the list are repeats. There are 333 names of Jaipur passengers in the list, but in reality there are 272. Othere passengers are from Jodhpur (73), Ajmer (70), Alwar (48), Udaipur (43), Kota (38), Sriganganagar (38), Jhunjhunu (24), Churu (22), Bikaner (13), Bhilwara (12), and other places. In Kota, reports of 24 persons who had travelled from the UK tested negative, said Dr BS Tanwar, chief medical health officer, Kota. A health department official said so far no person who returned from the UK has been found infected with the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/811-people-reached-state-from-uk-addresses-of-35-not-found/articleshow/79959267.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ajmer||811 people reached Rajasthan from UK, 35 still untraceable||JAIPUR: The aviation ministry has shared a list of 811 passengers, including 333 from the city, who returned to the state from the UK in November and December. While almost half of the passengers reached the state before 15 days, addresses of 35 haven’t been been found yet. Acting on the list sent, health department officials have started a search. “We have received the list from the aviation ministry. Directions have been issued to conduct their RT-PCR test and to keep monitoring their health on regular basis,” health director Dr KK Sharma said. The health department teams on Friday visited the houses of several passengers in Vaishali Nagar, Shastri Nagar, C-Scheme and Malviya Nagar areas. “We visited the houses of 76 people who returned from the UK in the last 10 days and samples have been collected for Covid test. We have not received the reports yet,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (CMHO-I) Jaipur. He said some of the names in the list are repeats. There are 333 names of Jaipur passengers in the list, but in reality there are 272. Othere passengers are from Jodhpur (73), Ajmer (70), Alwar (48), Udaipur (43), Kota (38), Sriganganagar (38), Jhunjhunu (24), Churu (22), Bikaner (13), Bhilwara (12), and other places. In Kota, reports of 24 persons who had travelled from the UK tested negative, said Dr BS Tanwar, chief medical health officer, Kota. A health department official said so far no person who returned from the UK has been found infected with the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/811-people-reached-state-from-uk-addresses-of-35-not-found/articleshow/79961179.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Pune||Expect dry run of vaccine administration in Maharashtra soon||PUNE: A dry run of the vaccine administration drive may be scheduled in the state in the last week of December or first week of January, said state officials. The Union government has announced a similar dry run in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab next week. Health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday told TOI that the dry run would help the state and should take place soon. “We should be ready for the dry run as our machinery is in place. The training of master trainers and even vaccinators has been completed, while the cold chain facilities too are ready,” he said. The Union government has asked states to select two districts to carry out the dry run. Officials said districts that have a high number of cases may be selected. Pune and Mumbai have the highest number of cases, followed by Thane district in the state of Maharashtra. N Ramaswami, commissioner and director of the National Health Mission, said that the state is ready and the task of collating data on the number of beneficiaries will be completed over the next three to four days. “We have already completed feeding in data of 7 lakh workers and we expect data of nearly 2-3 lakh in addition. The district administrations have been asked to complete the same by Monday,” he said. About the districts that will be selected for the exercise, he said that the centre will issue guidelines and it will be done accordingly. The two-day dry run activity in the state will cover the entire gamut of steps involved in the vaccination process, which includes data upload, session site allocation, session site management with test beneficiaries, cold chain management and transportation arrangements. The mock drill will include concurrent monitoring and reviewing at the block and district levels as well as preparation of feedback to be shared “The dry run will test the mechanisms of the vaccine roll-out across the nation and provide insights on any gaps and bottlenecks, which would have to be addressed before the actual exercise begins. This will be good ahead of the actual roll out,” he added. The state government on Friday continued registering fewer than 5,000 cases as has been the case in the last three weeks. On Friday, the state registered 3,431 new cases with 71 deaths. The case fatality rate was 2.57% and the recovery rate across the state stood at 94.4%. The number of active cases in the state that had been hovering around 60,000 last week reduced to 56,823, with the highest number of active cases being in Pune (14,145) followed by Thane (10,246) and Mumbai (8,218). The state has already prepared 3,257 cold chain points, 18 walk-in coolers, six walk-in freezers, 4,408 ice-lined refrigerators, 4,199 deep freezers and 12 solar units. Gearing up for the mass vaccination programme against the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union government is set to begin a dry run of its vaccination drive across the states of Punjab, Assam, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh next week on December 28-29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/expect-dry-run-of-vaccine-administration-in-state-soon/articleshow/79959284.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 26, 2020||Pune||Raigad collector issues orders for closing Janjira fort to the public||PUNE: The Raigad district collector passed an order on Friday directing the closure of Janjira fort for public visits from December 25 to January 2, 2021. Recently, thousands of visitors were seen violating social distancing and mask norms while visiting the fort. Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari had earlier told TOI that the monument would be closed to the public by the end of the week, after the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had notified her about how visitors were not following social distancing norms at the fort. Photographs of the site taken by the ASI had shown thousands of visitors huddled together inside the monument and many were not wearing masks. The collector’s order said that the superintendent of police, Raigad, had sent a communication to the administration concerning the large number of tourists visiting Janjira fort during the holiday period, requesting to close the monument to the public from December 25 to January 2 in order to avoid the possibility of crowding during the pandemic as well as to maintain law and order. The order stated that a huge number of tourists were likely to enter locations like Murud, Shrivardhan and Alibaug during the Christmas and New Year holiday period and Janjira fort was among the popular spots that could attract a huge crowd. ASI was quick to respond to the order and closed the monument to the public around 2pm on Friday. Senior ASI officials had recently visited the monument to assess the crowding situation. An ASI official said, “The crowd of visitors at the monument increased over the last few days as the holiday season is on. The temporary closure order is in public interest as keeping the monument open was proving risky during the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/raigad-collector-issues-orders-for-closing-janjira-fort-to-the-public/articleshow/79959318.cms||Neha Madaan
December 26, 2020||Pune||At 748, day’s cured count drops, but stays above cases||PUNE: The active Covid-19 tally in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) declined further to 7,734 on Friday over higher recoveries (748) against new infections (568) in the last 24 hours. With this, the region’s total recoveries have reached beyond 3.43 lakh, while its positive caseload has risen above 3.59 lakh. Both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits reported more recoveries than new cases on Friday. The rural areas, however, went against the trend and accounted for more daily infections as compared to recoveries. The PMC limits recorded 311 new cases and 493 recoveries. The PCMC and rural areas added 111 and 146 new cases, respectively. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 10 more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Friday, taking its total fatalities to 8,754 so far. While five patients succumbed to the virus in the PMC limits. The region conducted 7,004 tests for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, reporting a slight increase in testing as against Thursday’s. The PMC areas conducted 3,103 tests, which was highest in the region. The rural areas reported 2,123 tests, while the PCMC conducted 1,778 tests. The region’s total sample testing increased above 18.29 lakh on Friday. The district health office report stated that 5,691 patients were in home isolation in PMR till Friday evening and 2,043 patients admitted in various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-748-days-cured-count-drops-but-stays-above-cases/articleshow/79959313.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Three laws offer no benefits to farmers, says Arvind Kejriwal; AAP MPs target PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Questioning the benefits of the three agri laws after PM Narendra Modi’s speech to the farmers, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday maintained that the legislations were not beneficial in any way and farmers would get only half the price for their produce if they sold it outside the mandis. Kejriwal tweeted: “BJP says that these (farm) laws do not have any disadvantage for farmers. But what are the advantages? They say now farmers can sell their produce anywhere outside the mandi. But the produce fetches only half the price outside mandis. How is this an advantage?” Meanwhile, AAP MPs Sanjay Singh and Bhagwant Mann on Friday raised slogans in front of the PM in the central hall of Parliament demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws. At a press conference, Mann said, “The PM is so egoistic that he did not listen to us. After the celebration of the birth anniversaries of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and educational reformer Mahamana Madan Mohan Malviya, we tried to reach out to him and raised slogans reiterating the demands of the farmers. We were also carrying posters on these demands. I tried to tell him that thousands of farmers were sitting at the borders of Delhi in this winter for over a month and suffering due to the non-empathetic attitude of the government. They have been demanding immediate rollback of these anti-farmer laws.” “The PM neither meets the farmers nor the Opposition members, so there are no other means to bring the voice of the farmers in front of him. In future too, if need arises, we will raise our voice in front of Modi amid such programmes. The government must immediately call a special session of Parliament and roll back these anti-farmer laws,” added Mann. The Sangrur MP said, “PM Modi goes to Gujarat to meet the farmers of his choice, but does not interact with thousands of farmers sitting 20km from his house. The BJP government is not ready to call a special session of Parliament and has been citing the Covid-19 pandemic for not holding it. However, the party has not shied away from holding rallies with thousands of people in West Bengal.” Slamming Congress party, Mann said, “There seems to be a settlement between Congress and BJP. When we were raising our demands in front of the PM, Congress MP Ghulam Nabi Azad and his party colleague Adhir Ranjan Chaudhury did not utter a single word. If Congress was concerned about the farmers, then they would have joined us. Congress is only pretending to be farmer-friendly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-laws-offer-no-benefits-to-farmers-says-kejriwal-aap-mps-target-pm/articleshow/79959369.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||City to get permanent office of Maha legislature||Nagpur: In some good news for politicians of Vidarbha, the Maharashtra legislature will be opening its permanent office at Vidhan Bhavan premises here. Earlier, this office used to operate temporarily only during the winter session in December every year. Now, the office will remain operational throughout the year. The permanent office would be inaugurated on January 4 at 1.30pm at the Commonwealth Parliamentary Board’s cell on the first floor of the old building. Dignitaries, including legislative council chairman Ramraje Nimbalkar and speaker Nana Patole along with legislative officials, will attend the event. Patole had initiated the proposal and followed it up vigorously. The demand for having such an office in the city was old and many leaders had demanded it earlier. “It will be the first time such an office is opening in Nagpur. The legislators from the region will benefit. The legislative committees can conduct their official meetings in the new office. There would be a small library which could be used by the legislators and staff members. Currently, we will have five to six employees to look after the new office. We will complete formalities later,” legislative secretary Rajendra Bhagwat told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-to-get-permanent-office-of-maha-legislature/articleshow/79958380.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Pune||Work speeded up to trace UK-returned residents||PUNE: The district administration has speeded up the task of tracing 540 people who returned from the UK since November 25. Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said they have identified around 301 travellers who have returned from the UK. Of them, 294 have been traced and found to be Covid negative following RT-PCR tests. Six individuals have travelled to other cities. Wavare said that only one person was found to be positive, and the confirmation about whether the individual is carrying the new strain will be received by Saturday as the sample has been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) for genomic sequencing. Meanwhile, around 140 people from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits have returned from the UK recently and been identified. Pavan Salve, additional health chief, PCMC, said that 140 people have been identified. “We are tracking down individuals. They will be tested accordingly. For those who do not want to cooperate, we will take help from the police as well.” Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer (DHO), said that a total of 540 travellers have been identified in the district and efforts to trace them are underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/work-speeded-up-to-trace-uk-returned-residents/articleshow/79959342.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 26, 2020||Pune||49 arrivals in Pune test positive since November 26||PUNE: Forty-nine passengers who flew to Pune from Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Goa tested positive for Covid-19 since November 26, when the RT-PCR tests (or negative reports) were made compulsory for people coming from these states. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will now scan the travel history of these flyers to check whether they have been to the UK or the Middle East. Since November 26, when RT-PCR tests/negative reports on arrival were made mandatory for passengers from these states, 60,884 people landed in Pune and 2,360 RT-PCR tests were carried out. “Fewer people being tested at the airport means most were carrying a negative test report,” an airport official said. There are 12 direct flights daily between Pune and Delhi, and one each from Gujarat and Rajasthan. There are no direct flights between Pune and Goa. “In view of the new Covid-19 strain found in the UK, we have started asking all passengers for their travel history. Those who cannot be home isolated will be shifted to the nearest designated hospital,” a PMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/49-arrivals-in-pune-test-ve-since-nov-26/articleshow/79959333.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Amitesh 3rd CP to write to NCRB over ‘flawed’ crime statistics||Nagpur: City police chief Amitesh Kumar said on Friday he was going to write to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) regarding their mistake in calculation of crime rate on the basis of 2011 population census. At least two more CPs before this have complained about this mistake by NCRB. There is widespread discontent in the police department regarding the NCRB figures, which put Nagpur at second place in the country in crime rate, behind Patna in Bihar. City cops are claiming the calculations were based on outdated population data, and without considering the expansion of the commissionerate’s jurisdiction, with Kamptee and Hinga also now under the Nagpur CP. State home minister Anil Deshmukh too said population has increased a lot after 2011 and hence the present crime rate cannot be calculated with nine-year-old data, especially since the city has expanded. In the past, the then CP K Venkatesham too had alerted NCRB regarding it’s crime rate miscalculation, which projects Nagpur as a highly crime prone city. After such a projection had scorched the earlier BJP government, it has now started blotting the record of the Mahavikas Aghadi coalition too. Kumar said judging the crime scenario based on 2011 census is an improper method, which needs to be changed. “The per capita crime is bound to be higher if a lower population figure of 2011 census is considered. Hence, we are now corresponding with NCRB to point out this error to them,” said the top cop. Referring to the murder rate, which NCRB calculated was so high that it has catapulted the city to the number two position, Kumar said murders have been hovering around the 100-mark for the last several years, with the highest 135 being in 1999. “We have 88 murders so far till November this year, in comparison to 90 last year,” he said. Kumar pointed out there were 95 murders in 2016 and 103 in 2014, which once again underline the fact that the average number of murders had always been around 100, with some variations. “We have initiated a number of measures to bring down crimes, especially murders. First, we are monitoring and chasing goons, to cut off all sources of income through illegal activities and dens to weaken them economically,” said Kumar. “We have also tasked the crime branch for collection of intelligence and information on gangs and rivalries between goons,” said the top cop. Reflecting on the societal transformation and perception, professor Shrikant Komawar, principal of RTM Nagpur Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar University Law College, said there are several concepts and factors which give rise to crime, which have a cumulative effect. “The socio-economic growth, administration of the criminal justice system, political changes and such factors play a part in either increasing or decreasing crime in city, which has multiple dimensions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amitesh-3rd-cp-to-write-to-ncrb-over-flawed-crime-statistics/articleshow/79958383.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Flyers from Dubai rail at quarantine plan||PUNE: Flyers landing in Pune from Dubai on Thursday and in quarantine at different hotels earmarked by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have complained about ‘improper services’ provided by the civic authorities apart from the huge cost they have to incur on their stay. “I spent Rs18,000 for a one-way trip to Pune from Dubai due to a family emergency. Now, I am in a hotel for a week, which means, even with an RT-PCR negative report, I will have to spend Rs21,000 towards room tariff. It is hugely frustrating as we too are struggling with salary cuts and job losses due to the pandemic,” said a flyer, who requested anonymity. The PMC has mandated minimum seven-day institutional quarantine for international travellers. It has earmarked 16 hotels across the city for the same. On Thursday, 83 passengers arrived from Dubai to Pune. They were among the first international passengers to arrive after the state introduced the quarantine norm in the wake of the new Covid-19 strain detected in United Kingdom. Another flyer lodged at a city hotel said, “We had to fill up a self-declaration form before exiting Pune airport. It was chaos after that. The civic officials just asked us to pick one of the 16 hotels for our stay. There were buses lined up but no help was provided to passenger to load their luggage. I saw a woman travelling alone with an infant and she had no help to load her luggage. The authorities just chose to look the other way as she struggled with her luggage and her baby. A few fellow flyers finally helped her.” PMC officials said they were following the regulations. “The PMC is handling passengers coming from different countries. A majority of them are from Dubai. Pune residents, who are landing at the Mumbai international airport, are being quarantined in Mumbai,” said Yuvraj Deshmukh, a senior PMC official, who is overlooking the arrangements for international flyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyers-from-dubai-rail-at-quarantine-plan/articleshow/79959359.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 26, 2020||Bareilly||2 Muslim women tie knot with Hindu men in UP’s Bareilly, seek police security||Bareilly: Two Muslim women in UP’s Bareilly district got married to Hindu men after conversion and sought police security, which they got promptly, along with the support of saffron outfits. While in the first case in Bareilly’s Hafizganj area, police acted promptly. It called the families of both sides to police station and settled the matter amicably without filing of a case from any side. However, a case of abduction and robbery was filed in Bahedi area of the district by the family of the woman against the Hindu man she had settled with. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Bareilly, Rohit Singh Sajwan, told TOI, “The couples, in Hafizganj and in Bahedi areas, are adults. In both the cases, we have considered the girl’s statement. In the Hafizganj case, the couple visited a police station and sought security. Families of both sides were called to the station and the matter was settled. The family members of the girl have accepted the marriage and no case was filed.” Their marriage was solemnized on Thursday, in a temple in Rithora area. Members of a saffron outfit also came forward in support of the couple. In Bahedi area, the Muslim woman, 29, “eloped” with the man on Tuesday. She later released a video saying that she got married on September 4 in a temple after converting to Hinduism. She also alleged that her parents have threatened to kill her. “My parents will be held responsible if something happens to my husband,” the woman said in the video. A day later, on Wednesday, her family lodged a case against her husband, who was booked on charges of abduction and robbery. The woman’s family has also demanded that the provisions of the new anti-conversion law be included in the FIR. Police said that the couple is in contact with the investigating officer (IO) of the case and will be produced before a magistrate on Saturday. SSP Sajwan said, “We are following the high court’s direction which says that two consenting adults in a relationship have the right to live together without any interference from their families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-muslim-women-tie-knot-with-hindu-men-in-ups-bareilly-seek-police-security/articleshow/79957720.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Pune||AIIMS director allays fears on virus mutations, lays focus on preparedness||PUNE: Member of the national task force on Covid management Dr Randeep Guleria on Friday said the virus had undergone many mutations, an average of two per month, which did not warrant unnecessary concern, but preparedness to tackle it. “The mutations have not led to any change in symptoms and the treatment strategy. According to the current data, the vaccines in the trial phase (which are up for emergency authorisation) should also be effective against the new (UK) strain,” Dr Guleria, the director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), told TOI, while adding that the next 6-8 weeks were crucial for the country, which was seeing a decline in cases and reduced fatality rate. On international flights, especially to and from the UK, he said if they were resumed, the authorities should ensure gene sequencing of at least 10% of the flyers testing positive after India arrival. Gene sequencing is currently carried out in 6-7 laboratories. Emphasising on a combined network of clinical, epidemiological and gene sequencing data, Dr Guleria said, “A consortium of various laboratories to get mutation data in India, which could be more country-specific, is being thought about for readying an overall strategy by planners and the health sector.” Dr Guleria said the UK data was red-flagged solely because the mutated virus was more infectious. “It, however, did not require extended hospitalisation. Neither did it cause more deaths. There have been mutations during the last 10 months, which is quite common,” he said, while ruling out the impact of the mutations on the vaccines. “If required, manufacturers can tweak vaccines to make them more effective against major changes in the virus. Currently, there doesn’t seem to be a major change in the virus. So, I don’t really think that we need to look at a major change in the vaccine,” Dr Guleria said. Over 50 vaccines are in clinical trials the world over. He said the country would have 6-7 vaccines by mid-next year. With enough data, a long-lasting vaccine could also be developed, he said, adding, “Presently, the vaccine for frontline workers will be free of cost and the expenses will be borne by the Union government.” On herd immunity, the AIIMS director said plans were afoot to carry out more sero surveys across states to understand how many people have developed antibodies against the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/aiims-director-allays-fears-on-virus-mutations-lays-focus-on-preparedness/articleshow/79959371.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 26, 2020||Bareilly||Subadult leopard found dead in Bareilly cane field||BAREILLY: The carcass of an eight-month-old subadult leopard with multiple injuries was found in a cane field in Fatehganj East Bareilly district on Friday morning. Foresters suspect that the cub was hit by a vehicle and died after walking a few metres into a nearby cane field. However, they are awaiting its autopsy report from the Indian Veterinary Research Institute here. Although the district only has social forestry, wild carnivores have strayed out of forests miles away and settled in various areas. Earlier, a leopard that had made its home in an abandoned rubber factory in Fatehganj West area, 18 km from Bareilly city, was run over by a vehicle when it stepped out of the campus on the national highway-24 on February 24. Since April, a tigress has taken refuge in the same factory, said forest department officials. At present, they said, some five stray leopards are known to be lurking in various parts of Bareilly district. A leopard was spotted inside the Air Force station in Izzatnagar area earlier in December. Camera traps and a cage were placed there to monitor its movement but it changed its location. Bharat Lal, divisional forest officer, told TOI, “The presence of leopards in Bareilly has increased alarmingly. The leopard cub was possibly hit by a vehicle as it had head injuries, which caused its death. But we will wait for the autopsy report before coming to any conclusion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/subadult-leopard-found-dead-in-bareilly-cane-field/articleshow/79957726.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 26, 2020||Noida||Dacoity-murder charge on 5 of 8 arrested for attack on 25-year-old BTech student||NOIDA: Nearly four months after the fatal attack by carjackers on Amity student Akshay Kalra, Sector 58 police have filed a 35-page chargesheet in the case naming eight people, including a man arrested earlier this week who was in touch with a Haryana-based car dealer to sell the victim’s Hyundai Creta. The chargesheet, which was filed on Thursday, includes a case diary of 800 pages and more than 40 pieces of evidence, including CCTV footage and call records of the accused. The seven accused arrested in October included five members of a Ghaziabad-based gang, Kuldeep alias Happy, his brother Vikas alias Vicky, their cousin Sonu, Shamim and Ajay Rathore, apart from Shamim’s brother Naseem and his friend Vasukinath Tiwari. While Naseem and Tiwari have been booked under IPC sections 412 (dishonestly receiving property stolen in the commission of a dacoity) and 120-b (criminal conspiracy), the five gang members have also been charged under Section 396 (dacoity with murder). On Monday, the eighth accused, Ravi, was arrested and booked for criminal conspiracy. Police said Ravi, who operates mainly in Meerut, and his friend, Gulab Jaat, a native of Karnal, both dealt with sale and purchase of stolen and looted cars. Ravi had recently provided three cars to Gulab, including an Endeavour and a Swift. When Gulab stayed in Ghaziabad’s Aditya World City society, he shared a flat with Vasukinath Tiwari. Ravi was their neighbour. “Tiwari contacted Ravi for selling Akshay’s Creta and he, along with Shamim and Naseem, went to Meerut in a Xylo to strike a deal. A trap was laid and their movement tracked. The accused were identified from one of the CCTVs in the area and Ravi was caught a few days ago,” additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh told TOI, adding that Gulab was supposed to purchase the vehicle for Rs 1.3 lakh but later said he would give only Rs 1 lakh. Sector 58 station officer Anil Kumar said Gulab’s name will be added to the chargesheet once he is arrested and his role is established. Kumar added that Ravi had been booked for abetment in 2018 after his former girlfriend died of suicide. “The woman’s husband had alleged he had been harassing her even after her marriage to him, leading her to end her life. He was arrested by Meerut police and was out on bail,” he said. Akshay, 25, was chased by the carjackers after he left home for a late-night drive on September 2. When he tried to escape from the gang which forced him to stop his vehicle, he hit his head on a divider, resulting in serious head injuries. One of the men then hit him with a brick, according to police. Akshay succumbed two days later at a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/dacoity-murder-charge-on-5-of-8-arrested-for-attack-on-25-year-old-btech-student/articleshow/79960456.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||HM Anil Deshmukh slams mayor Joshi for ‘congratulatory’ tweet||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday lashed out at former BJP mayor Sandip Joshi, asking him to get his facts right before tweeting misleading facts on social media. Joshi had kicked up a controversy by tweeting a sarcastic message earlier, congratulating the home minister for creating a record by taking the city to the second position in the country in crime rate. Joshi had based his tweet on a media report regarding the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) statistics of 2019. Miffed by the politically directed tweet, Deshmukh said Joshi should have thought who was in the power in 2019, and under which home minister such dubious distinction had been achieved. “Whose regime was it in 2019? He (Joshi) should find out all the facts properly before making a statement in public,” he said. Deshmukh’s hint was towards the BJP government’s rule under chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who was also the home minister then. Deshmukh further said that crime has been under control in the Mahavikas Aghadi government, and the scenario would be further bettered in coming days. “We have already controlled crime and there would be further clamp down,” he said. “There is a decline in crime including serious offences in last one year. We would further give better results ahead,” said the home minister. Deshmukh also sounded keen to make the record public in the coming days, clarifying on the improved current crime scenario as per the statistics available with the police department. Joshi said Fadnavis’ opposition used to frequently make adverse comments on the crime scenario during his tenure. “Since November 2019, the incumbent government (MVA) had been in the power. We can take credit for any development which had started in the regime of the BJP government by inaugurating it, but cannot tolerate a discredit coming in the way,” he said. Joshi also referred to the daylight murder of Balya Binekar at Bole petrol pump, close to Deshmukh’s house. “There is definitely need for introspection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hm-anil-deshmukh-slams-mayor-joshi-for-congratulatory-tweet/articleshow/79958397.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Woman with UK travel history tests positive, 13 still to be traced||AURANGABAD: One woman, who travelled from England to Aurangabad recently, has tested positive for Covid-19 infection. Officials said a total of 44 people have come to Aurangabad from UK. The authorities are still tracing 13 of these people. Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan said that police help has been sought to trace the 13 passengers. “Since November 25, 44 people have come to Aurangabad from England. Out of them, one woman has tested positive and she is asymptomatic. Not taking any chances, she has been admitted to a private hospital and her health is being monitored,” said Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s health officer Dr Nita Padalkar. She said that the throat swab samples of the woman have been sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune to ascertain if she has been infected with the new strain of the novel coronavirus. So far, RTPCR tests have been performed on 11 people, of which nine have tested negative, and one tested postitive and one report is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-with-uk-travel-history-tests-positive-13-still-to-be-traced/articleshow/79959375.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||3 IT firm staffers among 4 dead in hit and run on Mihan bridge||NAGPUR: Three tele-callers and driver of their company’s drop vehicle were killed in a suspected hit-and-run accident on Mihan bridge near Khapri Metro station in the wee hours of Friday when they were returning home after completing night shift. A lone survivor occupant was critically injured and is battling for life. The victims have been identified as Prajinkya alias Piyush Tekade, 22, a resident of Koradi Road, Neha Gajbhiye, 24, a resident of Wanjari Layout in Uppalwadi, and Kajal Koche, 27, a resident of Mahendra Nagar, Teka, all working as tele-callers with an IT company in Mihan. They were returning home in their office car, which was found in mangled condition early Friday morning. The vehicle was badly damaged and the police had to cut open the doors to retrieve the victims. Car driver Balchandra Uikey, a resident of Chinchbhuvan, too was among the dead. Police could not record statement of the survivor Ashish Sarnayal, a resident of Bokhara, Koradi Road, because of his critical condition. A pall of gloom descended on Tekade family, which had planned to celebrate Prajinkya’s mother Archana’s birthday on Friday. Prajinkya had even applied for leave on Friday to participate in the celebrations. Only son of his parents, Prajinkya had joined the job to fund his engineering studies. Kajal’s death came as a bolt from the blue for Koche family which had lost her brother a few years ago. “None from the company where the victims worked extended any help,” said one of the relatives of Kajal. “They did not even inform the family about the accident. The family members had called up the company to ask for Kajal’s whereabouts as she did not return home and it was only then that we came to know about the accident,” said the relative. Neha’s father Mahendra said he was clueless till 7am about the accident. “I was informed by the police,” he said. Sarnayal, now undergoing treatment at a hospital, had returned from Pune amid the pandemic to pursue his studies in the city and also support himself with a job. Inspector Sapna Kshirsagar, in-charge of Sonegaon police station, said we are scanning footage from CCTVs near the spot and the road to ascertain the cause of the accident and to identify the other vehicle involved. “Whether it was a head-on collision with a wrong-side driven vehicle or the car carrying the employees had rammed the rear side of another vehicle is still not clear,” she said. Woman police sub-inspector Kiran Kursange of Sonegaon police station said it was a call at the control room at about 2am which informed us about the accident. “Only a woman (Kajal) and the injured (Sarnayal) were showing some signs of life. We had rushed them to Government Medical College and Hospital, but the woman was declared dead,” she said. Sonegaon police have registered a case and are investigating further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-it-firm-staffers-among-4-dead-in-hit-and-run-on-mihan-bridge/articleshow/79959388.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 26, 2020||Chennai||New year ahead, Chennai cops begin crackdown on racers||CHENNAI: The city police have begun punishing bikers speeding on roads and scaring away members of the public. On Christmas eve, cases were booked against 225 people for resorting to such acts. The crackdown, which lasted from 10pm on Thursday to 2am on Friday, is expected to continue every night until December 31. Among those intercepted on bikes, 175 were booked for rash and negligent driving and 50 others had cases registered for driving dangerously on a public way. While 20 vehicles were seized, others were handed over to the owners after a warning. The action followed complaints from churchgoers about being harassed due to ‘bike races’ on the roads. Based on orders from commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal and specific information, police set up barricades and closed some routes to draw racers to select junctions. In the east zone, police blocked entire Kamarajar Salai (Marina beach promenade). They laid traps in key areas including Teynampet, Anna Salai, Sardar Patel Road and Dr Radhakrishnan Salai and created traffic snarls to ensure the bikers did not have space to speed. All through the drive, senior police officers were on rounds and some of them nabbed a few bikers. “By speeding these bikers are not just scaring away the motorists, but also risking their own lives. We will continue to keep an eye on them,” said joint commissioner (east) R Sudhakar. In north Chennai, police warned and let off nearly 50 people. Police had identified a few roads in the region and blocked them. The seized bikes would not be released until further orders from higher officials, sources said. In a few cases, police called parents of the bikers involved and advised them. In a few other cases, police issued a strict warning to the bikers before setting them free. Last year, in the same period, 158 people were booked for speeding and 63 vehicles were seized in various stations. Activists said youngsters speeding along arterial stretches in the city at night, particularly on festive occasions, had become a big menace. Despite the number of accidents caused and lives lost, the law enforcers, apart from conducting a few special drives, did very little, they alleged. Stringent punishment was the only solution, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-yr-ahead-cops-begin-crackdown-on-racers/articleshow/79959382.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Nashik||121 travellers arrive in district from UK||NASHIK: As many as 121 travellers have arrived in Nashik district from UK since November 23. Of these, 96 are from Nashik city while 25 are from the rural areas. “We have received a fresh list of 96 passengers who have arrived in the city since November 23. Our health teams are contacting them and are ascertaining if they have carried out RT-PCR tests by now,” said co-ordinator of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Dr. Avesh Palod, referring to fresh guidelines that RT-PCR tests have to be performed for identifying the new variant of Covid-19. The list of travellers from Nashik city, along with their mobile numbers and addresses, has arrived and health surveyors have already started tracking them. As of now, 49 travellers have been tracked down by health officials while the process of identifying the others is under way. “We will conduct RT-PR test of each person and he/she will have to remain home isolated until the reports arrive. Those testing negative will be kept in observation for a few days,” Palod added. The health teams are verifying the individuals and tracking them. The process is likely to be over in the next two days. 5 more test positive from MPA Five more trainees from the Maharashtra Police Academy (MPA) tested positive for Covid-19. They have been admitted to a Covid Care Centre (CCC) of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). All of them are asymptomatic in nature and their condition is stable, coordinator of the CCC Dr. Rajendra Bhandari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/121-travellers-arrive-in-district-from-uk/articleshow/79959379.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 26, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh booth level officer thrashed to death for not enlisting fake voters||PILIBHIT: Suraj Pal, an instructor at a government primary school in Uttar Pradesh who had been assigned the additional duty of a booth level officer (BLO), was brutally beaten up by a local village strongman on Thursday for refusing to enlist "fake voters" for the forthcoming state panchayat polls. Pal, 40, succumbed on the way to the health facility. The school instructor of Kuboolpur village under Barkhera police station in Pilibhit district was involved in enlisting names of new voters as part of the ongoing process of revising the voter list. An FIR has been lodged following a complaint by Pal's son Sanjay Pratap. The BLO's body has been sent for autopsy. No arrest has been made so far. Also, no murder charges have been included in the FIR. SHO Kamal Singh said that police had lodged an FIR against the accused under section 304 [culpable homicide not amounting to murder] of the IPC. The police may add a few more sections once the autopsy report is out, he added. According to Pratap, his father went to work on Thursday morning. He was busy with his work when the accused of the same village barged into his office at 1.30pm and demanded that his father should include some "fake names" on the voter list. When his father refused, the accused allegedly grabbed him by his throat and threw him on the ground. He was then punched and kicked repeatedly. School headmaster Dev Dutt Gangwar, who was reportedly present at the spot, remained a silent spectator, Pal's son alleged in the complaint. Pratap also said that his injured father tried to narrate the incident to him on their way to the health facility. The BLO, however, passed away before they could reach the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-booth-level-officer-thrashed-to-death-fornot-enlisting-fake-voters-for-panchayat-polls/articleshow/79957742.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 26, 2020||Nashik||56 cops to monitor traffic diversion near KK Wagh college||NASHIK: As many as 56 police personnel and traffic wardens have been posted on the Mumbai-Agra highway in front of KK Wagh College to ensure that there are no traffic snarls in the city owing to the diversion put in place for linking Dwarka flyover with the new one. City police on Wednesday came out with a notification about the traffic diversion for information of general public. Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey said, “All necessary things have been put in place to see that there is no traffic congestion. The work of linking Dwarka flyover with the new one will be taken in three phases and is expected to get completed by April 30.” The work of the first phase has been taken up. Though police came out with a notification about traffic diversion from December 24, it would be implemented in a day or two after all the related signboards have been put up. In the first phase, the road from K K Wagh College to Space International School, which witnessed traffic towards the Dwarka side, will be closed for traffic and will be diverted on the adjacent service road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/56-cops-to-monitor-traffic-diversion-near-kk-wagh-college/articleshow/79959390.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Loop Road: Chennai corporation hopes to have temporary fish market by January||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation hopes to set up a temporary fish market near Loop Road in the Nochikuppam area behind St Bede’s school in January. The civic body is meeting coastal regulation authorities in a week’s time to get the approval. “Two rounds of meetings are over. We are hopeful of getting approval in a week’s time,” said a buildings department official. The civic body has identified a 12,000sqft area to build about 300 temporary sheds. Since the Marina beautification project is now court monitored, the civic body officials said whenever the court ordered, they would move the fishermen from Loop Road to this temporary market. The market would get world class facilities after CRZ approval for a permanent market is accorded. Right now, vendors are being regularised. After that is done, we are hopeful the fishermen will also be shifted, said an official. K Bharathi of the South Indian Fishermen Federation said there were five fishermen associations in the area and under the guise of the Marina beautification project, the government was taking away their livelihood. “First the vendors of Marina went to court and of 2,500 only 450 will be allowed to set up shops. Now, they want to remove us also. We have been selling fish here since 1945. As per the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act of 2014, any market that has been in a location for more than 50 years should be termed heritage market. The court is asking for evidence and we have the registration with fishermen societies. The government will have to answer to the 526 families living here and in the upcoming elections,” he said.  “In 2014 we allowed construction of a tarred road when the government promised that traffic won’t be allowed after 3pm. But now the road has become very busy and they want to remove us for free flow of traffic and to ensure they enjoy their walks on a footpath? Why take away our livelihood because a few people want to walk,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/loop-road-corpn-hopes-to-have-temporary-fish-market-by-jan/articleshow/79959389.cms||Komal Gautham
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||RSS lookalike social media pages spew militant Hindutva||Nagpur: Hindutva fountainhead Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), which has presence on the social media, maintains a sober outlook. However, a number of lookalike pages can also be seen in more militant avatar both on religious and political issues. The posts on such pages are more provocative. They range from calls to make India a Hindu Rashtra to backing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s stance on farmers’ issue. The latest were a number of posts asking Hindus not wish anyone Merry Christmas and instead follow certain other Hindu festivals on the day. Some of the posts deride other religions openly. There is a post that shows Akhilesh Yadav in poor light compared to UP CM Adityanath. One is a call to support the BJP as it stands for the Hindu cause, and another says soon India will be known for a grand Ram Temple at Ayodhya rather than Taj Mahal. RSS’s official page at the Facebook is RSS.org. It has been blue ticked to indicate it is the only page endorsed by the organization. It carries nothing more than events held at the organization. A host of other pages by similar names can leave the social media user confused. The stance is rather aggressive in such pages, especially on Facebook. These pages and posts give an impression of being the official stand of the RSS itself. Some have been named after RSS Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat too, like one is called “I support Mohan Bhagwatji” on Facebook. A functionary dealing with local media at Nagpur said there is only one official page on the Facebook—RSS.org. Similarly, there are also Twitter handles of senior functionaries like Mohan Bhagwat or Sar Karyawah (general secretary) Bhaiyaji Joshi. These were created to avoid any confusion and indicate the official stance of RSS, said the functionary. “RSS does not endorse the posts in any other page. Rather the matter has been time and again reported to Facebook and Twitter,” said the functionary. On the Facebook, TOI came across pages like RSS Karyakarta Group, RSS 110 crore Hindu Ka Group, RSS ek Hindu Sanghathan, I support Mohan Bhagwatji on the Facebook. Suggestions to view or join a number of other groups pop up on clicking on one. The official page on the other hand has posts on the demise of organization’s national spokesperson and a veteran M G Vaidya, who passed away last week. The wall has quote from Bhagwat which reads ‘Hindu is not the name of any religion. It does not specify any caste or region as well. It is a term that respects each different identity and includes everyone into the ambit of humanity and devotion to India.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rss-lookalike-social-media-pages-spew-militant-hindutva/articleshow/79958414.cms||Shishir Arya
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why residents’ welfare associations are bitter about rain harvest||NEW DELHI: Spooked by the communication from Delhi Jal Board (DJB) regarding mandatory installation of rainwater harvesting (RWH) systems in plots above 100 square metres, residents’ welfare associations across the city have urged for a review of the policy. Several RWAs received the notices under DJB’s dedicated three-day campaign, which cited the deadline of March 31, 2021 for installing the systems after which penalties may be imposed on violators. The residents’ bodies argued that incorporation of harvesting pits in already built-up areas of houses was not technically feasible and the move would also result in disputes between co-owners. DJB had amended the Water and Sewer (Tariff and Metering) Regulations, 2012 in August last year to increase the ambit of properties where RWH systems would be mandatory by lowering the area limit from 500 sqm to 100 sqm. Houses built after July 28, 2001 were instructed to have RWH systems by March 31, 2020, while older houses were supposed to get another year. A senior DJB official said both these deadlines were now over and RWAs were being contacted under a special drive to create at least 200 RWH systems in 30 days. He added that the cutoff date of July 28, 2001 had been fixed because RWH provisions were incorporated in Delhi’s master plan in the same month, but enforcement by civic bodies remained lax. PK Paul, secretary of EBDP Association, said they had already expressed their objections to the new rules to the water resources minister and senior DJB officials. “Our plots have wall-to-wall construction. If we make pits inside the building, the discharge will lead to seepage and weaken the foundation. Our colony is in a rocky area, so it is technically not feasible to install the RWH systems within the three-month limit. We have already set up eight RWH systems on our own,” he added. The RWAs also stated that catchment areas, like large institutional buildings, back lanes, parks and common areas, should be utilised for this purpose in consultation with them. Chetan Sharma, general secretary of Confederation of NCR RWAs, said old buildings should not be brought within the ambit of this regulation. “This approach of backward integration is not legally sound. The 100 sqm limit covers almost all planned properties, except JJ clusters and resettlement colonies. They should identify waterlogging-prone areas and use institutional properties to tap water during monsoon,” he added. He cited the example of constant waterlogging near Savitri Cinema complex. Apprehension was also expressed that this would lead to disputes between flat owners. BM Bakshi from New Friends Colony RWA said different floors had different owners in many properties. “Sharing of cost for construction and maintenance and distribution of subsidy will become a cause of strife. Who wants to pay the extra money? My suggestion is that back lanes and parks should be used by the government to set up RWH systems with the help of RWAs,” he opined. Jasbir Chaddha, a member of United Residents Joint Action and resident of East of Kailash, said it was practically not feasible for fully built-up properties to install these systems. BS Vohra, who heads East Delhi RWA Joint Front, said the 100 sqm limit was restrictive and installation should not be made compulsory. “Give people who have space incentives so that they do it willingly. No penalty should be imposed,” he added. He pushed for revival of the old Bhagidari scheme launched by the Sheila Dikshit government under which RWAs could set up RWH systems in parks with assistance from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-rwas-are-bitter-about-rain-harvest/articleshow/79959395.cms||Paras Singh
December 26, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon admin finds 7 international flyers from UK in the district||NASHIK: The Jalgaon district administration has traced out seven international flyers who have returned to the district in the last one month. District civil surgeon N S Chavan told TOI on Friday that four of the flyers hail from Chalisgaon and the remaining three are from Jalgaon city. “We have isolated them at their homes and would conduct RT-PCR tests. Initially, the tests would be done at the laboratory in the district. But, in case any of the flyers test positive for Covid-19, we will take fresh samples of that particular flyer and send it to a Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) for tests about the presence of mutated strain of the virus,” said Chavan. Collector Abhijit Raut had directed the district health department and the local civic bodies to carry out the task of tracing returnees from UK on Thursday, following the directives of the state government. District officials said that they would continue to find out if there are any more UK returnees in the district. In the meantime with Covid situation in the district improving steadily, Jalgaon government medical college hospital (GMCH) has started treating non-Covid patients in the hospital from last week. For the last eight months, the Jalgaon GMCH was converted into a Covid hospital since the flow of Covid patients was huge. “We are using main building of the hospital for non-Covid patients. And, three separate buildings of the hospital are being used for treating Covid patients,” said GMCH dean Jaiprakash Ramanand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-admin-finds-7-international-flyers-from-uk-in-the-district/articleshow/79959385.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
December 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Send all imp documents by post, says Waqf minister||AURANGABAD: With an aim to bring a check on the interference of middlemen at the different offices of the Maharashtra State Board of Waqf, minorities and Waqf minister Nawab Malik has issued directives asking all the offices to stop issuing documents by hand and instead send all communication documents via postal services only. The minister said that there were many agents buzzing in and around Waqf offices, especially a section of lawyers, who in the name of providing Waqf related legal services actually exploited people. As per the orders, in case there is a huge set of documents which will will entail a hefty expenditure if sent via postal or courier services, the fee will have to be collected from the recipient of the documents. Until the orders came in to force, all relevant documents were issued by hand from the Waqf headquarters in Aurangabad as well as the regional offices. People from different parts of the state were compelled to personally turn up for making some applications or collecting relevant documents and receipts. “To avoid wasting time in travelling up to the Waqf state headquarters, many people would prefer hiring the services of the agents and the middlemen,” said a Wakf official from Aurangabad.The problem arose after the middlemen allegedly started taking money in the name of Waqf officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/send-all-imp-documents-by-post-says-waqf-minister/articleshow/79957760.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 26, 2020||Bareilly||Two Muslim women tie knot with Hindu men in UP's Bareilly, seek police security||BAREILLY: Two Muslim women in UP’s Bareilly district got married to Hindu men after conversion and sought police security, which they got promptly, along with the support of saffron outfits. While in the first case in Bareilly’s Hafizganj area, police acted promptly. It called the families of both sides to police station and settled the matter amicably without filing of a case from any side. However, a case of abduction and robbery was filed in Bahedi area of the district by the family of the woman against the Hindu man she had settled with. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Bareilly, Rohit Singh Sajwan, told TOI, “The couples, in Hafizganj and in Bahedi areas, are adults. In both the cases, we have considered the girl’s statement. In the Hafizganj case, the couple visited a police station and sought security. Families of both sides were called to the station and the matter was settled. The family members of the girl have accepted the marriage and no case was filed.” Their marriage was solemnized on Thursday, in a temple in Rithora area. Members of a saffron outfit also came forward in support of the couple. In Bahedi area, the Muslim woman, 29, “eloped” with the man on Tuesday. She later released a video saying that she got married on September 4 in a temple after converting to Hinduism. She also alleged that her parents have threatened to kill her. “My parents will be held responsible if something happens to my husband,” the woman said in the video. A day later, on Wednesday, her family lodged a case against her husband, who was booked on charges of abduction and robbery. The woman’s family has also demanded that the provisions of the new anti-conversion law be included in the FIR. Police said that the couple is in contact with the investigating officer (IO) of the case and will be produced before a magistrate on Saturday. SSP Sajwan said, “We are following the high court’s direction which says that two consenting adults in a relationship have the right to live together without any interference from their families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-muslim-women-tie-knot-with-hindu-men-in-ups-bareilly-seek-police-security/articleshow/79958423.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 26, 2020||Nashik||Tribals from Peth grow mushrooms, keep put||NASHIK: Cultivating nutrient-rich mushrooms has turned out to be a boon for several tribal families in Peth taluka of Nashik district. About 70 families in the taluka are involved in cultivation of mushrooms and selling the produce to travellers. This has reduced their need to migrate in search of work. “We took up mushroom cultivation from February. As of now, we don’t have any organised market and are selling the produce to people – mostly travelers from Gujarat and Nashik,” said Yashwant Gawande, one of the tribal farmers and president of Vanaraj Farmers Producer Company. The idea of cultivating mushroom was introduced to the farmers in December 2019 by the Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA) officials. “A select group of farmers was taken for awareness and training programme to various places at Raipur, Chhattisgarh and Pune besides conducting training in the taluka,” said Hemant Kale, deputy project director, ATMA, said. Each farmer produces an average of three kg mushroom per day and that fetches an additional income of around Rs 3,000 per month. “We cultivate paddy during the kharif season. Thereafter, there is no work till the next rainy season. We generally go in search of work. After training, we learnt that paddy stalk is essential raw material for mushroom cultivation. It was easily available and could be carried out in the house itself. Thus, we took it up and it has become a good source of income,” said Prabhakar Bhusare, another farmer from Fanaspada, in the taluka. The mushroom is cultivated by farmers in a small room. The harvesting begins on the 22nd day since the ‘mushroom beds’ are created and it continues for next 20 days. “I am looking for a better market. We are also looking for a solar dryer which can be used to give longer shelf life to the mushrooms,” said Bhusare. A delegation of tribal farmers met senior officials of Nashik Zilla Parishad and have suggested that the mushroom be provided to children through anganwadis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tribals-from-peth-grow-mushrooms-keep-put/articleshow/79959401.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Central Vista revamp: 2 buildings that will be first to go for MPs’ offices||NEW DELHI: The Transport Bhavan and Shram Shakti Bhavan will be the first two office buildings to be knocked down as a part of the revamp of Central Vista and its adjoining areas. These land parcels will pave the way for construction of new offices for MPs. The staff in these two existing buildings will be temporarily shifted to an office complex coming up on K G Marg and once all the 10 building blocks get completed along the Rajpath, these offices will be permanently shifted there. In government records, the two office buildings are on a single plot. These two buildings don’t fall under the Central Vista Zone. According to the development plan, there would be a tunnel across Parliament Street to connect the building with chambers of MPs in the Parliament complex. Sources said providing office space to MPs has also been taken up as a priority. The Central Public Works Department is constructing two office complexes — one on K G Marg and another in Africa Avenue — for temporary shifting of offices and these will be ready in the next one year. Hence the process of shifting offices from Transport and Shram Shakti Bhavan may start by the end of 2021. TOI has learnt that the CPWD will first invite tenders for the construction of three office buildings on the plot which was earlier earmarked for the Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts. This plot is enough to accommodate three buildings. Once these get completed, the government would shift offices from Udyog Bhavan, Krishi Bhavan, Shastri Bhavan and Nirman Bhavan to these three new buildings. “The construction will be in phases. One we vacate the existing buildings, demolition will be carried out so that new buildings can come up on those plots. The Jawaharlal Nehru Bhavan (JNB), which houses the external affairs ministry would be the last one to go,” said a source. Officials said demolishing the JNB would be the most difficult phase for CPWD engineers considering that it was the latest building constructed by the central agency post independence. The decade-old building is the youngest one on this stretch and was also the first government building to get “Green Building” certification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-buildings-that-will-be-first-to-go-for-mps-offices/articleshow/79959409.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Clarify stand on marking panchayat poll seats: HC||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has directed the state election commission and the state government to clarify their stance by January 8 on a writ petition challenging allotment of all nine seats at the Aamsari gram panchayat in Sillod tehsil of Aurangabad district to the reserved category candidates for the panchayat election slated for January 15. “The issue raised by the petitioners is certainly required to be considered as the same would be a recurring issue,” a division bench of justices SV Gangapurwala and Shrikant D Kulkarni said on December 21. “This was despite the fact that the petitioners did not raise any objection when a notification of the draft ward formation and reservation was issued on February 7, 2020 nor did they move the court immediately after publication of the final notification on October 27, 2020,: the bench observed. The bench said that the state election commission and the state are required to clarify on the aspects raised in the present petition. It would not be appropriate to stall the election at this stage. :However, as the petitioners have raised valid issues the same are required to be considered. The respondents shall put forth their stand on or before January 8 — the next date of hearing,” the bench said. Prakash Namdeo Dandage and others from Aamsari moved the HC on the grounds that reservation of all the nine seats in the gram panchayat for the scheduled caste, scheduled tribe and backward class communities was “unconstitutional and illegal” and demanded scrapping of the election process. Apart from the state and the state election commission, the Aurangabad district collector, Sillod sub-divisional magistrate and Sillod tehsildar have been named respondents in the matter. Lawyer Devdatt Palodkar, representing the petitioners, told TOI, “No single seat has been left for general category candidates. Our case is that the cent-per-cent reservation is unconstitutional considering that Aamsari village panchayat is a non-scheduled area where seats cannot be reserved for more than 50% as part of the local self government elections.” Lawyer A B Kadethankar, appearing for the state election commission, has submitted before the court that reservation provided was in consonance with the provisions of section 10 (1) (C) of the Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/clarify-stand-on-marking-panchayat-poll-seats-hc/articleshow/79957767.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||MSEDCL floats solar bids for 6,500 MW, gets only 527 MW||NAGPUR: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has recently approved a renewable energy policy under which about 13,000 MW capacity is to be added through solar. Going by the response to Mukhyamantri Saur Krishi Vahini Yojana (MSKVY) in the last three years, this seems to be a difficult target. According to MSEDCL’s submission before Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC), the company had floated bids for 6,500 MW solar power in three years, but received bids for only 1,873 MW and it was able to sign agreements for only 527 MW, which is less than 10% of the sought capacity. MSEDCL has attributed the poor response to the impracticality of the Rs3.30 per unit tariff ceiling and unavailability of low-cost land in the state. To solve the problem of land, the discom is now developing a web portal through which farmers interested in leasing their lands to MSEDCL for solar plants can register themselves. If MSEDCL provides the land to the solar plant developer, then the tariff will be capped at Rs3.11 per unit and the commissioning period will be reduced from 12 months to nine. MERC has agreed to MSEDCL’s request for floating open tenders under MSKVY, which involves continuous rebidding until the target is achieved. Upon analysis, MERC noted that there might be operational challenges if MSEDCL adopts the continuous bidding method, which could go on for several months. It said the bidders might quote only the ceiling tariff, which goes against the intent of the competitive bidding process. Instead, the MERC suggested that MSEDCL should follow the approach of Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI), which floats expression of interest (EoI) to assess the scale of the bids and only calls for bids for a lower capacity (usually 80%), if responses are unsatisfactory. MERC suggested that MSEDCL include land upfront, if available, only if responses are still poor after three months of continuous bidding. Following this, MSEDCL submitted a petition on October 29 this year. In its response, MERC noted that the MSEDCL has proposed to float tenders of different capacities for various locations based on their agricultural load instead of issuing an EoI. It allowed MSEDCL to go straight to the continuous bidding process instead of inviting EoIs first and consider floating EoIs in future, if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msedcl-floats-solar-bids-for-6500-mw-gets-only-527-mw/articleshow/79959405.cms||Ashish Roy
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Hoteliers seek extra hour to wind up after 11pm||Nagpur: Restaurant and bar owners are happy that municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has extended the closure time of from 10pm to 11pm but want police to allow some more time to close down their outlets for the day. They have also thanked the state government for reducing license fee for bars. Manjeet Singh Padam, of Sanjha Chulha, said that 11pm should be the time when the last guest leaves. “After that it takes us at least 90 minutes to wind up. On December 23, the commissioner of police had allowed us actual closure time up to 11pm when the municipal closure time was 10pm. So, an extra hour should be given to us even now otherwise this extension of timings will be of no use. The reduction in annual license fee is very welcome and we thank chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for it,” he said. Manoj Sethi, of Moti Mahal, said that reduction in license fee was a welcome step but the extension of closure timings had been offset by the night curfew. “If police don’t allow our staff to go home after 11pm then we will have to let them go at 10.30pm, which does not solve our problem. The authorities must understand that Covid does not spread only after 10pm and take a practical approach,” he added. Arjun Singh Arora, of Hotel Centre Point, said that he used to close his restaurant at 1.30pm so the extension of one hour was only a partial relief. “People start coming for dinner after 9.30pm and business will not be back to normal until we are allowed to operate until late night. The authorities need to understand that Covid does not spread more at night.” TS Renu, president of Nagpur Residential Hotels Association (NRHA), welcomed state government's decision of 50% waiver and rollback of 15% annual hike on excise fee. “Furthermore, NRHA appreciates municipal commissioner's permission for restaurants to operate up to 11pm which we have been requesting continuously. Admittedly this isn't close to original timings, but we are also responsible citizens, so some restrictions to fight Covid is acceptable,” added Renu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hoteliers-seek-extra-hour-to-wind-up-after-11pm/articleshow/79958431.cms||Ashish Roy
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Student fatally stabbed with plastic scale at Christmas eve party||CHENNAI: A maritime college student hailing from Bihar was stabbed to death by a few collegemates using a broken plastic scale during a Christmas eve party at the college hostel in Vellavedu near Tiruvallur early on Friday. Police said Aditya Sharma, 20, and a few final year students of the maritime academy were at a Christmas eve party held on the sixth floor corridor of their hostel building when a fight broke out between the students. In minutes, one of them stabbed Aditya Sharma in the neck with the sharp edge of a broken plastic scale, leaving him in a pool of blood. “He suffered excessive blood loss and was rushed to a hospital nearby, where doctors declared him brought dead,” a police officer said. The Vellavedu police have registered a case and are probing the murder. The hostel houses 171 students and police are questioning all 170 since early morning on Friday. Thirty of them had attended the party. An investigation officer said they have filtered out seven of the students. “No one is giving clear information about what happened.” While the hostel has CCTV cameras installed, there were none in the corridor where the crime took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/student-fatally-stabbed-with-plastic-scale-at-xmas-eve-party/articleshow/79959417.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bareilly||Over 2,500 farmers from UP, Uttarakhand break through barricades to reach Delhi||PILIBHIT: In a fresh bid to reach the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, more than 2,500 farmers from Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh went past police barricades near the Uttarakhand-Rampur border on Friday. They were later joined by around 600 farmers from Tikunia, Nighasan, Palia and Bhira in Kheri district who were also on their way to the Delhi border via Pilibhit on Thursday. They reached NH24 near Gajraula in Amroha district on Friday. The joint group of farmers from Uttarakhand-UP was led by Manjinder Singh Sirsa, the president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee. The farmers’ march to Delhi coincided with UP cabinet minister Swami Prasad Maurya highlighting the benefits of the three new farm laws at a local farmers' meet in Pilibhit. There was heavy deployment of police on NH-24 but, unlike the previous few days, there were no attempts made to stop the farmers. On Tuesday, after UP Police stopped movement of around 200 farmers from Pilibhit, who were headed to the Delhi border with tractors full of essential supplies for the protesters, there were skirmishes leading to Moradabad SSP receiving injuries. This was the third occasion when the administration had deployed heavy police force to foil the attempt of farmers to carry essential supplies to the Delhi border for the protesting farmers. Prior to this, three tractor trolleys had been stopped by the administration at midnight on December 19 and another two in the late hours on December 12. However, Bareilly deputy inspector general of police Rajesh Kumar Pandey said that the police were “only preventing the mischievous elements from moving to the Delhi border which had mixed with the gathering of farmers”. “Otherwise, farmers are free to carry out their journey to Delhi border even along with the essential services on their tractors and trolleys,” he added. “Local police had blocked the road leading to NH 24 by placing the mud-laden dumpers and huge stones. The spot had been cordoned off by the heavy police force of Rampur and Udham Singh Nagar districts,” said Sirsa. “We had humbly urged police personnel to allow farmers a passage but after they did not respond for half an hour, we broke through the blockage by removing police barricades,” Sirsa added. The farmers reached the Ghazipur border on Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-2500-farmers-from-up-ukhand-break-through-police-barricades-to-reach-delhi/articleshow/79957766.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 408 new Covid cases, 4 deaths||Chandigarh: Haryana reported 408 new cases of Covid-19 and four deaths on Friday, taking its case tally to 2,60,153 and death toll to 2,858. The state has seen 2,52,545 recoveries with the recovery rate rising to 97.08%. There are 4750 active patients, including 172 who are on oxygen support and ventilator support in Covid care centres across the state. Notably the positivity rate has gone up to 5.94% and fatality rate remained stable at 1.10%. As many as 33,222 persons were examined during the day, which took the overall testing to 43.9 lakh. One death each was reported from Faridabad, Yamuanangar, Bhiwani and Jind districts. A maximum of 81 cases were reported from Gurugram whose overall tally has touched 56,303 cases, 341 deaths and 1,188 active cases. As many as 61 cases were reported in Faridabad, followed by Karnal (38), Ambala (35), Yamunanagar (29), Hisar (23), Panchkula (22) and Kurukshetra (21). Other districts reported less than 20 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-reports-408-new-covid-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/79959411.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Nashik||Focus on six police stations with high crime rate||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The city’s top cop has directed personnel of six police stations to step up preventive measures after a high crime rate was noticed in their jurisdictions. The police have found that areas under the Panchavati, Bhadrakali, Mumbai Naka, Nashik Road, Ambad and Upnagar police stations have a higher crime rate compared to other police stations. Mainly street crime, including causing hurt, threatening people, robberies, and organised crime has seen an increase. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey said, “Apart from petty crimes, we are more focused on organised crime, which is witnessed in these areas. Gangs are operating in the city for giving effect to various crimes, mainly property-related offences. This also results in clashes between the gangs.” Hence, the deputy police commissioners (DCP) of Zone 1 and Zone 2 as well as the police inspectors of the police stations concerned have been instructed to take all the necessary measures. “Criminals in the city are indulging in property offences like thefts, robberies, chain snatchings and troubling road-side vendors for extortion. Our aim is to tighten the noose around such criminals,” Pandey added. DCP (Zone I) Amol Tambe said, “The maximum menace of criminals in the Zone 1 area is in Panchavati, Bhadrakali and Mumbai Naka police station. On the instructions of the CP, we have already started taking action against criminals and putting in sincere efforts to detect the crimes.” Apart from patrolling, police are checking the criminal history of those arrested or booked in various offences. They are also preparing proposals to extern such criminals. DCP (Zone 2) Vijay Kharat said that the menace of criminals under his jurisdiction was mainly in Ambad, Nashik Road and Upnagar police station. He said that densely populated areas, presence of slums, vicinity to highways were the major causes of rise in crime and they were putting in efforts to control the menace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/focus-on-six-police-stations-with-high-crime-rate/articleshow/79959406.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 26, 2020||Rajkot||Kutch farmers’ sweet date with jaggery||Rajkot: Diabetes patients can now satisfy their sweet tooth without worrying about the sugar levels. A farmer from Kutch has for the first time made jaggery out of dates and he claimed that the diabetics can savour it safely. “The jaggery that I made from dates is much healthier than the regular sugar that people consume. This jaggery, if no other chemical is mixed in it, has lesser sugar content so those suffering from diabetes can have it,” said Veljibhai Bhudiya who has a farm in Madhapur village of Bhuj taluka. The 70-year-old farmer took to this experiment about two months ago. Explaining the process, Bhudiya said, “I bought 40 kilograms of jaggery and extracted 20 kilograms juice from it. After boiling the juice and following some process, I managed to make five kilograms of jaggery. It’s not easy to make such jaggery out of dates.” Interestingly, the jaggery he made is sold in liquid form and it is expensive too. “A large quantity of dates are required to extract a small amount of juice. So, the jaggery made out of dates is 10 times costlier than the ones currently available in the market,” he added. Though Bhudiya is enthusiastic about his innovation, the medical fraternity feels that the diabetes patients should be cautious while consuming it. “Such jaggery is healthy compared to the sugar available in the market as there are several nutrients, minerals and trace elements in dates. Though in lesser quantity, this jaggery too has some sugar. We can’t say that it is completely safe for the diabetics. They can have such jaggery in small quantities and also monitor their sugar level regularly,” said Dr Nilesh Detroja, an endocrinologist. Bhudiya doesn’t have to worry about availability of dates that are commonly cultivated in Kutch. According to the data available, dates are cultivated in 19,000 hectares of land in Kutch every year and the annual production is nearly 1.80 lakh tons. Dates can endure high amounts of TDS in water and hence they are a major crop in the Kutch region. Bhudiya has been into organic farming since a long time and he is popular for making about 45 kinds of fruit juices including that of pomegranate, custard apple, gooseberry, watermelon and various other fruits at his farm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutch-farmers-sweet-date-with-jaggery/articleshow/79958980.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 26, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: New Covid cases continues to decline||VADODARA: For the fourth consecutive day, the number of new Covid-19 infections in the city and district remained below 100. Out of the 3,744 samples tested in the city and district in the 24 hours ending on Friday evening, 95 samples were found positive. Since Tuesday, the number of fresh cases has not only remained below 100 but has also shown a steady declining trend. It came down from 99 on Tuesday to 95 on Friday. The number of active cases has also gone down significantly and 1,326 active cases were reported on Friday. The active cases included 50 persons on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 150 others on oxygen support. The condition of the remaining 1,126 patients was said to be stable. The death toll due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death remained at 234 with no fresh deaths being confirmed by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-ncov-cases-continues-to-decline/articleshow/79958690.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Patna||Global crossword contest grand finale tomorrow||PATNA: The Grand Finale of the 8th edition of Indian Crossword League, IXL, will be held at Bengaluru on December 27. Thirty-eight participants qualified for the grand finale after nine online weekly rounds hosted on www.crypticsingh.com. They include the top 30 on the basis of the cumulative score of the nine rounds and the eight wild card entries. Making a formidable final line-up are three former champions, including last year’s winner Mohsin Ahmed. The other two are Ramki Krishnan from Chennai, the winner of 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2018 editions and Venkatraghavan S from Mumbai who won the trophy in 2017. Six overseas players, including Philip Coote from Griffith, Australia, and Koh Ting Sween Kenny from Singapore, have also qualified for the Grand Finale. The other overseas players who have made it to the final line-up are Akshay Bhandarkar from Dubai; Sowmya Ramkumar from Manama, Bahrain; Vasant Srinivasan from Banchang, Thailand; and Ajeesh V M from Throop, Pennsylvania (US). The contest is conducted by Extra-C, a civil society initiative based in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/global-crossword-contest-grand-finale-tomorrow/articleshow/79959372.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Illegal dairy business flourishing in Jaipur despite HC directive||JAIPUR: Despite orders by the Rajasthan high court, illegal dairies are flourishing in the city. The recent tussle between both the mayors of Jaipur Municipal Corporations has put this issue to the fore again. Around ten years ago, the high court had ordered to shift the milk dairies to city outskirts. An owner having more than two cows will be considered running a dairy. According to an estimate, over 50 such dairies are functioning in the city. The dairy owners were also given plots outside the city, but when they found that moving out of the city was not economically viable, most of them returned. Anita Gurjar (name changed), a dairy owner, said, “It is convenient for us to run our business from the city. We are within reach of the people and it is convenient for the cattle owners as well. People in the city give fodder to the cows as charity. Moreover, not everyone was allotted land during that time.” Many drives were initiated by the JMC officials to remove these cattle owners from the city. However, there have been many allegations that the officials themselves were in connivance with the dairy owners. “JMC officials are hand in gloves with the dairy owners and for some monetary benefit they let go off the dairy owners. That is the reason that despite cows being kept right on the streets by many dairy owners, especially in the Walled City, JMC officials ignore them,” said a JMC official who wished not to be named. Mayor Somya Gurjar, who took action on the functioning of illegal dairies in Katewa Nagar, also raised questions on the functioning of the JMC officials. White strips were found tied in the legs of the cows in Katewa Nagar. According to a JMC Greater official, these white strips were an identification that these cows belong to a particular owner looking at which JMC animal husbandry workers would not seize them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/illegal-dairy-business-flourishing-in-city-despite-hc-dircetive/articleshow/79959412.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Cabinet sub-committee on CAA, NRC gets extension||AURANGABAD: The cabinet sub-committee formed by the state government to review implementation of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), National Register of Citizens (NRC) and National Population Register (NPR), has been granted extension of another six months. The extension has been granted through a government resolution on Thursday. After the formation of Maha Vikas Aghadi, Maharashtra became one of the 10 states in the country to reserve the implementation of these laws in their respective states. Within weeks of giving verbal assurance to the citizens that the state will not enforce these laws, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray formed a high-power cabinet sub-committee under Anil Parab, a lawyer by profession, and the cabinet minister of transport and parliamentary affairs. The committee was tasked to review the laws, and submit a proposal before the cabinet for taking a final call. The other members of the committee include housing minister Jitendra Awhad, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, sports minister Sunil Kedar, minority affairs minister Nawab Malik and higher and technical education minister Uday Samant. The committee was formed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 5 this year and was asked to submit its report by March 30. However, before the committee could review the laws and submit its report, lockdown was imposed. The state government extended the date of making their submissions was extended till November 30. However, the state government has issued a GR stating ‘in the current scenario, the covid-19 infection has not subsided and the matter of giving further extension to the Cabinet Sub-Committee was under consideration of the Government and it is being given extension May 31, 2021.’ A senior official said that a review meeting of this high power committee for screening all the legal aspects is likely to be held in a next few weeks and this will be followed by a time bound working on preparing a legally full-proof report for submitting it to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cabinet-sub-committee-on-caa-nrc-gets-extension/articleshow/79957783.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Decongesting northwest Delhi in three steps||NEW DELHI: In an attempt to decongest Ring Road in northwest Delhi, the public works department (PWD) will upgrade two flyovers between Punjabi Bagh and Raja Garden and extend another at Raja Garden. It has got approval from UTTIPEC, the apex body to clear all road infrastructure projects in the city, for all three plans. The corridor stretches from the Raja Garden flyover to the Punjabi Bagh facility and the plan includes provisions for three new lanes — dual carriageway grade separator from the Raja Garden crossing over the Club Road intersection and doubling of the existing flyover over the Punjabi Bagh or Moti Nagar crossing. The length of the existing flyover at the Club Road intersection near Raja Garden will be increased. The flyover, which is currently around 600 metre long, will be extended up to ESI Hospital and will have a length of around 1.5km. The facilities will help in providing signal-free movement from Dhaula Kuan to Azadpur on Ring Road and come as a relief for motorists and residents of Punjabi Bagh and Moti Nagar in west Delhi. According to officials of Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning & Engineering) Centre, the proposal was approved in a governing body meeting of the apex body chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. The proposal has been cleared with a condition to incorporate provisions to leave adequate space for safe movement of pedestrians on the stretch. A senior PWD official said the project would be sent to the Delhi cabinet for its final seal. “We can start the project on the ground only when all approvals are granted. The clearance of the project from UTTIPEC is a big success because we will now be able to start the next phase of planning for the project,” the official said. It is important to improve this stretch of Ring Road as it gets heavily congested during the morning and evening rush hours, said another official. It often takes over half an hour to wade through the heavy traffic on this 3.5km stretch. To avoid this, two one-way flyovers will be converted into three lanes each in both directions. UTTIPEC has also approved a detailed feasibility study for construction of a rail overbridge (ROB) and rail underbridge (RUB) on the Khera Kalan-Khera Khurd rail crossing on the Delhi-Ambala rail line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/decongesting-nw-delhi-in-3-steps/articleshow/79959418.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||46 persons who returned from UK traced in Hisar||HISAR: The Hisar health department has traced 46 out of 48 personswho returnedfrom the United Kingdom in December after the discovery of new strain of Covid-19 in Britain. The search is on for the other two passengers. Samples of 35 out of 46 individuals have been taken for examination. Three persons belong to rural areas while 45 are from Hisar city. According to the information received from the Centre, nine persons belong to Sector 13, seven from Sector 16-17, six from Sector 15-A, five from Urban Estate, four from Mahabir Colony and two each from Krishna Nagar, Sector 14, MC Colony, Friends Colony and PLA have come from Britain. Quarantine in-charge Ramesh Poonia said 46 passengers have been traced and kept under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hisar-health-dept-traces-46-out-of-48-uk-returnees/articleshow/79959415.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
December 26, 2020||Nashik||Hoteliers told not to hold parties in open on New Year eve||NASHIK: The Nashik rural police have started conducting meetings with hoteliers and restaurant owners in rural areas of the district instructing them to shut down their establishments on time as per the government guidelines. Police have warned that there should be no nuisance during New Year celebrations, forcing them to take action against violators. With New Year celebrations around the corner, senior officials of the rural police department have started conducting meetings with hotel and resort owners as a precautionary measure. SP Sachin Patil of the Nashik Rural police said, “With night curfew clamped in the city limits until January 5, there is a high possibility that the city residents may spill over in the rural areas of the district. However, the rural police are bracing up to ensure that bars, restaurants, resorts, etc. do not operate beyond their permissible timings.” “At the same time, strict bandobast is also being put up on highways and other roads to ensure that motorists do not resort to drink and drive,” Patil added. Dy SP Arjun Bhosale, who is the sub-district police officer with areas of Igatpuri, Ghoti, Wadivarhe, Ozar and Pimpalgaon Baswant, “We recently conducted a meeting with owners and managers of hotels to ensure that their establishments do not operate beyond 11 pm. Resorts may continue with their internal functioning. However, no parties have been allowed.” He said that police have not granted permission to anyone for using loudspeakers or high-tech music systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hoteliers-told-not-to-hold-parties-in-open-on-new-year-eve/articleshow/79959414.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Businessman arrested for not paying Rs 5.5 crore GST||JAIPUR: The Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) Commissionerate’s anti-evasion team in Jaipur has arrested one businessman for not depositing Rs 5.5 crore GST pending since 2017 on Friday. He was sent in judicial custody till December 28 by the Munsif court. The amount was due against businessman Amit Kumar, but despite several reminders, he didn’t pay the GST. Sharma’s firm Solution and Solution serving in construction of government projects evaded the GST from July 2017 to March 2020. “The accused was under radar from the past one year. His establishments were raided in March this year to find out gross irregularities in his sources of income, income tax files and taxes deposited by him. The documents revealed that he had been collecting GST on account of his services from his clients, but has not deposited,” said a CGST anti-evasion officer. Rules say that GST amount once collected has to be deposited to the government within three months. Sharma in the court blamed his CA for keeping him in the dark about depositing his GST amount. The entire operation was carried out by Chandra Prakash Goyal of the anti-evasion team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bizman-arrested-for-not-paying-rs-5-5cr-gst/articleshow/79959419.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BJP bats for farm laws||JAIPUR: At a kisan chaupal held at Kalwad near here, BJP state president Satish Poonia said 68.90 lakh farmers in the state received Rs 2,000 assistance from PM Narendra Modi under the PM Kisan Nidhi Yojana (PMKNY) on Friday, the seventh instalment under this scheme. The chaupal was held across the state and presided over by BJP MPs, MLAs and district presidents. The event was held to mark the 96 birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. In the midst of a farm field, farmers were shown Modi’s address on a big screen followed by an address by Poonia in which he mentioned various schemes run by the central government for farmers. “The PMKNY has been a gamechanger for farmers in which they get a financial assistance of Rs 2,000 every four months. The periodic rise in MSP has benefitted farmers,” said Poonia. This was the first major move by the opposition in the state for the three farm laws. Similarly, the deputy leader of opposition, Rajendra Singh Rathore, led the farmers meet at Sardarsahar in Churu. He elaborated Modi’s speech and spoke on the benefits of three farm laws which he claimed would double the income of famers. During the programme, Modi held interactions with farmers from different states. The only disappointment was that he didn’t interact with any farmer of the state. The party claimed that they held over 1,000 such meetings across the state. The party accused the Gehlot-government of sponsoring the ongoing farmers’ protest at Shahjahanpur-Keda border for political gains. Poonia claimed that state farmers had distanced itself from the agitation and most of those attending are either from couple of the state districts or the from outside the state. “In democracy, everyone has a right to express their views and opinions. The Centre has been offering the option to farmers to discuss the issues with them with open mind,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-bats-for-farm-laws/articleshow/79959416.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: CB-CID registers case on gold missing from CBI custody||CHENNAI: The CB-CID police have registered a case to find the whereabouts of Rs 30 crore worth gold that went missing from CBI custody, two weeks after the Madras high court directed it probe and wrap up the case within six months. The 103.9kg gold that is missing was part of gold bars weighing a collective 400.5kg seized by the CBI in 2012 when it raided premises of gold importer Surana Corporation Limited in Chennai. The raids were the result of a case against the officials of Metals and Minerals Trading Corporation (MMTC) for favouring the importer. Following the seizure and registration of a case, the seized valuables were deposited in vaults belonging to the corporation and the premises were locked and sealed by the CBI. The accused corporation filed for insolvency subsequently following dues it owed State Bank of India and C Ramasubramaniam, a liquidator, was brought in to mediate and settle the debts. A special court in 2017 ordered that the seized gold be transferred to SBI and in the process, it was weighed and found to amount to only 296.1kg. The CBI, when asked about the discrepancy, said it had deposited keys to the 72 vaults with the gold to Chennai principal special court for CBI cases. It further stated that the gold bars were weighed together during the seizure and amounted to 400.5kg, but that they were weighed individually during the liquidation process, giving room to discrepancies. Based on a complaint by Ramasubramaniam, the CB-CID has registered a case under Section 380 (night burglary) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cb-cid-registers-case-on-gold-missing-from-cbi-custody/articleshow/79959426.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||3 Covid deaths, 304 fresh cases in HP||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported three deaths and 304 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday. So far, 54,058 positive cases have been reported in the state out of which 4,347 cases are active, 48,774 patients have recovered, 890 patients have died while 35 have migrated out. Fresh cases were reported from Bilaspur (13), Chamba (8), Hamirpur (22), Kangra (52), Kinnaur (6), Kullu (20), Lahaul-Spiti (9), Mandi (62), Shimla (38), Sirmaur (5), Solan (51) and Una (18) districts. A total of 7,22,290 people have been tested for Covid, of which 6,66,858 have tested negative while results of 1,374 are awaited. The recovery cases were from Bilaspur (25), Chamba (20), Kangra (79), Kinnaur (1), Kullu (23), Lahaul-Spiti (25), Mandi (208), Shimla (95), Sirmaur (23), Solan (89) and Una (35).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-covid-deaths-304-fresh-cases-in-hp/articleshow/79959431.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||After result delay, NU begins 2nd phase of PG admissions||Nagpur: The Nagpur University has issued a new notification for second phase of admissions to postgraduate courses. The second phase was launched as the results of some final year bachelor examinations were delayed, including courses like MA, MSc (home science), MFD, MSW, MA (Mass Communication), MTD, MFA and MLib. In the first phase, admissions for courses like MSc (all branches), MCom, MIRPM, MCM, LLM, cosmetic technology and hospital management were started. “For first phase of admissions, we’ve received over 11,594 applications for various courses. The seat allotment for it would be issued today on the website. The response from the students is good,” deputy registrar with NU college section Raman Madne told TOI. The notification for the second admission phase for NU’s ‘centralized online postgraduate admissions’ mentioned that the online form submissions would commence from December 28 and continue till January 4. The deficiency in applications by students would be informed to them from January 6 to 7, and the deficiency is supposed to be removed by January 8. The provisional merit list would be out on January 10 at 5pm on the university website. Next two days would be granted to the applicants for submission of their grievances if any. The final merit list would be displayed on January 14. The option form submissions would be allowed online between January 15 and 16 while seat allotment would be made on January 17 and students need to confirm the admissions by next day. The admission for the second round would commence from January 23 and students are supposed to report to their respective colleges between January 27 and 30. The classes for the second round of PG admissions would begin from February 1, and the last date for colleges to upload admitted students list on NU portal is February 2, as per the schedule. All PG admissions are already delayed by over six months due to Covid-19 pandemic and NU statutory members are questioning the administration for unnecessarily delaying the process further, leading to loss of academic semester for aspirants. ADMISSIONS SCHEDULE Online form filling on website – Dec 28 to Jan 4 Detecting deficiency in forms – Jan 6 to 7 Compliance submission by students – Jan 6 to 8 Provisional merit list display – Jan 10 at 5pm Submission of grievances – Jan 11 to 12 Final merit list display – Jan 14 Option form submission online – Jan 15 to 16 Seats allotment on website – Jan 17 Confirmation of admission – Jan 18 Vacancy display of Round-I – Jan 22 Form submission for Round-II – Jan 23 to 24 Seats allotment for Round-II – Jan 25 Reporting to respective colleges – Jan 27 to 30 Commencement of classes – Feb 1 Uploading admissions on website – Feb 2 Information brochure & other details on NU website – www.rtmnu.university Courses Master of Arts (MA), Master of Science (MSc Home Science), Master of Fashion Design (MFD), Master of Social Work (MSW), Master of Arts in Mass Communication, Master of Textile Design (MTD), Master of Fine Arts (MFA), Master of Library Science (MLib)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-result-delay-nu-begins-2nd-phase-of-pg-admissions/articleshow/79958457.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Group uses recycled oil canisters to set up urinals for protesters||New Delhi: At Singhu border, there is no dearth of food for protesters, wood to keep them warm and tents to protect them from chilling weather. But the farmers’ protest site is facing a hygiene issue as there are not enough mobile toilets. The ongoing protest against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws entered its 31st day on Friday. To assist the protesters who have come from different states, a group of people have come together to create and set up toilets and urinals made with recycled materials. Their organisation—Basic Shit.org—has been making urinals from recycled oil canisters. “These canisters were discarded by the farmers after using the oil for cooking. We have hired a person from the nearby area who is helping us set up the urinals by stacking the canisters and tying them together. It is a fairly simple process,” said the organisation founder, Ashwani Agrawal. He said that they were paying workers who were helping them dig holes on the side of the road where the urinals were placed. “We add a creeper plant or the reeds from the roadside on the urinals and use stubble, which the farmers have brought with them, as we want to avoid water. The stubble eventually soaks the urine and since there are plants, the urine acts as a fertiliser. To remove the odour, we use charcoal.” The group has also started to set up toilets for women. “These are made with single-use plastic and are dry toilets. We use discarded bottles for the walls of the toilet cubicle and recycled silver foil for the toilet seat. Instead of water to flush, we have provided stubble. The pipe from the commode goes down to ten feet and the stubble soaks all up,” said Dev Gakhar, the design head of the project. One of the organisers, Sahaj Umang Singh, stated that the toilet cubicle was strictly for women and the door remained usually shut. “We have given extra keys to some of the women groups. And have also given the phone numbers that the women can call on if they want the cubicle to be opened.” Agrawal said that “the group wants to build several such toilets for women and over a hundred urinals as part of their effort to promote hygiene at the protest site.” “So far, we have collected over one lakh rupees from donations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/group-uses-recycled-oil-canisters-to-set-up-urinals-for-protesters/articleshow/79959420.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Ex-pilot duped of Rs 25 lakh; case filed at Vaishali Nagar||Jaipur: A ex-pilot in a private airlines on Thursday filed a police complaint against three persons for duping him of Rs 25 lakh. The complaint said Harpreet Singh had invested Rs 36 lakh in a restaurant ‘Al Firangi’ at Vaishali Nagar in return of 27% stakes in the business and Rs 3 lakh per month profit. Singh alleged that his friends Anant Mehta, Ashish Raj and Rohit Malhotra, all residents of Jaipur, offered him a lucrative deal in 2018. “Rohit invited me at the restaurant in February 2018 and offered a partnership with the other two who run it. They told me that cost of the restaurant was Rs 1.36 crore. All I needed to pay was Rs 36 lakh and once I paid it, I would be handed over 27% stakes in the restaurant,” said Singh. The victim agreed to the conditions and paid the entire sum in three instalments by cheques from May to December 2018. However, even after he paid the entire sum, they didn’t transfer the stakes. Recently, he came to know that his friends had sold the restaurant to another party without informing him or keeping him in the loop. “I also got to know that price of the entire set up was only Rs 50 lakh. I started demanding my money back from them and after my continuous pursuance, they returned 11.28 lakh,” said SinghHe wrote a complaint to Vaishali Nagar Police station in November, but was not registered. He went to the court, which directed the police to file the same. Police said that matter was being investigated. “The case has been filed under the Sections 406, 420 and 120 B,” said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-pilot-duped-of-rs-25-lakh-case-filed-at-vaishali-nagar/articleshow/79959422.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Minitruck driver on the phone mows down kid||CHENNAI: A toddler playing in front of his house in Ponneri died after being run over by a mini truck on Thursday. Police said 2.5 years old Mansoor was playing on the road after being fed by his mother. The mini truck was parked a few metres away from his house and children usually played hide-and-seek in the spot, police said. Police said Mansoor’s parents were keeping an eye on the child and added that many children were out playing since the street was narrow and not many vehicles plied on it. Around 11am, the minitruck driver started the vehicle while on a phone call. He reversed the vehicle without noticing Mansoor standing behind and knocked down the kid and ran over him. He realised what had happened only after a few children came running towards the vehicle asking he hit the brakes. Mansoor’s family rushed him to a hospital where doctors told them he was dead. Police said he had sustained injuries on the head. Based on a complaint from his family, police registered a case of negligent and rash driving against the truck driver and have detained him for inquiries. Police said the truck was delivering stock to grocery shops in the locality. The body of the boy was handed over to the family after a postmortem at Ponneri government hospital, police said. The incident left the residents shocked and they claimed many vehicle users sped on the stretch, posing a risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/minitruck-driver-on-the-phone-mows-down-kid/articleshow/79959435.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rao refuses to undergo narco test||Kota: A court on Friday sent former Baran collector Inder Singh Rao, an accused in the Rs 1.40 lakh bribery case, to judicial custody for 14 days. Since the accused was not cooperating in investigation, the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) asked for narco and lie detection tests and served notice in person to him. However, Rao refused to undergo narco and lie detection tests.ACB special branch additional superintendent of police C P Sharma, who is also the investigating officer (IO) of the case, produced Rao before the ACB judge at his residence on Friday afternoon.Sharma said the agency will apply in the court for narco and lie detection tests of the accused. During one-day remand for interrogation, the ACB confronted Rao regarding files that were directly signed by him and not by the ADM, he said.Rao was arrested from Central Park in Jaipur on Wednesday evening.Rao was already removed from his post and was ordered for Awaiting Posting Order (APO) on December 9 after his personal secretary was held with bribe of Rs 1.40 lakh in his office and the collector’s involvement surfaced in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rao-refuses-to-undergo-narco-test/articleshow/79959428.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Three persons detained with gold worth Rs 36 lakh at Jaipur airport||JAIPUR: Three persons were detained at the Jaipur International Airport on Friday with over 700gm of gold valued at approximately Rs 36 lakh. This year the customs department apprehended at least 30 people and seized around 40kg of gold. “A passenger arriving by Air India flight from Dubai was intercepted by the Customs on suspicious behaviour. Gold worth Rs 15.5 lakh was recovered from him while two more persons were detained as well and gold valued at Rs 20.5 lakh was seized from individuals,” said an official. According to officials, total gold recovered was 702gms and further investigation is under way in the matter. The gold was being smuggled in wire form. In the past few months, the customs department at the city airport has apprehended many people, especially those travelling from Thailand and Dubai, for smuggling gold. In 2019, around 9kg of gold brought illegally from outside the country was seized, while according to data available with the customs department, after a brief hiatus in 2017, at least 18-19kg of gold was seized by sleuths of customs in 2018. This was worth nearly Rs 7crore in the Indian market. In 2015 and 2016, there was a sudden rise in smuggling cases, in which Jaipur airport was used as a transit route to smuggle gold in India. However, 2017 did not have any considerable instances of such incidents. Everything, including sandals, iron, fountain pen and even human rectum, are being used by smugglers to conceal gold in various forms, to smuggle into India. It appears that despite the lockdown due to the pandemic, alleged smugglers still managed to find ways to smuggle the precious metal as soon as the restrictions were lifted, but the customs department kept a strict watch to catch them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-persons-detained-with-gold-worth-rs-36-lakh/articleshow/79959430.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
December 26, 2020||Delhi||With Covid-19 prep and winter discounts, markets in Delhi gear up for festive rush||NEW DELHI: Expecting an increase in footfall in shops and restaurants for the New Year celebrations, market associations at various places in the capital have made special arrangements. New Delhi Traders’ Association has organised multiple sanitation drives besides distributing masks at Connaught Place. Various showrooms have announced winter discounts. On Friday, two men in Santa Claus attire were seen distributing masks, sanitising the market and requesting visitors to observe social distancing. “They also distributed candies and sanitiser bottles to people on Christmas eve. On Friday, visitors’ turnout was unprecedented in CP,” said Amit Gupta, executive member of NDTA. “Last year, we had organised a 15-day-long festival in CP, but this time stress is more on the implementation of SMS (social distancing, mask and sanitisation) in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. However, CP is all geared up for celebrations with various restaurants and showrooms decorated beautifully by shopkeepers and many brands offering winter discounts,” said Gupta. At Sarojini Nagar, traders have made detailed arrangements with the help of the district administration to regulate entry of visitors. “While the civic agency and district administration are doing their bit to check everyone entering the market, our private guards are also doing the rounds of the area and requesting shopkeepers, visitors to maintain social distancing,” said Ashok Randhawa of Mini Market Traders’ Association. “We have not done any new decoration but have decided to continue with the lightings , which was done during Diwali, till January 15. Besides, every shop is offering a 10-50% discount,” added Randhawa. On Friday, Greater Kailash-I M Block market was also illuminated. A 20-feet-long Christmas tree was installed in the middle of the market and free rides were offered to kids in a horse cart driven by a person dressed as Santa Claus. “The decoration will last till the beginning of 2021. Various restaurants and shops are also offering schemes and discounts. After a year, some liveliness has returned in the market,” said Rajendra Sharda, M Block market traders’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-covid-prep-and-winter-discounts-markets-in-city-gear-up-for-festive-rush/articleshow/79959441.cms||Vibha Sharma
December 26, 2020||Meerut||Muslim teen held for walking girl home in UP's Bijnor||MEERUT/BIJNOR: A Muslim teenager has been incarcerated in Bijnor jail for 10 days after he walked a Hindu girl home in a Bijnor village one night after attending a friend’s birthday party. It appears to have begun with an allegation of “theft” which, at some point, turned into one of “love jihad”. Around 11pm on December 14, the two were walking through a street in Nasirpur village. “They were returning from a friend’s birthday party. A group of locals spotted them, attacked him and handed the two over to cops at the Nahtaur police station,” the boy’s mother said. In a purported video of the incident, the mob is seen armed with rods and sticks, beating him up. There had been a theft at the village earlier that day. “They suspected us of being thieves and stopped us, saying, ‘You come here to steal things’ … and beat him up,” the girl, 16, said. They were detained at the police station overnight. By the next morning, the case had been moved to the Dhampur police station and word was sent to the girl’s family through the pradhan of their village, Berkheda. “Four members of her family, including her father, signed a supurdginama (custody deed). They gave in writing a statement to the police that they wouldn’t press charges,” gram pradhan Vinod Saini, who was present at the police station, said. “An hour later, the family was summoned again. This time, the cops took a written complaint from the girl’s father.” The complaint said, “The boy had told my daughter he was Hindu and would speak to her on the sly … (That day), he was running away with her to marry her and convert her … When my daughter found out (his name), she escaped, came home and told us everything.” An FIR was filed in the afternoon that day on the basis of the complaint. When the girl was asked if this is what happened, she said, “He was not trying to convert me.” The two had been in elementary school together. While he dropped out later, she continued with her studies. She is in Class XI now. And while the boy’s family said he is 17, police said he was 18 and the FIR was filed. “The accused was booked under sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (abduction to compel marriage) of the IPC, Section 18 of the POCSO Act (sexual harassment), Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act (offence carrying 10 years’ jail term against a member of the SC or ST community), and sections 3 (conversion by fraud, misrepresentation, coercion, allurement or marriage) and 5(1) (punishment for forced conversion) of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance,” Bijnor SP Dharam Veer Singh said. “Based on the girl’s statement under Section 164 of the CrPC (recording of statement before a magistrate) and other corroborative evidence, the accused was arrested and sent to jail.” On Friday evening, 10 days after the attack, police took cognizance of the video and registered an FIR at the Nahtaur police station. “(The Muslim teen) was accosted by a mob who thought he was a thief and beat him up,” a police statement said. Unidentified persons have been booked under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult to provoke) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Two people have been arrested so far. Watch Uttar Pradesh: Muslim teen thrashed for escorting girl home||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/muslim-teen-beaten-up-held-on-love-jihad-charges-for-walking-hindu-girl-home/articleshow/79957807.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Burglar on way to sell stolen goods arrested||AURANGABAD: The detection branch of Cidco police on Friday detected two house break-in and theft cases committed recently and recovered valuables, including 50g of gold ornaments, from the accused. The suspect has been identified as Ganesh Adgale (28) —a habitual offender from Murlidhar nagar in the Osmanpura area of the city. Inspector Ashok Giri said that his patrolling team headed by sub-inspector Kalyan Shelke on Thursday received a tip-off that a suspected burglar on criminal record was reaching TV Centre area to sell some stolen jewelery to a local jeweller. Shelke, who until recently served at Osmanpura police station, had also received a tip-off about the suspect’s involvement in the thefts. The police rushed to the spot and rounded up Ganesh. On frisking him, they found some gold earrings, two necklaces and some other ornaments on him. During preliminary probe, Ganesh confessed to have stolen the jewellery from Ayodhya Nagar and Sudarshan Nagar. Police said Ganesh had sold off a considerable portion of the valuables he had stolen. “Our team managed to nab him before he could dispose off the last portion of the stolen articles. The seized ornaments have a total valuation of Rs 2.75 lakh,” said Giri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/burglar-on-way-to-sell-stolen-goods-arrested/articleshow/79957804.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Covid cap applicable to all patients: West Bengal panel||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has announced all its Covid treatment advisories are applicable to non-Covid patients as well and that the latter will be eligible for all the benefits that have so far been extended to those who tested positive for novel coronavirus. In an advisory dated December 23, the WBCERC said while the advisories were primarily issued to “streamline the treatment and management of Covid... most of it are also relevant in case of treatment of other patients”. This now makes it mandatory for private hospitals to offer discounts on high-end medicines, consumables and investigations—these were restricted to Covid patients only—to all those admitted for treatment. Urging the commission to re-consider the advisory, private hospitals pointed out it would be an enormous financial burden on them at a time when they were facing monetary challenge. In August, WBCERC issued an advisory, asking hospitals to offer a 10% discount on high-end drugs and 20% discount on investigation charges and consumables. It also fixed a daily cap of Rs 1,000 on doctors’ consultation fees, which could be raised to Rs 2,000 in case the patient needed to be examined by a super-specialist. The new advisory said, “It has been noticed that some clinical establishments have non-clarity regarding its (advisories) application. They have the wrong notion that these are applicable to the treatment of Covid patients only. Now, it is made abundantly clear that all the advisories will be applicable to all the patients irrespective of Covid status.” Contesting the claim that the earlier advisory had extended discounts to non-Covid patients, some private hospitals said they would seek a withdrawal of the order. “Discounts to Covid patients are justified as the expenses are often very high, especially for those who need ICU care. But if medicines and investigations are discounted for all, it will be difficult for us to sustain our operations. It will also send out a wrong signal that we overcharge patients,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua. This could be a major setback for hospitals struggling to strike a balance between Covid and non-Covid patients, felt Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. “We have made major investments on resources for Covid treatment at a time when other patients were very few. Now, the number of non-Covid patients is on the rise and Covid units may have to shrink soon. So, our financial burden will increase manifold,” said Mitra. Another private hospital chief said they would not follow the advisory. “We are not in a position to offer discounts to all patients. So far, we have barely managed to offer it to Covid patients,” he said. Most hospitals were finding it difficult to provide 20% rebate to Covid patients on consumables and medicines, said Barua. “Consumables and drugs have a thin margin. If it has to be extended to all, we will be under severe financial stress. We appeal to the commission to restrict discounts to Covid patients,” added Barua.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-cap-applicable-to-all-patients-panel/articleshow/79959443.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 26, 2020||India||Maha BJP leader who joined NCP sent ED notice||MUMBAI: Two months after he joined NCP, the Enforcement Directorate has sent a notice to former minister and ex-BJP member Eknath Khadse in connection with the MIDC land deal which led to his resignation from the Devendra Fadnavis ministry, sources said on Friday. Khadse said he had not received the notice. “I am told that the ED is in the process of issuing a notice to me and may ask me to appear before it on Wednesday. In the event I am summoned, I will cooperate with the agency,” he told TOI. Khadse, who had to quit as revenue minister after a controversy over his family members buying a plot reserved for acquisition by MIDC, said he had got information that the ED was probing the money-laundering aspect in the land deal in Pune district. “The entire deal was probed by I-T department, twice by the Anti-Corruption Bureau and by a retired HC judge MD Zoting. All agencies have given me a clean chit. Now let ED probe the transaction. I will cooperate and provide them with all relevant documents,” Khadse said. Khadse pointed out that the deal was between his wife, son-in-law and a Pune-based landlord and added it was wrong to link his name to the transaction. “I was revenue minister, and my wife had taken a loan for purchasing the land,” he said. He has taken the view that even as the MIDC was claiming ownership of the small piece of land in Bhosari in Pune district, the land was never transferred in MIDC’s name and that the original land owner was still paying taxes to the local authority. The then CM Fadnavis had ordered a judicial probe into the transaction and appointed former judge MD Zoting to inquire into the deal. Zoting did submit the report to the government, but it wasn’t made public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maha-bjp-leader-who-joined-ncp-sent-ed-notice/articleshow/79960999.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||9 deaths, 320 cases in Punjab||Chandigarh: Punjab reported 320 fresh cases while nine people died of Covid-19 in Punjab on Friday. Of total deaths, three each were reported in Jalandhar and Amritsar and one each in Patiala, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana. A total of 48 people were tested positive in Mohali, while 43 people were found infected in Ludhiana, 40 in Patiala, 31 in Amritsar, 28 in Bathinda, 26 in Jalandhar, 20 in Gurdaspur, 16 in Kapurthala, 15 in Hoshiarpur, 13 in Ropar, 10 in Pathankot, five each in Ferozepur and Faridkot, four each in Sangrur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Muktsar, and two each in Moga, Nawanshahr and Fazilka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/9-deaths-320-cases-in-punjab/articleshow/79959434.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Will quit if Revanth Reddy made PCC chief: V Hanumantha Rao||HYDERABAD: Even as the Congress high command is expected to finalise the name of TPCC president in a couple of days, party veteran and former MP V Hanumantha Rao has threatened to quit the party if Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy is made the party chief in Telangana. Among the top contenders for the post are Revanth, Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, D Sridhar Babu, Madhu Yashki Goud, Marri Shashidhar Reddy, Ponnam Prabhakar and Jeevan Reddy. “Not only me, a large number of seniors would leave the party if the high command finalises the name of Revanth for the key post. I am urging Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi to appoint a Congress loyalist to the coveted post and not those who came into the party two to three years ago,” Rao said. Revanth Reddy, who was in Delhi, reacted sharply to Rao’s charges. “This is a clear case of a campaign to malign my image when the exercise to finalise the TPCC chief’s post is in the final stages,” he told TOI. Revanth is expected to return to Hyderabad in the early hours of Saturday. Shashidhar Reddy took a safe stand stating the party needs to give confidence to the people and keep the core strength of the party intact by selecting a Congress loyalist. There is also a section of leaders within the Congress who are strongly in favour of Revanth being given the party president’s post and submitted their opinion to AICC in charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore during the consultation process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-quit-if-revanth-made-pcc-chief-vhr/articleshow/79959444.cms||Roushan Ali
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC grants police protection to interfaith couple||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court has granted police protection to an interfaith couple while also directing the district magistrate (DM) of Haridwar to inquire why the application for conversion of the woman from Islam to Hinduism has not been processed yet. The Bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani was hearing a plea filed by a woman, named Afsana, seeking police protection on Wednesday. The woman claims that she has converted and now identifies herself as Anjali. She married Mohit Kumar on December 16. She has alleged that her brothers, Aarif and Aasif, were against her marriage and conversion. They are now threatening the couple. Though the court observed that the marriage and the conversion were prima facie in violation of the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018, as no permission was taken from the DM, it said that the protection was being given “in the interest of justice” and based on the law laid down by the Supreme Court. The court heard the couple through video conferencing and commented that they “seem articulate”. The couple told the court that they had moved an application for conversion before the DM over two weeks ago, but it is yet to be processed. The court then directed the DM to inquire into the matter. “We direct the district magistrate, Haridwar, to inquire from the appropriate authorities and persons as to why application of petitioner no.1 [Anjali] for conversion has not been processed, and if processed when,” read the court order. “We direct the Haridwar SSP to coordinate with the subordinate officers of police and give suitable directions to the concerned SHO, to provide necessary protection to the petitioners as there is a threat perception at the hands of respondent nos. 3 & 4 [Aarif and Aasif],” the court has said. Meanwhile, the HC has sent notices to Anjali’s brothers directing them to respond within three weeks. It has also directed the HC's registrar general to send the copy of the order to DM for compliance. The case will now be heard on March 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-grants-police-protection-to-interfaith-couple/articleshow/79958468.cms||Prashant Jha
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Air quality improves a bit, still ‘very poor’||NEW DELHI: The air quality of the national capital on Friday improved to the middle end of ‘very poor’ category. Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index (AQI) was 357 as against 423 on Thursday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Track the pollution level in your cityDelhi had recorded three consecutive ‘severe’ days from Tuesday to Thursday. However, as the wind speed picked up on Friday, it helped in pushing the city’s air from ‘severe’ to ‘very poor’ category by clearing the accumulated pollutants. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Strong winds helped in cleaning Delhi’s air. The average wind speed recorded on Friday was 15 kmph and it even increased to 18 kmph during the day.” System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) said on Friday, “The overall air quality has improved to the ‘very poor’ category as forecast. Surface-level winds are moderate and west southwesterly. Marginally, better ventilation condition is forecast for the next two days.” “The air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally owing to slow winds and poor ventilation but remain in ‘very poor’ category on Saturday and upper end of ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ category on Sunday,” according to Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi. Delhi has recorded four ‘severe’ days in December so far when the AQI crossed the 400-mark mainly due to meteorological factors. In November, the capital had reported nine ‘severe’ days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-quality-improves-a-bit-still-very-poor/articleshow/79959437.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Few takers for South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s AC community halls||NEW DELHI: Reducing demand for air-conditioned community halls has forced South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to look for alternative arrangements, such as reducing the booking rates and making use of AC facilities optional. As per the proposed changes, rent charges of an AC community hall in category A have been decided as Rs 25,000, in B category Rs 15,000 and in C category Rs 10,000. The proposed revised rates were approved in a standing committee meeting on Thursday and now, it will be tabled in the House for final approval. “Those wanting to avail the air-conditioning facility (without diesel generator and electricity) will need to pay Rs 5,000 per day extra. However, the booking parties will need to arrange a DG set of 750 KVA capacity on their own for supply of electricity to AC units,” said leader of House Narendra Chawla. “The present rent of such halls with DG sets seems to be very high. It costs Rs 50,000 per day with a DG set and Rs 30,000 without it. Some booking parties do not wish to avail the AC facility in the community hall but as per the existing rules, they still require to pay for it. Soon, a person may be able to book the hall without availing the AC facility also,” Chawla explained. In addition to this, sanitation charges of Rs 1,500 per day and GST at the rate of 18% extra on rent are also currently levied. An user deposits a refundable security amount of Rs 15,000 too. Due to such high charges of AC community halls in south Delhi, the booking percentage is very low, which results in revenue loss to the civic body. “The four community halls at Dwarka Sector 22, 17, Begumpur and Hari Nagar received only 20 bookings in one year,” stated the proposal. Operation and maintenance of diesel generator sets installed at these AC community halls is also a challenge for SDMC. “Therefore, direction was given in the past to remove them after which the engineering department removed it from one place,” the proposal mentioned. In comparison, the rent of non-AC community halls varies from Rs 2,000-Rs 25,000 per day, depending on their categories. “For non-AC community halls also, we have suggested the commissioner to review their booking status, consult councillors and bring down their rates if required to increase booking percentage,” said Chawla. SDMC has a total of 97 community halls, of which 10 have air-conditioning facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/few-takers-for-sdmcs-ac-community-halls/articleshow/79959471.cms||Vibha Sharma
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Made in India Covaxin catches global eye, says ICMR||HYDERABAD: India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, has garnered global interest thanks to the promising results generated by its Phase I and II trials, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Friday. “The indigenous vaccine against Covid-19 (COVAXIN) – a product of ICMR-Bharat Biotech collaboration – achieves remarkable feat. Data generated from within India underlines remarkable safety and immunogenicity profile of COVAXIN and sparks Lancet’s interest in publishing them,” ICMR tweeted. Read AlsoAntibodies generated by Covaxin may persist for 6-12 months: Bharat BiotechIndia’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin has showed long-term antibody and T-cell memory responses three months after vaccination in Phase I volunteers. Covaxin can generate antibodies that may persist for 6-12 months, Bharat Biotech said in a research paper.Lancet, the renowned peer-reviewed medical journal, is in the process of getting the Phase I/II data generated by Covaxin reviewed, sources said. In fact, such is the interest generated by Covaxin that even before this data was published in any peer-reviewed medical journal, US-based biopharma player Ocugen Inc inked a binding letter of intent with Bharat Biotech to co-develop the vaccine for the US market. Bharat Biotech, which saw envoys of over 64 nations visit its facilities earlier this month, is in parleys for taking Covaxin to several other countries across the globe. Also, even as PM Narendra Modi visited its facilities in late November, Bharat Biotech CMD Dr Krishna Ella and joint MD Suchitra Ella met Vice President Venkaiah Naidu at his residence in the city on Friday to apprise him about the latest on the Covaxin front. The whole-viron inactivated vaccine candidate, developed on the vero cell manufacturing platform, is currently undergoing Phase III trials in India on 26,000 volunteers after Phase I and II trials were conducted on around 1,000 volunteers. Covaxin’s Phase I/II data was first uploaded on Wednesday on ‘medRxiv’, a server that carries preprints of research work before it is peer reviewed. The research paper had stated that Covaxin can generate antibodies that may persist for six to 12 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/made-in-india-covaxin-has-garnered-global-attention-says-icmr/articleshow/79959458.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
December 26, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Reintroduce Godavari Express’||NASHIK: Members of the divisional railway users’ consultative committee (DRUCC) have demanded that the Manmad-LTT Godavari Express, that starts from Manmad in Nashik district in the morning and leaves from Mumbai in the evening, be reintroduced with immediate effect. An online meeting chaired by divisional railway manager Vivek Kumar Gupta was recently held. DRUCC member from Nashik Gurmeet Singh Rawal presented a memorandum seeking the reintroduction of Godavari Express. “The train facilitates the commute of daily passengers from Manmad and other rural areas of Nashik district to the district headquarters. A large number of people from Nashik also take the train to go Mumbai for their businesses and jobs and take the same train in the evening to return to their homes,” said Rawal. During the meeting, Rawal also questioned whether the Railways was planning to permanently remove Godavari Express as another train has been operating on the times of its arrival in and departure from LTT. “The railway board decides on these matters. At this point of time, there is no decision on extension or permanently replacing Godavari Express,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/reintroduce-godavari-express/articleshow/79957813.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP workers heckle each other||Hyderabad: Two groups of local BJP workers heckled each other during the birth anniversary celebrations of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee at Rehmat Nagar in Borabanda on Friday. Venkatesh, who contested from Rehmat Nagar division as BJP candidate in the recent GHMC polls, alleged that he was assaulted by Sandeep Yadav, BJP worker from Somajiguda along with eight of his associates during the cake cutting celebrations at Rehmat Nagar. “We do not know the reason for the assault. I have lodged a complaint with Jubilee Hills police against Sandeep and others,” Venkatesh said. Jubilee Hills inspector S Rajasekhar Reddy said that a compliant has been received and appropriate legal action will be initiated. tnN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-workers-heckle-each-other/articleshow/79959433.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Indira Nagar MRTS station turns canvas for inclusion of HIV+ve||CHENNAI: The sprawling façade of Indira Nagar MRTS (Mass Rapid Transport System) station is set to get a facelift, literally. The bland looking edifice will now feature portraits of people including PLHIV (People Living with HIV) as part of an inclusivity campaign by the state government. The project is a collaboration of Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS), Southern Railway, Tidel Park and NGO St+Art India. “The idea was to create an urban art that also serves as an awareness on AIDS and was commissioned as part of our World AIDS Day campaign. The theme to have portraits of people with and without HIV alongside is part of the HIV campaign around the world for global solidarity and shared responsibility,” an official with TANSACS said. Artists, who were involved in the recent transformation of Kannagi Nagar slum clearance board tenements into an art district, are part of the project. The station’s whole façade of about 55,000sqft will be their canvas. TANSACS has already initiated a social media campaign to create awareness about AIDS and the necessity for PLHIV to be treated without discrimination. Awareness messages, helpline numbers and other misinformation about AIDS and HIV infection are addressed regularly by the society’s social media mascot ‘Punch Paati’ through their Twitter page. According to a statement made by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami ahead of World AIDS day (December 1), the government has brought down HIV prevalance in the state to 0.18 % and with continued efforts, TANSACS aims to make the prevalence zero. Chennai-based artist A-Kill and Khatra have begun working on the project, which is expected to be completed by the second week of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/indira-nagar-mrts-stn-turns-canvas-for-inclusion-of-hivve/articleshow/79959446.cms||Srikkanth D
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||All of 18, gritty Sangrur cyclist sets off on a motivational trail||JIND: Showing solidarity with farmers, an 18-year-old cyclist Baljit Kaur left her home from Sangrur district of Punjab for Delhi’s Tikri border to join the ongoing protest against the three farm laws. She left her home along with a relative in early hours on Thursday and is expected to reach Tikri by late evening covering over 300 kms on her cycle. When she reached Jind at noon, Baljit was given a warm welcome at Jhanjh Khurd village by farmers who threw flowers on her for a few minutes. Elderly people were glad to see her on a bicycle. The girl fixed a BKU flag on her bicycle and planned a week’s stay at the Tikri border to support farmers and motivate them to fight for their rights. “I am a gold medallist in cycling for three times and therefore, decided to make a trip till the Tikri border on my cycle to support farmers. My mother motivated me to step out of home to raise the voice for farmers. I want to give a message to those who are still sitting in their homes to join the protest at Delhi borders,” Baljit said while talking to TOI. “When our elderly people are camping at borders, the youth too have a duty to support them by joining their protest who are fighting to secure our future. I wanted to show that when one can go by their car, then a girl also can cover the journey on a cycle, so that others may get the message and come out of their respective homes to strengthen the agitation. “I urge the Prime Minister to repeal these anti-farmer laws as farmers are in a distress in such a cold weather. The PM should not be so adamant as we have decided to fight till last,” Baljit added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/at-18-gritty-sangrur-girl-cyclist-motivates-others-to-join-the-stir/articleshow/79959452.cms||VIJENDER KUMAR
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||An eventful year for GHMC||A lot has happened on the civic front in 2020, including a fiercely fought GHMC election. Nabinder Bommala shows in this report card how the GHMC fared last year Areas of poor performance by GHMC Sanitation: Hyderabad saw a drop by 30 places — from 35th to 65th place — in Swachh Survekshan rankings 2020 2BHK houses: GHMC planned construction of 75,000 2BHK houses by December, but verification revealed that at several places houses are still under construction. At sites where construction has completed , people are awaiting basic amenities such as electricity and water. Kattal Mandi, Nampally and Ziaguda are two such examples 50 theme parks: Rs123 crore sanctioned, but works moving at snail’s pace Silt removal: As per GHMC records, under 2020 yearly schedule, 4.79 lakh cubic metres silt should be removed by May. However, only 2.6 lakh cubic metres removed. GHMC officials claimed that most work completed, but verification revealed several nalas are yet to be desilted. Khairtabad nala and Hussainsagar nala are two examples Washrooms: Several washrooms in the city not operational. Many not yet connected to sewage network Pedestrian project: Works pertaining to Charminar pedestrianisation project stopped mid way in 2020 Bad roads: Internal/colony roads in bad shape. Roads near Jubilee Hills Club, Raghavendra Colony roads in Serilingampally zone, Masjid Banda Road, Kondapur and Kompally Road are some examples GHMC properties: GHMC turned a blind eye towards its properties. They are neither being developed nor measures taken to generate revenue by transferring expired lease agreements taken up Graveyards: Works pertaining to construction/development of model graveyards at slow pace Areas where GHMC did well Action against encroachments: GHMC’s enforcement, vigilance and disaster management (EVDM) demolished dozens of encroachments on lakes and public places. The directorate also penalised dozens of malls, hotels , and supermarkets for flouting norms. Pubs served notices for fire safety but owners of commercial establishments approached court Flood relief: Disaster response force (DRF) shone bright during the floods as it rescued dozen’s of stranded people. In June, EVDM staffers pressed into service in Warangal to rescue flood victims Citizen safety: New advertisement policy rolled out in 2020 to ensure safety of denizens Revenue Generation methods: Transfer of development rights (TDR) turned out to be a revenue grosser. The civic body saved over Rs1,400 crore due to TDR, and executed infrastructure projects One-time amnesty scheme’ for clearing property tax arrears. Of 5.64 lakh property owners, who did not pay their dues for a decade, 1.1 lakh cleared them this year Infrastructure: Of 37 slip roads planned in phase one, five inaugurated and works at 27 places being executed. At remaining sites. land acquisition underway. 26 major roads widened, 9 flyovers constructed along with four underpasses, three ROB/RUBs and one cable bridge at a cost of Rs1,010 crore in 2020 Five animal care centres renovated. NGOs roped in to control stray dog population||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/an-eventful-year-for-ghmc/articleshow/79959438.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Light rain is likely in Chennai next week, says Met||CHENNAI: With cold winds from northern regions moving towards Tamil Nadu, pleasant days and slightly nippy nights are likely to continue over this weekend as weathermen have forecast minimum temperatures to hover around 20C. Private forecasters and bloggers said monsoon may not be over yet as rainfall is likely to begin over some parts of the state including Chennai towards the end of December due to a cyclonic circulation and an associated trough. IMD has forecast sky conditions to be generally cloudy with maximum and minimum temperatures likely to be around 30C and 20C in the city for the next 48 hours. In its five-day forecast for the state, the agency said dry weather is likely to prevail over Tamil Nadu till December 27. On December 28 and 29, light rain is likely to occur at isolated places. On Friday, Nungambakkam recorded 29.8C and Meenambakkam 29.5C during the day. Before sunrise, temperatures had dropped to 20.7C and 20.1C in both the stations. They were 0.8C and 1.1C below normal. “Temperatures have dropped due to cold winds from the north-northeast parts of the country where it is winter season,” an official said. But that is likely to change early next week as a cyclonic circulation near Andaman Sea and an associated trough extending to Tamil Nadu is likely to bring rainfall to the coastal regions of Tamil Nadu including Chennai. “We can expect easterlies-induced light to moderate rain by December 28 or 29. It may last for at least two days,” said Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist, Skymet Weather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/light-rain-is-likely-in-city-next-week-says-met/articleshow/79959501.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Private hospitals to meet on Monday over Swasthya Sathi||KOLKATA: Private hospitals have been asked to attend a meeting at Swasthya Bhavan on Monday to discuss the new Swasthya Sathi scheme. This follows a plea by private hospitals that since the rates under the scheme were too low to make it feasible, they need to be rationalized through consultations and re-drawn by an expert committee. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on November 26 announced that the scheme, which had so far been restricted to the underprivileged, would be extended to the entire population of Bengal. “The rates under the scheme are almost one-third of our normal charges or even lower. While we believe the scheme will help reach quality healthcare services to all in the state, we will request the authorities to revise the rates for private hospitals,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua, also the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. Barua proposed Swasthya Sathi should have separate categories for treatment and procedures. Another hospital chief said running costs were very high. “It’s not just the cost of treatment but also the quality of care for which we need to invest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-to-meet-on-monday-over-swasthya-sathi/articleshow/79959480.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lawyer plea to monitor case after raids||NEW DELHI: A court on Friday directed Delhi Police to file a status report following a plea filed by advocate Mehmood Pracha for court monitoring of an alleged case of forgery and false complaint. The court also asked for the footage of “any search conducted” on the lawyer’s premises. Following the raids conducted at Pracha’s office premises on Thursday, he filed the plea alleging malice on police’s part. Metropolitan magistrate Anshul Singhal said, “Investigating officer (IO) is directed to file a reply to application under Section 165(5) CrPC by December 27, 2020. IO is further directed to remain present in court along with entire video footage of any search conducted by him of office premises of the applicant.” The officer was also directed to file a status report on FIR number 212/2020 registered by Special Cell, and place it before the court on January 5. The offences in the FIR relate to forgery, false evidence, cheating, criminal conspiracy, etc. Arguing before the court, Pracha said “police had to be stopped and can’t be allowed to take the law into their own hands”. His application alleged an “egregious example of lawlessness and illegalities under the guise of investigation” by Delhi Police. In August, a court had ordered Delhi Police’s Crime Branch or Special Cell to investigate the allegations of forgery and false deposition by a complainant apparently on the “instigation by a senior member of the Bar”. The complaint was filed by Irshad Ali on March 4 about his shop being looted and burnt during the northeast Delhi riots. Ali subsequently filed two complaints, on May 22 and July 14, accusing the investigating officer of malafide intentions. Since this became a ground for a bail application of another accused, the court had directed police to file a report in the matter. In the report of the DCP (northeast) to additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav, it was alleged that Ali had changed his stance during the course of the litigation after a lawyer instigated him to “depose falsely” by way of a “forged affidavit”. The report quoted Ali as claiming before the cops that a lawyer who was representing another riot accused had called him to his office and offered to assist him with an eyewitness in a similar case. In his original complaint, Ali had said his shop near Dayalpur was set afire by rioters, none of whom he could identify by face. During the police inquiry directed by the court, he claimed that the lawyer had approached him earlier this month and claimed his client had seen the rioters burning his shop and requested him to agree to a joint complaint to make a stronger case. Ali agreed, though, he said, he had never seen the eyewitness earlier. Further inquiries established that the joint complainant was himself a suspect in another riot case and had been evading arrest since February. The new affidavit submitted in court by the lawyer was signed by a notary named Sanjay Saxena, who, according to his widow, had died on November 14, 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lawyer-plea-to-monitor-case-after-raids/articleshow/79959612.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||LRS hassle: Many say forced to apply||Hyderabad: Real estate dealers, builders and people who own properties are a worried lot, struggling to get permission under the Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS). In many panchayats surrounding the city, especially in Ranga Reddy district, people are being told that registrations will go through only with LRS approval. Many owners with layouts, falling under the panchayats have not applied for LRS, as it was needed only for municipal areas. It is estimated that there could be 50,000 such ventures in Ranga Reddy alone. Officials in sub-registrar offices are asking for LRS permission, but there have been complaints that they have already paid the fees and completed other formalities as per panchayat rules. Chalans were also paid as per the panchayat rules. Many people disposing land to educate their kids or for marriages, have now been left in the lurch. “I have small 200 yard plot in Ravirala, but when I come to sub registrar’s they have been asking for LRS documents,” said Piduri Shyam Sekhar, a retired employee. “Small players like document writes, agencies, brokers and small real estate companies are paying a huge price,” said SVR Kumar, real estate builder from Ranga Reddy. Several real estate associations have been protesting the LRS as part of week-long programme. There were protests before sub resistrar offices in Ranga Reddy, Khammam, Mahbubnagar and Nizamabad. In other districts also real estate owners demanded that LRS be rolled back and 130 GO scrapped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lrs-hassle-many-say-forced-to-apply/articleshow/79959472.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Vajpayee’s statue unveiled at Shimla||Shimla: Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur unveiled the Rs 1.08-crore statue of late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee at the Ridge in Shimla on Friday on his 96th birth anniversary. Thakur said the 18-foot statue is a token of love and affection from people of state towards Vajpayee who shared a special connect with Himachal Pradesh, which he fondly called his “second home”. He said despite his busy schedule, Vajpayee would never miss an opportunity to come to Himachal Pradesh and spend a few days at his home in Prini village near Manali while enjoying the green environs, meeting villagers over their small little demands and holding poetry sessions. Addressing the ‘Atal Samriti Samaroh’ on the occasion of ‘Sushashan Divas’ by the state language, art and culture department at Gaiety Theatre, the chief minister said Vajpayee was a great personality who emerged as a statesman with a national appeal due to his politics of principles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vajpayees-statue-unveiled-at-shimla/articleshow/79959474.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Local trains are running, but closed ticket counters a pain||CHENNAI: Suburban train services may be returning to pre-Covid times, but commuters face a peculiar problem — locked ticket counters — at six stations on the Chennai-Tiruvallur route. Commuters from Tirumullaivoil, Annanur, Hindu College, Nemilicherry, Putlur and Egattur stations are not able to get on to the trains despite them halting there as ticket counters are not functioning. With no prior intimation about the counters being unavailable, commuters learn about it only after reaching the station and many choose not to board trains as they could be penalised if caught travelling without tickets. The counters are run by private agents on contract as these stations are classified as ‘halt’ stations and railways was yet to allow the agents to start selling tickets. K Baskar, a frequent commuter and former member of divisional rail users consultative committee, said, “This did not affect the commuters till now because only railway staff were using the trains. They should have told the agents to start selling tickets when it was decided to allow the general public take the trains.” From December 23, members of the public have been allowed to take the trains during non-peak hours. Patronage in suburban services have grown to be close to a lakh since. Since the counters are closed, people at the stations are either forced to make a detour and board trains at stations located a few kilometres away or take buses to reach the city. “People are forced to travel an additional 2-3km to reach another station to buy tickets. People from Egattur have to go to Tiruvallur to board trains while those from Nemilicherry go to Tiruninravur or Pattabiram stations. Many are inconvenienced because they find out about lack of ticket counters only after reaching the station,” said Raghavendra Bhat, a resident of Putlur. “My wife wanted to take the train home after visiting a relative at Nemilichery since it was convineient and safer, considering Covid-19. But that wasn’t possible,” he added. People are forced to spend Rs 30 and use buses to reach places such as Avadi. A majority of the people are travelling during peak hours. “We have been demanding the railways to scrap the concept of halt stations and appoint their staff to run the counters,” Baskar said. He also said railways was yet to understand commuter requirements. “On Friday, several people who worked in private companies suffered because railways operated just seven trains in the morning peak hours as it’s a public holiday,” he added. A railway official said there wasn’t much patronage and that agents will have to keep running the counters. “This may not be an ideal situation as they operate on the basis of a commission for selling tickets. The counters will be opened soon as the number of commuters has increased,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/local-trains-are-running-but-closed-ticket-counters-a-pain/articleshow/79959473.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi Municipal Corporation okays use of cow-dung cakes for ‘moksha’||NEW DELHI: The standing committee of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) believes that “man attains moksha (salvation) through cow” and has approved a proposal for using cow-dung cakes and parali (stubble) at its cremation grounds. The resolution, which was passed unanimously on Thursday, states that if this change is implemented, it will help in preventing cow slaughter and reducing environmental damage. The standing committee was considering a preliminary resolution that was sent to it by the special (medical relief and public health) committee on November 9. The special committee proposal was moved by Nandini Sharma, the councillor from Malviya Nagar, and seconded by Rajiv Kumar, another councillor. The recommendation to the House of councillors through the standing committee states that last rites of bodies at SDMC’s cremation facilities in all 104 wards under four zones be performed through dung cakes along with paddy straw so that “they attain moksha (salvation) because it is mentioned/found in the Vedas that man attains salvation through cow”. The resolution also claims that while it takes more than five hours for cremation to be completed through wood, a cremation using cow dung cakes needs two-three hours and the amount of substance required is also less. It will lead to less environmental damage at the same time and help in preventing cow slaughter, the resolution argues. “This committee resolves that dung cakes made from dung and paddy straw be used for the cremation at cremation grounds,” it reads. The proposal will now be taken up by the House in its next meeting for final approval. A senior corporation official said that while some of the reasons provided for the change might be based on personal religious beliefs, a partial replacement of wood might indeed help in reducing environmental damage. “Pilot projects are already being carried out in many cities like Bhopal and Nagpur to replace firewood used in cremation with gobar kashth (wood-like dry blocks made from cattle dung) and IIT-Delhi had also come up with a similar project a few years ago,” the official said. The public health departments of the civic bodies estimate that around 80,000-90,000 cremations take place in Delhi annually. Officials say that if successful, the project may help them in solving the waste management of dairy colonies and will also save lakhs of trees. Around three-four lakh trees are estimated to be used annually in the capital’s cremation grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-moksha-saving-trees-sdmc-panel-okays-use-of-cow-dung-cakes-for-last-rites/articleshow/79959495.cms||Paras Singh
December 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Kalamba jail gets new chief, to probe ganja smuggling bid||KOLHAPUR: Three days after unidentified people tried to throw marijuana and mobile phones inside Kalamba jail, its superintendent Sharad Shelke has been transferred with immediate effect. Yerwada jail superintendent C H Indulkar has been given temporary charge of the post. Shelke’s transfer order was issued during the visit of additional inspector general of police (prisons) Sunil Ramanand on Friday. He was in Kolhapur for two days and conducted an inquiry. During his visit to Kalamba jail, a search operation took place and statements of some jail personnel and inmates were recorded. Ramanand told the media on Friday evening that the police and jail administration are looking into the case. “We will soon trace all those involved and nobody will be spared. A proposal has also been sent to install CCTVs at all the jails in the state,” he said. According to the police, two people had come in a car on Tuesday night near Kalamba jail and threw three separate parcels tied to a cloth inside the jail premises. Jail administration found 750 grams of marijuana, ten cell phones, two pen drives and four chargers. This is the second incident involving Kalamba jail, in which, attempt was made to supply marijuana inside the prison using the same modus operandi. Similar incident had taken place in November when three people tried to lob tennis balls stuffed with ganja inside the prison. After taking charge, Indulkar told reporters that he would address the problems of Kalamba jail by ensuring better coordination between the jail staff and police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kalamba-jail-gets-new-chief-to-probe-ganja-smuggling-bid/articleshow/79957868.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Inter-state burglars held, property worth Rs 26L seized||Hyderabad: Nacharam police arrested an inter-state gang of burglars and seized Rs 26 lakh worth stolen property, including 42 tola gold, from their possession. Acting on specific information, the sleuths of Malkajgiri central crime station team along with Nacharam police arrested Mohammed Sabdar (25), a petty vendor from Uttar Pradesh, and Mohammed Ayub (58), an auto driver from Bahadurpura, near Pot Market in Secunderabad on Thursday. During the interrogation, the duo confessed that along with their associate Mohammed Nayeem (22) of Uttar Pradesh, they have committed three burglaries in the city. Based on their confession, police recovered 42 tola gold, 70 tola silver and Rs 36,000 cash, all worth Rs 26 lakh. According to Nacharam police, Sabdar was earlier involved in 33 burglaries in UP, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Ayub was involved in 114 cases in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Preventive detention order was also invoked against Ayub by Shamshabad and Chilakalguda police in 2017 and 2018 respectively. The accused have committed three burglaries at Nacharam and Dundigal in the last few months, targeting the locked houses. The accused along with the seized property were produced before the court. The accused were sent in judicial remand for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-state-burglars-held-property-worth-rs-26l-seized/articleshow/79959503.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 26, 2020||Chennai||73 streets in Chennai prone to flooding to get fresh drains||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation will be laying stormwater drains adding up to 32km in 73 streets in the city that witnessed water-logging during the recent northeast monsoon. This includes 23 areas that GCC deemed needed fresh drains after repeated complaints from residents and a field survey. Work will begin immediately in all locations so it can be wrapped up before monsoon next year, an official release from GCC said. Measurements and other ground-level data collection has started and a review meeting was conducted at the Ripon building by GCC commissioner G Prakash with regional deputy commissioners P Akash, P N Sridhar, Alby John, deputy commissioner (works) Meghnath Reddy, chief engineer (general) L Nandakumar and other officials. Baba Nagar in Villivakkam and RK Shanmugham Road in KK Nagar are among the areas identified. Prakash had earlier indicated that expert opinion from IIT Madras would be taken for the project. The civic body also has other SWD projects coming up. A project funded by Asian Development Bank (ADB) for drains in the Kosasthalaiyar river basin, which will cover areas in north and west Chennai, will soon get going. Construction of SWD in the Kovalam basin in south Chennai using German technology and funds from German development bank kfw is underway. To prevent flooding in areas such as Semmanchery and Thalambur, GCC with the public works department will undertake a cut-and-cover drain project that will link the areas to Buckingham Canal. Three of the five drains will be constructed by GCC from Pallikaranai and Radial Road to the canal, from Perumbakkam to the canal and Nookampalayam to the canal. PWD will be constructing constructing two similar drains from Thalambur and Navalur to the canal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/73-streets-in-city-prone-to-flooding-to-get-fresh-drains/articleshow/79959538.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Loan fraud: Telangana HC refuses to quash CBI cases against company||HYDERABAD: Taking note of the fraudulent manner in which banks are allowing one-time settlement (OTS) methods of the big loan defaulters who are getting away from the loan frauds by paying a pittance from the loans they availed, the high court on Friday said it will not allow the defaulters and fraudsters to get away from the criminal cases with the same ease with which they are coming out from the banks. The loss these defaulters are causing is affecting the society also because the money they misused is public money, Justice K Lakshman said while refusing to quash the cases filed by CBI from Bengaluru and Enforcement Directorate from Hyderabad against Ishoo Narang of a company and its directors Chandulal Patel and Rudra Raju Srinivas Shah who availed loans from banks and did not repay. Finally, the banks gave them the OTS offer, and accordingly, they paid Rs 62 crore and came out of the loan burden despite availing Rs 134 crore from different banks, which has grown to Rs 241 crore, with interest over a period of time. Since the loans are cleared, the directors of the company now want the court to relieve them from the criminal cases booked by CBI and ED. The judge did not agree with this and said that there is prima facie material to show that what the petitioners did falls within the purview of economic offenses and hence the court is not inclined to give them the relief they sought. Referring to contents of the report furnished by the ED, the judge said that an OTS is no ground to close the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/loan-fraud-hc-refuses-to-quash-cbi-cases-against-co/articleshow/79959475.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Railway nod for Tallah road overbridge masterplan||KOLKATA: Eastern Railway (ER) has approved the final masterplan for the Tallah bridge. The north Kolkata lifeline is actually a road overbridge (ROB) under the ER’s ambit and needs its approvals for construction. The 58-year-old crucial link between the city and the northern fringes was razed in April-end because it had weakened beyond repair. The state has set a January, 2022 deadline to complete the new bridge, which will link BT Road and Shyambazar over the Tallah railway tracks. ER on Tuesday approved the general arrangement drawing (GAD), as the masterplan is called in engineering terms. A 240-metre section of the 750m Tallah bridge will stand over railway tracks. The state public works department (PWD) is the implementing agency of the Rs 348crore ROB reconstruction project. Builders L&T started work in May. Work on building the foundation and piers has started, save the section for which the railways’ approval is needed. The first and foremost approval relates to the GAD, which is the overall layout of the construction, Based on the GAD, detailed designs of various segments of the ROB will be drawn. The state PWD made some changes in the GAD and resent the revised document for ER’s approval in September. A meeting was held between ER and PWD last Monday (December 14) and on Friday, ER issued a statement saying the GAD has now been cleared. “PWD has also submitted the detailed structural designs and drawings of the sub-structure and foundation of the six piers of the proposed ROB falling within the railway portion for scrutiny and approval. A meeting was held with PWD where the sequence of approval of the designs and drawings of the piers were decided. Accordingly, checking of detailed designs etc are now in progress in coordination with PWD,” ER’s statement said. The new Tallah bridge will be a four-lane bowstring arch steel structure unlike the old three-lane structure that was split into four. Learning its lessons the hard way while reconstructing the Majerhat bridge, where it ran into conflict with railways over the cable-stayed design, the state PWD decided to route the Tallah ROB design through the Kanpur-based Research Designs and Standard Organization (RDSO). CM Mamata Banerjee recently blamed the railways for sitting on approvals over the newly commissioned Majerhat bridge and the Eastern Railway issued a statement, denying the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rly-nod-for-tallah-rob-masterplan/articleshow/79959549.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad woman tax consultant duped of Rs 21 lakh||AURANGABAD: A woman tax consultant from the city was duped of Rs 21.50 lakh in the span of 21 days by a man who befriended her on social while claiming that he was a professional living in Germany. The 37-year-old woman, a resident of Sayhyadrinagar in N-5 Cidco of New Aurangabad, has stated in her complaint that the suspect contacted her on Facebook messenger on November 7 and introduced himself as Li Chang Anderson. The suspect befriended her and the frequency of their interaction increased. A few days later, the duo exchanged their WhatsApp numbers and started chatting. He took advantage of the fact that the woman had separated from her husband and pretended to be supporting her emotionally, said police while quoting her complaint. Asked about the modus operandi used by the criminals, Cidco police station inspector Ashok Giri said that after winning her trust, the suspect offered to send some Diwali gifts to the woman, who reluctantly agreed and was told the same would be sent by courier. “A few days later, the woman received a call from another suspect claiming to be an official from the Delhi-based customs department and asked her to deposit Rs 31,000 as fee for the articles, including international currency and jewellery, which she did,” he said. The officer said that soon after the woman fell into the trap, the suspects made her deposit money in multiple bank accounts under the pretext of GST, taxes and duties. “To avoid suspicion, the suspects also prepared a dummy email address and kept forged stamp duty papers with her. Each time the woman would refuse to deposit cash, the suspects would threaten her with legal action for defaulting on customs duty. She deposited Rs 21.50 lakh in different bank accounts by November 30, when she realised that she may have been cheated,” said Giri. Police have registered an offence under IPC section 420 (cheating) and other relevant sections of the Information and Technology Act late Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-woman-tax-consultant-duped-of-rs-21-lakh/articleshow/79957865.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC declares man living in Dubai dead, issues certificate||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) declared a living man in Dubai dead and issued his kin a death certificate. However. GHMC officials said that they have cancelled the certificate. The issue came to light this week when the man’s family members, who initially quarrelled over the issue, decided to settle the matter near the police station. To issue a death certificate, a document given by the crematorium/graveyard should be submitted and two witnesses apart from family members need to sign a document. An officer also needs to visit the home of the deceased before issuing the certificate. “The wife of the person applied for the certificate, we followed all the procedures. The certificate issued was immediately cancelled. I also lodged a complaint, the case is with Habeeb Nagar Police Station,” said Aizaz Khasim, GHMC assistant medical officer for health (AMOH), Mehdipatnam and Karwan circle. A source in GHMC said that a woman applied for the certificate of her husband living in Dubai to claim property. Interestingly, the certificate was issued in Khairtabad zone, the only zone among the six zones headed by an IAS officer. In most GHMC zones, the health wing is responsible for issuing the birth/death certificate.. The GHMC officials said that they don’t remember the name of the person who applied for the certificate and the exact date. “I don’t remember the date, the certificate might have been issued six months ago. I don’t remember the name. I can share the details tomorrow,” said Khasim. Asked if they have received any complaints from GHMC officials about a false death certificate, Habeeb Nagar inspector P Shiva Chandra said, “We have not received any complaint from the GHMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-declares-man-living-in-dubai-dead-issues-cert/articleshow/79959505.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Rachakonda SB constable arrested||Hyderabad: A Special Branch Constable of Rachakonda commissionerate was on Friday arrested for misappropriating Rs 14,000 cash collected from applicants of Police Verification Certificate (PVC). The accused, S Srinivas, 33, is a constable with the Special Branch of Rachakonda Commissionerate. Based on the complaint of Babya Naik, inspector, Special Branch, Neredmet police registered a case against Srinivas for misappropriation of government money. Srinivas has been working with Special Branch for eight years. Recently, senior officers noticed that he has been misguiding applicants. “Srinivas was removing old challans paid by other applicants and pasting them on applications of people from whom he collected the money,” the complainant alleged. Based on a complaint, Neredmet police registered a case and arrested Srinivas on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rachakonda-sb-constable-arrested/articleshow/79959533.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Woman gang-raped by 4 men in Haryana's Yamunanagar||YAMUNANAGAR: A 37-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by four men at a tubewell room at a village in Yamunanagar district late on Thursday night. The accused persons allegedly tied the husband of the woman before committing the crime. On the complaint of the survivor woman, a case has been registered against five persons under Sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 376-D (gang rape), 452 (house trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The woman belonged to Nepal and her husband worked as a labourer at an agriculture farm of a farmer and stayed in the tubewell room with their two-year-old daughter. “Five persons with covered faces came in a car at the tubewell around 11pm on Thursday. I along with my daughter was sleeping in the room and my husband was sleeping in the verandah. They tied my husband. Four persons raped me,” she alleged. She claimed that when the fifth person tried to rape her, she pushed him and he fell down. The accused ran away, threatening the family of dire consequences. “I untied my husband. Then we informed our landlord about the incident. Our landlord took us to the police station,” the woman said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/woman-gang-raped-by-4-men-in-ynagar/articleshow/79959586.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cyclist & biker die, four injured in 24 hours||KOLKATA: A cyclist and a biker died while at least four other bikers and a cyclist were injured in separate incidents since Thursday night. Ashok Kumar Ghosh (60), a resident of Howrah, lost his life when a private bus on route 12C hit his cycle from behind. The incident was reported at 8.40pm on Thursday at the Fairlie Place-Strand Road crossing on the Howrah-bound flank. The victim was declared dead after being rushed to SSKM Hospital. Cops said the cyclist had no reflective tapes and should have avoided Strand Road since it was out of bounds for cyclists, cops said. In another incident, a 59-year-old biker, Vinod Shaw, was suspected to have had a heart attack while returning to his Maheshtala home on a bike on Thursday. He fell ill near Taratala, and by the time he was taken to Vidyasagar Hospital, he had died. In two other accidents, a cyclist and three riding a bike were injured. Ghanashyam Kumar (20) was critically injured when a car hit his cycle on Bypass. Kumar was admitted to CNMC Hospital after the accident took place around 4.30pm on Friday. Bypass is out of bounds for cyclists. Another car hit a bike with three riders —Raj Samanta (20), Amit Nayek (19) and Abhijit Paswan (21) —at the Theatre Road-Cathedral Road crossing early on Friday. Samanta’s condition is serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclist-biker-die-4-injured-in-24-hrs/articleshow/79959584.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Sweet success: Modern methods boost sugar cane yield in Sangli, Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Sugar cane farmers in Kolhapur and Sangli districts have been reaping the benefit of modern technology such as drip irrigation that ensures saving of water while also keeping the quality of soil intact. In the last few years, farmers have been growing more than 100 tonne of sugar cane per acre and they are now aiming for 150-200 tonne per acre. Ashok Khot, a farmer from from Islampur in Sangli district who owns seven acre land, had set a target of 167 tonne of sugar cane three years ago and achieved it. He successfully experimented the inverted sprinkling irrigation method, which is being followed by other farmers. Khot is now aiming for 200 tonne of sugar cane. “Nutrition, water and soil quality are major factors for a high yield. Many farmers have learnt the techniques to ensure high productivity. They are now well equipped with data about the soil quality through testing. I get the soil tested twice a year and accordingly adjust the nutrition,” he said. Experts say that sugar cane farming requires a large amount of water, which is true in the sense that the crop takes 14-18 months to mature, requiring water throughout the period. However, farmers have now adopted the drip irrigation method and are saving water while increasing the yield. Khot said he has developed modular inverted drip irrigation, with which he is hoping for the highest ever yield of 200 tonne per acre now. Amar Patil, another farmer who owns 38 acre farm land in Yedenipani village of Sangli district has also switched from flood irrigation to drip irrigation. He is now getting 130 tonne of sugar cane per acre. “I regulate the amount of water to be given and nutrients to be supplied to the crop. This way, I reduce unnecessary expenditure while ensuring high yield is economical,” he said. Basavaraj Mastoli, Sangli’s district agricultural superintendent who has also served on the same post in Kolhapur, said that as compared to other districts in western Maharashtra’s sugar cane belt, the yield in Sangli and Kolhapur has tremendously increased in the last few years. “Farmers are adopting sustainable farming practices, like using non-harmful organic fertilisers, irrigating fields only when required, cultivating other green and leguminous crops in the sugar cane fields at the early stage, which increases the soil nutrition. Since everyone is resorting to such methods, the average productivity per acre in these two districts is increasing,” said Mastoli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sweet-success-modern-methods-boost-sugar-cane-yield-in-sangli-kolhapur/articleshow/79957883.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolhapur||4 Covid cases, one death reported in Kolhapur district||KOLHAPUR: As many as four new cases, including two from the city, and one death due to Covid-19 were reported across Kolhapur district on Friday. According to official information, the man who succumbed to the infection was 68-year-old and a resident of Islampur in Sangli district. He was admitted to a private hospital. Kolhapur district has so far reported 49,453 cases, out of which 47,684 have been cured and discharged from the hospital after treatment. The district has 70 active cases and 1,699 people have died due to the contagion. In Kolhapur city, the total number of cases till date stands at 15,071 with 363 deaths. 23 test positive in Sangli Sangli district reported 23 new cases on Friday and six of them were from Sangli Miraj Kupwad municipal corporation. The district did not report any death on Friday. Khanapur, Kavthe Mahankal, Miaj and Walva tehsils did not report any new cases. Aatpadi and Jat tehsils found six new patients each. The district has now 194 active patients and 41 of them are critical. 1,099 active cases in Satara In Satara district, except two, all other tehsils reported new cases. Khtav and Maan tehsils, reported 18 and 16 patients, respectively. A 37-year-old woman from Wai tehsil succumbed to the infection. The tehsils that reported new cases in single digit are Satara (9), Karad (4), Phaltan (1), Koregaon (8), Jawli (4), Wai (7) and Khandala (4). The district has reported 54,401 cases so far and 51,507 have been discharged. It has reported 1,795 deaths while 1,099 patients are being treated currently. Solapur city gets 21 patients In Solapur city, 21 new cases were identified while two were discharged. The city also reported three deaths, which included two women and a man. Solapur city now has 261 active patients. Rural parts of Solapur district reported 62 new cases while 55 patients were discharged on Friday. Two women died of Covid, out of which one was a senior citizen. The deaths were reported from Karmala and Barshi tehsils. Barshi and Karmala tehsils reported 14 and 12 cases, respectively. A total of 10 people from Pandharpur tehsil were found positive, while North Solapur did not find any new case on Friday. Solapur currently has 906 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-covid-cases-one-death-reported-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/79957886.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Man in custody, bank locker still operated||Ludhiana: Bank locker of a man, who is accused of committing bogus billing and is currently in judicial custody, was operated while he was under arrest. The Central GST commissionerate, Ludhiana, that arrested him, suspects that all the belongings stashed in this locker may have been taken away. The locker, which is in the name of the accused, was operated a day after his arrest and the bank’s entry register shows his signature. The facts emerged when a team of CGST officials visited the private bank to examine the locker. After this, the locker was supposed to be sealed. After being summoned by CGST, bank officials admitted to allowing the wife of the accused to operate the locker a day after he was arrested. A police complaint for FIR has been lodged by the CGST against the branch manager and the assistant manager for forgery, fraud and cheating, besides various other sections of the IPC. An official of the department said, “During the course of investigation by the anti-evasion wing of the Ludhiana CGST commissionerate in the Sahil Jain case, which involves Rs 393-crore fake invoices fraud, it was learned on December 24 that bank accounts and locker of the accused at a private bank in Sunder Nagar, Ludhiana, were operated on November 12 at 12.15pm. This alerted the tax department as Jain was arrested on November 11 and sent to judicial custody the same day. Jain is the main accused responsible for creating 23 bogus firms, leading to a GST scam involving an ITC fraud of Rs 33 crore. Thereafter, the branch manager and the assistant manager of the bank were summoned and their statements recorded on December 24. They confessed that the locker was operated by Jain’s wife and the branch manager admitted to have directed the assistant manager to allow her. She made the entry and forged the signature of Jain in the locker operation register on the directions of the branch manager.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-in-custody-bank-locker-still-operated/articleshow/79959606.cms||Mohit Behl
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Will attack Telangana CM house if provoked: Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: A day after urging the state government to give a free hand to police for 15 minutes in Old City and see how they rid the area of illegal immigrants, BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday said they will not hesitate to attack Pragathi Bhavan (CM’s official residence) if TRS activists keep targeting BJP cadres. During a tour in Jagtial, Sanjay warned that their patience was running out. “We will not keep quiet if we are attacked. They (TRS activists) should know that,” he said. He said the TRS activists were trying to stage protests during his tour, while ruling party sarpanches were obstructing him. While meeting paddy farmers, he said the TRS and Congress were objecting to the Centre’s new farm laws without any reason. “Chief minister KCR should first withdraw the LRS instead of raking up the farm laws issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-attack-cm-house-if-provoked-sanjay/articleshow/79959545.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Can’t be held responsible for customer losing Rs 18 lakh: SBI to Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court has issued notices to the authorities designated under the Information Technology Act and managing director of a firm asking them to explain their stand in a petition filed by SBI. SBI wanted the court to relieve it of any responsibility to compensate a customer (MD) who lost Rs 18 lakh from his account due to ignorance and sharing his personal information with unauthorised third parties. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave four weeks to the authorities and the MD to file their counters. The MD of Nakoda Chemicals Ltd in Jeedimetla lost Rs 18.3 lakh on May 12, 2012, thanks to online fraudsters. Noticing the sudden disappearance of the money from his account, he complained to SBI, Secunderabad branch. The bank officials found that the money was siphoned off by the fraudsters within minutes with the help of 20 different bank accounts they were operating from various places of the country. Interestingly, all 20 accounts were with SBI. The money from the customer’s account was instantly transferred to SBI accounts maintained by the fraudsters in Delhi, Dwaraka, Patna, Chautala and Dimapur branches. On the same night, the money was withdrawn from various SBI ATMs all over the country. The customer made a complaint to Hyderabad cyber police and charged the bank with negligence. He also filed a complaint with the adjudicating authority-cum-principal secretary, IT department, who found fault with the SBI and asked it to pay the customer Rs 18.35 lakh along with Rs 50,000 penalty. The bank then approached the cyber appellate tribunal in Delhi. But, the appellate tribunal too upheld the order of the adjudicating authority.  The tribunal, however, reduced the rate of interest to be paid by the bank to 12% from 18%. SBI has now challenged the appellate tribunal’s order in the high court. Appearing for SBI, advocate general BS Prasad told the bench that the customer had received a fraudulent email from the conmen (security.info@online.sbi.com) asking him to update his account details. when he clicked on the link, some pop-up windows appeared asking him to instantly update his details. Without contacting the bank, he clicked on them and shared all his user name and password details. “Since the customer did not pay heed to the advice given by the bank not to share such sensitive information, the bank cannot be held responsible,” Prasad said. The bench posted the case to January third week for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cant-be-held-responsible-for-customer-losing-rs-18l-sbi-to-hc/articleshow/79959581.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Amritsar||Farmers protest: Restlessness grows as agitation drags on||AMRITSAR: Restlessness is growing among the farmers and their family members after one month protests on Delhi borders, especially as there is no sign that the Union government is willing to repeal the three agriculture laws in near future. Even as the protesters say that they will not return till the laws are taken back, jitters among farmers, health and family issues back home have forced their leaders began bunch rotation to keep up the momentum of the struggle. As against the earlier group, which included a large number of poor to rich farmers who went to Delhi to stage protest against the central government, groups leaving now include a large number of farm helps, some new participants, and those in rotation. With each passing day, convincing more people to join in and stay in seems more difficult for farm leaders. Free ‘desi ghee’ langars, sweets, pizzas, dry fruits and sense of picnicking with friends endlessly are major attractions for landless farm labourers. However, given the sensitivity of issue and the fear of being discredited for discouraging the movement, nobody is ready to come on record. “Everybody in the world has several issues to deal with. Now, it has become a question of ego too. An individual’s liking is not the question but it’s the collective opinion which we have to follow,” said Satwinder Singh (name changed). He had spent seven days in Delhi and returned after his son fell and broke his leg. Kisan Bachao Committee’s Suba Singh admitted to growing restlessness among the farmers. He, however, added: “Those people who have not participated in the struggles in past are restless. They were of view that they will go to Delhi, the Union government will agree with their demands and they will come back in a day or two.” Stating that such movements move at a slow pace, he said it might take another one month or so before ‘Delhi Fateh’. When asked about the farm helps going to Delhi, he said in some cased when where farmers couldn’t go themselves for one or other reasons they sent their farm help to represent them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/restlessness-grows-as-agitation-drags-on/articleshow/79960570.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cops claim riots lawyer obstructed search of his office||NEW DELHI: The police team that had gone to execute a court-issued search warrant at the office of advocate Mehmood Pracha on Thursday accused the lawyer of obstructing their task and intimidating them. The team said they carried out searches at the premises of two lawyers, Javed Ali and Mehmood Pracha. While the former cooperated, the other was abusive and obstructed them. A complaint was lodged against Pracha at the local police station. In a statement on Friday, Delhi Police said they were investigating a case on court orders regarding use of documents containing false and fabricated evidence and a forged notary stamp during a bail proceeding. “At Yamuna Vihar, Javed Ali extended cooperation upon being shown the search warrant and the team concluded the assigned task. Being sensitive to the needs of a practising advocate, a facility was extended to him to obtain a mirror image of the seized hard disk so that his normal professional activities didn’t get hampered,” police said. At the office of Pracha, the team met with stiff resistance and the advocate, in spite of being made aware of the court-issued search warrant, kept arguing, pretending and making excuses to not cooperate with the investigating officer. “After a lot of persuasion, he allowed the officers to inspect his e-mail outbox. When the team tried to search for files on a computer placed at the reception counter, a suspicious extension/pathway was noticed. Upon being informed that out of the several computer systems found in his office, this particular system had to be seized, the advocate and his associates became verbally aggressive and started creating a ruckus,” the police statement claimed. Police also claimed that the intention of the advocate and his associates was to precipitate things and provoke some kind of unprofessional response from the investigation officer. “They called several associates to intimidate the police team and kept giving interviews. By using such tactics for 4-5 hours, Pracha and his associates prevented the team from executing the mandate of the court and obstructed the investigation,” added police. Pracha, however, denied the charges made by Delhi Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-claim-riots-lawyer-obstructed-search-of-his-office/articleshow/79959665.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||13 houses gutted in Rohru||Shimla: In a major fire at Baagi village in Rohru sub division of Shimla district on Friday, 13 houses were gutted completely and four partially, leaving the families shelterless in freezing cold. According to officials, police and fire personnel were rushed to the spot immediately to put out the blaze with the help of local people. The fire started around 5.30pm in a house and spread in the vicinity. Police officials said 17 houses were destroyed in the fire, 13 completely and four partially.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/13-houses-gutted-in-rohru/articleshow/79959619.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Man arrested on extortion charges||KOLHAPUR: A man has been arrested by Kurundwad police in Kolhapur for allegedly extorting a man of Rs 3 lakh by threatening to share the obscene chat with the police and lodge a complaint against him. The suspect has been identified as Nagraj Shankar Daivadnya — a resident of Haeri district in Karnataka. He was arrested by the police in Kolhapur when he had come to the city for collecting the money. A complaint against him was lodged by Amol Latthe, who is a resident of Shirol tehsil. According to the complaint, he became friends with a woman called Rani on Facebook. Later, they exchanged their mobile numbers and started chatting. Lots of obscene photographs and conversation were exchanged between the two during the chat. Few days later, the complainant got to know that the woman with whom he was chatting with was actually Daivadnya. The latter asked the complainant to pat Rs 1.5 lakh or he will lodge a police complaint against him in Delhi for the obscene chats. To avoid getting into any legal hassle, Latthe paid the money into Daivadnya’s bank account. On December 8, Daivadnya again demanded Rs 1.50 lakh from Amol on the same pretext and Amol again transferred the money. Happy to get the easy money, the suspect once again called Latthe and tried to extort more money. However, this time around, Latthe was not in a mood to let the money go and decided to lodge a police complaint. Based on the complaint, police laid a trap and arrested the suspect when he came to Kolhapur for collecting the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-arrested-on-extortion-charges/articleshow/79957890.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, two-year-old son found hanging in Kheri village||BAREILLY: A 26-year-old woman and her two-year-old son were found hanging in their house at Baidori village under Tikunia police station in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday night. The woman had been alone at home while her husband had gone with relatives to attend a wedding. Police are awaiting their autopsy report before concluding whether the woman had killed the child before killing herself or both were murdered. Om Prakash Rajak, SHO Tikunia, said Pratima Devi was married to Mahesh Kumar nearly six years ago. The couple have two sons, aged four and two years. Mahesh works in a factory in Dehradun and Pratima wanted to stay with him along with the children. Mahesh had come home on Tuesday and the couple had quarreled over the issue. Her husband found the bodies and informed police. Rajak said, “Prima facie it appears that the woman had killed her son and hanged herself after a quarrel with her husband as the room was locked from inside. The autopsy report will clarify the reason of death. We have recorded the statement of the family and the neighbours and have not found anything suspicious so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-2-yr-old-son-found-hanging-in-kheri-village/articleshow/79957905.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two days on, injured nilgai yet to be traced||NEW DELHI: Forest department teams are still trying to trace a nilgai, which sustained injury on its left hind limb after being hit by a vehicle on Wednesday. The injured nilgai had returned to Jahapanah forest on Wednesday afternoon. Deputy conservator of forests (south) Amit Anand said, “Jahapanah city forest, which is spread around 420 acres, has thick vegetation and hence, it has become difficult to find the animal. We spotted more than a dozen nilgai. We had installed camera traps in the forest but we didn’t get any lead from it. Our operation is still on.” Forest officials said when the nilgai is traced, their staff along with a veterinarian from National Zoological Park will treat the animal. The family of singer Mohit Chauhan had informed about the injured nilgai, which had strayed from the forest area. He had also tweeted seeking help for the nilgai after it didn’t get treatment on Wednesday. Forest department had said on Thursday that when its staff tried to rescue the animal for treatment, it fled to the forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-days-on-injured-nilgai-yet-to-be-traced/articleshow/79959752.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rajinikanth in hospital for BP fluctuations, stable||HYDERABAD: Following some crew members for the film he was shooting testing positive for corona, superstar Rajinikanth was admitted to Apollo hospitals in Hyderabad with severe fluctuations in his blood pressure on Friday morning. Doctors attending on the actor said he was stable and does not have any other major illness. A statement released by the hospital later during the day said that the 70-year-old will be kept in close observation till his blood pressure is stabilised. “Rajinikanth is being monitored closely and medications to control his blood pressure are being carefully titrated. He will remain in the hospital tonight and undergo further investigations tomorrow. He is stable and is resting. Family and treating doctors have requested all well wishers to avoid visiting the hospital as he is not being allowed to meet any visitors,” the hospital said. The actor was shooting at Ramoji film city for his new movie ‘Annaatthe’ for the last 10 days, but the shoot was suspended after at least four people on the sets tested positive for corona. The actor he has been isolating himself after he tested negative for the virus on December 22. The hopsital had said though Rajinikanth does not have any symptoms of Covid-19, his blood pressure showed severe fluctuations. The actor was expected to return to Chennai this week. His daughter Aishwarya Dhanush is with him in the hospital. The actor who is also in the process of launching his own political party, had handed over immediate responsibilities to senior members of Rajini Makkal Mandram and had stated that he needs to focus on the movie that was only 40 per cent complete. He earlier stated that all announcements regarding his political party would be made in January and that his political outfit will contest in the upcoming Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. Governor of Telangana, called and spoke to the doctors and wished him a speedy recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rajinikanth-in-hosp-for-bp-fluctuations-stable/articleshow/79959737.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Test positivity rate below 3% in Chennai||CHENNAI: Even as Chennai Corporation intensifies surveillance on passengers return from the UK due to new strain of the virus, the city’s test positivity rate (TPR) has fallen down further to less than 3%. As per latest data from the corporation, the TPR, the percentage of samples that return positive and a measure of the spread of the infection, has come down below 3% in the last few days. For instance, the TPR on Thursday was 2.4%. It must be recalled that during the months of May and June, TPR was in the range of 25-30% on many days. It has gradually decreased over the months. Medical experts say that testing should be at a limit where the TPR is 5%. “This shows that the spread in the city has reduced, but people still need to maintain precautions like masking and physical distancing,” an official said. The Chennai Corporation has also increased the number of tests. On Thursday, the civic body carried out more than 12,000 tests for the first time since mid-October. Prior to that, GCC was testing more than 11,000 people a day. The number of active cases has also dropped to less than 3,000 as on Thursday morning. Four of the 15 zones in the city have less than 100 active Covid-19 cases. While Tiruvottiyur has 48 cases, Manali has 43, Madhavaram 71 and Shollinganallur has 83 active cases. Majority of the active cases are in the core city zones. Adyar has the maximum active cases at 417, while Kodambakkam has 397 cases and Anna Nagar has 330. Tondiarpet and Royapuram, the erstwhile hotspots during the peak months,have119 and203 active cases respectively. Corporation sources said that the positivity among the UK return passengers in Chennai has not been too high; majority of the samples tested have returned negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennais-covid19-tpr-falls-below-3-percent/articleshow/79958595.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Rajkot||Spotting cops, 18 couples flee mass wedding rituals in Gujarat||RAJKOT: They gathered in Chandgadh village of Amreli to enter into wedlock on Friday morning. Instead, about 18 couples had to escape from the venue to avoid ending up in police lockup. It was an embarrassing moment for the couples and their around 500 guests who had gathered for the mass wedding organized by the Koli Ekta Dal. The ceremony was organized at 11 am and all the couples complete in their wedding costumes had taken the stage for tying the nuptial knots. But a team of cops reached the spot before the ceremony could begin. Spotting the police, the couples and their relatives sensed trouble and took off from the venue, causing complete chaos. The Amreli (rural) cops who went to the venue said that the organizers hadn’t taken necessary permissions that is a must for organising any gathering in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said that about 500 persons had gathered at the spot to attend the mass wedding ceremony that was organized to support the poor from Koli community. “Due to the organizers’ mistake, the mass wedding couldn’t be held properly. Many of the couples had to bear the brunt of the chaos and return to their villages without getting married,” said Suresh Pansurya, who helped a bride from an economically weaker family in Savarkundla, attend the mass wedding. Sources said that some of the couples completed wedding rituals back home in their village. Late on Friday night, police booked the wedding organiser Suresh Thadecha (36), a resident of Chandgadh village under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and sections of Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Disease Act (1897). The FIR was lodged at Amreli taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/spotting-cops-18-couples-flee-mass-wedding-rituals/articleshow/79959192.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Villagers lock stray cows & bulls in schools after crop damage, 26 booked||BIJNOR: People in four villages of Amroha district herded scores of abandoned cows and bulls into three primary schools and locked them up overnight, allegedly after losing a chunk of their standing crops to the stray animals. On Friday morning, at least 26 people were booked for cruelty to animals after senior officials from the district headquarters rushed to the villages and got the cattle released. Some owners of the animals were also named as accused for abandoning them. Amroha’s sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Vijay Shankar and chief veterinary officer (CVO) Brijveer Singh visited the four villages-- Adampur, Beejhalpur, Sheetal Saray and Putsal-- to ensure that all the animals were set free. Later, Amroha district magistrate (DM) Umesh Mishra said, “The cattle were abandoned by some villagers. All of them have now been shifted to cow shelter.” Adampur station house officer Pankaj Verma said, “Police have registered a case against 26 people.” But, there was resentment among farmers whose crops were damaged. Lal Singh, a farmer, said, “Stray cattle are roaming freely in the area. They are destroying our crop. We had informed the officials concerned but no action was taken. So, the villagers were compelled to lock these cattle in primary schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/villagers-lock-stray-cows-bulls-in-schools-after-crop-damage-26-booked-for-cruelty-to-animals/articleshow/79957920.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Seven returnees from UK staying in Delhi found Covid-19 positive||NEW DELHI: Seven persons who returned from the United Kingdom between November 25 and December 22 and were living in Delhi have tested Covid positive. It is not yet known if they are infected with the ‘super-spreader’ new variant of the coronavirus found in the UK or with the old variant. Altogether 19 UK returnees have been found Covid positive so far and admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital. “Among the 19 infected persons, 11 tested positive in RT-PCR tests conducted at the Delhi airport when they landed from the UK while eight others were found positive during a house-to-house test on all UK returnees conducted by Delhi government in the past three days,” said a source, adding that one of them is a common contact of a UK returnee. The father of a Dwarka resident, who returned from the UK on December 19 and tested positive on Thursday, has also tested positive (among the eight). Around 14,000 people have returned from the UK between November 25 and December 22, out of which many left for other states while 1,500 people are staying in Delhi. Delhi government mounted a house-to-house survey to test such persons after isolating all of them in their homes. Almost all the 1,500 people have been tested and the results of a majority of them are out. Authorities are tracing all the contacts of the positive persons and all of them will be tested, said an official. The government has also decided that all UK- returned individuals will be re-tested within 10 days from the first time they are tested so that there is effective check.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/7-returnees-from-uk-staying-in-city-found-covid-ve/articleshow/79959798.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Racketeers smuggling bovines, banned tobacco into dist via MP||NAGPUR: Rural police of Nagpur district are fighting a grim battle against the inter-state smugglers illegally transporting bovines and prohibited flavoured tobacco. This year (till November 30), rural police have rescued 1,011 bovines being taken to slaughterhouses and seized flavoured tobacco worth more than Rs48.37 lakh, after intercepting smugglers on highways. With such illegal transportations across the country being frequently raised at the central government level, especially by the ministry of home affairs, states have been alerted to take proactive action against racketeers in a more concrete manner. The unchecked availability of banned flavoured tobaccos in cities and rural areas have also raised questions on the role of police in curbing such activities. SP Rakesh Ola said the police are probing the backward and forward links of nabbed racketeers more doggedly. “We are now digging into the sources and destinations of the racketeers more seriously during investigation. The problem is that different persons are arrested every time, not the same ones repeatedly,” he said. Ola added, “The racketeers are based in different states and use our district routes for sending their illegal consignments. We have stepped up surveillance,” he said. The racketeers — mostly from Rajasthan, Haryana and Gujarat — are sending consignments of bovines, flavoured tobacco and other illegal materials including narcotics and illicit liquor to south India through Madhya Pradesh, crossing the Maharashtra border to pass through the centrally-located Nagpur district. Some of the consignments are meant for the city-based racketeers who receive these supplies in substantial quantity, while others mostly head to places like Hyderabad and Amaravati, said a source. “The banned flavoured tobacco is often smuggled in vegetable carriers, milk vans and local transport. Each sack of such tobacco is ferried for Rs800-1,000. A statistic from Nagpur rural cops underlined that several police stations, especially the ones near the Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh border like Kelwad, Narkhed and Deolapar, are engaged in intercepting the vehicles with illegal consignments and arresting the truckers and others accompanying them. Around 1,011 bovines were rescued in 11 months this year by rural police, seizing 46 vehicles and arresting 100 persons with 44 offences registered against them. Kelwad police, under senior inspector Pankaj Waghode, have seized 23 vehicles, rescuing 588 bovines and arresting 61 persons, which is the highest. In around eight offences, Nagpur rural police have seized seven vehicles ferrying illegal flavoured tobacco which is mostly coming through Chhindwara, Saunsar and Pandurna after being loaded at Ahmedabad and Raipur. In the city, major dealers of the banned flavoured tobacco, like Vijay and Golu, are part of these rackets, said a police source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/racketeers-smuggling-bovines-banned-tobacco-into-dist-via-mp/articleshow/79958599.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials to observe those getting vaccine for 30 minutes||Hyderabad: After the Covid-19 vaccine in administered, there will be an observation time of 30 minutes when people getting the vaccine shot will be asked to wait in a separate room. This 30 minutes is meant to observe any adverse event following immunization (AEFI). In fact, state health authorities have put in a plan in place to respond to any such event. This will include having a list of nearby hospitals and mobile van in place for shifting the patients, if required. An adverse event following immunization is any untoward medical occurrence that follows immunisation. It could be any unfavourable or unintended disease, symptom, sign or abnormal laboratory finding. As per the occurrence of AEFI in countries where vaccination has begun and during trials, anaphylaxis (a strong allergic reaction) has been seen in a very few cases. Therefore, anaphylaxis kits will be kept ready at each vaccination session sites. Fever and pain at the site of the injection is also expected. The system put in place for includes a reporting network for AEFI. “The district immunisation officer should list all health care service providers—medical colleges, hospitals (public, autonomous, private), individual practitioners and identify a nodal officer (AEFI reporting) in each facility. The immunisation officer will conduct sensitization meetings to identify, report adverse events following COVID-19 vaccine to the district immunization officer,” read the manual for reporting of such events. It further said that an AEFI register will be initiated in large hospitals to ensure cases are not missed. Each site will also be linked to an AEFI management centre. Any health facility with a doctor and paramedical staff can be identified and earmarked as a management centre. The vaccinator will have contact details of medical officer and address of the nearest AEFI management centre. “There will be mobility support to the primary health centres where vaccine is being administered for transferring patients to the management centre in case of an adverse event. While all medical officers acting as supervisors will carry an AEFI management kit,” read the manual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-to-observe-those-getting-vaccine-for-30-minutes/articleshow/79959770.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Preventing power outage a priority||Hyderabad: With the vaccine against Covid-19 expected to be given from January, task force committees in the districts are engaged in putting together the systems in place to see that there are no hitches. One of the most important things that has been listed is about ensuring power supply at all places where the vaccine is stored and delivered. Though the state has 24-hour power supply, more care is being taken to see that there are no power failures at the primary health centres where the vaccine is being given. The vaccine will have to be stored at a required temperature and the cold storage chain will have uninterrupted power. Mahbubnagar district authorities identified 8,574 frontline workers to be given the vaccine in the first phase. Additional collector Tejas Nand Lal Pawar asked government departments to create awareness about the vaccine among the public. “The way we create awareness about elections and voting, the availability of vaccine for Covid-19 should also be publicised,” he said. SP Rema Rajeshwari said the police would provide support needed. Meanwhile, an organisation, Bharat Vikas Parishad, has approached Nagarkurnool district authorities to utilise their services during the vaccination programme. The NGO’s representatives met collector L Sharman. The representatives said they would take up the responsibility of reaching out to every household in the 20 mandals and educate them about the vaccination. The authorities said they would take their assistance. In Nagarkurnool, 4,719 health workers have been identified to be given the vaccine at 32 centres where 560 personnel will be on duty. “Strict action will be taken against those responsible if ineligible people’s names figure in the list of health care workers who will be given the vaccine first,” Sharman said. In Mulugu, collector S Krishna Aditya said the vaccine would be made available in 18 PHCs. Though the state has 24-hour power supply, more care is being taken to see there are no power failures at primary health centres where the vaccine is being given. Cold storage chain will have uninterrupted power supply||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/preventing-power-outage-a-priority/articleshow/79959791.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Two more UK returnees test positive, NMC traces total 39 flyers in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Two more city residents — a woman and her daughter — who returned from London, United Kingdom (UK), have tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, and were admitted in special ward at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). They are also suspected to be patients of new variant which had emerged in UK. The woman’s husband, who also travelled with them from UK, has tested negative. The number of UK returnees who tested positive in the city has increased to three, with first patient, a youth from Nandanvan, identified on Wednesday. Additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane and medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) told TOI, “Woman (42), her husband and daughter returned on December 13. The two females are asymptomatic.” Bureau of immigration had sent list of 78 air passengers who returned from countries in Europe, Middle East and South Africa between November 25 and December 23. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B directed zones to contact and visit them. They found 39 of the 78 are in the city, including four who tested positive. Remaining 39 are not residing in the city, but their address on the passport is of the city so the immigration authorities sent their names to NMC. “Our teams contacted 38 persons and asked them to get tested. Eight flyers were tested on Thursday of which results of two female were positive and remaining six were negative. Our team admitted the two immediately at special ward developed at GMCH,” said NMC officials. Results of remaining 30 air passengers are expected to come on Saturday. The two females are residents of Trimurti Nagar. Sources from NMC Laxmi Nagar zone said the family from which two tested positive had visited Akola a few days ago. NMC has already alerted Akola Municipal Corporation. Swab samples of the two female will also be sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genomic sequencing, which will reveal whether they are afflicted by old or new strain of coronavirus. Meanwhile, after a delay of two days, swab sample of the youth from Nandanwan was sent to NIV on Friday morning. NMC has also cleared the confusion over exact date of arrival of the youth in the city. Nipane said the youth arrived on December 2 after reaching Delhi from UK on November 29. On Wednesday, officials of NMC and GMCH had said the youth arrived in city on November 29. He had tested positive on December 15. All four family members of the youth have also tested positive. The youth had attended a marriage ceremony in Gondia on December 10. Gondia Zilla Parishad said in a press release the youth arrived in Nagpur on December 3, which created confusion. This means all three UK returnees in GMCH special ward now have tested positive within incubation period of 14 days. No air passengers from these countries landed at city’s airport on Friday as per NMC officials. On Thursday, a person returned from France and was admitted in quarantine centre. His RT-PCR test will be conducted between on days 5 and 7. Guardian Minister Nitin Raut on Friday visited Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport and reviewed preparations for quarantine of flyers from these countries, and the undertaking being taken from all passengers regarding travel to those particular countries. Senior airport director Abid Ruhi, duty terminal manager Rachit Somaiya from MIHAN India Limited, and NMC deputy engineer Radheshayam Nimje briefed Raut about the arrangements including counters for collection of swab samples for RT-PCR test, separate counters for collection of self-declaration form or undertaking. Raut reportedly expressed satisfaction over the arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-more-uk-returnees-test-ve-nmc-traces-total-39-flyers-in-city/articleshow/79958605.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 1,500 red zones desealed in 11 days as Covid-19 cases dip||NEW DELHI: Within the past 11 days, the number of containment zones in the capital has reduced by nearly 1,500 owing to the sharp decline in Covid-19 cases. This means that fewer areas are under Covid-related restrictions and all economic activities can be restarted as there is no bar on the movement of people. On December 13, there were 1,629 risk zones, which declined to 1,136 by December 24. The largest decline was witnessed in Southwest district where 493 containment zones were desealed. In West district, 61 containment zones were desealed reducing their numbers from 494 to 433 within this period. The scaling down of containment zones starts 14 days after no Covid-positive cases are reported, but surveillance of the area continues for 28 days. Across all 11 districts, so far over 15,000 containment zones have been created since the outbreak of the pandemic. The first containment zone was made in Shahdara district, followed by East Delhi. Over 10,000 red zones have been desealed till date after successful implementation of the containment and mitigation plan, while 5,000 continue to remain active. The highest rise in the number of containment zones was witnessed during the peak of the three Covid waves. In November, when the number of Covid-19 cases in a single day touched 8,500, 200-300 new containment zones were created in a day. In all, 14,700 zones were created after June 21 when the city witnessed the peak of the first Covid wave with the government revising its containment strategy. After the lockdown was lifted, the government shifted its focus on creation of containment zones to ensure that the infection didn’t spread out of the sealed areas. At first, creation of containment zones used to cause panic among residents and those living in nearby areas. However, people soon started becoming familiar with the restrictions. Initially, the containment zones were huge, some of them having more than 40,000 people living within a single one. The authorities faced multiple challenges in managing the zones and drones and central paramilitary forces had to be deployed. However, over the past few months, micro-containment zones have been created. In some cases, only one house or a couple of houses or flats sharing a common corridor were sealed. This resulted in less inconvenience to people. In containment zones, all essentials items, like grocery, vegetables and medicines, are provided through home delivery by government-monitored agencies and vendors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1-5k-red-zones-desealed-in-11-days-as-covid-cases-dip/articleshow/79959924.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Nine more UK returnees test positive||HYDERABAD: Another nine returnees from the UK, who arrived in Telangana after December 9 tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the number of coronavirus cases among returnees to 16. The samples have been sent to the Centre for Cellular and Micro Biology (CCMB) for genome sequencing to verify if it’s the newly mutated B.1.1.7 variant found in the UK. All the reports are expected in two more days, health authorities said. According to the director of public health, Dr G Srinivasa Rao, these travellers from UK who tested positive hail from different districts. Of them, four each are from Hyderabad and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts, two from Jagtial and one each from Mancherial, Nalgonda, Rangareddy, Sangareddy, Siddipet and Warangal Urban. The surveillance teams identified 76 close contacts of the travellers who tested positive for Covid-19. “The coronavirus positive patients are receiving treatment in exclusive health wards in government hospitals, while their 76 close contacts are under institutional quarantine.,” said Rao. Out of 1,200 individuals who have reached Telangana from the UK, the health department officials reached out to 926 travellers, while efforts to track the rest are still on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nine-more-uk-returnees-test-positive/articleshow/79959807.cms||Moulika.KV
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Police zero in on two call centres, arrest 3 from B’luru||Hyderabad: Cyber crime sleuths of Hyderabad police arrested three persons from Bengaluru who were associated with various instant financing apps. It is suspected that because of harassment of their representatives that a software engineer from Rajendranagar tried to end his life and two others from Siddipet and Jagtial had died by suicide recently. Joint commissioner of police (detective department) Avinash Mohanty said that they had zeroed in on two call centres in Bengaluru and arrested K Eshwar, Madhusudan and Satish. In the two call centres, there were 350 tele-caller employees. Police said Rs 87 crore parked in different bank accounts of these companies had been frozen. These two firms were operating 42 instant loan apps, a police official said. Officials said the organisers behind the apps from which software engineer Sunil, agriculture extension officer K Mounika and another person from Jagtial took loans have been identified. “It was due to their alleged harassment and defaming over loan repayment delay, Mounika and Jagtial person ended their lives,” officials said. Till now, Hyderabad police have registered 27 cases in connection with instant loan apps, while Cyberabad police registered eight cases. Hyderabad police arrested 14 persons and Cyberabad cops apprehended 10 persons. In the case cracked by Cyberabad police in which four persons, including a Chinese national, were arrested on Friday, police said the victim first took a loan of Rs 2,015 and he was given only Rs 1,600 after deducting interest, GST and others. Later, the loanee was introduced to other apps and he ended up taking a loan of Rs 1.20 lakh from 28 apps. Despite paying Rs 2 lakh, he kept receiving calls and was harassed, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-zero-in-on-two-call-centres-arrest-3-from-bluru/articleshow/79959854.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||2020: When horror lurked outside & school came home||Dehradun: Annus horribilis that bared its fangs to the mass of humanity in March had the world huddled in the midst of a dreadful pandemic. Outdoors were shunned and online classes became the new normal. But a few good steps were also taken in the field of education in 2020. A scheme aimed to provide flavoured milk once a week to the government school students of Class VIII and below was started. But due to closure of schools for large parts of the year, its impact is yet to be felt. The government also ensured that the students, who were deprived of mid-day meals due to closing of schools, are compensated with money. In some good news for Uttarakhand, books were released in Garhwali and Kumaoni languages for students of Classes I to V. Dictionaries for Garhwali, Kumaoni, and Jaunsari languages were also released in order to promote indigenous languages. We learned to adapt. Online classes were started by both government and private schools. Video lessons were also telecast on Doordarshan. However, several students from rural backgrounds struggled in accessing the online classes due to issues ranging from non-availability of a smart phone, poor internet connectivity, among others. While the CBSE and other boards refused to hold examinations that could not be conducted in March, the Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) held their remaining exams in late June after the Unlock phase began. However, the students residing in the containment zones were not allowed to enter the examination centres. Before the UBSE exams, many government schools which were being run as quarantine camps were sanitised properly, especially after the Uttarakhand high court’s intervention. In some good news, the board results of Uttarakhand recorded an improvement from the last year (2019). The pass percentage for Class X went up to 91.36% in 2020 as opposed to 76.91% in 2019. Similarly, the pass percentage for Class XII shot up, though marginally, to 80.36% from 80.26%. Coming to higher education in the state, the Centre allocated a budget of more than Rs 900 crore for the construction of a new permanent campus for the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Srinagar, in 2020. The higher education department has also announced to provide free Wi-fi and high-speed internet facilities across all government degree colleges and universities. The project is likely to be completed by early next year. The department has also announced that they will establish hundreds of libraries for students across the state. The libraries will even come up in the remote hilly areas of the state as well. Due to the pandemic, the student elections got cancelled in 2020. Thus, the previously elected members continued for another term. Lately, several professor associations of government-aided colleges, along with the student unions including NSUI, are protesting against the newly introduced ‘Umbrella Act’. The protestors claim that the Act will reduce the grant provided to the government-aided colleges. Recently, the state government also released SOP for the reopening of the colleges and universities in the state and allowed them to reopen from December 15. However, the students’ turnout has been very low. The next year is likely going to be more stable for the education sector in Uttarakhand as there are high chances of a Covid-19 vaccine being available for the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2020-when-horror-lurked-outside-school-came-home/articleshow/79957926.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 26, 2020||Chennai||‘Strip IAS officers who ignore HC orders of posts’||CHENNAI: Expressing dismay over constant disobedience of court orders by bureaucrats, particularly IAS officers, the Madras high court on Friday said such officers must be stripped of their posts. “…ignoring the orders of this court would definitely amount to dishonesty in their duty, besides disobedience,” Justice S Vaidyanathan said. The issue pertains to a plea moved by TV Pallanee, then commissioner of Tambaram municipality, challenging action against him for executing emergency work worth Rs 83,920 without calling for tenders. Though charges against Pallanee were not proved during the departmental inquiry, the then secretary to the department of municipal administration deferred the findings of the inquiry officer without disclosing any reasons. Pallanee’s pension was cut by Rs 200 a month. Pallanee moved the high court saying the deferment of the probe findings by the municipal administration secretary was unlawful. Counsel for the government argued that the investigation was conducted in a transparent and independent manner. Recording the submission, Justice Vaidyanathan said Pallanee had executed the work that was needed under emergency provisions. "The officers who are in charge of the fulfilment of a public need, removal of encroachment, should be appreciated and encouraged, instead of punishing them for their good actions," the judge added. The judge said there are several IAS officers who deal with applications under the Town and Country Planning Act and do not comply with the orders of this court. This is in spite of specific directions issued every now and then, fixing the outer time limit for disposal of the matters, the court said. "Such officers, who are least bothered about the orders of this court and are not doing their duty, must be sent out and their IAS posts must be stripped off,” the judge observed. The court then allowed the plea and quashed the punishment order against Pallanee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/strip-ias-officers-who-ignore-hc-orders-of-posts/articleshow/79958607.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Two UK travellers in Chanda||Chandrapur: While there is scare about travellers from Britain following detection of new strain of Covid-19 there, two people have been found to have travelled from UK to Chandrapur district during the last week of November. Sources informed that one of the travellers is from Jatpura gate locality in the city, while other one is from Chimur. Both the travellers had went through RT-PCR test after their arrival and were found Covid negative. They were under surveillance, sources told. Sources in health department further informed that the surveillance period of 28 days for one of the traveller was completed on Friday, while other one will complete his surveillance period on Sunday. Both the travellers have no Covid symptoms, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-uk-travellers-in-chanda/articleshow/79958610.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Chinese national behind loan apps held from Delhi||HYDERABAD: The Cyberabad police on Friday arrested a Chinese national from Delhi for illegally running moneylending apps. Yi Bai alias Dennis, a native of Jiangxi in Shanghai, was managing at least 11 such apps offering small loans to individuals between 20 and 40 years at extremely high interest rates. Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar said that prime accused is another Chinese national identified as Zixia Zhang. He is currently in Singapore. “None of the 11 apps had tie-ups with non-banking finance companies (NBFC). The accused gave loans using their own resources. We are looking into how the accused got the money they lent,” Sajjanar said. Though Zhang is CEO of the holding company, Dennis, who has been in New Delhi since February on a business visa, had been handling the operations in India as the chief operating officer (COO). Dennis is the second Chinese national to be arrested by the Telangana police in cases related to online fraud. In October, officials arrested a Chinese man from Delhi for illegally running betting apps and duping Indians of crores of rupees. Investigating officials had suspected the hand of Chinese national in the loan app case from day one as both betting racket and the loan apps had similar operations. Both used digital wallets extensively to move money and both used Indians as fronts. Police also arrested another six Indians on Friday, two of who were based in Hyderabad, three in Bangalore and one in Delhi. In all, 15 people have been arrested in the case so far. The Indians were largely responsible for making blackmailing and threatening calls to people who were not able to pay up after taking loans. Sajjanar said that among the arrested, Satyapal from Delhi and Anirudh Malhotra and Richie Hemanth Seth from Hyderabad, were operating four call centers in Gurgram and Hyderabad. During raids, police also seized Rs 2 crore cash and have frozen bank accounts of the various companies linked to the apps. According to the police, Zhang and another Indian man identified as Umapathi started instant financing operations in December 2019. Later, they expanded the business by starting different companies in different parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chinese-national-behind-loan-apps-held-from-delhi/articleshow/79960589.cms||Srinath Vudali
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||Court directs police to file FIR against IIT-Roorkee director||ROORKEE: Months after a former staff member of the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee (IIT-R) exposed an alleged fraud to the tune of Rs 1 crore, a local court in Roorkee has now directed the police to file an FIR in the matter against the IIT-R director and four other officials of the premier institute. According to Manpal Sharma, the former IIT-R employee who brought the alleged fraud to the fore, government funds meant for IIT-R were directly transferred into the personal bank account of one Dhiraj Kumar Upadhyay, who was the senior assistant at dean’s office of IIT-R. “In June this year, a bank manager informed the institute authorities how the government money was being transferred into a personal account,” said Sharma. He added that a cumulative amount of Rs 1,05,35,753 was transferred into the bank account of Upadhyay in 13 transactions between 2017 and 2020. “I took the matter to IIT-R director AK Chaturvedi on June 18, 2020. Subsequently, a departmental probe was ordered and Sharma was found to be the lone culprit of the wrongdoing. Later, he was removed by the institute. However, carrying out such a financial fraud is not possible without the signatures of the director, dean, registrar, and other officials of the institute. All other accused were trying to make Upadhyay the scapegoat. Therefore, I approached the court,” said Sharma. On Wednesday, the court of additional chief judicial magistrate Simranjeet Kaur ordered the police to register a case “immediately” against all wrongdoers (as mentioned in the application of Sharma) under appropriate sections. “Police have been directed to register a case against IIT-R director Chaturvedi, dean Manish Shrikhande, assistant registrar Jitendra Dimri, Dhiraj Kumar Upadhyay, and clerk Rajesh Kumar. The case is likely to be filed under sections 406 (breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code,” said Praveen Tomar, counsellor of Sharma. Reacting to the allegations, IIT-R director AK Chaturvedi told TOI that the institution has already acknowledged that a financial fraud was carried out and has reported it to the police as well. “We got to know of this financial irregularity in June 2020. A senior assistant in the SRIC (sponsored research and industrial consultancy) office at IIT Roorkee was using fraudulent means to siphon off government funds into his personal bank account. The staff member was suspended and a committee was constituted to look into the entire matter. The staff member later admitted that he fraudulently siphoned Rs 1.05 crore into his personal account,” said Chaturvedi. The official added that after the completion of disciplinary proceedings, the staff member was removed from the services of the institute. He further said that the institute is using all legal means available to recover the entire amount, along with applicable interest, from the accused ex-employee. “After the institute submitted a police complaint on June 18, 2020, police filed an FIR in this matter on December 11, 2020. Police have already recorded the statement of the registrar,” said the IIT director, adding that the institute will continue to extend full cooperation to the police. Meanwhile, police have maintained that they will file an FIR after thoroughly studying the court order. “We will file an FIR in the matter after consulting our seniors,” said Rajesh Sah, in-charge of Civil Lines police station. “We will execute the court order very soon in this connection,” said superintendent of police (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/court-directs-police-to-file-fir-against-iit-r-director-other-officials-in-financial-fraud-case/articleshow/79957952.cms||Tapan Susheel
December 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar mulls over raising transgender battalion||PATNA: If all goes right, Bihar would soon become the first state in the country to have a separate police battalion of transgenders. Till now, the state government doesn’t have specific or separate policy on recruitment of transgenders in police service. There are over 40,000 transgenders abover 18 years in Bihar. When asked, additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani told TOI over phone on Friday that the state government was looking into the matter of raising a dedicated battalion of transgenders in state police. “It would be premature to disclose details, but the matter is under the state government’s consideration,” he said. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said no transgender has even been recruited in Bihar police till now. “Discussion is going on at government level to raise a battalion for them. Once the government gives its nod, things would be finalized regarding criteria for selection and other technical aspects for their recruitment,” he added. The revolutionary move comes after a petition was filed by one Veera Yadav in the Patna high court urging it to direct the authorities concerned for allowing transgender people to take part in the recruitment process in recruitment of around 8000 constables in state police. Option of only ‘male’ and ‘female’ was available for applying online for the recruitment process. A senior home department officer, preferring anonymity, said several meetings had been held by higher authorities on the matter in the last one week to discuss various issues related to forming a policy on recruiting transgenders in state police. “The general administration department would form a policy on the matter. After consent from authorities, file would be put up before state cabinet for its approval which will give entire issue concrete shape paving way for entry of transgender in state police,” the officer added. When the matter was brought before the high court, it observed that the advertisement of Central Selection Board of Constable (CSBC) on recruitment falls short of constitutional mandate as it was not clear as if persons falling under The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 can apply or not. On December 14, the high court had directed the home department principal secretary to immediately look into the matter and take remedial measures. The court also barred the board from preparing the final list of candidates for appearing in the constable recruitment examination. It is not for the first time that the state government is planning to make major policy changes in police department. Its decision to raise ‘Swabhiman Vahini’ of tribal women and girls in state police on February 26 this year was the first-of-its-kind move in the country. Additionally, there is 35% reservation for women in state police force in unreserved and reserved category, which is also one of its kind decision for police force in any state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-mulls-over-raising-transgender-battalion/articleshow/79958616.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||SC’s online hearing, and taking notes sitting next to the CJI||A dream assignment doesn’t come easy for a reporter. But the diarist was privileged to get one, that too during the pandemic when in June the first-ever online hearing was conducted outside the Supreme Court premises. Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Bobde heard an urgent appeal over videoconferencing from his residence in the city. The case was about whether to allow the annual procession of the 238-year-old Jagannath Puri Rath Yatra in the middle of a devastating pandemic. Earlier, the top court had stayed the yatra in view of the health threat. The diarist was familiar with online hearings due to closure of the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. But since it was the SC’s first online hearing outside its premises, the diarist was quite excited and reached the CJI’s residence well before time. After following protocols and undergoing strict checks, the diarist and a senior journalist were allowed in and were told to wait. As soon as the temporary set-up was readied, we were invited to CJI Bobde’s drawing room, which still maintained its traditional grandeur as built by his predecessors. The CJI smiled and asked us to sit adjacent to his chair while ensuring that we weren’t visible in the camera on his laptop. Frankly, the diarist had no inkling as to who would be there on the screen. The two other judges on the bench — justices Dinesh Maheshwari and AS Bopanna — later joined the hearing from their respective chambers in Delhi. All the lawyers argued the case from their respective offices, including well-known lawyer Harish Salve who pleaded for the Odisha government from his London residence while Tushar Mehta representing the Union of India argued from his office in New Delhi. Like other online hearings, this one too suffered from connectivity issues and disruptions. The CJI, who was unperturbed by it, reminded the lawyers not to speak over each other. He also spoke sternly to one of them who started pleading when the orders were being dictated. The CJI also restrained media, including the diarist, from reporting the court’s decision till the order was signed by all the three judges. It was a good learning experience to witness arguments of legal luminaries like Salve and Mehta and order dictation by the CJI himself. It was only the second time the diarist was covering the top court’s hearing. The earlier occasion was the first day of Justice Bobde after his oath taking as CJI on November 18 in Delhi. Having covered the lower courts and high court for over a decade, the diarist realized why it was called the top court, as all stakeholders work at a level hardly seen here. (From courts to universities, Vaibhav Ganjapure is frequently there with a pen and notepad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/scs-online-hearing-and-taking-notes-sitting-next-to-the-cji/articleshow/79958618.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Two private colleges in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh blacklisted||HYDERABAD: One of the top private colleges of Telangana, Malla Reddy College of Engineering has been blacklisted by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) for five years on charges of submitting fake documents. Another engineering college located in Ganguru, Vijayawada has also been blacklisted for the same reasons, authorities said in a written communique. While Malla Reddy college authorities maintained that the accreditation documents submitted for its Campus 1 in Dulapally were genuine, NAAC authorities in a letter sent by the council, in possession of TOI pointed out that the seal, signature and letterhead aspects were fabricated. “The certificates purported to have been given by BHEL, Yash Technologies and Airtel appear to be fabricated in layer, especially with the seal, signature, and letterhead aspects. The digital expertise opinion obtained by us on the same also confirmed the possibility of digital fabrication,” read the letter sent by Arun M, administrative officer, NAAC. It further read, “Executive Council (EC) after much deliberation decided to take action by cancelling Self Study Report (SSR) in the present form and the higher educational institution (HEI) may be blacklisted for five years.” In 2018, the said college was given B++ accreditation by the NAAC. However, the college applied for reassessment in 2019. Speaking to TOI, college principal P John Paul said that the college has submitted an explanation to the council, and informed them that the college would like to drop out of the assessment this year. “The documents were genuine. We made a mistake while entering the data and had given the wrong years instead. The same was also communicated to the council in our explanation. But, looks like the council is not satisfied with our explanation,” said the principal, adding that they wrote a letter to the council about 25 days back informing that they want to cancel their request for reassessment citing non-availability of students and faculty on the campus due to the pandemic. As regard to the Andhra Pradesh college, the council pointed out that the documents submitted by the college contained superimposed signatures, inserted signatures, and that the letterhead of the college contained usage of the watermark logo of AP State Skill Development Council. Further, the council also found that the documents submitted containing data for the years from 2014-15 to 2017-18 were found to be either fabricated or manipulated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-pvt-colleges-in-t-ap-blacklisted/articleshow/79959900.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 26, 2020||Dehradun||U'khand HC to resume physical hearings from January 2||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court is set to resume physical hearings from January 2. The HC's registrar general has written a letter to the court's Bar Association informing that guidelines for the proceedings will be issued soon. “… it is to inform you that the hon’ble court has unanimously resolved that normal judicial functioning should be resumed in the High Court w. e. f. 02.01.2021. Model guidelines to resume the normal functioning will be issued soon,” read the letter which was sent by registrar general Dhananjay Chaturvedi on Thursday. As reported by TOI, the HC had stopped physical hearings in the last week of March soon after the nationwide Covid lockdown. Though online hearing started in a phased manner, the court - in the initial days - heard only "urgent matters". “We have received the registrar general's letter and conveyed it to the advocates as well. Most of the advocates have welcomed the decision and said they will appear in the court,” Jaywardhan Kandpal, secretary, HC Bar Association, said. Kandpal added that the resumption of physical hearing will be particularly helpful for the junior counsels in remote areas of the state. “The availability of the internet and a stable connection is still difficult. Junior counsels were facing a lot of difficulties. The decision will help them in particular,” Kandpal said. Several lawyers said that though the hearings via video conferencing was necessary during the pandemic, it can never replace the physical ones. “Lengthy arguments are almost impossible through online hearing. The interaction with justice - glance and body language - inside courtrooms conveys a lot, which was almost impossible to guess online,” advocate Kartikey Hari Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-to-resume-physical-hearings-from-january-2/articleshow/79957962.cms||Prashant Jha
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Vaccine drive faces Covid fatality speed bumps||AHMEDABAD: As Gujarat oils its bureaucratic machinery for its very own ‘operation warp speed’ for Covid vaccination, the challenge it faces is covering the aged population and people with comorbidities. About 10.2% of the state’s population is aged above 60. Also, in every 1 lakh population in Gujarat: the diabetes incidence rate is 4.6K; 5.6K individuals have chronic respiratory diseases; 4.3K suffer from cardiovascular diseases; and the cancer rate is 268. Another major challenge Gujarat deals with is the high Covid fatality rate of 2.9, which is behind Punjab and Maharashtra. But strikingly, an RBI report reveals how states such as Kerala have among the lowest Covid fatality rates in India. Kerala has a high share of aged population of 16.5%. And in every 1 lakh population, the southern state also has among India’s highest incidence rates of diabetes, chronic respiratory diseases, cardiovascular diseases, and cancer. Other states such as Assam and Odisha, which have comparable populations of Covid-vulnerable people, have a corona fatality rate of just 0.5. The RBI report also points out that Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Himachal Pradesh have a significantly higher proportion of population in the 60-plus age group, compared to the national average. “This could potentially impact the aged population as recurrent outbreaks will require strict isolation policies to protect vulnerable population,” the RBI report says. “In contrast, low-income states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and Jharkhand have a very low share of aged population, making them less vulnerable to pandemics.” A senior official of Gujarat’s directorate of economics and statistics said: “It’s not just Kerala; Goa, Jammu and Kashmir, and Punjab stand out as states with the lowest age-standardized mortality and morbidity.” The official added: “Chhattisgarh, Assam, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh are characterized by the dual burden of disease with high mortality and morbidity from both communicable and nutritional diseases and non-communicable diseases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaccine-drive-faces-covid-fatality-speed-bumps/articleshow/79959988.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lover ‘kidnaps’ and murders boy to get close to mother||NEW DELHI: Almost a month after a 10-year-old boy went missing from near his house in south Delhi’s Bhati Mines, his semi burnt body was recovered from a jungle on Thursday, leading to the arrest of a 22-year-old man. Police said the accused wanted to marry the child’s mother who had turned down his marriage proposal because of the child. The accused has been identified as Bittu Singh, a resident of Bhati Mines. A woman from the area had reported her son missing on November 28. DCP (south) Atul Thakur said the child’s parents had separated and frequently fought over his custody. “While probing the case, a highly decomposed body of a boy was found in a pond in the ridge area near Maidan Garhi on Thursday. The child’s parents identified the body,” said Thakur. The DCP said a new angle in the case was revealed durring the interrogation of the boy’s parents. “The role of a man — a childhood friend of the boy’s mother — surfaced in the case,” Thankur said. “It was found that he was last seen with the child. Bittu Singh was detained for questioning, during which he revealed that he and the child mother were very close to each other since childhood. He wanted to marry her but her parents married her off to another man.” Singh, while confessing to the crime, said that he had again proposed to the woman following her separation from her husband, but she turned him down on account of her son. Police said that Singh then planned the murder. On November 28, he asked the child to come with him to a jungle area. The child knew him and agreed. Singh even bought him new clothes and strangled the boy in the jungle with a gamcha. Singh told police that he then threw the body in the pond, but the body floated on top the next day. Singh then bought petrol for Rs 50, fished out the body from the pond and tried to burn it. However, this ploy also failed due to the wet clothes on the body. The accused then returned to the spot once more, stuffed the half-burnt body in a plastic bag and threw it back into the pond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lover-kidnaps-and-murders-boy-to-get-close-to-mother/articleshow/79959873.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Stung, TRS pulls out all the stops to win Nagarjuna Sagar seat||HYDERABAD: Following reverses in Dubbak and GHMC elections, TRS is treading cautiously in Nagarjuna Sagar where a bypoll will be held soon following the death of sitting TRS MLA Nomula Narasimhaiah. The TRS is making sure that the BJP cannot attack it like the way it had done in Dubbak bypoll campaign for not delivering promises and seizing the initiative. Administrative sanctions to release Rs 200 crore were given after the demise of Narsimhaiah. Having faced setbacks in recent elections, the TRS is taking the Sagar bypoll in a prestigious manner to win the election and not allow the BJP to further expand its growing clout in the entire state. Sources said either a family member of the MLA or senior leader Gutha Sukhender Reddy may be asked to fight on behalf of TRS. Unlike the Dubbak by-election, Nagarjuna Sagar contest will be a triangle affair with Congress too joining the race. While the Congress has a strong base and BJP is trying to emerge strong, the TRS is leaving no stone unturned to retain the seat. The BJP tried its best to lure senior Congress leader K Jana Reddy, who had won the constituency seven times. Along with chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Jana is the only leader who has represented a seat seven times.Congress will be looking towards Jana Reddy again after he has made it clear that he won’t be joining the BJP. The saffron party, on its part, is still trying to negotiate with Jana’s son Raghuveer Reddy and rope him into its fold. The constituency is dominated by Reddy and Yadav communities. BJP’s K Sucharita Reddy got just 1% vote in the 2018 election. Sources said the party may field Kadari Anjaiah Yadav, a BC leader, who switched over from TDP. As a TDP nominee, he had secured more than 27,000 votes in the last poll. “Anjaiah has long association with his community people and BJP may take advantage of this,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stung-trs-pulls-out-all-the-stops-to-win-nsagar-seat/articleshow/79959962.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai labour court sets aside dismissal of employee by TCS||CHENNAI: A City labour court has set aside the dismissal of an experienced IT professional, who was with major IT firm- Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) for more than two decades and directed the company to reinstate the staff and pay 50 % back wages. The employee, a resident of Velachery moved the labour court against the termination stating that she was dismissed despite her stating that she could not report to work due to health reasons. According to her petition, she joined the company in 1995 as an associate consultant and rendered service for more than 22 years. She stated that she fell ill in May 2017 and communicated about her illness to the Human Resources team, first over phone and then also submitted her medical records. However, she was dismissed from employment through a communication dated June 2, 2017 without accepting her valid explanations on health grounds, the petitioner stated. Her counsel submitted that she was dismissed without following the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act. In response, the company submitted that the employee could not be allocated to any project owing to her inability to upgrade subject knowledge and requisite skill sets. She remained unallocated for 727 days from March 7, 2015 until the date of discharge from her services, the company’s counsel submitted and argued that the employee availed salary benefits, without having worked for over two years. After perusing the submissions from either side, N Venkatavaradhan, Presiding officer, I Additional Labour court observed that there is no evidence to the allegations by the company that the petitioner has not improved her standards as required by the management. “Therefore, this court can see that it is a tactic adopted by the management to find reasons for termination,” the court said and directed the management to reinstate the petitioner within three months and pay 50 % backwages and other benefits from the date of termination. TCS did not respond to queries if the management will be appealing against the labour court order in a higher court. EOM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-labour-court-sets-aside-dismissal-of-employee-by-tcs/articleshow/79958634.cms||Srikkanth D
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 41-year-old brain-dead woman gives gift of life to four people||NEW DELHI: A 41-year-old woman gave a gift of life to four people in her death through organ donation. Syed Rafath Parveen, a resident of Indirapuram in Ghaziabad, suffered from bleeding of blood vessels in the brain last week. Despite sustained efforts by a multidisciplinary team, doctors at Max Super Speciality Hospital in Vaishali said her condition continued to deteriorate and she was declared brain dead on Thursday. The woman’s family agreed for organ donation after counselling. Her heart, kidneys, and liver were harvested. Dr Gaurav Aggarwal, vice president (operations), Max Vaishali, said after getting the family’s consent, they immediately informed National Organ & Tissue Transplant Organisation, which allocated the organs. “Various teams worked through the night to harvest and transplant the retrieved organs. The heart was transferred through an ambulance via green corridor to Max Super Speciality Hospital, Saket, where the transplant was conducted. One kidney and the liver was transplanted in two needy patients admitted at our hospital,” he added. The second kidney was transported to Artemis Hospital, Gurugram, in just 45 minutes in an ambulance. Officials at Max healthcare said a green corridor was created by Ghaziabad and Delhi Police between Vaishali and Saket hospitals for seamless transfer of the heart. The distance of 23.8 km was covered in just 18 minutes at 1.58am on Friday. Dr Kewal Krishan, director of heart transplant and LVAD programme at Max Saket, said, “The heart has been transplanted in a 56-year-old patient from Uttarakhand who suffered end-stage heart failure. The recipient is under observation and doing well for now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/41-yr-old-brain-dead-woman-gives-gift-of-life-to-four-people/articleshow/79959993.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ludhiana||MC receives 8,100 loan applications from vendors||Times News Network Ludhiana: Unlike the past, when the municipal corporation found it difficult to get vendors registered for vending zones, loan facility for vendors under the PM Swanidhi scheme has evoked enthusiastic response. MC officials said they have received around 8,100 applications from vendors and more are expected over the next few days. As a precautionary measure in times of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials are persuading vendors to send their applications online. Earlier, officials laid down the condition for vendors to get themselves registered with the civic body for allocation of a place in vending zones notified in the city but not many showed interest. Under this loan scheme, vendors will get Rs 10,000 to set up their businesses and they will have to return Rs 700 per month. The loan is being provided at 7% rate of interest. Officials said they would organise camps in various areas to help vendors file their applications under this scheme. The loan will be given in four categories. First, vendors included in the MC survey list but without ID cards will be covered. The second category will comprise those who have ID cards while the third category will comprise those who are not included in the survey list and do not have any ID card either. The fourth category will include vendors who work in the city but belong to other states. The only requirement is that the person should be a vendor. MC superintendent Harvinder Dhalla said, “Vending zones are finally notified and this process is going on alongside. We have received over 8,000 applications and more will come in the next few days.” Meanwhile, Tiger Singh, president of Ludhiana Rehari Phadi Federation said, “Already, a lot of time has been wasted in finalising the vending zones and now, when these are notified, we are trying to convince authorities to start vending zones as well.” He said vendors should avail the loan under this scheme by which they automatically will be registered with the civic body and become eligible for space in vending zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-receives-8100-loan-applications-from-vendors/articleshow/79958020.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress MLA Jagga Reddy wants cops to trace his missing cows||HYDERABAD: Congress MLA T Jagga Reddy on Friday urged DGP M Mahendar Reddy to ensure that search is intensified by police to trace his six cows which were allegedly stolen. Jagga Reddy said six cows belonging to him were sent out for grazing but have not returned. “It was in October that six of my cows have gone missing after they were sent for grazing. I had lodged a complaint with Sangareddy town police. I request police to intensify the search,” he said. He said there is a possibility a large number of cows belonging to other people in Sangareddy may have been stolen. “Also, we cannot rule out the possibility of these cows having been diverted to slaughterhouses,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagga-reddy-wants-cops-to-trace-his-missing-cows/articleshow/79959990.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Shimla||Tourists celebrate white Christmas at Atal Tunnel||MANALI: Even as Himachal Pradesh reported no snowfall on Friday, thousands of tourists still celebrated white Christmas on a thick blanket of snow at Atal tunnel. All the tourist destinations of Himachal have witnessed a sudden surge in tourist inflow during Christmas and New Year week. While most hotels in Shimla are fully occupied with tourists pouring in from neighbouring states, the average hotel occupancy in Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie is above 60%. In Manali, tourist arrival slowed down the traffic movement. Some places even saw minor traffic jams. Hundreds of tourist vehicles went to Atal tunnel as every tourist wanted to see snow on Christmas day. Urvashi Dixit, a tourist from Ghaziabad, said, “I was upset as we could not see snowfall. I stopped complaining when we crossed the Atal tunnel and reached the valley completely covered with a blanket snow. We spent the whole day playing with snow.” Lahaul-Spiti administration has arranged parking for 2,000 vehicles at Sissu helipad. The 5-km stretch from the tunnel and Sissu was fully occupied by tourists coming from all parts of the country. Tourists played with snow along the roadsides and on the right bank of the Chandra river. “It was disappointing that we could not see Rohtang pass. But this area near Atal tunnel is extremely beautiful and a perfect place to celebrate Christmas with the family,” Bhagesh, another tourist from Gujarat, said, adding, “We will feel luckier if we get to see snowfall in the next two-three days.” Tourist destinations of Himachal will remain full of hustle-bustle till New Year. The tourist inflow is expected to decrease after January 2. Every year, a large number of tourists visit Himachal expecting to watch snowfall on Christmas and New Year. Fortunately, tourists can see snow near Manali. And lucky tourists might be able to see fresh snowfall on December 27 and 28 as the meteorological office has predicted snowfall in the higher regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/tourists-celebrate-white-xmas-at-atal-tunnel/articleshow/79960001.cms||Suresh Sharma
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Event venues turn protest sites||Bathinda/Jalandhar/Kaithal: There were tense moments between protesting farmers and BJP activists in Punjab and Haryana on Friday when functions held to mark the 96th birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal BihariVajpayee became venues of protest. The main events where there was disruption, and even minor scuffles, were held at Punjab’s Bathinda, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur and Haryana’s Kaithal. In Bathinda, situation turned tense when a score of farmers broke police barricades and barged into an event organised by the BJP. The saffron party had to wind up the programme midway as the farm activists allegedly vandalised the venue and damaged chairs. The BJP activists held a protest against farmers, who are protesting against the three farm laws brought by central government, and even burnt an effigy of the state government. Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk rushed to the spot to diffuse the situation as the police had a tough time in controlling situation. This was the first violent act during the ongoing farmers’ struggle, barring an incident of windowpanes of BJP Punjab president Ashwani Sharma’s vehicle damaged at a toll plaza in Hoshiarpur district on October 12. BJP Bathinda district urban president Vinod Kumar Binta said, “Party activists had assembled to pay homage to Vajpayee, but the farmers barged into the programme and police did nothing to stop them.” BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) district Bathinda secretary Mothu Singh Kotda said, “When farmers across India are holding protests, BJP leaders are celebrating. This is intolerable. We will not allow BJP to rub salt into the wounds of farmers by letting them hold programmes... farmers did not damage the chairs, but BJP activists did it to defame them (farmers). We do not believe in violence.” Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said police are looking into the incident. In Jalandhar, farm activists protested outside three venues of BJP functions. The situation turned unsavoury outside the residence of former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia, when farmers breached barricades and police resorted to mild lathicharge. Farmers staged a dharna outside Kalia’s residence, raising slogans against the Union government and the farm laws. BJP’s two other programmes were held at the local BJP office and in Jalandhar Cantt. Farmers protested outside both the venues. DCP Balkar Singh said that police had to use force against farmers when a situation arose due to commotion after barricades were broken. In the melee, some turbans were also tossed. In Mukerian, when the protesters entered the venue of BJP function, which had already ended, some workers who were still there scaled the rear wall to escape and were chased by farmers carrying black flags. Haryana minister Kamlesh Dhanda and JJP’s Guhla MLA Ishwar Singh were shown black flags during their visit to Kaithal. Dhanda faced opposition on the Hisar-Chandigarh highway in Kalayat segment as farmers tried to stop her convoy, forcing police to form a human chain to facilitate the movement of her cavalcade. Some farmers even tried to come in front of her vehicle but were removed by her security guards. The JJP leader had to leave the function on the occasion of ‘Sushasan Diwas’ midway owing to mass protest and had to be escorted out of the venue by the police. Farmers broke open the lock of DAV college, the venue of function, gate and even overpowered cops deputed on duty. Haryana farmers have been showing black flags to every leader who is supporting the BJP government and had even dug up the helipad of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala in Jind on Thursday, forcing him to cancel his programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/event-venues-turn-protest-sites/articleshow/79959995.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||No permission for special New Year events: CP||Hyderabad: Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said that permission will not be given to organise special events with mass gathering for New Year celebrations due to pandemic. However, bars and pubs will be allowed as per the ongoing unlock conditions. Police said that strict vigil will be maintained at bars and pubs to make them adhere to the permitted timings. “As per the instructions given by the state government, mass gatherings will not be allowed and permission will not be given for any special events. No one should organise any event. If we get any information about organising of events by sale of tickets and others, action will be taken,” Sajjanar warned. Events will also not be permitted in resorts, function halls and others. Officials said that it will be illegal to have celebrations even in gated communities. The CP said drunken drive checkings will be conducted on the eve of New Year. He appealed to motorists not drive under the influence of alcohol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-permission-for-special-new-year-events-cp/articleshow/79960007.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Ensure water supply in southern Hry: Ex-MLA||Chandigarh: Former MLA Naresh Yadav, who is the chairman of Haryana Yuva Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, on Friday targeted the Union government while referring to the depleting groundwater in Ahirwal region. Yadav had spearheaded Jal Yudh walk from Ateli to the President’s house in 2000 and had spearheaded another water campaign in 2008 and spent a fortnight in jail where he observed ‘satyagraha’. Citing depleting water level in southern Haryana, Yadav once again raised the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue. He said till the time state government is not able to construct the canal, the Union government should ensure adequate water supply in Ahirwal. Yadav denied that his organization had any plan to divert attention from ongoing farmers’ struggle. “This is also an issue which needs to be addressed. Till the time, SYL canal is not constructed, the quantity of canal water available in Haryana should be increased in this area,” he said. Yadav said all the political parties of Punjab are united on the issue of not giving water to Haryana, whereas the political parties of Haryana are maintaining silence on this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ensure-water-supply-in-southern-hry-ex-mla/articleshow/79960005.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat firms offer to vaccinate staff||SURAT/AHMEDABAD: Even as the government is preparing for mass vaccination drive against coronavirus, some corporate companies have offered to bear the cost to inoculate their workforce in Gujarat. The companies willing to vaccinate employees on their own cost are Ajanta Oreva Group, Pratibha Textile, Dharmanandan Diamond Ltd, Shree Ramkrishna Export and Laxmipati Textile Group. As responsible corporate entities, these companies want to contribute to the mammoth Covid-19 vaccination programme and share within their capacity the burden of executing this challenging effort. Morbi-based wall clock, electronic and electrical products maker Ajanta Oreva Group has already written to the Gujarat government expressing the company’s intention to bear the vaccination cost for its employees and has also sought the state’s guidance on taking the company’s proposal forward. “Ajanta Oreva Group has workforce of around 3,000 employees and we have proposed to vaccinate each employee by bearing the vaccination cost. The government is well capable of meeting every challenge, but we would like to participate a bit in this gigantic task,” said Jaysukh Patel, managing director, Ajanta Oreva Group. Surat-headquartered Pratibha Textile Group, too, wants to provide free vaccine to its employees. “I have sent a letter to the Prime Minister’s Office stating that we are ready to provide coronavirus vaccine free-of-cost to more than 2,000 workers in our factory at Pandesara GIDC,” the Group’s chairman Pramod Chaudhary added. Hitesh Patel, managing director of Dharmanandan Diamond Private Limited told TOI, “We have seen diamond workers getting Covid-19 in huge numbers. If there is a vaccine, we will bear the entire cost of vaccinations for our 1,500 employees including the diamond workers. It is our request to the government that if we are buying the vaccine in bulk quantity, we are entitled for discount for vaccinating the employees on the mass scale.” According to the operational guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination issued by the Union health ministry recently, the vaccine will be offered first to frontline workers, including healthcare professionals, people above 50 years, and those below 50 but with associated co-morbidities. Finally, the remaining population will be immunized based on the disease epidemiology and availability of vaccine. Industry experts said that the workers and staff employed in the industries should be vaccinated along with the frontline workers, so that there is a smooth working of the units in the coming days. Sanjay Saroagi, managing director of Laxmipati Textile Group said, “We have a staff of 5,000 people in the company. We feel it is our responsibility to vaccinate every worker and employee in our company on our own expense. The survey of the residents in the city is going on, but we would like to purchase the vaccine in bulk quantity to administer to our employees. The government must give us the vaccine on subsidised rates, if we purchase it in bulk quantity.” (with inputs from Mevyn Reggie Thomas)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corporates-propose-to-bear-cost-for-vaccinating-workforce/articleshow/79960010.cms||Kalpesh Damor
December 26, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Harassed’ for not paying 20k loan, man ends life||Times News Network Ludhiana: Allegedly humiliated by fruit sellers of the vegetable market near Jalandhar bypass, a fruit vendor committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance on Thursday evening. The victim, identified as Ravinder Singh, 40, of Laxmi Nagar, was rushed to hospital, where he succumbed. Police recovered a suicide note from the victim’s jacket, on the basis of which a case of abetment to suicide was registered. Police have registered a case against the accused, identified as Vikram and Kushal, fruit sellers at the vegetable market of Jalandhar Bypass. Manjinder Kaur, wife of the deceased said Ravinder was upset for the past some time. She said he used to tell her that the accused were humiliating him in front of everyone in the vegetable market. “On Thursday evening, our children were not home when Ravinder asked me to get something from the market. I left the house and minutes later, I received a call from Ravinder, who told me that he had consumed some poisonous substance. I rushed to the house and called my brother Manjeet. They rushed Ravinder to DMC hospital, where he died during treatment,” she said. Inspector Gopal Krishan said about four months ago, Ravinder borrowed Rs 20,000 from Vikram and Kaushal and was unable to return the money, for which the accused were harassing him. In the suicide note, Ravinder said the accused used to humiliate him in front of everyone. He mentioned that this happened again a few days ago, because of which he was upset. Police said a case has been registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC against the accused. No arrest has been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/harassed-for-not-paying-20k-loan-man-ends-life/articleshow/79958030.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Burglar, three others held in six cases||Hyderabad: Task force police have arrested property offender Mantri Shankar and three of his associates. They seized Rs 12 lakh cash, 1kg silver articles, a bike and a scooter from their possession. Shankar (60) and his associates, Abdul Latif Khan, Md Majid, Md Imtiyaz Ahmed were arrested by the North Zone task force. Shankar is a City Dossier Criminial (CDC) from Chilkalguda PS, and is accused in 250 burglaries and theft cases in city. “He has been convicted in 209 cases. PD Act has been invoked against Shankar four times. He was recently released on December 4 from prison and committed six more offences,” Hyderabad commissioner Anjani Kumar said. The four accused have committed six offences, including a bike theft, since December 4, in Begumpet, Nallakunta, Kushaiguda and Vanasthalipuram. Through CCTV footage analysis, police arrested them from Begumpet. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-three-others-held-in-six-cases/articleshow/79960008.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Nursery impasse gives parents sleepless nights||NEW DELHI: Poonam, the mother of a 4-year-old, was hopeful that her son would finally get into a school this time. But Delhi government’s proposal to defer the nursery admissions has left her worried. “Last year, he could not get a seat anywhere in the nursery class. As the lockdown began, I couldn’t even admit him to any nearby school, and he has been sitting at home. If he stays without any school even now, how will this loss be compensated?” asked Poonam, a resident of Brijpuri. It is difficult to teach younger children without a system, she added. Several private school principals have opined that no-admission for a year would lead to a learning gap and it would be difficult to compensate later. Vaibhav Raj, another parent, is also worried for his daughter who couldn’t secure a seat in any prominent private school last year. “We continued with the playschool thinking we will try to get her admitted to KG next time. Playschools don’t have online classes every day,” he said. Both Raj and his wife work and are finding it difficult to keep her meaningfully engaged. “If admissions don’t take place next year, I don’t know what to do,” wondered Raj, who lives in Malviya Nagar. “Will a child who has not formally gone to school will be admitted to Class I in the 2022-23 academic session?” There is also the upper age-limit criterion, which makes things more difficult, he added, hoping that the government would soon clarify its stand and decide after proper deliberations. Some parents also pointed out that the nursery admissions in the rest of National Capital Region, especially Gurgaon and Noida, had been completed. “My brother’s daughter has already been admitted to a school in Gurgaon. Now I feel I should have tried there itself,” said Shristi Shetty, who lives in RK Puram. “When the schools in NCR could conduct online admissions, why can’t the same happen in Delhi?” Shetty wants to shift his son to a more prominent school in KG class. Even the parents who hope to get a seat under the economically weaker section category are clueless. Johnson, who lives in northeast Delhi, said, “I have been trying for the past two years for my son. I was hopeful this year. But now even schools aren’t sure if there will be any nursery admission in the coming academic season.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nursery-impasse-gives-parents-sleepless-nights/articleshow/79960071.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Surat||Gujarat firms offer to vaccinate staff||SURAT/AHMEDABAD: Even as the government is preparing for mass vaccination drive against coronavirus, some corporate companies have offered to bear the cost to inoculate their workforce in Gujarat. The companies willing to vaccinate employees on their own cost are Ajanta Oreva Group, Pratibha Textile, Dharmanandan Diamond Ltd, Shree Ramkrishna Export and Laxmipati Textile Group. As responsible corporate entities, these companies want to contribute to the mammoth Covid-19 vaccination programme and share within their capacity the burden of executing this challenging effort. Morbi-based wall clock, electronic and electrical products maker Ajanta Oreva Group has already written to the Gujarat government expressing the company’s intention to bear the vaccination cost for its employees and has also sought the state’s guidance on taking the company’s proposal forward. “Ajanta Oreva Group has workforce of around 3,000 employees and we have proposed to vaccinate each employee by bearing the vaccination cost. The government is well capable of meeting every challenge, but we would like to participate a bit in this gigantic task,” said Jaysukh Patel, managing director, Ajanta Oreva Group. Surat-headquartered Pratibha Textile Group, too, wants to provide free vaccine to its employees. “I have sent a letter to the Prime Minister’s Office stating that we are ready to provide coronavirus vaccine free-of-cost to more than 2,000 workers in our factory at Pandesara GIDC,” the Group’s chairman Pramod Chaudhary added. Hitesh Patel, managing director of Dharmanandan Diamond Private Limited told TOI, “We have seen diamond workers getting Covid-19 in huge numbers. If there is a vaccine, we will bear the entire cost of vaccinations for our 1,500 employees including the diamond workers. It is our request to the government that if we are buying the vaccine in bulk quantity, we are entitled for discount for vaccinating the employees on the mass scale.” According to the operational guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination issued by the Union health ministry recently, the vaccine will be offered first to frontline workers, including healthcare professionals, people above 50 years, and those below 50 but with associated co-morbidities. Finally, the remaining population will be immunized based on the disease epidemiology and availability of vaccine. Industry experts said that the workers and staff employed in the industries should be vaccinated along with the frontline workers, so that there is a smooth working of the units in the coming days. Sanjay Saroagi, managing director of Laxmipati Textile Group said, “We have a staff of 5,000 people in the company. We feel it is our responsibility to vaccinate every worker and employee in our company on our own expense. The survey of the residents in the city is going on, but we would like to purchase the vaccine in bulk quantity to administer to our employees. The government must give us the vaccine on subsidised rates, if we purchase it in bulk quantity.” (with inputs from Mevyn Reggie Thomas)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/corporates-propose-to-bear-cost-for-vaccinating-workforce/articleshow/79961147.cms||Kalpesh Damor
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops arrest four-member gang of robbers||Hyderabad: Neredmet police arrested, Md Abdul Samad (27), a fabrication worker, Md Abdul Hameed (26), a cab driver, Md Azhar Khan (26), car mechanic and Sk Imran, 28, an auto driver, all from RTC Colony, in a robbery case and seized Rs 19,000 cash, a scooter and four cell phones from their possession. On December 24, V Lokesh, a car driver, lodged a complaint with police stating that posing as SOT police, the four accused had robbed Rs 10,000 and a cell phone from him while he was trying to transport PDS rice. Based on the complaint, police arrested the four accused for posing as SOT cops and robbing Lokesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-four-member-gang-of-robbers/articleshow/79960024.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 26, 2020||Ludhiana||MC to meet park mgmt panel members||Ludhiana: The civic body will hold a meeting with members of park management committees (PMCs) working for development of various parks in the city on January 3. During the meeting, issues being faced by the PMCs in maintenance of parks will be taken up. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu held a meeting with MC officials and councillors from west constituency at the Mayor camp office on Friday. Councillors have been asked to prepare data of PMCs so that members can be invited and their issues raised at the public platform. A Congress councillor from west constituency said they will prepare data, after which PMC members will be called for the meeting. He said the meeting is aimed at facilitating airing of grievances by PMC members so that their working is improved and hurdles they face are resolved. An MC official said recently they recently conducted videography of various parks in the west constituency and the work done by PMCs is being reviewed. He also said they will check which PMC is performing better. Notably, there are over 800 public parks in the city, out of which over 600 are being maintained by the MC. New PMCs were approved in the recent meeting of F&CC too. Most of the PMC members have been complaining about delay in payment and lesser payment by the civic body. This is the first time that PMCs will be given a chance to share their difficulties through an open meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-meet-park-mgmt-panel-members/articleshow/79958044.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Rajinikanth admitted to hospital for ‘BP fluctuations’||CHENNAI: Actor Rajinikanth was admitted to Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad on Friday morning following ‘severe fluctuations in his blood pressure.’ He is stable. “Though he did not have any symptoms of Covid-19, his blood pressure showed severe fluctuations and needed further evaluation for which he has been admitted,” the hospital said in a statement. He will be investigated and monitored closely till his pressure settles down before being discharged. Apart from fluctuating blood pressure and exhaustion he does not have any other symptoms and is hemodynamically stable,” the statement said. Rajinikanth had gone to Hyderabad on December 13 for the shooting of his latest film ‘Annaatthe’ which resumed on December 14 at Ramoji Film City after a long break due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. Earlier this week, the shooting was postponed indefinitely after four members of the crew tested positive for Covid-19. Though Rajinikanth tested negative, he isolated himself and was monitored closely by a team from the hospital. As news spread about Rajinikanth getting admitted to the hospital, fans offered prayers for his safe return to the city. Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu wished the actor speedy recovery. DMK chief M K Stalin inquired about the actor’s health over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajini-admitted-to-hosp-for-bp-fluctuations/articleshow/79958046.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Forest dept turns blind eye to mining in Radhanagri sanctuary||NAGPUR: The seizure of a bauxite-laden truck from inside the Radhanagri Wildlife Sanctuary, 60km from Kolhapur, has exposed how illegal mining is going on there in blatant violation of Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, right under the forest department’s nose. Officials who seized the truck with the material are now under pressure to release it even though the matter is subjudice. According to forest sources, acting on a tip-off, on October 26, 2020, foresters had intercepted a 14-wheeler truck with bauxite rock mineral. The mineral was extracted from inside the sanctuary from both private and forest land. “Even if extraction is done on private land inside the protected area, Section 20 of the WPA prohibits such activity. When mining cannot be allowed in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ), how can it be done inside the sanctuary,” asks Rohan Bhate, former honorary wildlife warden, Satara. Some private land where mining was done was earlier with the forest. Trees that were felled were the forest department’s property. New roads were also developed to transport the material. Even though mining was going on for the last few years, this time the forest department acted swiftly and seized the truck, a JCB machine and two tractors with trolleys. Once vehicles are seized under Section 39 of the WPA 1972, they become the property of the government and neither any forest officer nor the court has powers to release it. The Supreme Court has also reiterated this in the Lallu Singh vs State of UP matter. Many trees were also felled and the forest department initiated action under the Indian Forest Act (IFA) 1927. This procedure also bars the jurisdiction of the court as per Section 61 of the same Act. However, the accused moved the court to get the truck released. It was granted by SK Shaikh, JMFC of Radhanagri, on December 14. The forest department on December 19 moved an application to stay the order so that it can appeal in the higher court. Hence, it wants the vehicle not to be released till the higher court passes any orders. Officials fear if the vehicle is released, a wrong precedent will be set and all the 30-40 vehicles that have been seized in wildlife offences earlier will have to be released. “It will be difficult to deter wildlife criminals,” they said. Based on the JMFC order, senior officials are pressuring lower-rung officials to immediately release the truck. A minister in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government even called to release the seized vehicle. Samadhan Chavan, the conservator of forests (CF) in Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR), said, “The truck should be released immediately to avoid contempt of court. We can recall it if the order stays. By releasing the truck we are not favouring anyone. It is true that a minister had called for its release.” DFO Vishal Mali, Kolhapur (wildlife), said, “There is confusion in the JMFC order. Even though the court has ordered the truck’s release, there is no mention about the seized material worth lakhs of rupees which it was transporting.” “This is a serious violation and locals say this was going on for the last few years. Yet, forest officials turned a blind eye. Mining destroys wildlife habitat and its damages are irreversible to conservation,” said Nana Khamkar who has spearheaded the campaign against illegal mines in the Sahyadri region. Radhanagari harbours one of the world's greatest biodiversity in 350sqkm area and has been identified by IUCN as a world heritage site. The sanctuary connects to the Sahyadri Tiger Reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-dept-turns-blind-eye-to-mining-in-radhanagri-sanctuary/articleshow/79960608.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Last chance to e-register for jab||AHMEDABAD: The AMC has decided to give one more chance to those who have not yet registered for the vaccination drive. Such citizens can register online by visiting www.ahmedabadcity.gov.in. Officials said people will have to fill a form on the site, providing their address and the number of their photo ID which will be verified at the time of vaccination. The officials said that the online system is also a tool to verify whether surveys have been conducted. The first question people are asked is if a survey team has visited them. People can fill the form only if they say a team has not visited them. The officials said that the AMC had ordered an offline registration round and after getting details the online facility was extended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/last-chance-to-e-register-for-jab/articleshow/79960028.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: In fight against Covid, healthcare workers losing skin health & hair||AHMEDABAD: Doctors and nurses engaged in war against Covid-19 pandemic, working in ICUs and wards for long hours clad in stifling PPE kits and N-95 masks, are losing their hair literally. The life-saving face shields, hand gloves and masks have become a source of skin disease and poor hair health as wearing them hours on end is leaving medical personnel grappling with rashes, acne and skin pigmentation, said city-based experts. In fact, a survey carried out by the dermatology and venereal diseases (DVD) department of the BJ Medical College revealed that seven out of 10 healthcare workers faced one or other dermatological issue over the past nine months which required treatment. Dr Krina Patel, head of the DVD department at BJ, said 600-plus respondents were surveyed of which over 66% were healthcare workers. “The data showed that the prolonged use of masks caused acne – we have coined the term ‘mask-ne’ for the phenomenon. Its severity was more in the healthcare workers at 80% as the N-95 prevents air circulation, resulting in accumulation of oily secretion and moisture from breath,” she said. PPEs better now but skin issues persist, say doctorsHundreds of citizens, who work in close office settings, use the double masks – one made of fabric and another triple-layer or N-95 mask. What does it do to the skin? Dr Anshul Warman, a city-based dermatologist, said, “Prolonged use of masks has resulted in bacterial infection in several patients. Skin rashes, contact dermatitis around the areas of the strap, itching are also common complaints,” she said, adding that use of the right masks for the right setting is important. Experts pointed out that N-95 mask is not required in all the settings. Even when wearing such masks in non-medical settings, regular break – approximately every three to four hours – is recommended. Dr Vineet Mishra, director of IKDRC, said that PPE kits have been like a second skin for the doctors working with Covid-19 patients for the past nine months. “We still remember that the earliest PPE kits were literally like a raincoat. As they are made of non-woven polypropylene, they are not breathable. A lot of colleagues reported skin issues, especially in areas where the sweat gets accumulated including the masks, but now we have found ways to circumvent issues,” he said. Dr Warman said that those wearing face shields and protective gears have also reported hair loss in some cases due to constant pressure and friction. “Several also have allergy towards synthetic material – especially gloves – which results in skin diseases,” she said, adding that about a quarter of the patients with skin issues could be identified as healthcare workers. “We recommend use of skin protecting ointments and powder for various areas of the body. Use of cotton clothes below PPE kits have also worked well. Make sure the mask is clean and is not used again. Take short breaks to allow skin to breath normally,” said Dr Hemant Saraiya, a city-based plastic surgeon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ppes-better-now-but-skin-issues-persist-say-doctors/articleshow/79960038.cms||Parth Shastri
December 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Treatment plant project in choppy waters over price of land||Nidhi.Bhardwaj@timesgroup.com Ludhiana: It has been almost one year since civic officials planned to acquire land to establish a water treatment plant near Sirhind Canal. Till date however, no land has been acquired for the purpose. Now, authorities will again seek applications from land owners in villages near Sirhind canal for the purpose. Civic authorities cannot proceed with the project without acquiring land for the water treatment plant. Under the project, the city will get round the clock surface water supply, reducing dependence on ground water. In 2014, the project report was placed in front of councillors and officials. Two sites were proposed for water treatment plants, one in Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and the other in Lohara. Both sites were rejected. Thereafter, officials identified land at villages of Rampur, Boani and Bilaspur. According to officials, farmers in these villages asked for more money, which they offered but have again sought applications from land owners in nearby villages. The civic body needs 50 acres of land to establish the water treatment plant. While Ludhiana MC could not finalise the land, ground work started in Amritsar, Patiala and Jalandhar. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “There is a lot of difference in actual land price and demand of farmers against acquisition in previous villages, which we cannot accept. So we will take fresh quotations and try to finalise the land.” 2-phased project The water supply project will be developed in two phases. In the first phase, to be executed at a cost of Rs 1,032.10 crore, water supply from Sirhind canal will reach treatment plants. The second phase will be executed after one year at a cost of Rs 2189.15 crore, under which water will be supplied from treatment plants to the city and water supply lines will be laid. Dependence on tubewells Civic officials said they are digging out ground water from 1,000 tube wells to provide water to city residents, even though the ground water is not being recharged. Officials said water is available at 120 feet under the ground but it is not potable. At some places, potable water is available at 600 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/treatment-plant-project-in-choppy-waters-over-price-of-land/articleshow/79958060.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Check ‘textile’ definition: Gujarat HC to Centre||AHMEDABAD: In an important order, the Gujarat high court has directed the Centre to check its definition of ‘textile’ for the purpose of levying excise duty after the revenue authority treated agro shade net and geogrid as plastic material. The issue reached the HC after the central excise commissioner in Ahmedabad issued notice in June 2020 to one CTM Technical Textiles Ltd to shell out Rs 3.65 crore duty and penalty of equal amount for manufacturing agro shade nets and geo grids since 2007. It said these goods could be termed as articles of plastics because both the products are made of the HDPE strips of less than 5mm width. They are not made out of textile material. The central government relied on a circular issued in 1992 by the Central Board of Excise and Customs and a 1994 trade notice issued by the Ahmedabad district collector. The company argued that both the items were exempted from excise duty. Moreover, it is the only company out of hundred others producing these materials to have been asked to pay duty. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala noticed that the excise commissioner refused to believe that the material was textile even after the department chemical examiner’s opinion that agro shed net is knitted fabric and geo grid fabric are woven fabric and polyester yarn is used for the weaving. The court further said that the raw materials used for both the products include High Density Polyethelene (HDPE) strips, which is a plastic material. But, plastic is used in textile fabric – polyester, telelene, nylon fabrics etc. The HC reminded the revenue authority that it is not the material that is used that defines textile, but it is the process of manufacturing that defines what is textile. The HC cited the definition of textile as made by the Supreme Court for the purpose of taxation. The high court ordered the Union of India to re-look into its definitions with observation, “Prima facie, it appears that the understanding of the word ‘textiles’ in common parlance has not been considered by the Board as well as by the Ahmedabad Collector while issuing the impugned Order and the Trade Notice respectively. Instead of considering the method of weaving as a relevant factor, the nature of the raw material seems to have been taken into consideration while issuing such Order and Trade Notice.” The high court pulled up the revenue authority for seeking to levy duty only on one company and that too by not following proper procedure. It quashed the notice and ordered the excise commissioner to take a fresh decision on the issue after hearing the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/check-textile-definition-hc-to-centre/articleshow/79960039.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Covid warrior initiates online crowd funding for wife’s treatment||NAGPUR: Exactly two months ago, Dr Sonali Talreja went to bed feeling a bit feverish. Next morning, the 31-year-old radiologist didn’t open her eyes and was rushed to a private hospital in Nashik, 160 kms from her marital home in Chalisgaon. She was put on ventilator and continued to battle for life the next 12 days. Investigations showed she was suffering from dengue encephelatis, a rare disease which occurs as a result of direct infection in the brain and has a poor rate of survival. Despite having exhausted all his savings in just 12 days at Nashik hospital, her anaesthelogist husband Dr Kunal Talreja didn’t give up and decided to shift her treatment at Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital in Mumbai. Dr Kunal’s hope of seeing his wife through and recover from the deadly disease now faces the impeding challenge of a financial crisis. The 33-year-old anaesthelogist, who served as Covid warrior offering free service at local hospitals in Chalisgaon through the Indian Medical Association, has initiated crowd funding to take care of Dr Sonali’s rehabilitation as she has started showing signs of remarkable improvement at the Mumbai hospital. The campaign through milaap.org has facilitated Rs5.37lakh from 201 supporters in last 15 days. “Even if someone can’t donate, they can at least forward my post for help to some of their contacts,” appealed Dr Kunal. Recalling the ordeal, Dr Kunal said, “On October 23, she had the first episode of fever and remained unconscious. Till November 12, we incurred a whopping bill of Rs12.75 lakh at Nashik where doctors asked us to take her home as she wasn’t responding to treatment even though she was out of coma. Of this, Rs10lakh was covered in insurance. At Mumbai, she has been admitted in ICU and needs neuro-rehabilitation. So far, the 8-week programme has cost us Rs 12lakh while we are short of Rs20 lakh,” he said. Even as the family was reeling under Dr Sonali’s prolonged hospital stay, Dr Kunal lost his father leaving him further shattered. “Hence, I didn’t bring her back home as there was a further risk of her condition deteriorating.” Showing promise, Dr Sonali occasionally smiles and cries but is yet to start speaking. “She is able to swallow too,” said Dr Kunal, adding that he researched online and also spoke to encephalitis survivors from US before opting for the costly rehab programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-warrior-initiates-online-crowd-funding-for-wifes-treatment/articleshow/79960610.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four added: Now 12 societies contained in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: AMC on Friday added four societies in the Covid micro-containment list. With this, the city now has 12 societies under restrictions. Four flats with a population of 15 people on the seventh floor of E-block of Safal Parisar-II in South Bopal were added o Friday. The other two societies from the western part are Dev City and Tivoli Apartment in Godrej Garden City. One society from Om Shanti Bungalows in Vatva was removed from the list. The city now has 2,478 active cases with the highest number of active cases from the south zone which had 432 cases, followed by 415 cases in the west zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-added-now-12-societies-contained/articleshow/79960040.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Surat||BDB mulls trading of lab-grown diamonds alongside real ones||SURAT: If all goes well, the lab-grown diamonds might be traded along with the real diamonds on the trading floors of Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB) in Mumbai. For the first time, the board of BDB has proposed the removal of the restrictions on the trading of the lab-grown diamonds and invited its members to vote at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) to be held on December 28. In a circular issued to its members and shareholders on Monday, BDB board said that there is restriction on the trading or dealing in lab-grown diamonds at the bourse. However, the board feels that considering the current operations of the company, the said restrictions should now be removed and be modified accordingly. BDB had banned the trading of lab-grown diamonds on the floors following stiff opposition from the majority of the members dealing in the real diamonds in 2015. The trade members opined that there was rampant undisclosed mixing of lab-grown diamonds with natural diamonds, which had tarnished the image of the world’s largest diamond hub. “From the last six to eight months we have been receiving representations from members to allow the trading of lab-grown diamonds at BDB. Majority of the board members and trade people are in favour of allowing the trading of lab grown diamonds. However, a decision will be taken at the AGM. We will be framing strict rules of trading at the BDB,” said Anoop Mehta, president of BDB. Many trade members in the diamond trade have diversified into the lab-grown diamond business in the last couple of years. There are many world-renowned companies including De Beers, Sarin Technologies etc., who have introduced diamond detection machines to segregate the synthetic stones from natural ones. According to Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), the lab-grown diamond export from India witnessed 228% rise in April-November to Rs 3,128 crore against Rs 1,900 crore during the same period the previous year. Shashikant Shah, chairman of Lab-grown diamond and Jewellery Promotion Council, told TOI, “It was our long-pending demand to allow the lab-grown diamond traders to trade on the BDB floors. We want to trade in lab-grown with full disclosure and stay away from the undisclosed mixing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bdb-mulls-trading-of-lab-grown-diamonds-alongside-real-ones/articleshow/79958891.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jamshedpur||Steel City observes Christmas without midnight mass, fanfare||Jamshedpur: Steel City celebrated Christmas without any fanfare from Thursday night through Friday in compliance with the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state administration. All 24 churches in the city organised special prayers to mark the birth of Jesus Christ but unlike other years, the midnight mass was not observed and the prayers were held on Thursday evening. Former vicar general of the Catholic Diocese of Jamshedpur, Father David Vincent, said, “Since we can hold prayers after sunset, we organised sessions between 7 pm and 8 pm at all churches.” Father E A Francis, who is the principal of XITE college, Gamharia, said devotees and priests prayed to Jesus to liberate the country and the world from the clutches of the deadly virus. The faithful, who arrived at the churches in small groups to join the prayers on the eve of Christmas and subsequently on Friday morning, apparently missed the cheerfulness due to the restrictions. “We used to witness packed halls for midnight mass and the morning prayers, but it was missing this year,” said 67-year-old Sitaramdera resident S K Nag, who visited the central GEL church at Agrico. The devotees also exchanged simple Christmas greetings without the traditional hugs and handshakes. Steven D’Souza, a 47-year-old Tata Steel employee, said, “2020 Christmas will go down the memory lane for its lack of fanfare and celebrations.” The churches were, however, decorated in colourful lights. Meanwhile, the district police deployed security personnel at the churches and increased patrolling to implement the safety protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/steel-city-observes-christmas-without-midnight-mass-fanfare/articleshow/79958479.cms||B Sridhar
December 26, 2020||Ranchi||Ahead of New Year, police step up vigil around Ranchi tourist spots||Ranchi: The district administrations of Ranchi and Khunti have increased security and vigil around picnic spots in view of the pandemic situation. There are numerous popular picnic spots in Ranchi and Khunti — like the Jonha, Dassam, Hundru and Panchghag falls, and dams like Kanke, Dhurwa and Getalsud — that receive heavy footfall during this time of the year. Talking to TOI on Friday, Ranchi rural SP Naushad Alam said, “Additional forces would be deployed around the picnic spots on January 1. Plain-clothed personnel would also be deployed at these places. All the officers-in-charge of police stations have been asked to identify the spots where people usually gather during this time and increase patrolling in those areas.” Police have also been asked to check incidents of drunken driving and speeding, which often lead to accidents. “Vehicle-checking drive would be intensified on December 31 and January 1. The administration would also keep an eye on the sensitive spots in the city through CCTVs”, Alam added. Notably, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan had earlier said that police would ensure strict implementation of Covid protocols at the picnic spots. The administration has also briefed paryatak mitras to ensure that people maintain social distancing and wear masks. Khunti SP Ashutosh Shekhar said, “Magistrates would be deployed at popular spots to ensure wearing of masks and adherence to social distancing norms. The administration would also urge the crowd to follow the safety norms through the public address system. The magistrates can take action under relevant laws if Covid norms are violated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ahead-of-new-year-police-step-up-vigil-around-ranchi-tourist-spots/articleshow/79960468.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 26, 2020||Ranchi||This year has been a challenging one: CM Hemant Soren||JAMSHEDPUR/BOKARO: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday said the state would witness a greater speed of progress in the coming year. He spoke to the media on the sidelines of his visit to Uliyan, Kadma to pay tribute at the burial site of Nirmal Mahato, one of the founders of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha who was assassinated during the statehood movement in 1987. “On December 29, our government will complete its first year in office. We will hold a programme to mark the occasion and on that day I will speak about the work we have done this year. This has been a challenging year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic,” the CM said. The government would provide a future road map on the anniversary, Soren said, adding that governance had suffered under the erstwhile BJP regime. “We had to make a lot of effort to restore a proper system of governance,” Soren said. Responding to a question on alleged mining scams reported in the media, the CM said his government will not allow anyone to loot the natural resources of Jharkhand. The CM also attacked the Union government over the farmer agitation. “Thousands of farmers are sitting on a dharna braving the cold in Delhi, but the Centre is completely indifferent to the demands,” Soren said. Soren urged the Narendra Modi-led Union government to repeal the three farm laws, terming the legislation anti-farmer and anti-people. Earlier in the day, Soren, who arrived here on a short visit for the first time after taking over as chief minister, was accorded a warm welcome by party leaders at the Sonari aerodrome. Flanked by ministers Champai Soren and Banna Gupta, among other leaders, the CM later visited the house of party MLA, Sabita Mahato, the sister-in-law of Nirmal Mahato. The chief minister travelled to Bokaro from Jamshedpur later in the day. Speaking to reporters in Bokaro, Soren said, “The state government will soon take appropriate steps to analyse the losses faced by those who are displaced owing to PSU projects. After the assessment is over, we will take corrective measures.” Soren visited Bokaro to participate in a condolence meet for one of his associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/this-year-has-been-a-challenging-one-hemant/articleshow/79960457.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ranchi||JSR cops begin special drive to check rowdies||Jamshedpur: To check reckless driving and rowdyism on Jamshedpur roads during the picnic season and the New Year, police have launched special checking at various parts of the city from Friday. SSP Tamil Vanan has instructed all police stations to remain vigilant for the next 15 days to keep a tab on those violating traffic rules, including autorickshaws, two- and four-wheelers. The SSP has also formed special mobile police teams along with Tiger Mobiles, who will move around the city on two-wheelers to keep round-the-clock vigil and prevent gambling and drinking at public places. Officials said check posts have also been set up at different places to collect spot fines from the traffic violators. On Day One, police collected Rs 1.06 lakh from 150 errant drivers across the city. Among the violators were 35 bikers who were fined for not wearing helmets. DSP (traffic) Babban Singh was personally present at the checking points and fined heavy vehicles for violating no entry timings in Golmuri area. All police stations were also given special instructions to check drunk-driving on December 31 night and New Year morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jsr-cops-begin-special-drive-to-check-rowdies/articleshow/79958565.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 26, 2020||Ranchi||Railways increases Rajdhani halt time in Ramgarh after Army request||Daltonganj: The district health wing in Palamu has started reviewing infrastructure required for storing and distributing the Covid-19 vaccine, which is expected to be rolled out in the country early next year. Sources in the department said that several areas in the district do not have refrigeration facilities, which are required to store vaccine vials. Also, erratic supply of electricity and a lack of trained manpower are a concern for the health authorities. For instance, in Hussainabad block, which has a sub-divisional hospital catering to a population of over three lakh, there is an urgent need to upgrade the facilities. Out of 300 vaccine carriers, 140 require repair in Hussainabad alone. Of the five deep freezers, two are non-functional and one ice lined refrigerator is beyond repair. Palamu’s reproductive child health officer and district immunization officer Anil Kumar Singh said, “I have asked the medical officer-in-charge of the sub-divisional hospital and other health officials in Hussainabad to get the equipment repaired without delay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/railways-increases-rajdhani-halt-time-in-ramgarh-after-army-request/articleshow/79958515.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 26, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Court denies bail to two accused||VADODARA: The sessions court on Friday rejected bail application of the two men accused in Navlakhi gangrape case. Kisan Mathasuriya and Jaso Solanki had allegedly raped a minor girl at an isolated spot in the Navlakhi compound in November last year. They were nabbed by the cops about two weeks after they committed the crime. The duo that sold balloons for a living had applied for bail that was opposed by the police stating that the case was at a sensitive stage. Kisan and Jaso, both residents of Tarsali, had accosted the minor girl when she was hanging out with her male friend in Navlakhi on the night of November 28. The accused duo threatened both of them and then slapped the boy. They then dragged the girl into the bushes nearby and took turns to rape her. The girl’s friend managed to call his friends and even informed the police. But the accused fled from the spot before the cops could arrive. The Ahmedabad crime branch had arrested them after conducting a detailed investigation along with the city police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/court-denies-bail-to-two-accused/articleshow/79958658.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Highest sowing in last 5 years in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The sowing of rabi crop in Gujarat usually takes places in about 34.4 lakh hectares, but this year the sowing by third week of December has been the highest of the last five years and sowing is already completed in 42.85 lakh hectares, 25% more than usual. Officials in the department said that this year there was better availability of water as groundwater level rose due to sufficient rainfall. Dams, especially in the Saurashtra region also have good water availability. Bhakhabhai Jajadiya an office-bearer of Bhavnagar APMC said that apart from high water level, heavy and unseasonal rain destroyed the cotton crop which is usually harvested in January. Farmers removed the cotton crop and went in for sowing of coriander, gram and in Bhavnagar onion this year. Onion was sown in only 33,000 hectares last year, but this year sowing is already completed in 53,000 hectares which is much higher than the 10-year average. The average sowing area of onion is 39,000 hectares in the state. An agricultural officer in Saurashtra said gram and coriander sowing this year is almost double that of past years. The sowing of sugar cane in south Gujarat too has increased by 22%. The officials in the third week of December, sowing was usually around 30 lakh hectares but this year it has increased by around 30%. Officials said that even though there is no demand raised for water, the irrigation department has been instructed by the state government to release water as and when needed. An agricultural officer said thatfarmers are now going in for sowing of crops that fetch higher prices, and to take advantage of initial season prices they go in for early sowing. The trend is the same during rabi crop as in monsoon. Arvind Dave, a farmer from Dhari, said, “This year the monsoon crop was good, and the farmers earned well. Hence they went in for sowing in the winter also, as water is abundant. I had sown groundnut in monsoon, but have now sown gram and coriander.” Narendrasinh Jadeja, sarpanch of Chapabeda panchayat in Rajkot said, “The sowing is on and increasing. The water is there, but soon we will have to depend on supply from government. If we get water, it will be a good crop, but if we don’t get timely water it will reduce the yield.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/highest-sowing-in-last-5-yrs/articleshow/79959402.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 26, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand clocks 181 new Covid cases, no deaths||RANCHI: With zero casualty, Jharkhand reported 181 new Covid-19 cases, including 81 from Ranchi, in the last 24 hours on Friday taking the state’s total cumulative load of cases to 1,13,954, according to the bulletin issued by the state health department. A total of 176 were declared recovered in the same period. Districts with double digit daily Covid count include East Singbhum (21), Dhanbad (18) and Bokaro (16) while 11 districts reported no cases. Currently, 1,587 are active cases in the state and 1,11,351 out of the total positive cases have cured since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. The state’s 7-day growth rate now stands at 0.14% compared to the 0.2% nationally. Seven days doubling rate of the state is 499.75 days vis-à-vis 342.73 days nationally while the recovery rate is 97.71% against India’s average of 95.80%. State’s mortality rate is 0.89% against the national average of 1.50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-clocks-181-new-covid-cases-no-deaths/articleshow/79960463.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ranchi||Lemon grass distillation plant set up in Maoist-hit Garu through crowdfunding||Daltonganj: A local NGO has set up a lemon grass distillation plant in Garu under Latehar district in order to promote the plant’s cultivation in the Maoist-hit tribal area. The unit will be run by a samiti comprising men and women from the locality and the cultivation is expected to give a boost to farmers’ income, officials said on Monday. Nature Conservation Society secretary D S Srivastava said the plant has been set up through crowdfunding. “A Gurugram-based student named Aranya Roy, who has his roots in Daltonganj, believed that the Garu farmers’ economic condition can be changed by producing lemongrass here. When the farmers expressed their willingness to cultivate the plant, we collected Rs 2.50 lakh through crowdfunding,” he added. One quintal of lemon grass produces one kilogram of oil after distillation which can be sold at Rs 3,000 per litre in the markets. Srivastava said, “The farmers will not be charged when they bring the lemon grass here for oil extraction. However, we have decided to retain 200gm per kilo of the distilled lemon grass to raise funds to operate and manage this unit. The residues like water and crushed grasses will be reused as fuel.” Sources said that if the rural population finds it a lucrative business opportunity, then their inclination towards poppy cultivation will decrease. Sources said that Palamu administration is producing strawberry and peppermint through the local farmers in the rebel-hit areas and many of them are earning well as a result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lemon-grass-distillation-plant-set-up-in-maoist-hit-garu-through-crowdfunding/articleshow/79958590.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 26, 2020||Rajkot||Juvenile Himalayan Griffon rescued from LRK in Patan||Palanpur: In a juvenile Himalayan Griffon vulture was rescued from the Little Rann of Kutch (LRK) near Santalpur in Patan district recently.Deputy conservator of forest (DCF) Patan J J Rajput said that the Griffon vultures which are a native of the Himalayan region are seen in Gujarat during their migration in winter. “The bird was spotted in the desert area in Garamadi village in the Little Rann of Kutch by an environmentalist and bird lover Kanhayalal Rajgor a resident of Santalpur,” Rajput told TOI.“In all probability, it seems it got separated from its flock after flying 1,200-1,500 km before reaching here,” said Rajput. “The bird when found was very weak as it had not eaten for days. It is under treatment of local veterinarians. If its condition does not improve we are planning to send it wildlife care centre at Ahmedabad,” the DCF added. The government of India has identified nine species of vultures living in India and most are now in the endangered list and declared protected. Griffon vulture, part of Gyps Fulvus family, is recognized for its long neck which is sand-coloured or dark brown with a white head, neck and ruff (feathers around the neck). Wings are long and wide and resemble somewhat like human fingers at a quick glance. A unique characteristic of Griffon vultures is they are very sociable in comparison to other vulture species. They live in groups and breed in colonies set up on steep cliffs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/juvenile-himalayan-griffon-rescued-from-lrk-in-patan/articleshow/79959002.cms||---
December 26, 2020||India||Don’t deprive 70L farmers, join PM-Kisan, Tomar tells Mamata||NEW DELHI: With West Bengal as the only state which has not joined the PM-Kisan scheme, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said he had written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to join the scheme so that the state’s 70 lakh farmers could not be denied its benefit. Under the scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is given to eligible farmers in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of beneficiaries. More than Rs 1.1 lakh crore have, so far, been transferred to bank accounts of eligible farmers across the country, except in Bengal, ever since the scheme became effective from December 2018. “Nearly 70 lakh farmers of West Bengal would annually get Rs 4,200 crore if the state government joins the scheme,” said Tomar. PM Narendra Modi, in his address to farmers on Friday, flagged the issue, noting how the West Bengal government’s refusal to join the scheme had denied over 70 lakh farmers the benefits of the scheme. He said over 23 lakh farmers of Bengal have applied online to take advantage of this scheme, but the state has stopped the verification process. Though the state government had in September agreed to implement the scheme, it had asked the Centre to transfer the funds to the state exchequer for disbursement instead of transferring it directly to the farmers’ bank accounts. The Centre, however, did not agree to tweak its rule to meet the state’s condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-deprive-70l-farmers-join-pm-kisan-tomar-tells-mamata/articleshow/79961038.cms||Saibal Sen
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Besa-Beltarodi cremation ground is now a garbage dumping yard||Nagpur: The Besa-Beltarodi cremation ground has been converted into a dumping yard with at least two metric tonnes of garbage being emptied on the premises every day. Besides, a portion of the cremation ground, spread over half an acre, has been used to treat garbage generated by the residents of the suburb.It is allegedly being done by the Besa Beltarodi Gram Panchayat (GP). Following complaints from locals, TOI visited the area and witnessed mounds of waste covering half of the cremation ground. “It is in need of immediate attention from the authorities concerned,” said Prasanjeet Dutta, a local resident.With mounds of solid waste everywhere, there is virtually no space due to which the crematorium ground is not being used to perform last rites. “So bodies from this part of the extended city are cremated at Manewada ghat, which comes under the city limits,” he said.Expressing anguish, Beltarodi residents said they are devoid of using the cremation ground and are also forced to stay in unhealthy atmosphere.Another resident Deepak Bagwale alleged that after collecting garbage from various localities, the gram panchayat workers were dumping waste inside the crematorium ground. Besides, the litter stinks so badly that they are worried about the health of the people residing alongside the ground.“Heaps of garbage keep stinking the whole time and we are forced to live in dirty surroundings. Moreover, the garbage attracts stray animals. A large number of cattle always keeps wandering on the road,” Bagwale said.Yogesh Sawarkar, another resident, demanded shifting of dumping yard to Ghogli village side and closing down the cremation ground. He said, “The dumping ground in the middle of the city is not good at all for the citizens as it is creating health hazards. As cremation grounds here are without the facility of firewood, it is of no use and locals prefer Manewada ghat inside corporation limits.”He said after dusk, the place became an ideal place for anti-social elements for consuming liquor, gambling etc.Residents also alleged that irregular lifting of garbage has put many open areas in this developing town into garbage yard.Bagwale blamed the lethargic approach of the local body officials. Residents have put in several requests to the authorities concerned to make sure that the trash is lifted on a regular basis.Gram panchayat sarpanch Surendra Banait admitted that the dumping yard is posing health hazards but expressed haplessness and claimed that the GP has already approached the government seeking appropriate land to shift the dumping yard outside the limits of Besa-Beltarodi.Banait, however, said waste treatment is being done on a regular basis and the GP is taking care of cleanliness and collection of garbage from every corner of the town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/besa-beltarodi-cremation-ground-is-now-a-garbage-dumping-yard/articleshow/79958190.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Swelling turns into tumour; docs remove it in over 7 hrs||Nagpur: It began with a simple, non-painful swelling in the thigh. The soft tissue tumour in the groin of a 21-year-old city youth turned cancerous and had to be removed by specialized surgery that lasted more than seven hours. As the artery and vein in the right thigh of the youth were completely engulfed by the 10cm X 15cm tumour, they both (vein and artery) had to be cut off with it. Doctors then reconstructed the vein and artery using parts of a vein from the left leg of the patient. “Soft tissue tumours are not rare, neither are surgical procedures to remove them. In this case, we avoided use of synthetic blood vessels during surgery and used patient’s own vein from another leg to reconstruct the lost vessels,” said vascular and endovascular surgeon Dr Vaibhav Lende, who performed the skilful job of reconstruction of vein and arteries of the patient. Using patient’s own vein proved beneficial and he recovered fast. The patient started walking on sixth day of surgery and was discharged on Thursday. Vascular surgery is comparatively new for Nagpur. Earlier, patients had to travel to Mumbai or Chennai for such surgeries. “This is commendable job,” said senior orthopaedic surgeon Dr Sanjeev Choudhary. “Reconstruction of artery and veins using a cut from another vein requires special skill. Doctors are claiming the patient can walk within six days which is a good achievement,” he said.Doctors stated the tumour was present in the right thigh of the patient for more than two years and was growing. The growth became rapid in last two months and soon turned painful. This was when the patient came to doctors.CT scan revealed it to be a big tumour. Removing it was must. Had it grown further, it would have engulfed the bone, nerves and other structures. It would have occluded the vessels of the leg and the patient would have faced disability, or neurological problems, doctors said.As the tumour was cancerous, oncosurgeon Dr Gopal Gurjar led the team of doctors that performed the surgery. Orthopaedic and spine surgeon Dr Faizan and anaesthesiologist Dr Arif were also in the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/swelling-turns-into-tumour-docs-remove-it-in-over-7-hrs/articleshow/79958197.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||HC allows Novodaya Bank to operate accounts with riders||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court allowed Navodaya Urban Cooperative Bank Limited to operate its accounts in various banks. After the alleged misappropriation of over Rs38.75 crore surfaced in the bank, the state home department had frozen its accounts.The Sakkardara-based bank through its Board of Liquidators had earlier challenged the government’s move in lower court where the additional sessions judge rejected its application on September 30. This order was later challenged by the petitioner in high court.While allowing the bank’s plea, justice Swapna Joshi permitted its board of liquidators to operate the accounts with certain riders. “The petitioner should submit a report in respect of the expenses to be incurred by the bank in future. The monthly report of all expenses should be furnished before the crime branch inspector here every first week of the month,” the judge added.The board, however, is restrained from using the bank accounts for any other expenses except those stated in the list.According to petitioner’s counsel SS Ghate, after embezzlement was detected in the bank, proceedings under the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors — MPID — In Financial Establishments) Act, 1999 were initiated. Subsequently, offences under Sections 406, 409, 420, 120-B, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 477-A of the Indian Penal Code read with Section 3 of the MPID Act, and under Sections 65 and 65-B of the Information Technology Act, 2001, were registered.The government, while exercising the powers under Section 110-A (1) (ii) of the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act, 1960, established a Board of Liquidators and a liquidator was appointed to commence proceedings of winding up of the bank affairs.The petitioner board then made an application to the government for de-freezing the accounts in various banks for meeting day-to-day expenses and proceedings to conduct recovery from borrowers on May 24. Its counsel vociferously argued that the bank is unable to pay the staff’s salary and pay electricity bills of its premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-allows-novodaya-bank-to-operate-accounts-with-riders/articleshow/79958208.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 26, 2020||India||Modi’s charges ‘half-truths’, says Mamata||KOLKATA: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee countered PM Narendra Modi’s charges against her government of blocking a central scheme for farmers owing to its political agenda and denying funds to over 70 lakh farmers in the state under the PM-Kisan scheme, calling them “halftruths and distorted facts” and also questioned the Centre’s motive in disbursing cash benefits to farmers bypassing the state in poll-bound Bengal. “We always have been ready to cooperate in our farmers’ interest. I myself have written two letters and have even spoken to the minister but they are indulging in malicious propaganda for political gains. The charge of not cooperating is absurd when we are implementing so many schemes along with the Centre. The Centre is violating established practices regarding implementation of central schemes by state governments,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modis-charges-half-truths-says-mamata/articleshow/79961060.cms||Saibal Sen
December 26, 2020||Rajkot||Leopard kills teen girl near Mahuva||RAJKOT: A 17-year-old girl was killed by a leopard that attacked her in Kasan village of Bhavnagar’s Mahuva taluka on Thursday evening. The girl, Arti Makwana, succumbed to the injuries at a government hospital on Friday. Makwana was sitting alongside other women who were washing clothes near a farm owned by one Jiva Patel. The women work as farm labourers there. Nilesh Vegda, range forest officer, Mahuva said, “The leopard had brutally bite the girl on her neck. The staff of Talaja, Mahuva and Jesar rangers have set up four cages to capture the leopard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-kills-teen-girl-near-mahuva/articleshow/79959380.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Rajura problem tiger shifted to Borivali||Nagpur: The problem tiger of Rajura (RT1) that had mauled nine villagers in Central Chanda division and was dramatically captured has been shifted to Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), Borivali, in Mumbai, on Thursday evening. RT1 was captured on October 27, after nine months of efforts. It was later shifted to Gorewada Rescue Centre at Nagpur and since then plans were afoot to shift the animal to SGNP. “On Thursday evening RT1 has started from Nagpur in a well-equipped rescue ambulance with a team of wildlife veterinarians. The animal will reach Mumbai on Saturday,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), West. “We are seeking Central Zoo Authority (CZA) permission to use RT1 for breeding purposes and for tiger safari. There are five tigers in safari which are released alternatively,” Limaye added. With tiger cages getting full at Gorewada Rescue Centre, SGNP seems to be the new destination for captured tigers. Of the 10 tiger cages in Gorewada, eight are occupied by tigers while two cages are vacant as tigers were released in Gorewada Zoo safari this month. Earlier, on August 4, NT1, a tiger captured from Talodhi in Bramhapuri was shifted to the city’s Maharajbagh zoo. On November 20, an 11-month-old tigress captured as a cub from Chichpalli in April this year was shifted to SGNP. RT1 is the third tiger to be shifted to Borivali in the last one year. On December 16, 2019, a two-year-old male tiger Sultan was shifted to SGNP for breeding purposes. The fate of two tiger cubs undergoing treatment in Chandrapur treatment centre is as yet undecided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rajura-problem-tiger-shifted-to-borivali/articleshow/79958364.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||Now, state bamboo devpt board in conflict of interest||Nagpur: Already in the thick of controversy regarding several irregularities, Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB) has landed in yet another row. This time, it is about conflict of interest by appointing an agarbatti businessman from Karnataka on the state-level executive committee (SLEC) as an NGO member. On November 20, 2020, state government had reconstituted the 13-member SLEC under principal secretary (forest) to implement National Bamboo Mission (NBM) objectives. As part of the rejig, the state government has appointed MR Suresh, chief executive officer (CEO) of Cycle Agarbatti, Bengaluru. The other two NGO members are Sandeep Theng, New Mumbai, and Manoj Dewre, Digras in Yavatmal. The tenure of these members will be of two years. Suresh replaces Sunil Deshpande of Bamboo Sampoorna Kendra, Melghat, who is promoting bamboo and its use for the last 35 years. “It is surprising that the government could not find anyone from Maharashtra who is involved in promotion of the bamboo industry,” said experts. The appointment of Cycle Agarbatti CEO smacks of conflict of interest as it is doing business with the MBDB by procuring tonnes of incense sticks from units in Gadchiroli and Agarzari near Tadoba and has also signed an MoU to procure similar material from 100 units which are being set up in Darwha-Digras belt having hometown of forest minister Sanjay Rathod. As per NBM guidelines for the composition of SLEC, NGO members should be experts with knowledge of production, processing, designing & product development, and industrial promotion. Nowhere, it says that the NGOs should be traders engaged in commercial dealings with the bamboo board. Subhash Bhatia, who is an SLEC member in Madhya Pradesh, says, “As per NBM, a trader cannot be appointed as a member. His contribution should be towards the overall promotion of the bamboo sector.” Talking to TOI, MR Suresh admits, “We have a tie-up with MBDB and are procuring 60-80 tonne agarbatti per month from 52 clusters in Gadchiroli by doing hand-holding. We will do the same in Yavatmal, where 100 units are being set up. There is no conflict of interest in it.” PCCF (HoFF) N Rambabu said, “I feel, the appointment of Suresh is as per the requirement. The NGO members should be of help to the bamboo board. I will look into the composition.” Deshpande expressed surprise over his removal. “I’m not aware that I’m no more a member of the SLEC. Those who can do justice to bamboo should be included in the SLEC. Agarbatti incense sticks are not produced here and are imported, so where is promotion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-state-bamboo-devpt-board-in-conflict-of-interest/articleshow/79958377.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 26, 2020||Nagpur||‘India should not let others exploit its resources’||Nagpur: “We are not mere cheap labour. Some countries dare to think so because of the inferiority complex we harbour. We have ample natural resources, but that does not mean we let foreign countries exploit us. It is time for us to enjoy the fruits of our own natural resources,” said RSS national general secretary Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi on Friday. He was speaking after inaugurating the 66th national conference of student organization Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) at Dr Hedgewar Smruti Mandir premises, Reshimbagh.Joshi said, “We have been going through unprecedented times due to the pandemic but people are marching shoulder to shoulder and now we are on the verge of coming out of this situation. Contrary to the rest of the world, where it has been the government’s job to solve the Covid crisis, in India the society thought it is our collective responsibility. We need to strengthen the weaker sections of society.”He praised ABVP for not remaining a mute spectator, and participating in bringing about change during these trying times.Giving an account of ABVP’s work, general secretary Nidhi Tripathi said, “During the lockdown, our members distributed 30 lakh food packets, 3 lakh ration kits and 5 lakh masks to needy people. We have started 917 schools across the country for underprivileged students who cannot afford the luxury of online education.”ABVP president Chhaganbhai Patel said, “India’s traditional medicines have been a ray of hope for the entire world during the Covid crisis.” He added, “Through their work during the pandemic, ABVP members have set a precedent and are inspiring others to be good citizens. This is an example of patriotism.”ABVP Vidarbha president Yogesh Yenarkar presented a vote of thanks. State secretary Ravi Dandge conducted the programme. The event was live streamed on ABVP’s official handles on YouTube and Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/india-should-not-let-others-exploit-its-resources/articleshow/79958391.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Rajkot||Bombay surrendered to this A’bad spinner||Ahmedabad: Cricket fans in India are desperately hoping that the Men In Blue return with vengeance and entomb the bitter Adelaide memories of 36— their lowest Test score — when they take the field in the Boxing Day Test beginning Saturday. One of the million enthusiasts hoping for a riposte by India to the humiliation Down Under is Ashok Joshi of Ahmedabad. Just as Pat Cummins and Josh Hazelwood ripped through the Indian batting in Adelaide, Joshi, playing for Gujarat, had inflicted similar ignominy on the formidable Mumbai (then Bombay) in a Ranji Trophy match on this day – December 26, 1977. Forty-three years on, the left-arm Chinaman bowler may have faded in the memories of even the most die-hard cricket fans, but the Mithakhali resident was the wrecker-in-chief of the Bombay innings, bundling them out for 42, their lowest score in the Ranji history. The highest score in the match was that of nine extras!. Joshi had taken six wickets giving away just eight runs in the match played at College Ground, Valsad (then Bulsar), much to the dismay of the team that was unbeaten for 124 first-class matches on the trot. Interestingly, this was also the best gift that Joshi could give to himself as he had turned 34 the same day! Having gone wicket-less in the first innings, Joshi made a stellar comeback and sent the six batsmen packing in 10.3 overs that he bowled. “My figures would have actually read 6 for four, had one of the deliveries not slipped between the wicketkeeper’s legs and run to the boundary,” laughs the 76-year-old who who rose from a gully cricket specialist in the lanes of Navrangpura area without any formal coaching to a quality spinner who captained Gujarat 24 times. Gujarat humbled Mumbai by a massive 233 runs with the likes of Sandeep Patil and Eknath Solkar completely flummoxed by his left-arms googlies, which were even quicker through the air. In fact, Solkar’s wicket remains his favourite pick among the wickets as the legendary forward short-leg fielder nicked one to AN Mehta in the slips. Joshi's first-class debut was quite eventful too. “On my very first ball of the Duleep Trophy match between West Zone and Central Zone at Indore, I had scalped Salim Durani caught by wicket-keeper Farokh Engineer,” the septuagenarian recalled. The left-handed Durani was famous for hitting huge sixes and said to be unsparing on spinners. As a student, such was his passion for cricket that he once saw a match being played at HL College's cricket ground sitting on a tree for hours. "My father gave me money to buy tickets, but I saved it for my pocket money," he quipped. Though he was never picked for Team India despite several six-wicket hauls in first-class cricket, Joshi has no regrets. He hung his boots in 1981 after a career spanning nearly 15 years. "I am satisfied with my records and the accolades I still keep receiving," says Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bombay-surrendered-to-this-abad-spinner/articleshow/79959024.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Depts parking funds to paint rosy picture’||GANDHINAGAR: Despite the 3-month long unprecedented lockdown and many public economic activities still halted, surprisingly the state government departments have shown cumulative spending (expenditure) of 55% of budget estimate which is almost at par with last year’s average (in 2019-20 it was 59% in December end) to show a bright picture. However in reality most of the departments have failed to meet the expenditure targets substantially and have tried to paint a rosy picture by parking of funds, say sources in the government A key source close to the development said, “In the first quarter, from April to June, most departments could not spend any budget allocation because of lockdown and then the monsoon and delay in tendering process. Once the budget process has started, most department have parked funds to show performance on paper, though it’s still less than the 59% of the budget spent by this time last year. After finance department’s instructions for austerity, many departments also took longer to decide on the budgetary spending and actual expenditure went down in many cases,” said a source in the government. “Despite clear guidelines from the government for not parking budgetary allocations at the Gujarat state financial services limited (GSFSL) most departments have parked major portion of the money they claim they have used so the figure of 55% of the budget spent, does not reflect the right picture. There is greater need of financial discipline,” the source said. The coronavirus outbreak in Gujarat has considerably impacted not only masses but also to the state’s exchequer. So now the state finance department has directed the various departments to reduce their revised budget size by 25% to 30% under the revised estimate (RE) budget which will be finalized in December end. Due to major cut in estimates of income the government’s expenditure is also likely to be reduced in the same proportion. So, by the end of the financial year in March significant cuts in the actual expenditure may be noticed, sources say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/depts-parking-funds-to-paint-rosy-picture/articleshow/79959410.cms||Kapil Dave
December 26, 2020||Vadodara||Vajpayee’s former secretary pens book on late PM’s tenure||Vadodara: Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had foreseen during his tenure that alliance with the USA will only help India to counter China and South Asian region. Shakti Sinha, the former secretary of the late PM, has penned many such interesting details about Vajpayee’s thoughts on India’s foreign policy and also on how he dealt with different political parties before forming the government, in his latest book.Sinha, who is currently serving as the director of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Policy Research and International Studies at MS University, said that despite sanctions by USA after the Pokhran nuclear test, Vajpayee continued to reach out to the superpower to create a balance of power in the region. “After the Kargil War, the USA wanted China to mediate between India and Pakistan. But how can a country which is already a party in conflict be a mediator,” Sinha said. “He could visualize how important alliance between India and USA was so in a speech in New York in 1998, Vajpayee said that India and USA are natural allies,” he said and further added: “Then foreign minister Jaswant Singh continued talks with then deputy secretary of state of USA Strobe Talbott.” Sinha’s book also talks about how Vajpayee was not called to form government even when BJP was the single largest party in the election of 1998. “He was asked to get pre-poll alliance letters and then opposition parties were asked to form government if they had numbers. It was only after the opposition parties failed, the BJP was invited to form government,” Sinha told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vajpayees-former-secretary-pens-book-on-late-pms-tenure/articleshow/79958652.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Surat||PAAS leader detained for lavish birthday bash in Surat||SURAT: Surat rural police detained six persons including Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) leader Alpesh Kathiria after a video of his birthday bash went viral on social media on Friday. Kathiria allegedly hosted a party at his farmhouse in Kosamada village near Kamrej in Surat district on Thursday night. Sources said Kathiria had organized his birthday party with dayro (folk song programme) and DJ music. In the viral video, many of Kathiria's supporters are seen dancing to music, violating social distancing and wearing of masks. The party was organized at Sahjanand Farmhouse owned by DM Butani. Police detained Kathiria, Butani, Dharmik Malavia, Sanjay Mavani, Nikunj Kakadia and Nilesh Kumbhani among others. Earlier, an invitation to the PAAS leader's birthday bash circulated widely on social media read: “Due to Covid-19 don't circulate this message and this is a personal invitation to you. Those coming to the event, write their name for the sake of convenience”. “We have detained Kathiria, the farmhouse owner and others who were present at the party. . We have also initiated a process to suspend police personnel under whose jurisdiction the farm house falls,” Surat rural SP Usha Rada told media persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/paas-leader-detained-for-lavish-bday-bash/articleshow/79958941.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC ups 3 years’ RI to 7 years in 28-year-old case of rape||MUMBAI: More than 28 years after a man from south Mumbai was accused of raping an “adolescent” domestic help and 14 years after the trial court delivered a guilty verdict, the Bombay high court has enhanced the original three years’ rigorous imprisonment to seven years. “A sentence should be proportionate to gravity of the offence,” the high court said. The high court bench of Justice Sadhana Jadhav and Justice N J Jamadar directed the man to pay a fine of Rs 1.1 lakh instead of the Rs 10,000 imposed by the sessions court in 2006. The bench said Rs 1 lakh would be paid as compensation to the survivor. The man had challenged his conviction, and the state the “meagre sentence” that was lower than seven years of rigorous imprisonment, the minimum under the law existing at the time, and sought its enhancement. As the man was out on bail, the high court said his bail bond stood cancelled and directed him earlier this month to surrender by January 4. The high court noted that if handing out of a lesser punishment than the minimum, the trial court has to give special and adequate reasons. Relying on Supreme Court rulings on the approach to be had towards rape sentencing and the grounds on merit, as cited by additional public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde, the high court said that the “appeal for enhancement deserves to be allowed”. The man is now 47 years old. His counsel, Girish Kulkarni, argued that he was innocent and the girl had offered no plausible explanation for “inordinate delay in lodging the FIR”. The high court said she was “almost kept in confinement”. “She is forced to live with indignation throughout her life and in the present case, she had given birth to a child who lived with her for hardly six days and thereafter, the child was brutally snatched by accused number two (mother of convict), abandoned and had died,” the high court said in a 47-page judgment. The high court “painfully observed” that despite evidence the sessions court showed “undue leniency” in acquitting the mother of the convicted man, and the state failed in its duty to prosecute the case diligently. The high court said the negligence of Asha Sadan should be deprecated. The child was admitted by the NGO to JJ Hospital, which issued the death certificate. The high court noted that the NGO had expressed suspicion of the abandoned child being the same taken by accused number two, which could have been confirmed by a DNA test with the victim. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-ups-3-years-ri-to-7-years-in-28-year-old-case-of-rape/articleshow/79961098.cms||Swati Deshpande
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Brace for a fresh cold wave, temperature may dip to 4 degrees Celsius||NEW DELHI: The cold wave conditions in parts of Delhi are likely to return on Saturday, while the minimum temperature is expected to dip to 4 degrees Celsius, stated India Meteorological Department (IMD). Cold wave is recorded when the minimum temperature is 4 degrees Celsius or more below normal. The national capital has reported five cold wave days so far this December. Met department said shallow to moderate fog was likely on Saturday morning along with partly cloudy sky. The maximum temperature is expected to touch 21 degrees Celsius. On Friday, the minimum temperature was 4.6 degrees Celsius — three notches below normal — and the maximum settled at 22.4 degrees Celsius — one degree above normal. Moderate fog was reported in parts of Delhi as the visibility dipped to 200 metres at Safdarjung station during morning hours. A Met official said the minimum temperature was likely to decrease on Saturday, but would again rise on Sunday and Monday. A western disturbance is likely to affect mainly the western Himalayan region on Saturday, and may cause light snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir and light rain in northern parts of Punjab. Due to the western disturbance, wind direction is predicted to change to easterly, and may cause rise in temperature in Delhi for two days. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “When the influence of western disturbance will reduce, both maximum and minimum temperatures may see a dip from December 29. The wind direction is expected to shift to north-westerly and, hence, cold wind from snow-capped mountains are likely to drop temperature in Delhi. Cold wave conditions are expected from December 29 along with shallow to moderate fog.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-brace-for-a-fresh-cold-wave-temperature-may-dip-to-4-degrees-celsius/articleshow/79961104.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||Eknath Khadse says ED likely to send him notice over land deal||MUMBAI: Two months after he joined the NCP, the Enforcement Directorate has sent a notice to former minister and ex-BJP leader Eknath Khadse in connection with the MIDC land deal which led to his resignation from the Devendra Fadnavis ministry, sources said on Friday. Khadse said he had not received the notice. “But I am told that the ED is in the process of issuing a notice to me and may ask me to appear before it on Wednesday. In the event I am summoned, I will cooperate with the Central agency,” Khadse told TOI. Khadse, who had to quit as revenue minister after a controversy over his family members buying a plot reserved for acquisition by MIDC, said he had got information that the ED was probing the money-laundering aspect in the land deal in Pune district. “The entire deal was probed by the income-tax department, twice by the Anti-Corruption Bureau and by a retired high court judge M D Zoting. All the agencies have given me a clean chit. Now let the ED probe the transaction. I will cooperate with the agency and provide them with all relevant documents,” Khadse said. Khadse pointed out that the deal was between his wife, sonin-law and a Pune-based landlord and added it was wrong to link his name to the transaction. “I was revenue minister, and my wife had taken a loan for purchasing the land,” he said. Khadse has taken the view that even as the MIDC was claiming ownership of the small piece of land in Bhosari in Pune district, the land was never transferred in MIDC’s name and that the original land-owner was still paying taxes to the local authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/eknath-khadse-says-ed-likely-to-send-him-notice-over-land-deal/articleshow/79961095.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||Property sales in Mumbai in December buck trend, highest in 5 years||MUMBAI: At a time when the real estate industry is seen as struggling to recover from the lockdown, December property sales in Greater Mumbai have broken a five-year record for the month. A record 14,783 sales have been registered in December so far, according to latest data uploaded by the department of registration and stamps. Industry sources said most of these are apartment sales. These are way more than double the sales registered in December 2019; data shows 6,433 sales in that month. “We have never seen so many sales in five years,” said a developer with projects in suburban Mumbai. With the state government slashing stamp duty on sale of flats from 5% to 2%, starting September 1 till December 31, property transactions have shot up. The state’s revenue has decreased, though. For instance, although sales have been a record high, the state has so far collected Rs 494 crore between December 1 and 25. In December 2019, the total collection was Rs 542 crore. “We still have a week to go till the end of the month. Registrations and stamp duty collection figures will further increase till December 31,” said a market source. Abhishek Lodha, MD of Lodha Group, said, “Revival in demand is across price points. People are seeking more space. This positive momentum will drive employment creation in the state and help economic recovery from Covid.” Mumbai-based property consultant Ashok Narang said buyers took advantage of the pandemic when builders offered low prices and grabbed these opportunities coming their way. “We have seen this pentup demand cycle in the market. Reduction of 8% to 12% in prices compared with last year makes buyers eager to take decisions faster,” said Narang. He added that more than 85% of home buyers availed of loans as interest rates are at the lowest. Estimated value of 15k sold flats is ₹25k croreReduced stamp duty has been a big motivator for the fence-sitters who were planning to buy a house in Mumbai. Besides, developers have offered good discounts and flexible payment plans to woo the customers during this time,” said Pankaj Kapoor, MD of Liases Foras, a real estate rating and research firm. “The average cost of a house in Greater Mumbai is greater than Rs 2 crore, which implies that people drawing a minimum salary of around Rs 40 lakh per annum could only afford it. These are people who may not have been adversely affected by Covid 19,” he said. According to Liases Foras, the estimated value of the 14,783 units registered during December 2020 is roughly Rs 24,700 crore. “This has been computed from the 2% stamp duty collection amounting to 494 crore,” said Kapoor. Mumbai developers have claimed brisk sales of flats priced up to Rs 2 crore since September when the stamp duty rate was slashed. From January 1 till March 2021, the rate will be increased from 2% to 3%. Many builders are already absorbing the stamp duty cost and not charging it to the buyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/property-sales-in-mumbai-in-december-buck-trend-highest-in-5-years/articleshow/79961091.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||Zero cases in Dharavi, first time since April 1||MUMBAI: In good news on Christmas Day, Dharavi, one of Asia’s largest slums and once a major Covid hotspot , reported zero cases on Friday. This is the first time since April 1, when the first coronavirus case was reported in Dharavi’s Baliga Nagar, that the dense slum pocket has had no new case in a day. Till date, there have been 3,788 cases and 312 deaths. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s task force on Covid-19, said this could be indicative of herd immunity that had developed in certain thickly populated pockets of the city. “If a sero survey is conducted in Dharavi or a similarly populous area today, it is likely to show that over 70% to 80% of the population has antibodies,” he said. A survey done in October in the six slums in the Cuffe Parade area had shown 75% of those surveyed had developed antibodies to Covid-19. Dharavi success story against virus: 3,788 cases, only 12 active, till nowAccording to BMC data released on Friday, Dharavi has so far reported 3,788 Covid cases, with only 12 active cases. While the toll in Dharavi is 312, the data showed that 3,464 patients had recovered. Dharavi has come full circle in its fight against Covid-19 from over a hundred cases a day in May and June to single-digit tally in recent months. Dharavi, which is spread over 2.5 sq km, houses more than six lakh population—according to some estimates, the number is 8.5 lakh with unaccounted migration. After the first case was detected on April 1, the number grew rapidly in May as the infection spread among the residents who mostly live in shanties with narrow lanes and open sewers. The state government locked down the locality and the BMC launched an intensive screening and sanitization drive which bore good results. In June, a decline in cases was noticed and in July, less than 20 cases were being reported each day. In August, with the slum pocket reporting single-digit cases and the number of active cases falling below 100, the BMC had begun shutting down its 200-bed field hospital set up in May. The BMC also handed back the privately owned Sai Hospital that it had acquired in April to treat Covid-19 patients in Dharavi. Ditto with the Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex and Dharavi Municipal School that were used as quarantine centres. “There has been a lot of community engagement and cooperation in Dharavi that helped us get to this zero-case milestone,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, GNorth ward. “Our simple ‘trace, track, test and treat’ formula has worked. Despite the dip in cases, we will continue our rigorous screening and testing drives to ensure that there is now new spike in cases,” he added. Efforts by the state government and BMC to ‘chase the virus’ through aggressive targeted tracing of Covid suspects in Dharavi have drawn praise from the World Health Organisation and the World Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/zero-cases-in-dharavi-first-time-since-april-1/articleshow/79961089.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
December 26, 2020||India||Entire Taliban brass based in Pak, says its chief negotiator||NEW DELHI: The disclosure by Mullah Baradar, the chief Taliban negotiator in the intra-Afghan peace talks, in a video that the entire Taliban leadership is based in Pakistan and that no decision is taken without their advice has exacerbated India’s concerns about the role of ISI in the peace process. The Afghan govt described the development in a statement on Friday as one that posed a serious challenge to the goal of achieving sustainable peace as closure of training camps in Pakistan is vital for peaceful resolution of the Afghanistan situation. A series of videos had emerged on Thursday showing visiting Taliban representatives, led by Baradar in Pakistan, disclosing the existence of all Taliban leaders in Pakistan and acknowledging their continued activities on Pakistani territory. They were also seen in the videos visiting training camps, as the Afghanistan foreign ministry confirmed on Friday. While backing the latest peace process, involving direct talks between the Afghan government and Taliban for the first time, India has repeatedly laid stress on the need to ensure that there are no ungoverned spaces left in the country for terrorist activities. External affairs minister S Jaishankar said, while expressing support for the intra-Afghan talks in September, that India’s expectation was that the soil of Afghanistan will never be used for any anti-India activity. Baradar’s comments in Karachi are significant for India as these reject the understanding that the ISI no longer enjoys the kind of influence with the Taliban that it did earlier. It confirms India’s fears about Taliban terror machinery continuing to function with impunity from Pakistan and about its links with terror groups like LeT and JeM. India remains an important stakeholder in the war-ravaged country with its developmental work worth billions of dollars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/entire-taliban-brass-based-in-pak-says-its-chief-negotiator/articleshow/79961148.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||Ratings rigged up Republic TV, pushed Times Now down: Cops||MUMBAI: In a major development in the TRP manipulation scam, the city’s joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe said at a press conference on Friday that ratings were manipulated to push English news channel Times Now from the top slot to the No. 2 position and make Republic TV the No. 1 news channel. Similarly, another news channel, CNN-News 18 (formerly CNN-IBN) was pushed to the third slot from its second position, officials said. Times Now was the No. 1 channel, but within a week of Republic TV’s launch in 2017, officials at the Broadcast Audience Research Council connived to push Times Now to No. 2 and CNN-18 to No. 3, Bharambe said. (Times Now is part of the Times Group, to which this paper belongs.) Bharambe said the manipulations came to light in a forensic audit by a third party at the instance of BARC in June this year, but the findings were not shared with the police, which launched an investigation a few months ago and registered an FIR on October 6. BARC India measures the viewership of TV channels, which is crucial for broadcasters to decide on advertising. “The auditing was done for 44 weeks in detail on English and Telugu news channels and a few entertainment channels, and it (TRP) was found to be manipulated to a great extent. The TRP ratings were pre-decided and to achieve the highest TRP for some particular channels, viewership data was manipulated using three methods,” Bharambe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ratings-rigged-up-republic-tv-pushed-times-now-down-cops/articleshow/79961086.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Fracas at private hospital as Covid-19 patient dies after 39-day treatment||BENGALURU: There was a commotion at a private hospital this week after the family of a deceased Covid-19 patient accused the management of holding onto the body over a pending bill payment. Malathi Manipal Hospital in Jayanagar denied that it delayed handing over the body because of any bill issue and said that it only waited for the result of a repeat Covid-19 test, which was positive. The 62-year-old patient, Bheem Ram Patel, passed away on Wednesday after 39 days of treatment. The hospital says it gave the body to a municipal team the next day as per the government protocol for Covid-19 deaths. Patel hailed from Rajasthan and came to Bengaluru for Diwali in November. He contracted the coronavirus infection during this time; his condition became severe and he was put on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support. During the course of treatment, he tested negative for Covid-19 once, but another test conducted after his demise showed he still had the infection. The hospital claims that the total bill was Rs 36 lakh and only a payment of Rs 10 lakh was left. The family alleges that the bill was Rs 44 lakh and Patel’s body was not released as the last payment of Rs 18 lakh was pending. It adds that the hospital relented after the health minister’s office intervened. “After we got the heartbreaking news, we made arrangements to take the body to Rajasthan as he had tested negative during the treatment. Citing the bill, the hospital refused to hand over the body. We had already paid a significant amount and we wondered why the bill had increased,” claimed Durga Ram Patel, a relative. Manipal Hospitals denied the claims, saying the patient had a severe infection and the family was regularly apprised of his condition, treatment and possible outcomes. “The family was in complete alignment of the clinical plan. He was hospitalised for 39 days, including 19 days of ECMO intervention. Two RTPCR tests conducted during the initial period of hospitalisation were positive. A subsequent rapid antigen test was negative, but this result may have been a false negative,” the hospital said. It admitted that the antigen test result caused confusion. “As a policy, we don’t withhold the body for any reason. The body was handed over immediately after clearance from BBMP,” said Deepak Venugopalan, regional COO of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-fracas-at-private-hospital-as-covid-19-patient-dies-after-39-day-treatment/articleshow/79961156.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 26, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Teams tackle growing tuberculosis cases during pandemic||By: Basavaraj Meeshi BELAGAVI: Amid global concerns over a new coronavirus strain, which has been detected in the UK, an old disease has reared its head. There has been a spurt in tuberculosis (TB) cases in Belagavi district, with 115 confirmed patients as on December 21. For the past nine months, the government has been focusing on the pandemic battle, so the health department has not been able to properly track other contagious diseases. Officials in Belagavi are now conducting surveys to ascertain the exact number of people with TB. Teams have identified 4,183 suspected cases. The department has also identified 1,045 places in the district where data hinted at a wide prevalence of TB. More than 9.5 lakh people in these zones have been examined for symptoms of the disease. Health officials plan to test 2 lakh more people by the end of the year. As many as 1,566 teams, comprising 3,117 health, ASHA and anganwadi workers, have been formed for the task, “Our health workers are doing a great job, taking treatment to the doorstep of people. All confirmed patients are given Rs 500 to ensure they eat nutritious food. If the patient is taken to private hospitals, we give them Rs 1,000. I appeal to all those people who have recovered from Covid-19 to volunteer to get tested for TB.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-teams-tackle-growing-tuberculosis-cases-during-pandemic/articleshow/79961172.cms||---
December 26, 2020||India||Thiruvananthapuram set to get 21-year-old mayor||Arya Rajendran, 21, a BSc mathematics student who faced her first local body elections as a voter and as a candidate in the Thiruvananthapuram corporation elections, is set to become the youngest corporation mayor in Kerala, and one of the youngest mayors in the country. Before Rajendran, Suman Koli had become mayor of Bharatpur corporation in Rajasthan at the age of 21 in 2009. Nuthan Rathore was elected as the mayor of Firozabad municipal corporation, UP, in 2017 when she was 31. The country has had other young mayors as well. Sanjeev Naik became mayor of Navi Mumbai at the age of 23 in 1995. Arya yet to be officially informed about her candidatureRajendran was chosen as the mayoral candidate at the CPM district secretariat meeting on Friday. A formal announcement is expected on Saturday. Her win in December 28 poll is a foregone conclusion as LDF has 53 seats in 100-member council while BJP and UDF have 35 and 10 seats respectively. Her father, an electrician by profession, is an active CPM worker. Her mother is a homemaker and LIC agent. Arya said she was yet to be officially informed about her candidature but was willing to take up any task. She was elected to the corporation council from Mudavanmugal ward and sworn in on December 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/thiruvananthapuram-set-to-get-21-year-old-mayor/articleshow/79961184.cms||Aswin J Kumar
December 26, 2020||Udaipur||Man kills wife, 4 minor kids, hangs self in Udaipur village||UDAIPUR: A 30-year-old man killed his wife and four minor children before hanging himself from a tree near his house at Holi Fala in Robiya village under Kherwara police station limits of Udaipur district on Thursday night. The victims were identified as Ranjit, Kokila (28), Jasoda (6), Lokesh (5), Ganji (3) and Guddi (9 months). Barring Ranjit, the bodies of all the other victims were found on two charpoys inside their kutcha house, Kherwara SHO Shyam Singh said. Police said Ranjit, son of Jagdish Meena, was an alcoholic and jobless and it appeared that financial crisis was believed to be the reason behind the killings. SP Kailash Chandra Bishnoi and senior officials went to the village in the evening to take stock of the situation. Ranjit’s mother Ganga told police she saw blood dripping out of the door at the hut’s entrance on Friday morning. When she opened the door, she saw her daughter-in-law and grandchildren dead. Ganga told police that Ranjit was under tremendous financial stress since he had no job and spent all the time boozing. Ganga’s neighbours told police that the couple had a fight in the night, but since huts in tribal settlements are situated at some distance from each other, no one heard any kind of shout for help. A mobile FSL unit was called which took samples from the crime spot. Police said Ranjit used a sharp weapon, probably an axe, to kill his family. “All of them had their throats cut,” police added. A police team also pulled down Ranjit's body from the tree. Cops said extreme poverty was evident in the household. “The hut was in a bad shap. A temporary door made of grass and wooden pieces was attached to the entrance. A portion of the house was open with no roofing,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/man-kills-wife-4-minor-kids-hangs-self-in-udaipur-village/articleshow/79961192.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Discipline defines Christmas, Ekadasi celebrations||Visakhapatnam: Devotees at places of worship showed an immense sense of discipline while offering prayers to their respective Gods on Friday which saw both Vaikunta Ekadasi and Christmas celebrations. The pandemic weighed heavily on the celebrations but people exhibited remarkable patience and exemplary adherence to norms. Over 1,000 churches and 100 Sri Vaishnava temples were thronged by devotees on Friday. More than 30,000 people visited the Simhachalam temple. “But for the first time, Ekadasi was celebrated peacefully without stampedes. Crowds maintained queues. The temple was colourfully decorated. We finished VIP darshans by 7am and opened up for the general public,” said Tula Ramudu, assistant executive officer of the Simhachalam temple in Visakhapatnam. At the Sri Prasannanjaneya Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple at MVP Colony, chief priest G Veerabhadra Rao said that usually the temple takes help of volunteers to handle crowds. “But this time, we were relieved of such services. Devotees maintained discipline, wore masks and followed all Covid-19 protocols,” he said. George Cheedy, the Visakhapatnam secretary of the Indian Pentecostal Church of God, said, “There was a lot of change at churches this year because of the pandemic. Christmas prayers were held peacefully. We saw a fall in number of visitors to churches due to the pandemic. While every year, celebrations start late night December 24, this year, celebrations began early morning on December 25.” “Church managements allocated slots for prayers. Some devotees offered prayers late in the evening as well,” George added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/discipline-defines-christmas-ekadasi-celebrations/articleshow/79958084.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Tadipatri violence: Former TDP MLA, son booked||Vijayawada: The police booked former TDP MLA JC Prabhakar Reddy and his son JC Ashmit Reddy for their alleged involvement in the violence at Tadipatri town in Anantapur district on Friday. According to Tadipatri town police, they registered an FIR against Prabhakar Reddy, Ashhmit and eight others under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 148, 147, 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and Section 3 (1) of SC/ST Atrocities Act. Clashes between TDP and YSRC cadre took place on Thursday after YSRC MLA Kethireddy Pedda Reddy went straight into JC Prabhakar Reddy’s house to confront him regarding the “accusations made against him by his (JC) followers”. However, Prabhakar Reddy was out of town during the incident and while he was returning home, both groups clashed against each other by pelting stones. Cops said that they have registered three cases against 25 persons from both parties including Prabhakar Reddy.  Cops said that they have invoked Section 144 of CrPC in the area, Police personnel have been deployed to ensure law and order is in place. Cops said that they have detained some of the accused and are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tadipatri-violence-former-tdp-mla-son-booked/articleshow/79958092.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Opposition ‘misguiding farmers’, says PM Modi, attacks Mamata Banerjee & Left||Bengal remained firmly in focus in Narendra Modi’s speech to farmers on Friday, with the PM blaming the state government’s “politics” as the sole reason for 70 lakh Bengal farmers not getting benefits of the PM-Kisan scheme, under which Rs 6,000 is directly transferred to farmers’ bank accounts every year in three tranches. “Some farmers have already written to the state government. But the government is not paying any heed. It is also not considering the online applications made by individual farmers,” Modi said, criticising the Trinamool for finding common cause with its opponents vis-a-vis the farmers’ stir. “The ruling party in Bengal has come in the way of the central payout to small and marginal farmers even though the entire cost is borne by the Centre. The same party is also in dialogue with its political rivals in Delhi,” the PM said, accusing opposition parties of misleading farmers. Addressing farmers for the second time in the space of a week, Modi said the government was ready to talk to the agitating farm unions on all issues but political interests were taking the stir in a different direction. Making a distinction between farmers and political parties, he said the insertion of demands for release of persons accused of serious crimes and making toll gates free did not square up with apprehensions over continuation of minimum support price. The PM reiterated the government is ready to engage with agitating farmers, saying, “There could be flaws in our policies, which should be pointed out. We have a democracy and we can’t claim that God has made us perfect. But there should be talks. We are ready to hold talks with farmers all the time and keep options open to resolve the deadlock.” “I can understand there might have been doubts about MSP... but where did the call to free persons in prison come from?” he asked. He also took an indirect dig at Congress and Left parties that have been vocal against the three farm laws, particularly on the minimum support price for crops. “There used to be MSP for select crops. Most farmers did not get the benefit of MSP. The Centre is now making maximum purchases at MSP. We have also linked online 1,000 mandis across the country to enable farmers get better information,” Modi said, pointing out there was no mandi or agricultural produce marketing committee in Left-run Kerala. New laws only increase choices for farmers: PMModi emphasised that the new farm laws did not mean closing mandis and dismantling APMCs. He reminded the virtual audience that it has been several months since the laws came into effect (as ordinances first) and no report of any mandi being closed has been received. He said the laws will increase choices for the farmers and that the contract farm rules were in their favour. “If the price of a crop goes up, the buyer will have to pay a better rate,” he said, pointing out that there is no provision for land to be forfeited. Looking to counter allegations that the government has acted in an “anti-farmer” way, he said Rs 18,000 crore was credited in the accounts of over nine crore farmers of the country and this was done by using technology that eliminates cuts and leaks. He again accused opposition parties backing the farm stir of paying lip service to the cause, saying they failed to act on the recommendations of commissions that proposed measures to hike farm incomes. The Prime Minister referred to late Atal Bihari Vajpayee recalling the words of Rajiv Gandhi about leakage in the central funds, saying “jab rupaiya chalta hai,to ghista hai (when the rupee travels, it wears out)”. He said sheer political considerations was preventing Bengal farmers from accessing the funds. “You can imagine… several lakh farmers have applied online but the state government is cooling its heels over their applications too.” “I am perplexed and sharing it with acute pain with people of the country that the party which ruled West Bengal for over 30 years… if you listen to the 15-year old speeches of Mamata ji, you will realise how this political ideology had ruined the state,” the PM said. “Are people of the country not aware of this game? Why are the opposition parties silent over this issue?” Modi questioned. While defending the new laws, Modi said the agitation was delayed so that procurement could get over, as it would have been hard to convince people that MSP was being done away with when record payments were being made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oppn-misguiding-farmerssays-pm-attacks-didi-left/articleshow/79960420.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Rajkot||Gondal jailor booked under strict GujCTOC||RAJKOT: Gondal’s incarcerated jailor become the first policeman on duty in the state to be booked under the stringent Gujarat Control Of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GujCTOC) for providing notorious criminals lavish facilities in the prison. Last week, Rajkot local crime branch (LCB) had arrested DK Parmar, the jailor of Gondal sub-jail, who was on the run for nearly three months after being booked. On October 1, five prisoners including notorious criminal Nikhil Donga were caught having a dinner party with six outsiders who had even got tiffins, cell phones and cash with them. Parmar is accused of being hands in glove with the accused. “We took his custody through transfer warrant from the Gondal jail and booked him under GujCTOC,” said Ajaysinh Gohil, police inspector, Rajkot LCB. Parmar was remanded to the custody of investigating agency for 12 days by a special court in Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gondal-jailor-booked-under-gujctoc/articleshow/79959036.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee writes to Amartya Sen, says pained over ancestral link charges||BOLPUR: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday wrote to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen expressing her “surprise and anguish over some recent developments” reported in the media alluding to his ancestral links in Santiniketan. “Some nouveau invaders in Visva-Bharati have now started raising surprising and completely baseless allegations about your family properties, etc. This pains me, and I want to express my solidarity with you in your battles against the bigotry of majoritarians in this country, the battles that have made you an enemy of these forces of untruth,” the chief minister wrote. “Kindly count me as your sister and friend in your just war against intolerance and totalitarianism. Let us not be daunted by their untrue accusations and unfair attacks. We shall overcome,” Banerjee wrote in the letter, sent to Sen’s Pratichi home in Santiniketan. “We are all aware about your family’s deep and organic links with Santiniketan. Your maternal grandfather, the revered scholar Kshitimohan Sen, was among the early leading settlers in Santiniketan, while your father Ashutosh Sen, a noted educationist and public administrator, had his famed house Pratichi built up in Santiniketan about eight decades back. Yours have been a family weaved in the culture and fabric of Santiniketan, inalienably,” she said. On Thursday, responding to reports that VB has written to the Bengal government on land encroachment, including a land parcel of several decimals belonging to the Nobel laureate’s Santiniketan home. Banerjee reacted sharply saying: “On behalf of Bengal, I apologise to you Amartya da for this. I have a deep personal respect for him. Not just me, he is respected across the world. Bengal will not tolerate an attack on its icons. Amartya Sen is a Nobel laureate, he brought us global recognition. Every Bengali household reveres him, respects him. He took Bengal to the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-writes-to-amartya-says-pained-over-ancestral-link-charges/articleshow/79959660.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||North Bengal erupts over attacks on BJP leaders||COOCH BEHAR: The two neighbouring districts of Cooch Behar and Alipurduar in north Bengal have been on the boil since Thursday night following attacks on rival political leaders in Mathabhanga and Malbazar. Unidentified bikers opened fire on BJP district general secretary Avijit Barman’s car while Trinamool-run Alipurduar zilla parishad saha sabhadhipati Monoranjan De was shot at and injured by men tailing him in a car. Mathabhanga turned into a battlefield on Friday as BJP supporters laid siege to the local police station and claimed “Trinamool goons” had hurled bombs at their protest rally in front of cops. Angry BJP supporters later went on the rampage in Mathabhanga town and ransacked a Trinamool party office. Police arrested 100 from the town. BJP district president Malati Rava said: “Bombs were hurled (by TMC men) at our rally and police remained mere spectators. Later, they arrested 100 of our cadres. Many of our men sustained bomb injuries.” Trinamool Youth Congress secretary Arunabha Guha countered the allegations. “No one lobbed bombs on the BJP rally. Its supporters made an unprovoked attack on three of our party offices. They terrorised the entire town and mobbed the thana,” Guha said. In neighbouring Alipurduar, Trinamool supporters took out a protest rally on Friday, hours after the attack on Monoranjan De, prompting tourism minister Goutam Deb to demand an immediate inquiry. De is admitted to a Siliguri nursing home with a leg wound.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/n-bengal-erupts-over-attacks-on-leaders/articleshow/79959785.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 26, 2020||Kolkata||Attempt to mislead with half-truths and lies for political gains, counters Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee has countered PM Narendra Modi’s charges against the Bengal government, calling them an attempt “to mislead people with half-truths and distorted facts”. “We have always been ready to cooperate in farmers’ interest. I myself have written two letters and have even spoken to the minister but they are indulging in malicious propaganda for political gains. The charge of not cooperating for a scheme that benefits farmers is absurd when we are implementing so many schemes along with the Centre. The Centre is violating established practices and norms regarding implementation of central schemes by state governments,” she said. The chief minister had written to the Centre on September 9 and December 21, reminding it that the state was awaiting a decision on “the transfer of requisite funds for onward disbursement to farmers through the state government machinery”. “A list of beneficiaries will be sent to you for your information,” she wrote, adding: “The state government is already implementing a scheme of direct fund transfer to farmers, including share-croppers.” Bengal already had the Krishak Bandhu scheme, Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy reminded the Centre after Modi’s speech, and Rs 2,642 crore had been disbursed from the state exchequer to 42 lakh farmers (three of five farmers in the state). Nine lakh more farmers have applied for the scheme this December alone as part of the Bengal government’s Duare Sarkar, he said. Bengal has an estimated 73 lakh farmers, with over 96% having small land holdings. Mamata: My ideology matches vision of India’s founding fathersThe Bengal government has argued that the small land-holding pattern, along with employment of share-croppers, makes many Bengal farmers ineligible for the central scheme. The state scheme of an annual Rs 5,000 cash benefit, including Rs 2,000 advance payment, ahead of the Rabi and Kharif seasons is for farmers who have an acre or more of land. “For all its posturing, the fact is that the Modi government has done nothing to help Bengal. They are yet to release even a portion of the Rs 85,000 crore outstanding dues (including unpaid GST dues of Rs 8,000 crore). If he really wants to help Bengal, he must release at least a part of these funds. We will do everything, including supporting central schemes, that benefits people,” Banerjee said. The CM also reacted sharply to questions regarding her commitment to Bengal. “My ideology is consistent with the vision of the founding fathers of this country and I have wholeheartedly served the people of Bengal with everything I have. The people of the state are my family. I have full faith that they will not only see through these malicious allegations,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/attempt-to-mislead-with-half-truths-and-lies-for-political-gains-counters-mamata/articleshow/79960348.cms||Saibal Sen
December 26, 2020||Vadodara||Treatment in fire safety wanted at Covid hospitals||VADODARA: Despite repeated checking drives and intimations by the department of fire and emergency services of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), Covid-19 hospitals in the city are yet to get their act together. Details provided by the fire brigade hint that only 34 of the 119 hospitals have a final no objection certificate (NOC) in place. The remaining have either provisional NOCs and other have either not applied for NOCs, some have not renewed them and the NOCs of others are pending. Sources said that 56 hospitals had only provisional NOCs. They added that this does not mean that things were in order in these hospitals and only implied that the hospitals had put up a file for a NOC and the fire department was working on the matter. According to an official, around 100 hospitals had never applied for NOCs. When this came to light the fire department took up the matter aggressively and issued notices. After this, the number has come down to 22 presently. Three hospitals including the GMERS Hospital, Gotri, had NOCs in order earlier but these have not been renewed. The lacunae in the fire safety at hospitals had come to light much ahead of the visit by the fire safety team from the state government. However, officials said that there was little they could do at this stage except issuing notices and pursuing the matter with the hospitals as they could not seal hospitals given the pandemic situation and patients kept there. “We will inform the health department regarding the situation and seek their guidance,” said in-charge chief fire officer Parth Brahmbhatt. He added that the department was working to ensure that necessary steps were taken by hospitals for fire safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/treatment-in-fire-safety-wanted-at-covid-hospitals/articleshow/79958646.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Surat||Art show for budding artists||SURAT: Hissa Art, an initiative to promote budding artists, has organized a two-day art show themed ‘Enduring Minds’ that will display the work of young artists from the city. It will showcase the works of young aspiring artists from the city. The show will be held at Noopur Nritya Academy on Ghod Dod Road. Drawings, paintings, sculptures and installations based on the theme will be displayed. “The aim of this event is to support the art industry, which has been hit had by the global pandemic. It is an attempt to provide a platform to artists to look forward amid uncertainties,” said Khushboo Agarwal, founder of Hissa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/art-show-for-budding-artists/articleshow/79958951.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Virtual concerts sure sound better, do they feel so too?||There is an ubiquitous ad on social media under the banner of the Federation of City Sabhas. It reads that it’s happy to bring the season to your home. As rasikas experience the music season this year virtually from the comforts of their home, it has been a mixed bag of emotions. While quality of sound may have become sharper and clearer, what we have steadily faded away is the ambience, rued an old-timer. Concerts were originally held in temples, the chiming of bells, the devotees and rasikas coming together for an evening, finding divinity in music or vice versa, can hardly be emulated in a sabha. The concert halls had its unique atmosphere where enthusiasts could compare, criticise and connect over a performance. The option of live-streaming robs the rasikas even of this sense of camaraderie with fellow audience members. Neither is their banter with artists behind the stage or at the end of a concert. With the scope of interaction during a concert becoming limited, a few rasikas compare it to a radio concert and draw a parallel to the responses these would draw. There is also the danger of preoccupation with something else while listening. You would tend to be rather casual. Another die-hard music-buff is concerned about lack of eye contact with the performer. The webcasting model, however, is not without its advantages. All auditoria have mic glitches which get further compounded by each of the artists asking for a specific volume. Such sound related snags are eliminated. While a large number of amateurs can put out their performance, said a connoisseur, the downside could be lack of musical maturity. The plethora of concerts being made available online more than makes up for the loss of the live-ones, feel a majority of rasikas. While there is no longer scampering for the front row seats except in our living rooms, some innovations in terms of viewership are also in place. Vocalist duo Ranjani and Gayathri on their FB page along with Vijay Siva has an option of “viewing” their concerts and the tariff is set according to the number of views you desire. Artists need not feel disappointed with poor attendance and rasikas get a chance to listen to some excellent concerts of less-known artists as well. A bit of a collective is bound to resurface in our lives enabling total familial viewing at least for sake of curiosity N Murali, President, Music Academy was quick to point out that the artists stood in good stead as they could tap a global audience. “Future days could see a hybrid of both, those held in the halls and those held virtually,” he said. With the pandemic influence still lingering virtual-concerting is the “best replacement possible” said Harishankar, secretary, Narada Gana Sabha. In all, it makes sure that digitally, music fills our homes and busts the blues. (The writer is music enthusiast)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/virtual-concerts-sure-sound-better-do-they-feel-so-too/articleshow/79961257.cms||Aarvalan
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Anna University incubates startup that builds e-bikes||CHENNAI: Raptee Energy, a startup which is developing electric motorcycles, has become the first startup to be incubated at Anna University. The university will provide working space, laboratory access, mentor support and connect with venture capitalists for the startup to build the product. Anna Incubator, established with the support of Atal Innovation Mission, has selected 24 startups for pre-incubation course. The other 23 startups are in the final stage of pre-incubation programme. "Unlike other players in the market, we are not trying to get components and assemble them. We are trying to build control units for electric vehicles," said Dinesh Ramkumar Venkatasamy, an alumni of Madras Institute of Technology, Chromepet, and co-founder of Raptee Energy. The startup has two prototypes of electric motorcycles and is testing vehicle control units on private roads. "We are looking at the product launch by October 2021," he said. "The startup gets 18 months of incubation during which it will have to build a product and business," said Kumar Sachidanandam, chief executive officer, AIC- Anna University Incubation Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-anna-university-incubates-startup-that-builds-e-bikes/articleshow/79961259.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC grants minor bride’s custody to mom-in-law||CHANDIGARH: In probably a rare instance, the Punjab and Haryana high court has given the custody of a minor married girl to her mother-in-law with the condition that she would not allow her son to consummate the marriage till the girl attains the age of 18 years. The mother-inlaw has been directed to furnish a personal bond of Rs 1,00,000 as guarantee, which would be realised by a local court in case of default. The HC has also ordered her to pay Rs 5,000 per month to the girl as personal expenses till she attains majority and to take care of the girl to the best of her capacity and ability. Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi of the HC has passed these orders while allowing the petition by Kulwinder Kaur of Kapurthala. HC asks mother-in-law to pay Rs 5k per month to brideThe petitioner’s son, Gagandeep Singh, had solemnized a love match with Mandeep Kaur on September 1, 2020, and filed a petition before the high court seeking protection to their life and liberty as the girl’s family was opposed to their marriage. The girl’s mother filed a complaint at Kapurthala seeking registration of a case against Gagandeep under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006, claiming that her daughter Mandeep had not attained the marriageable age of 18 as prescribed under the statute. Following the complaint, Gagandeep was arrested and the Mandeep was sent to Children Protection Home (Gandhi Vanita Ashram) Jalandhar on October 19, 2020. However, on October 21, Gagandeep Singh was granted bail by the local court. In her petition before the HC, Gagandeep’s mother Kulwinder sought directions to quash the orders through which her daughter-inlaw Mandeep Kaur was sent to protection home and sought her custody. The counsels for the state government as well as girl’s mother opposed this plea. The HC summoned the girl to know her opinion, and the girl during a virtual hearing on December 15 said she was married to Gagandeep and wanted to go with her motherin-law. After considering this, the court observed that it will be appropriate that the custody of Mandeep is handed over to the petitioner. "The petitioner shall submit an affidavit before Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate/Duty Magistrate, Bholath, Kapurthala, undertaking that she shall not allow her son Gagandeep Singh to consummate the marriage till Mandeep Kaur attains the age of 18 years. In case of any default, the surety of Rs 1,00,000 furnished by her shall be liable to be realised by the magistrate. The petitioner shall ensure payment of amount of Rs 5,000 per month to Mandeep Kaur as personal expenses till she attains majority…," observed the HC in its order. Justice Tyagi, however, made it clear that the chairperson of the Child Welfare Committee, Kapurthala, is directed to depute a child welfare officer to periodically visit the house where Mandeep Kaur would be residing with her motherin-law to ensure that the former is being looked after properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-grants-minor-brides-custody-to-mom-in-law/articleshow/79961270.cms||Ajay Sura
December 26, 2020||Chennai||'No man's land' in Chennai's Mogappair a haven for mosquitoes||CHENNAI: A vacant plot of land lying between three residential complexes on Rathinavel Pandian Road, Golden George Nagar in Mogappair East has become a haven for mosquitoes and reptiles, inconveniencing residents. "We can't open our windows in the evening because of the stench and mosquitoes. Despite several complaints to the local authorities, no action has been taken to clear this plot," said N Ashok, a resident. Residents said the plot, spread over four grounds, is under litigation and when they approached local civic authorities to get it cleaned, they were told that it belonged to Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). "But many months ago, we found a signpost of Greater Chennai Corporation erected on the land. It said that it belonged to them. But after some time that board was also removed," said a member of Doshi Housing Residents Association. He said when they tried to seek clarity on who owned the land, there was no proper response from the authorities. "They were themselves confused. We then asked them to clear the plot but there was no response," said another resident. Compound walls of the residential complexes surround the plot on all sides and there is no entry point to it. "We thought of demolishing the compound wall to clear the plot but we don't want to be blamed for trespassing into government property. If they tell us whose land it is, we could contact the authority concerned," said the resident. The association members from the three complexes will hold a meeting to decide on the further course of action. An official from Zone 8 said he will look into the matter. "There is some confusion about the land, we are not sure if it's under litigation. We will first find this out and take other steps," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-mans-land-in-chennais-mogappair-a-haven-for-mosquitoes/articleshow/79961272.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Class XI boy from Chennai gets perfect SAT score||CHENNAI: Aarav Ahuja, a Class XI student from Chennai, has achieved a rare feat by scoring 1,600 out of 1,600 in Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT), an admission test for undergraduate courses in top colleges in various countries including the US and Canada. With the perfect SAT score can get admission to any of the top colleges in the world, Aarav is interested in Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Yale University in the US and University of Cambridge in the UK. "I was expecting a score of 1,550. But getting 1,600 was a surprise and I am overwhelmed," said Aarav, a student of APL Global School in Okkiam Thoraipakkam. His father Anuj Ahuja, is a director of Barclays Bank, while his mother Deepti is a homemaker. Aarav is interested in astrophysics and his role model is theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking. He is doing a research project in classical mechanics along with a faculty member of IIT Madras. Students have to answer English and Maths questions with 800 marks for each section. "The SAT test conducted in December was a little tricky and tougher. I got two questions in the reading section wrong. Since everyone else got those questions wrong I was awarded full marks," he said. Since Class IX, Aarav had been preparing for the SAT through an online coaching programme offered by TestRocker. He said he allocated a few hours weekly to train for the exam in the past two years and started to prepare daily weeks before the exam. "I simulated the test environment by keeping a timer and was working through the questions. Eliminating the wrong answers is key to do well in the exam," Aarav said. On his hobbies Aarav said he likes to watch TV and play video games. "I also helped my sister who is in Class VI to study online," he said. "Hundreds of students from India are getting scores in excess of 1,500 in the SAT. But getting the perfect score in the exam is very rare and only 500 students have achieved that score among 50 lakh students who took the test throughout the world," said Shonali Deokule, training manager, TestRocker. The test score is valid for five years. It is after a gap of three years a student has scored the perfect score in India, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/class-xi-boy-from-chennai-gets-perfect-sat-score/articleshow/79961275.cms||A Ragu Raman
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Cold keeps region in grip; IMD says conditions to prevail till year-end||CHANDIGARH: The cold conditions sweeping the region continued on Friday with Kalpa, Manali and Solan recording sub-zero temperatures. The prevailing conditions, coupled with fog, threw normal life out of gear in many parts of Punjab and Haryana. The meteorological department predicted no relief in the next five days and has forecaste dense to very dense fog in both the states. According to meteorological office here, Kalpa recorded the lowest temperature of -2.8 degrees Celsius, followed by Solan (-0.7degree Celsius) and Manali (-0.4 degree Celsius). Sundernagar recorded a minimum temperature of 0.2 degree Celsius. Ludhiana was the coldest in Punjab, recording a minimum temperature of 1.6 degree Celsius, five notches below the normal temperature. Amritsar was the second coldest in Punjab, recording a minimum temperature of 2.4 degrees Celsius. Both these Punjab districts were colder than Shimla, where minimum temperature touched 4.1 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Hisar and Karnal were colder than Shimla, recording a minimum temperature of 2.5 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cold-keeps-region-in-grip-imd-says-conditions-to-prevail-till-year-end/articleshow/79961294.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Cold keeps region in grip; IMD says conditions to prevail till year-end||CHANDIGARH: The cold conditions sweeping the region continued on Friday with Kalpa, Manali and Solan recording sub-zero temperatures. The prevailing conditions, coupled with fog, threw normal life out of gear in many parts of Punjab and Haryana. The meteorological department predicted no relief in the next five days and has forecaste dense to very dense fog in both the states. According to meteorological office here, Kalpa recorded the lowest temperature of -2.8 degrees Celsius, followed by Solan (-0.7degree Celsius) and Manali (-0.4 degree Celsius). Sundernagar recorded a minimum temperature of 0.2 degree Celsius. Ludhiana was the coldest in Punjab, recording a minimum temperature of 1.6 degree Celsius, five notches below the normal temperature. Amritsar was the second coldest in Punjab, recording a minimum temperature of 2.4 degrees Celsius. Both these Punjab districts were colder than Shimla, where minimum temperature touched 4.1 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Hisar and Karnal were colder than Shimla, recording a minimum temperature of 2.5 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cold-keeps-region-in-grip-imd-says-conditions-to-prevail-till-year-end/articleshow/79961295.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Shimla||Cold keeps region in grip; IMD says conditions to prevail till year-end||CHANDIGARH: The cold conditions sweeping the region continued on Friday with Kalpa, Manali and Solan recording sub-zero temperatures. The prevailing conditions, coupled with fog, threw normal life out of gear in many parts of Punjab and Haryana. The meteorological department predicted no relief in the next five days and has forecaste dense to very dense fog in both the states. According to meteorological office here, Kalpa recorded the lowest temperature of -2.8 degrees Celsius, followed by Solan (-0.7degree Celsius) and Manali (-0.4 degree Celsius). Sundernagar recorded a minimum temperature of 0.2 degree Celsius. Ludhiana was the coldest in Punjab, recording a minimum temperature of 1.6 degree Celsius, five notches below the normal temperature. Amritsar was the second coldest in Punjab, recording a minimum temperature of 2.4 degrees Celsius. Both these Punjab districts were colder than Shimla, where minimum temperature touched 4.1 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Hisar and Karnal were colder than Shimla, recording a minimum temperature of 2.5 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/cold-keeps-region-in-grip-imd-says-conditions-to-prevail-till-year-end/articleshow/79961296.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Amritsar||Cold keeps region in grip; IMD says conditions to prevail till year-end||CHANDIGARH: The cold conditions sweeping the region continued on Friday with Kalpa, Manali and Solan recording sub-zero temperatures. The prevailing conditions, coupled with fog, threw normal life out of gear in many parts of Punjab and Haryana. The meteorological department predicted no relief in the next five days and has forecaste dense to very dense fog in both the states. According to meteorological office here, Kalpa recorded the lowest temperature of -2.8 degrees Celsius, followed by Solan (-0.7degree Celsius) and Manali (-0.4 degree Celsius). Sundernagar recorded a minimum temperature of 0.2 degree Celsius. Ludhiana was the coldest in Punjab, recording a minimum temperature of 1.6 degree Celsius, five notches below the normal temperature. Amritsar was the second coldest in Punjab, recording a minimum temperature of 2.4 degrees Celsius. Both these Punjab districts were colder than Shimla, where minimum temperature touched 4.1 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Hisar and Karnal were colder than Shimla, recording a minimum temperature of 2.5 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/cold-keeps-region-in-grip-imd-says-conditions-to-prevail-till-year-end/articleshow/79961297.cms||---
December 26, 2020||India||HC stays order to 3 noted artistes to vacate quarters||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has stayed the central government’s order directing three eminent artists, including two Padmashri awardees, to vacate the accommodation provided to them for their extraordinary contribution in the field of art. Justice Naveen Chawla said, “There shall be a stay on the operation of the impugned order dated October 9, 2020, till the next date of hearing. This order shall, however, not prevent the respondents to consider the representation of the petitioners and communicate the decision thereon to the petitioners.” The matter will be heard again on January 22. The petition filed by Bharati Shivaji, V Jayarama Rao and Banasri Rao stated that the petitioners were senior citizens, who didn’t have any alternate accommodation in Delhi except for the government accommodation which was given to them in 1987. Their eviction notices stated that their stay had been illegal since 2014 and were ordered to vacate the premises by December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-stays-order-to-3-noted-artistes-to-vacate-quarters/articleshow/79961268.cms||Aamir Khan
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Sipcot spends Rs 10 crore to plant 2.6 lakh saplings in its parks||CHENNAI: State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamilnadu Ltd (Sipcot), for the first time, has sanctioned 10.4 crore for planting 2.6 lakh tree saplings in its 19 industrial parks. Sipcot had procured the saplings from nurseries of the state forest department. So far, around 2 lakh saplings have been planted. Around 30 varieties of saplings including native ones such as vembu, naaval and nelli have been planted, said a press release. The remaining saplings, around 66,000, will be planted by January 2021. Besides this, efforts were taken to maintain their steady growth at various stages as well. All the saplings are being tended to using drip irrigation mode, the release added. Adequate numbers of mazdoors and supervisors have been appointed to create necessary infrastructure and not only necessary tools for gardening were provided to them but vehicles have been provided for ease of commute. A shelter and two modern tillers have also been provided. For all these facilities, SIPCOT has spent about 20 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sipcot-spends-rs-10-crore-to-plant-2-6-lakh-saplings-in-its-parks/articleshow/79961335.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||1,400 cops to man polling booths in Panchkula tomorrow||PANCHKULA: The district has made elaborate arrangements for holding peaceful and fair civic elections on December 27. As many as 1,400 cops will man 98 hypersensitive and 30 sensitive polling booths. Police will deploy 23 patrolling parties to maintain law and order. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa said a three-tier surveillance will be put at the EVM (electronic voting machine) storage centre and 20 check posts set up. He said, “A total of 1,400 cops will be deployed for holding peaceful and fair MC elections to be held at 275 polling booths, out of which 98 are hypersensitive and 30 sensitive. Special security arrangements have been made to safeguard EVMs at the strong room at Sector 11 college.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1400-cops-to-man-polling-booths-in-panchkula-tomorrow/articleshow/79961341.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Vadodara||Dust, shrub-covered VMC vehicles gather activist’s ire||Vadodara: Vehicles kept at the vehicle pool of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) have now come under activists’ scanner. With vegetation overgrowth making it evident that these have not been moved for years now, an activist has raised the issue with the civic body. The fleet of vehicles of the civic body ranging from passenger vehicles to tippers is kept at the vehicle pool are filled with fuel and used as and when required. Some vehicles from the pool are also assigned to various departments or officials. During a recent visit to the vehicle pool, spiritual leader and activist Jyotirnath Baba spotted the vehicles and photographed these. “The vehicles are gathering dust and even have shrubs grown around them. Many may even be usable if repaired. At the other end, the VMC takes vehicles on lease in large numbers,” said Jyotirnath, adding that most of them may also be defunct. “These should be scrapped and sold off. The VMC can generate some income through the process,” he said. The spiritual leader has been raising such issues for quite some time. A senior VMC official said that some trucks and tippers were lying at the vehicle pool as they were used for dusting and other activities which had been discontinued since quite some time. “The vehicle pool is an open space and any vehicle kept there gathers lots of dust,” he said. The officer added that once the conditions of the pool were brought to the notice of the officials, it was cleaned. “We have even identified vehicles that can be disposed of,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dust-shrub-covered-vmc-vehicles-gather-activists-ire/articleshow/79958638.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Man tied to pole, thrashed in Aravalli||PALANPUR: A 20-year-old man was tied to a pole and mercilessly thrashed by family members of a girl after her body was found from a well in a village of Aravalli district’s Bayad taluka on Friday. Tension prevailed in the Pagiya Na Muvada village after the woman Minisha Solanki’s body was fished out from a well near her house at around 7am. Police officials said that Minisha and the victim Sawan Solanki were in love, but her parents had decided to get her married elsewhere. Her betrothal ceremony was also done recently and the preparations for the wedding were afoot. On Thursday night, Minisha went missing from her house. Soon after her body was found, incensed family members of Minisha barged into Sawan’s house, dragged him outside and tied him with a pole. They brutally beat him up, holding him responsible for her death. Meanwhile, a police team led by deputy superintendent of police Bharat Basiya rushed to the village after being informed by Sawan’s father on the phone. However, the arrival of police and their attempts to rescue Sawan angered the villagers further and some of them even tried to attack the cops. “We had to fire three rounds in the air to disperse the violent crowd and save the boy from further thrashing,” said Sanjay Kharat, Aravalli district superintendent of police (DSP). He was rushed to a hospital in Bayad town, where his condition is said to be out of anger. “Sawan told us that Minisha had come to his house at around 11pm on Thursday and stayed there till 4am after which he dropped her to her house,” Kharat told TOI. Patrolling has been intensified in the village to avoid any escalation of tension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-tied-to-pole-thrashed-in-aravalli/articleshow/79959075.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Professor moves Madras HC for direction on bifurcating varsity||CHENNAI: A physics professor has moved the Madras high court seeking direction to the office of the governor to take a decision on an ordinance forwarded by the Tamil Nadu government for bifurcating Thiruvalluvar university and establishing a university in Villupuram. Considering the demands from the residents of Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Cuddalore and other neighbouring districts for better access to higher education, the Tamil Nadu government passed the ordinance on September 16 and sent it to the governor for his assent. Since the ordinance was pending with the office of the governor for over three months, the petitioner R Muthulakshmi, an associate professor, moved high court. She claimed that the very purpose of the ordinance would be defeated due to the delay caused by the governor in either promulgating the ordinance or returning the same. "This would give rise to questions regarding dereliction of a constitutional duty by the highest constitutional authority of the state," she alleged. The chief minister as the highest executive authority of the state has announced the creation of a new varsity by bifurcating the Thiruvalluvar University where it was specifically stated that the new university would start functioning in this year itself, the petitioner said. "As clearly stated in the press release of the chief minister, the decision to create the new university was taken after due consideration of the long-term requests of the residents in Villupuram. Therefore, the delay in making a decision on the ordinance is detrimental to public and aspiring students, particularly the residents of Villupuram," she added. Delay in granting assent is now putting the future of many students in jeopardy as they were under the legitimate expectation of securing admission in the said university, its affiliates and constituents, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/professor-moves-madras-hc-for-direction-on-bifurcating-varsity/articleshow/79961349.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Business||M&A deals spike in second half as firms strive to stay afloat||NEW DELHI: Global merger and acquisition (M&A) activity clawed its way back from near-decade lows in 2020, facing down the pandemic with a string of large transactions in the second half of the year that dealmakers hope will continue. Deal volumes are now down about 6% for the year to $3.5 trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Still, the fact that about two-thirds of those were inked since the start of July has advisers talking about a dramatic comeback, after the first half of 2020 froze M&A and sent North American deal activity down more than 50%. How transactions got done also changed, as bidders flew drones to conduct due diligence and the head of a UK pharmaceutical giant inked his biggest-ever deal while quarantined in a hotel room in Australia. Globe-trotting bankers transitioned to video calls, either from home or nearly empty offices. Advisers described 2020 as a tale of two very different halves. “We saw a sharp decline in M&A activity after the outbreak of the pandemic but then a very strong recovery in the second half of the year,” said Berthold Fuerst of Deutsche Bank. As the pandemic shut down cities in the first quarter, the chaos left CEOs too busy to make acquisitions, and deal making got off to the slowest start since 2013. Instead of opportunistic mergers, most of the deals that were struck helped companies stay afloat, particularly the travel, hospitality and entertainment businesses hit hard by lockdowns. Airlines sought federal aid while others secured private equity investment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ma-deals-spike-in-2nd-half-as-firms-strive-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/79961355.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Salem||1,027 people test Covid positive in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Twelve people across the state died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours pushing the cumulative death toll to 12,048. The statewide Covid tally rose to 8,12,142 on Friday, with 1,027 more people testing positive for the virus. But a higher recovery rate (97.4%) has helped in bringing down the number of active cases here to 9,129. It was almost double six weeks ago. State health secretary J Radhakrishnan on Friday said that the administration will continue to test all passengers arriving at airports in the state from other countries. As many as 2,390 air passengers from other countries, who reached the state in the last six weeks, have been tracked and samples collected from 1,176 persons. Test results (RT-PCR) of 430 samples have come out and only five have tested positive (Chennai-2, Thanjavur-2 and Madurai-1). All these five patients are being treated in nearby government hospitals. None of the 26 others, who were seated near them in the flights, have tested positive.  In Chennai, the total number of new cases (292) remained under the 300-mark for the second consecutive day. Average infection growth rate remained less than 0.2% in Chengalpet (74 new cases), Thiruvallur (48) and Kancheepuram (38) districts too. Coimbatore stood second in the state's new cases tally, with 95 people testing positive. While Salem (63 new cases) and Tiruppur (28) witnessed a dip in new cases compared to Thursday, there was a spike in all other western districts such as Erode (37), Namakkal (26) and Krishnagiri (23). Madurai reported 30 new cases, while Dindigul logged 17 and Tirunelveli 14 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/1027-people-test-covid-positive-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79961379.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chennai||1,027 people test Covid positive in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Twelve people across the state died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours pushing the cumulative death toll to 12,048. The statewide Covid tally rose to 8,12,142 on Friday, with 1,027 more people testing positive for the virus. But a higher recovery rate (97.4%) has helped in bringing down the number of active cases here to 9,129. It was almost double six weeks ago. State health secretary J Radhakrishnan on Friday said that the administration will continue to test all passengers arriving at airports in the state from other countries. As many as 2,390 air passengers from other countries, who reached the state in the last six weeks, have been tracked and samples collected from 1,176 persons. Test results (RT-PCR) of 430 samples have come out and only five have tested positive (Chennai-2, Thanjavur-2 and Madurai-1). All these five patients are being treated in nearby government hospitals. None of the 26 others, who were seated near them in the flights, have tested positive.  In Chennai, the total number of new cases (292) remained under the 300-mark for the second consecutive day. Average infection growth rate remained less than 0.2% in Chengalpet (74 new cases), Thiruvallur (48) and Kancheepuram (38) districts too. Coimbatore stood second in the state's new cases tally, with 95 people testing positive. While Salem (63 new cases) and Tiruppur (28) witnessed a dip in new cases compared to Thursday, there was a spike in all other western districts such as Erode (37), Namakkal (26) and Krishnagiri (23). Madurai reported 30 new cases, while Dindigul logged 17 and Tirunelveli 14 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1027-people-test-covid-positive-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79961363.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Erode||1,027 people test Covid positive in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Twelve people across the state died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours pushing the cumulative death toll to 12,048. The statewide Covid tally rose to 8,12,142 on Friday, with 1,027 more people testing positive for the virus. But a higher recovery rate (97.4%) has helped in bringing down the number of active cases here to 9,129. It was almost double six weeks ago. State health secretary J Radhakrishnan on Friday said that the administration will continue to test all passengers arriving at airports in the state from other countries. As many as 2,390 air passengers from other countries, who reached the state in the last six weeks, have been tracked and samples collected from 1,176 persons. Test results (RT-PCR) of 430 samples have come out and only five have tested positive (Chennai-2, Thanjavur-2 and Madurai-1). All these five patients are being treated in nearby government hospitals. None of the 26 others, who were seated near them in the flights, have tested positive.  In Chennai, the total number of new cases (292) remained under the 300-mark for the second consecutive day. Average infection growth rate remained less than 0.2% in Chengalpet (74 new cases), Thiruvallur (48) and Kancheepuram (38) districts too. Coimbatore stood second in the state's new cases tally, with 95 people testing positive. While Salem (63 new cases) and Tiruppur (28) witnessed a dip in new cases compared to Thursday, there was a spike in all other western districts such as Erode (37), Namakkal (26) and Krishnagiri (23). Madurai reported 30 new cases, while Dindigul logged 17 and Tirunelveli 14 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/1027-people-test-covid-positive-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79961378.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bhopal||Infra boost: MP’s vaccine storage capacity rises to 5 crore doses||BHOPAL: At any point of time, more than 5 crore doses of vaccines can be stored in the state as the storage and related infrastructure has been boosted ahead of Covid-19 vaccination process, which is likely to start next year. Eight additional WICs (walk-in-coolers), 8 additional WIF (walk-in-freezers), 411deep freezers and other instruments have been procured from the Centre. These are other than already available infrastructure, said sources. Apart from it, 40 new cold chain focal points (local storage points) have been set up in the state, with these, total number of such focal points in state has now become 1,214, said sources. Vaccines are regionally stored at four points in the state before their distribution to districts, with one point each in Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur. These will be then distributed using 51 special vehicles of each districts, added sources. In the first phase, 3.84 lakh health workers who have already been identified, all people aged above 50 years and people with co-morbidity (hypertension, cancer and diabetes) who are being identified, will be given vaccine shots, sources said. Each of these persons will receive a message on their phone informing them about date, slot and venue, where they would be administered the vaccine. List of such persons is being finalised from various sources including voter identity card, it will also be available with local health workers, thus in case someone’s number is not available, local workers will fetch them at the vaccination centres manually, added sources. State vaccination officer, Dr Santosh Shukla said, “We have already completed tehsil-level training. Training of ground workers will start from December 26. We have become the first state in the country to complete the training of tehsil-level workers till now. Training of ground workers will be complete by December 31. IMA and other such private organisations have allowed us to use their infrastructure. Infrastructure is ready, in normal vaccination also we only utilise 40%-50% of available infrastructure, now it has been further beefed up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/infra-boost-mps-vaccine-storage-capacity-rises-to-5-crore-doses/articleshow/79961362.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chennai||Even PM can't stop DMK's grama sabhas: M K Stalin||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Friday said not just chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, even Prime Minister Narendra Modi cannot prevent his party from holding grama sabha meetings. Chief minister Palaniswami is terrified by the response that DMK is getting from people and hence issued an order to ban holding of grama sabha meetings, Stalin said. "People are participating in large numbers in our grama sabha meetings. It is a clear signal that people are keen to send the AIADMK government home and bring the DMK to power. With elections just four months away, chief minister Palaniswami knows that his days in power are already numbered. Hence he is trying to ban the grama sabha meetings being organized by us," Stalin said, while participating in a people's grama sabha meeting at Marakkanam in Villupuram district. "We did not want to create confusion and hence decided to rename the grama sabha meetings as people's grama sabha. These are being organized by the DMK to send out a clear message to reject the AIADMK government and the response for 'We Reject ADMK' campaign has been tremendous," Stalin said. DMK has planned to hold 16,500 grama sabha meetings in 10 days from December 23. In the first two days, more than 3,000 such meetings were held in which over one crore people participated, Stalin said. "It is not just the people who have realized that the DMK will return to power after the forthcoming assembly elections. "Even governor (Banwarilal Purohit) has realized it. Hence, when we met him to present a 97-page detailed complaint against chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and six other ministers, governor promised us to take action. If he fails to do so, we will initiate action once we come to power," Stalin said. He said, chief minister Palaniswami was branding the DMK as a family party and one that indulged in corruption. "Has any corruption charges against the DMK been proved so far? In the 2G case too, DMK deputy general secretary A Raja proved his innocence and came out of prison. If chief minister Palaniswami is confident, let him face the charges and prove his innocence. But, he fears that investigations will lead to his conviction and he will lose power," Stalin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/even-pm-cant-stop-dmks-grama-sabhas-m-k-stalin/articleshow/79961371.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Business||Bad debt fear keeps private banks away from street vendor loans||NEW DELHI: Last week, a branch manager of a leading state-run bank in Madhya Pradesh wrote to the municipal commissioner seeking “cooperation” as several of the 160 street vendors, who were given loans under the PM SVANidhi scheme, had not paid a single instalment, turning them into non-performing assets (NPAs). While executives in the branch described it as routine communication, several bankers point to it to argue that their worst fears are coming true at a time when several state government officers are pushing for rapid disbursement of loans.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Although banks have been reluctant to push the Rs 10,000-loan to street vendors, the finance ministry, which controls the fate of state-run bank chiefs, has got them to dole out loans. Not surprisingly, public sector players have disbursed 92% of the loans so far with private banks being less obliging.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); For instance, HDFC Bank, the largest player, received 18,200 applications but has sanctioned just 6,100 loans under the scheme. The sanctioned amount is less than Rs 6 crore and disbursements are a meagre Rs 1.2 crore. Similarly, ICICI Bank received 10,400 applications but sanctioned just 882 cases worth Rs 88 lakh and disbursed Rs 58 lakh. Axis Bank has disbursed loans to 392 street vendors from the 9,000-odd proposals, indicating that the private lenders are undertaking a thorough scrutiny.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Private sector bank executives fear that pressure from government officers may leave them with little choice. Given the small ticket size, banks in any case find it tough to operate the scheme.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Under the scheme — seen as the Centre’s payback to a section hit hard by the lockdown — those who repay on time are entitled to an annual interest subsidy of 7%. Official data shows that no subsidy has been given out so far, but is expected to flow in due course. Like the Mudra scheme, the government shares data only on applications and disbursals, repayment and default figures remain out of public gaze.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bad-debt-fear-keeps-private-banks-away-from-street-vendor-loans/articleshow/79961345.cms||Sidhartha
December 26, 2020||Business||Bengal bags Rs 7kcr biz proposals in pandemic yr||Kolkata: West Bengal has witnessed healthy investment proposals and some big-ticket project formalisation during this pandemic-hit year when the Indian economy as a whole contracted. The total investment proposals as per records of the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation (WBIDC) was Rs 4,064 from January to December 2020, till date. The total investment taking into account that of in the IT sector could push the figure up by Rs 3,000 crore to Rs 7,064 crore. According to a state government estimate, the total employment projected from these investment proposals during the period is over 39,000. WBIDC officials said the project proposals came across sectors including manufacturing, iron & steel, food processing , construction chemicals, IT, gems & Jewellery besides logistics. When contacted, state commerce and industries minister Amit Mitra said, “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s all-out push for investments across sectors and the momentum garnered by hugely successful five editions of the Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS) have resulted in fructification of so many projects, despite the pandemic.” The icing on the cake was the expression of interest (EoI) for Tajpur deep sea port announced by the CM earlier this week along with cabinet clearance of Wipro second campus a few weeks back, which was chaired by CM, and commitment given by Infosys to start construction in its site from July. According to state government officials, the Tajpur port cleared by the state cabinet would be a game changer for all of Medinipur in particular and the state in general. The proposed investment for the port would be Rs 15,000 crore while it could create 25,000 jobs. The state officials pointed out that the concentration of iron & steel industry around Kharagpur will get a boost by having a port at their doorstep for exports. Also, iron & steel exports from Purulia, Burdwan and Bankura will get a boost. West Bengal accounts for 13% of India’s iron-steel exports. “Sea food exports from Medinipur will get a boost with exports prospects to south-east Asia & Japan,” added the officials. The Wipro investment proposal of Rs 500 crore in a second campus was cleared by the Cabinet on December 1. There will be employment for 10,000 IT professionals in 20 allotments in Bengal Silicon Valley Hub phase III. “There has been a fresh investment proposals of Rs 3,000 crore from 20 companies and employment of 9,000 IT professionals,” said a WBIDC official adding that in logistics there were high-profile investment proposals from Amazon and Flipkart this year in a facility developed by ESR Logistics at Uluberia. The investment by Amazon would be Rs 200 crore while for Flipkart this would be Rs 150-200 crore. Both the projects were launched by CM Mamata Banerjee in October this year. The total direct employment in these two projects taken together would be 5,400. The indirect employment would be in the range of 15,000. According to state government, Dalmia Cement has completed investment of Rs 360 crore for 2.3 million tonne capacity addition in its grinding unit near Salboni in West Midnapore. This would make it the largest cement unit in the state. Last month, Star Cement has proposed an investment of Rs 450 crore in Siliguri to set up a greenfield cement grinding plant. Other big names in manufacturing sector that proposed investments include Berger Paints, Globus Spirits, Indian Oil Adani, Senco Gold, SRG Exim, DSM Steel Norton Chemicals, Dhunseri Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bengal-bags-rs-7kcr-biz-proposals-in-pandemic-yr/articleshow/79959582.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Business||City-based Dastur joins US-funded study on carbon capture||Kolkata: City-based Dastur Energy Inc, along with Dastur International and MN Dastur (MND) & Co, is set to carry out a feasibility study at the 13.7 mtpa Koyali Refinery of Indian Oil Corporation (IOCL) in January, 2021. Dastur International is an independent company under the MND family. This will be the country’s the first refinery carbon capture and utilization project, in which TX-based Air Liquide Global E&C Solutions and Austin TX-based Bureau of Economic Geology at the University of Texas will also participate. The study is funded by the United States Trade and Development Agency as part of its mission to promote the development of sustainable infrastructure projects and fostering economic growth in partner countries like India. The IOCL operates 11 of the country’s 23 refineries while the one at Koyali is its flagship refinery. They want the carbon dioxide captured from its hydrogen generation units to carry out the enhanced oil recovery (EOR) at the nearby ONGC oil field at Gandhar in Gujarat. The EOR will help in raising the oil production at Gandhar oil fields while trapping the carbon dioxide permanently underground. The study will, however, go through the technical viability, economic cost and feasibility of capturing carbon dioxide and using for the EOR. Atanu Mukherjee, president and chief executive officer of Dastur told TOI, “Designing a viable carbon capture solution and reducing their net cost of capture while creating an economic value from carbon dioxide is a challenge faced by many industrial leaders who are seeking to cut down on emissions. The study is a key pillar of its longer roadmap to reduce carbon emissions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/city-based-dastur-joins-us-funded-study-on-carbon-capture/articleshow/79959656.cms||Sarthak.G
December 26, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: NGO strives to protect slender loris habitat near Ayyalur forests||MADURAI: The walls of many houses, schools, and other buildings in forty villages surrounding Ayyalur forests are painted with pictures of slender lorises with the words ‘Save the slender loris’, in the eastern ghats bordering Dindigul and Trichy districts. These tiny animals are the reason why SEEDS Trust was selected for the Habitats Trust/Lesser-known Habitats Grant 2020. The trust was founded by Roshni Nadar Malhotra, chairperson, HCL Technologies. SEEDS Trust wants 40 villages in the region to be declared a community reserve to protect these animals. SEEDS Trust managing trustee P Muthusamy said that they have been working in these villages since 1999, where the focus was on tree planting and livelihood sustenance. “In 2015, we did a participatory rural assessment and came to know that the villagers, apart from forest produce, depend on slender loris for their livelihood,” he said. A closer look showed that these mammals were being killed due to superstitious beliefs. “But what was worrying was that these tiny nocturnal, slow moving mammals, weighing about 250 to 300g were poached and killed due to myths surrounding their existence,” said Seed trust training director D Ravikumar. “They are believed to have magical and medicinal power and their meat is even said to be aphrodisiac in nature. A reason why they are poached. Now, the local community and the Dindigul Forest Department are helping to protect these animals,” he added. “When they started their night visits to the village, they were able to see about four to five of these animals in a square km,” said M Rasathi, 33, a tribal woman. Now five years down the lane, their efforts to convert the farmers to take up organic farming, and also refrain from killing the animals, has borne fruit as now over 15 can be sighted in a square km radius in these villages amongst bushes and cactuses where they thrive. “Before the trust came to work amongst us, pregnant women were asked to refrain from going out in the dark fearing they would encounter a slender loris and the child would be born like a Thevangu (the Tamil word for the animal). We now protect these animals, even when outsiders come to kill them,” said K Saravanakumar, a student. Seed trust took it upon itself to educate the people in the 40 villages in Sukkavali cluster. “It is a natural pest control because the loris feed on pests on crops without destroying them,” said Muthusamy. V Chinnaiah, councillor of Sukkavali village, said, “We now train the women on value addition of the forest produce with the help of Seed trust and they are getting better returns. Tribal learning centres have also been established to provide evening classes for the students,” he said. With the Rs 20 lakh Habitats Trust Grant, the trust has to focus on five villages to prevent overgrazing and destruction of the natural habitat of these endangered animals which are on the endangered list of IUCN and Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act of India, 1972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-ngo-strives-to-protect-slender-loris-habitat-near-ayyalur-forests/articleshow/79961384.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
December 26, 2020||Madurai||Taluk-level teams to check encroachments||MADURAI: Observing that there is an increase in the number of petitions pertaining to encroachments, Madras high court suggested the state government constitute taluk-level teams comprising officials of revenue, police, survey and public works department as well as panchayat representatives in order to monitor the encroachments. The court said that the committees should not be disturbed for at least three years. The court was hearing a batch of petitions which sought to forbear the authorities from removing the encroachments made at Bibikulam in Madurai. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the court's valuable time is spent on cases pertaining to encroachments at both high court's Madurai bench and the principal seat. Since the menace is increasing, the courts are unable to spend time on other cases which require its attention. Though there has been no improvement with regard to removal of encroachments in the state, the officials could not be blamed as the encroachers are often powerful and there is no security to the lives of officials. The judges said that though it was stated that most of the encroachers are people below the poverty line, the court cannot show any misplaced sympathy to the encroachers as it would create a bad precedent. Hence the judges granted four months time for all encroachers at Bibikulam to vacate the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/taluk-level-teams-to-check-encroachments/articleshow/79961388.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Madurai||Don't burden court with marriage statuses: Madras HC||MADURAI: Directing the authorities to register the marriage of a man with a Sri Lankan citizen, Madras high court has observed that authorities are expected to apply their mind and pass orders according to statutes without burdening courts.  A petition was filed by U Kalatheeswaran who sought to register his marriage under the Special Marriage Act 1954 with Parimala Devi, a Sri Lankan citizen who came to India on a tourist visa in 2018. The special government pleader submitted that according to section 7A of the Citizenship Act 1955, unless a person is not continuously living for two years in India, he/she cannot claim citizenship. Justice S Vaidyanathan observed that the preamble of the Special Marriage Act prescribes no condition that the spouse should be an Indian citizen and that he or she cannot marry a foreigner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dont-burden-court-with-marriage-statuses-madras-hc/articleshow/79961399.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Rajkot||RCCI urges govt to lift night curfew||RAJKOT: The Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) has urged Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani to lift the night curfew in Rajkot in the interest of the trade and industries whose work is being impacted. In a letter, the trade body stated, “The situation of Covid-19 is under control in Rajkot compared to other cities and people are strictly following government guidelines.” RCCI further stated that because of lockdown earlier this year the trade and industry had suffered huge losses. “The business and industry is struggling hard to get out the clutches of recession. The night curfew is adversely affecting trade and industry because they have to shut units by evening. There are many industries working 24 hours in three shifts, which are facing problems and their workers are being harassed by the police,” the letter stated. RCCI has further urged that if it is not possible to lift the curfew entirely, at least shorten the timing by two hours and allow business units to remain open till 11 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rcci-urges-govt-to-lift-night-curfew/articleshow/79959080.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Business||Migrants to key goods, how railways met lockdown challenge||NEW DELHI: Barely days after the government declared complete lockdown in March suspending operation of air, road and rail travel due to the pandemic, Indian Railways got a unique task to transport a batch of swab samples from Delhi to Indore for testing at a lab within a set time-line.  The national transporter sent these samples with a guard deployed in a freight train and there was complete monitoring till the samples were collected by the staff of the designated laboratory. From transporting these samples to ensuring supply of essential commodities and transporting over 63 lakh migrant labourers to 23 states through 4,621 trips during the lockdown, it was perhaps the largest ever operation by the railways. “For the first time in the history of Indian Railways, passenger trains were completely stopped. Everyone was clueless about the virus and there were several challenges. We assured our employees that there won’t be any shortage of PPE kits, sanitisers and masks for them. We had earmarked 50 of our 130 hospitals as Covid hospitals to assure them that we will take care of anyone who gets infected. This built the confidence of our staff to take up the challenge,” Railway Board CEO and chairman V K Yadav told TOI. Read AlsoFestive special trains extended till Dec 30The South Eastern Railways (SER) and East Central Railways (ECR) zones have announced to extend the operations of their festival special trains to cater to the passengers.Nearly 30,000 railway employees have so far been infected by Covid and around 700 people have lost their lives. Yadav said the work culture in railways is like that of the military and the personnel stood up to the challenge. Citing an example how the railways worked on all details to transport stranded migrant workers, described as a humanitarian crisis, the Railway Board chief said they were aware that they needed to run trains. “We were completely prepared and had asked all zones to keep some trains ready for operation in the shortest possible time. The government decided to run the first Shramik Special train at 8 pm on April 30 and we flagged off the train at 5 am the next day,” Yadav added. Read AlsoLockdown: Railway runs its first special train to ferry stranded migrants from Telangana to JharkhandRailways on Friday ran a special train to ferry 1,200 stranded migrants from Lingampally in Telangana to Hatia in Jharkhand, a first since the lockdown began. "The 24 coach train started at 4.50 am today (Friday)," RPF DG Arun Kumar told PTI. It's the only train to be deployed so far, he added.During the lockdown, the railways had an added responsibility of running more freight trains and parcel trains to transport essential supplies including medicines, medical equipment and milk. Yadav said running these trains worked as the lifeline and the national transporter did not even think of revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/migrants-to-key-goods-how-railways-met-lockdown-challenge/articleshow/79961406.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 26, 2020||Bhopal||Quit Madhya Pradesh or I’ll bury you 10ft deep: CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan to mafia||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday showed just how aggressive he is against the land mafia — he threatened to bury them, 10 feet under. “Sun lo re, Madhya Pradesh chhod dena, nahin to jameen mein gaad dunga dus feet, kahin pata nahi chalega. Gunde, badmas, koi nahin chalne wale ab (listen, leave Madhya Pradesh or I will bury you 10 feet in the ground, and no one will ever know. Goons won’t be spared),” the CM said at a farmers' rally in Babai, Hoshangabad, about 100km from Bhopal. “These days, I am in a dangerous mood. I won’t spare criminals. ‘Mama’ is in form,” Chouhan thundered. Good governance is being implemented in MP, as per the vision of former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, said Chouhan. “There will be rule of law in the state, not of goons and miscreants,” he asserted. Good governance means ensuring that the benefits of government services reach the public within a fixed time frame without any give and take, he explained. The CM started his address by offering tributes to Vajpayee, and announced that a huge memorial will be built in his memory in Gwalior. Chouhan reiterated that the three new agriculture laws are beneficial for farmers since they can now sell their crops in the mandi or anywhere they want. Mandi duty has been reduced to 50 paise in the state, he said. The Madhya Pradesh government is making a simple proforma for contracting crop purchases from farmers, so that farmers have no problem understanding the contract and no one can create any trouble for them, Chouhan said. The BJP government in MP has transferred Rs 82,422 crore to farmers under various schemes and purchase on support price. An amount of Rs 8,646 crore has been provided to farmers for crop insurance, and in addition to the Rs 6,000 given by the Centre to farmers every year, the state government provides an additional Rs 4,000 under ‘Kisan Samman Nidhi’ scheme, Chouhan said. CM began event by washing feet of 5 girlsThe chief minister started the programme with ‘kanya pujan’, by washing the feet of five girls. State BJP president V D Sharma, MP Uday Pratap Singh, former Speaker Sitasaran Sharma, former minister Sartaj Singh, MLAs Vijay Pal Singh, Madhav Agarwal, Shiv Choubey and other public representatives were present on the occasion. Watch Will bury you 10-ft deep in ground: MP CM Shivraj Singh to mafia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/quit-mp-or-ill-bury-you-10ft-deep-shivraj-singh-chauhan-to-mafi/articleshow/79961337.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bhopal||CBI files chargesheet against two cops in Pardhi woman suicide||BHOPAL: The shreds of her burnt sari, stashed inside the ‘malkhana’ of a police station, helped CBI file an early chargesheet against the policemen who allegedly drove a Pardhi woman to suicide in Bhopal in November 2017. Constables Gajraj and Rameshwar Yadav have been charged with abetment to suicide and common intention, while departmental action has been recommended against constable Sandeep Shakya as conclusive evidence was not found against him. CBI could not identify anyone by the name of ‘Dheeraj’ at Gandhi Nagar police station. A police departmental inquiry had earlier given all of them the clean chit, but the family went to high court, which ordered a CBI probe. In her dying statement, recorded on a mobile phone, the victim, 30-year-old Indermal Bai, had said she set herself on fire as two policemen were threatening to file a false case against her unless she paid them Rs 20,000. This video went viral and members of the Pardhi community gheraoed the police station. Police had denied the charges and said her saree caught fire when she was setting fire to a heap of garbage. Her relatives moved HC, naming cops Gajraj, Dheeraj, Sandeep and Rajeshwar Yadav as those who allegedly harassed her. ‘Accused cops tried to mislead CBI probe’The high court pointed out contradictions and loopholes in the police investigation and ordered a CBI probe. Sources in CBI said the accused policemen repeatedly tried to mislead the central investigation. “They had not sent her sari for forensic examination. We got it out of the malkhana and sent it to forensic experts, who found residue of kerosene on it. This was very important to prove suicide. Without that the sari, the chargesheet would not have been possible,” said a CBI officer. The case was handed to CBI DSP Atul Hajela, and the agency registered an FIR on June 5, 2020. Just over six months later, they filed the chargesheet. Sources say, Indermal had filed a complaint with the collector on November 14, 2017, against these policemen. Three days later, the cops went to her house and allegedly threatened her with dire consequences unless she gave Rs 20,000. She set herself on fire. Her statement, recorded on mobile phone minutes before her death, was taken on record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-two-cops-in-pardhi-woman-suicide/articleshow/79961313.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Business||Spotlight on regulations as desi startups ‘flip’ base||GURGAON/BENGALURU: Info Edge co-founder Sanjeev Bikhchandani recently tweeted that Indian startups are ‘flipping’ their structure while raising early-stage capital from foreign investors. It immediately triggered a debate. Flipping refers to domestic startups housing their shareholding, intellectual property (IP) and at times even other assets in a firm overseas, and relegating the local entity to a subsidiary. Bikhchandani, who has backed large internet startups like Zomato and PolicyBazaar through Info Edge, said this leads to loss of tax for the government, and loss of IP and overall wealth creation for India. Bikhchandani went on to say that the situation had shades of the East India Company. TOI spoke to a number of entrepreneurs and investors, and the consensus was that the issue needs to be resolved with an easier and simpler regulatory environment in India, as founders will choose the best and the fastest avenue to raise capital, whether in India or abroad. Entrepreneurs TOI spoke to said setting up a US entity to raise money from investors like Y Combinator (YC) is easier than getting stuck in lengthy processes in India to raise funds from a US-based investor. Bikhchandani’s tweet was in reaction to a tweet by an angel investor, Rajesh Sawhney, who questioned why YC was forcing Indian entrepreneurs to set up US arms. Y Combinator typically invests in US-based entities of Indian startups, but it has made exceptions, at least for two Indian startups, people aware of the matter said. “It’s a choice. No one is forcing you to take money from overseas investors,” the founder and CEO of a large Indian startup that has raised capital from Y Combinator said. The startup has set up a firm in the US. “One takes investments from an investor based on their terms. Even in India, many small angel investors ask for board seats and a large stake for a relatively small investment. The simple reason foreign investors ask for a US entity is that most of the investments in Indian entities happen from US-based funds. It’s easier to raise funding if you have the right structure, and founders make that choice,” he said. Several large Indian internet firms, including Flipkart, Grofers and Udaan, are domiciled in Singapore for similar reasons. While Bikhchandani’s tweets were initially seen as critical of foreign capital, he told TOI that his intention was different. “The only way to reduce instances of flipping is to improve the ease of doing business for early-stage overseas investors in India. Investors are basically looking for ease of entry, ease of exit and a predictable, fair, stable, simple, quick and hassle-free tax and regulatory environment. We have some distance to travel in these areas in India. What needs to be done is to do a deep dive into the reasons why companies flip and why investors nudge startups to flip. And then fix those problems,” he said. Anand Lunia, founding partner of early-stage venture fund India Quotient, echoed Bikhchandani. “This has nothing to do with YC or any particular fund. The government should simplify the rules for investors. Having said that, flipping has long-term repercussions,” Lunia said, adding that some of his portfolio startups have also got YC’s backing and YC encourages flipping. “Any digital business in India should be based in India and controlled by Indian regulators. We should be solving for wealth capture, technology wealth capture, so the know-how remains in India,” he said. However, venture capital funds that have raised money from US investors say the focus should not be on where the company is registered, rather it should be on the jobs being created by the startups and the taxes they pay in whichever markets they operate in. “Today, you can be based out of the US, have customers in Europe and have a team sitting in India. It’s very difficult to define which country that startup belongs to,” a partner at a venture capital fund said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/spotlight-on-regulations-as-desi-startups-flip-base/articleshow/79961430.cms||Digbijay Mishra
December 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 34 staffers of MLA rest-house test Covid-19 positive||BHOPAL: Three days ahead of the winter session of assembly, 34 employees of MLA rest houses tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. All the staff in the assembly and MLA rest houses are being tested for Coronavirus as a precaution. Sources said reports of 77 employees have been received, and half of them, including 9 women, are positive. They are posted in the new family premises of MLA rest houses 1, 2 and 3. Thirty of them are aged above 50 years and three, including a woman, are above 60 years. The monsoon and budget sessions of the assembly were disrupted due to Covid-19 this year. The House is now being sanitised for the session beginning December 28. In view of the winter session, Bhopal collector Avinash Lavania has prohibited movement of trucks and slow-moving vehicles, like bullock carts, in a 5km radius of the assembly from December 28-30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-34-staffers-of-mla-rest-house-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/79961383.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Rajkot||Cop’s wife beats up woman, twice||RAJKOT: Wife of a police constable posted at the Jamnagar police headquarters was on Thursday booked for assaulting a woman suspecting that she was having an affair with her husband. Police booked Sangita Chauhan (25), wife of constable Ajaysinh Chauhan on Thursday night for thrashing Jesal Trivedi (28) at Ranjitnagar HUDCO quarters. According to police, Sangita lives at police quarters near the Jamnagar police headquarters, while Jesal stays in Golden City near the police headquarters with her husband. Police said that Sangita suspecting that Jesal was having an affair with her husband had thrashed her at her residence on December 16. Jesal had then filed a complaint with C Division police station. However, Ajaysinh was seeking compromise and had apologised to Jesal and her husband over the phone. He had requested Jesal to withdraw her complaint against Sangita and for that, they had decided to meet at Ranjitnagar HUDCO quarters on Thursday afternoon. But, Sangita instead of apologizing for her behaviour, attacked Jesal again along with her two relatives. This time, Jesal lodged complaint with Mahila Police Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-wife-beats-up-woman-twice/articleshow/79959083.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Vadodara||Maths teacher’s YouTuber son decodes formula for healthy life||VADODARA: At the age of 29, he was diagnosed with ulcerative colitis, an incurable autoimmune disease that can result in serious medical complications. Nine years back, he would bleed heavily and his weight reduced drastically. But this did not dampen the spirit of Dhaval Patel, a native of tiny Narsanda village near Anand, and currently based in New Jersey, US. Dhaval, a software engineer with a fintech company in the New York area followed the steps of his late father – Rambhai Patel – who served as a maths teacher at a primary school in Vadtal. The YouTube channel that he had started in 2016 uploading coding videos now has over two lakh subscribers. What’s more, he is also free of medicines for the past 18 months. “I was slipping into depression as doctors did not have an answer on how to cure it,” recollects Dhaval, whose weight had reduced from a healthy 77 kg to 49 kg as the disease progressively worsened. Life is 10% what happens to you and 90 % how you react to it - a quote that he heard while listening to a podcast changed his life forever. “After listening to the quote, I realized that my health was bad, but I was still alive and had capabilities to make some difference in the world,” he said, adding that he decided to engage in creative activity through which he could selflessly help people. It was with this love for teaching that this BE (computer) from Nadiad-based Dharmsinh Desai University started a YouTube channel to teach programming, data science and artificial intelligence (AI), especially for college students. Initially, his channel – Codebasics – would receive an occasional comment of appreciation or a thank you note. Four years on, his channel not only boasts of more than two lakh subscribers but his work has also got recognized by graphics card giant – NVIDIA – which has gifted him a high-end graphics processing unit. “A positive change has a cascading impact. It triggers another positive event. I went on a totally raw vegan diet. For the past one and a half years, I am totally medicine free and in good health,” said Dhaval, who is amongst top Indian YouTubers in the field. He is also helping the ministry of electronics and information technology that has started a portal to spread awareness of AI in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/maths-teachers-youtuber-son-decodes-formula-for-healthy-life/articleshow/79958627.cms||Prashant Rupera
December 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Brace for fresh cold wave from Sun||GURUGRAM/NEW DELHI: The city will witness a cold wave again from Sunday, according the meteorological department. The wave, a Met official said, will continue till January 1. During this period, the minimum temperature is likely to remain between 1 and 3°C, while the maximum temperature will be around 16°C. Cold wave is recorded when the minimum temperature is 4°C or below that. On Friday, the minimum temperature was 6.5°C and maximum was 23°C. Dense fog engulfed parts of the city early morning on Friday. Meanwhile, the city’s air quality remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Friday. The air quality index (AQI) of the city was 302, a few notches less than that of the previous day, which was 361. “We hope that the city’s air quality will improve in the coming days as the wind speed is likely to increase. Also, wind from snow-clad mountains will bring some relief from the pollutants,” said a senior official of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). Doctors pointed out that residents should be careful about the cold wave as there is a rise of 16% pneumonia cases in children, especially younger ones in the range of one to five years’ old. Pneumonia is the most serious respiratory infection (ARI) and kills about 17% infants in India, according to experts. “Pneumonia is a viral and contagious respiratory disease that affects children more as they breathe faster than adults. We have received 18 cases since November. We attend to a maximum of 16 cases usually. Most children are in the age of 1 to 5 years. Those who are living in crowded homes or have parents who smoke are more at risk. Also, those who breathe air polluted by biomass fuels used for cooking are also at risk. As pneumonia weakens lungs, these children will be more at the risk of contracting Covid-19 and will need to be extra careful,” says Dr Sudip Chowdhury, consultant paediatrician, Columbia Asia Hospital, Gurgaon. Meanwhile in Delhi, the minimum temperature was 4.6 degrees Celsius on Friday — three notches below normal — and the maximum settled at 22.4 degrees Celsius — one degree above normal. Moderate fog was reported in parts of Delhi as the visibility dipped to 200 metres at Safdarjung station during morning hours. A Met official said the minimum temperature was likely to decrease on Saturday but would again rise on Sunday and Monday. Delhi’s air quality on Friday improved to the middle end of ‘very poor’ category. The AQI was 357 as against 423 on Thursday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Delhi had recorded three consecutive ‘severe’ days from Tuesday to Thursday. However, as the wind speed picked up on Friday, it helped in pushing the city’s air from ‘severe’ to ‘very poor’ category by clearing the accumulated pollutants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/brace-for-fresh-cold-wave-from-sun/articleshow/79960662.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida: GNIDA offers plots for schools, colleges & hospitals||GREATER NOIDA: The city is likely to get more number of schools, colleges and hospitals soon. Over the past week, the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) has launched industrial and institutional schemes comprising 50 plots. Besides new industries and educational institutes, the plots will also be used for religious places and other institutional purposes. The industrial scheme comprises 21 plots in Ecotech 1. Officials said that the 29 institutional plots put on the block are situated in various sectors. “We have identified residential blocks where more educational institutes and healthcare facilities are needed. Vacant institutional plots have been identified in such locations and introduced in the latest scheme,” said Deep Chandra, additional CEO of the authority. While the two nursery school plots have been introduced in Sector 3 and ETA 2, four plots that will be used for higher secondary schools have been earmarked in Sector 3, Knowledge Park 5 and Sector 2. The plot for a new hospital has been proposed in Sector Omicron 1.“In absence of a good school in the neighbourhood, we are forced to send our children to Sector 21 in Noida. We need good schools in Greater Noida’s Bisrakh since a lot of highrises have come up,” said Anju Saxena, a homemaker who lives in Ace City in Sector 1. Officials said that if nobody comes forward to open higher secondary schools, the four plots will be available for an engineering college or a higher education institute. A total of 2.31 lakh sqm (57 acres) is on offer and the size of the plots vary between 1,000 sqm and 40,470 sqm (10 acres). Meanwhile, 19 industrial plots measure 2,000 sqm while the other two measure 12 and 20 acres. The industrial allotments will be done with a condition that the units will be functional within two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/gnida-offers-plots-for-schools-colleges-hospitals/articleshow/79960579.cms||Shalabh
December 26, 2020||Gurgaon||191 back from UK undergo RT-PCR test||GURUGRAM: RT-PCR tests of residents who returned from the UK after December 8 and are yet to complete two weeks of home isolation began on Friday. Out of 438 names on the list, there were 31 duplicate entries, the health department said. Of the remaining 407 names, the samples of 191 people have been taken. While 48 people have gone back to their respective states and will be contacted, eight others are at Medanta for treatment or attending to family members. The health department has directed the hospital to share their contact details. A total of 160 people will be tested on Saturday, after which their contact tracing will begin. “We have created a list of UK returnees based on their localities. Our teams will call everyone and visit their homes for sample collection. People who have come back from the UK after December 8 will be tested and have been told to stay quarantined at home. Our teams will also trace their contacts,” said Gurugram chief medical officer Virender Yadav. According to Union government guidelines, the district surveillance officer will facilitate sample collection, irrespective of previous testing at the place of origin or on arrival at the airport. In case passengers have moved to locations outside the city of arrival, intimation should be sent to the concerned district or state. If genome sequencing indicates the presence of the new variant of Sars-CoV-2, the patient will continue to remain in a separate isolation unit and tested on the 14th day again. If the result is positive, further samples may be taken until the two consecutive ones taken 24 hours apart return negative. Positive samples of UK returnees from Haryana and other north Indian states will be sent for genome sequencing to the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi’s Sukhdev Vihar. The health department has also directed all private labs to collect samples of UK returnees at their homes and to create and share a list on a daily basis. Labs have been directed to preserve 1ml of samples of such persons so that if any positive report comes, the same may be sent immediately for genome sequencing. Similarly, private hospitals in the city have been asked to designate a separate area for management of UK returnees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/191-back-from-uk-undergo-rt-pcr-test/articleshow/79960530.cms||Ipsita Pati
December 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 81 test Covid-19 positive, health department holds meet on vaccine rollout||GURUGRAM: A total of 81 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the city’s caseload to 56,289. No causality was reported. The health department said 135 patients also recovered on the day, bringing the total number of recoveries to 54,760. Gurgaon has now a recovery rate of 97.2%. This is the second time in December that the city reported less than 100 new cases in a day. On December 22, the city had seen 92 cases. The city has a total of 1,188 active cases, and 1,074 of the patients are in home isolation. On Thursday, 11 people were sent to institutional quarantine facilities. So far, 6,43,660 people have been put under surveillance in Gurgaon. In the past 24 hours, the health authorities collected 4,063 samples for antigen and RT-PCR tests. So far, 6,40,074 samples have been sent for testing so far, out of which 5,79,722 returned negative while the results of 2,004 are awaited. Meanwhile, the health department on Friday conducted a meeting of the adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) committee and private hospitals to create adequate awareness, address queries and prepare for unintended situations in order to ensure the smooth rollout of Covid-19 vaccine once it arrives,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/81-test-positive-health-department-holds-meet-on-vaccine-rollout/articleshow/79960566.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bhopal||Recoveries outnumber new cases again in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: On Friday, 1031 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. With these, count of people testing positive so far in MP has reached 236400. More people recovered from the virus than new patients in a single day, on Friday. Against 1031 new people testing positive, 1234 patients recovered from Covid-19. With these, the count of patients who have recovered from coronavirus so far in the state reached 222403. As on December 25, the overall Covid recovery rate in the state was 94.07%. Also, 12 casualties were reported in the state as per the health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid reached 3536 in state. The districts where these casualties were reported, include Indore, where 4 deaths were reported, Bhopal and Gwalior where 2 deaths each were reported and one death each was reported from Damoh, Khandwa, Harda and Guna districts. On Friday fresh cases were reported from 51 of the total 52 districts of the state. The districts where no new cases were reported was Agar Malwa. Of the 51 districts that reported fresh cases, new cases were reported in double figures from 22. Maximum cases were reported from Indore where 312 new patients were found on Friday, followed by Bhopal where 203 new patients were found, then Jabalpur where 55 new patients were reported and Ratlam where 34 new patients were found. A total of 29,356 samples were tested on Friday, 1031 tested positive. Thus the positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Friday stood at 3.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/recoveries-outnumber-new-cases-again-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/79961489.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Rajkot||Ceramic factory worker booked for raping minor in Gujarat's Morbi||RAJKOT: A ceramic factory worker was booked for allegedly raping a minor girl several times by blackmailing her and threatening to upload their intimate pictures on social media. The accused Rahul Naran Chauhan, a native of Gir Somnath district, was booked following a complaint lodged by the 16-year-old girl’s mother with Morbi taluka police station. According to police, Chauhan, who is in his early 20s, had befriended the girl and allegedly raped her for the first time three months ago at his residence in Lakhdhirnagar. He had also clicked their intimate pictures on his mobile phone. Later Chauhan used to blackmail her into having a physical relationship with him by threatening to upload the intimate photo on social media. On Wednesday, Chauhan allegedly kidnapped the girl and raped her again. His two aides also helped him in kidnapping the girl. After she was released on Thursday morning, the girl told her mother what had happened following which a complaint was filed against Chauhan and his two aides with Morbi Taluka police later in the night. Circle police inspector I M Kondhiya is investigating the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ceramic-factory-worker-booked-for-raping-minor-in-morbi/articleshow/79959125.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Lakhs taken, but no work done: Municipal Corporation of Gurugram probes fraud||GURUGRAM: Two incidents of fraud have been reported in Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) — Rs 48 lakh in ward 35 and Rs 24 lakh in ward 34 — said officials on Friday. These funds were allocated for repairing potholes in these two wards but no work was done in these areas, they said, adding that the payment for ward 34 had got stuck. The officials said an executive engineer, who has already been suspended in another fraud case, a contractor, and an official from the accounts department are involved in the crime. In these two cases, fake satisfactory certificates issued in the name of councillors were attached with the file. The measurement book (MB), which contains the details of the project, was not attached in the file. After the fraud came to light, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said an inquiry has been ordered. Joint Commissioner-3 Hariom Attri said: “I have completed the inquiry and submitted it to the commissioner.” The councillors later also confirmed that no work has been done on the ground and letters issued in their name were not issued by them. Councillor of ward 35, Kusum Yadav, said: “The payment of Rs 49 lakh has already been made for a work that was never done. I wrote to the commissioner about the matter and the result of the inquiry is still awaited.” Councillor of ward number 34, RS Rathee, has also submitted his reply to the inquiry panel, claiming that no work was done on the potholes. “The certificate that was attached in the file was forged. A quantity survey department should be established and the officials of the department, instead of a consultant, should make these estimates and then check whether the work has been done on the ground or not. The payment should be released only after verification,” he suggested. A similar fraud where forged “satisfactory work” certificates of 11 councillors were issued was reported in November this year. The inquiry of the fraud, which involves funds of around Rs 2.27 crore, has been sent to the urban local bodies department. The inquiry found that two executive engineers and three contractors were involved in the fraud.  The two contractors have already been blacklisted and action against the officials will be taken by the ULB department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/lakhs-taken-but-no-work-done-mcg-probes-fraud/articleshow/79960664.cms||Vishakha Chaman
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers bang thalis during PM’s programme||JIND: Opposing the Prime Minister’s favourite programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’, farmers held a protest by banging thalis at Haryana’s Jind-Khatkar toll plaza where they ensured a free pass for commuters as well. Farmers said that they have switched off their television sets as a mark of protest to boycott the PM’s programme. They banged thali to prevail their voice as they felt that the time has come to listen to them. Farmers have been listening to PM Narendra Modi for the past six years and he always spoke a lie before the public, they said. The farmers reached Khatkar toll plaza at 6 am on Thursday and made the toll crossing free for all till December 27. Various outfits including khaps, social organizations, farmers and youth participate in the agitation and raised slogans against the government, seeking repeal of the three farm laws. BKU state spokesperson Chajju Ram, a native of Kandela village of Jind district, said, “We have declared a fight with the central government which wants to hand over farmers in private hands. The ‘Mann Ki Baat’ and PM’s all promises are fake which we opposed today by banging thalis to reply to him in his language.” “Nothing fruitful had happened with his thali bajao programme during the Covid-19 outbreak and he never about spoke his internal talk in the radio programme which should be condemned. The PM has been exposed before the public and the entire nation has come at one platform,” he added. Bijender Singh, a farmer said, “the PM speaks his ‘Mann ki Baat’, but farmers share their thoughts from their soul. “Mann maila ho sakta hai, parantu aatma kabhi maili nahi ho sakti. His all ‘Mann ki Baat’ witnessed rubbish as he always told a lie and never shared his thoughts from the soul. We here today announced to boycott his programme and banged thalis to give him a befitting reply.” “The PM has made three laws as a prestige issue and become adamant which should not happen in a democracy. Later or sooner, he will have to repeal these anti-farmer laws as farmers have become united and all their propaganda has failed to divide us,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-bang-thalis-during-pms-programme/articleshow/79960344.cms||VIJENDER KUMAR
December 26, 2020||Gurgaon||20 students from Gurugram chosen for education department’s Super-100||GURUGRAM: About 20 students from government schools in the city have been selected under the education department’s ambitious Super-100 programme. The selected candidates will undergo academic training for various competitive exams in five centres created across the state. In the final list, 21 students from the district have been shortlisted for the free residential coaching for competitive exams like IIT-JEE and NEET. More than 120 students, who had scored over 80% in Class 10 board exams, had appeared for the first level of test on November 2 and 58 students had qualified for the second level of screening. Of these 58 students, 20 have been finally selected for the programme. Now, out of these 20 students, 10 have been selected for the Rewari centre, six for the Hisar centre, two for Karnal centre and one each for two centres in Panchkula. In total, over 400 students have been shortlisted for the coaching programme. The maximum number of selections have been recorded from Hisar and Jind where 58 and 51 students respectively have made it to the final list. “These students will undergo rigorous academic training. They’ll not only be given guidance to score well in their Class 12 board exams but also crack competitive exams. With the government calling students of Class 9 to 12 for classroom sessions, it appears that we’ll be able to continue with residential coaching schedule,” said an education department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/20-students-from-gurgaon-chosen-for-education-departments-super-100/articleshow/79960681.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Kharar flyover to now open on December 28||MOHALI: Some discrepancies have been detected during the trial run of the third-phase of the Kharar flyover. “The opening of the flyover has been postponed till December 28,” said sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Himanshu Jain. The SDM said during the final trial run, they found that work was pending at some pockets and they postponed the opening of the third-phase of the flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-kharar-flyover-to-now-open-on-december-28/articleshow/79961541.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||BARC officials were asked to quit or face action: Police||MUMBAI: The police said on Friday they have come upon WhatsApp chats and emails between BARC employees discussing how to manipulate ratings in order to push Times Now from the top slot to the No. 2 position and make Republic TV the No. 1 news channel. The three methods employed for manipulation, Joint CP Milind Bharambe said, were “outlier, meta rules and channel audience control”. (See graphic) “Data was selectively analysed to show particular TRP ratings of a channel,” Bharambe said. He said this was done to facilitate and bring Republic TV to the No. 1 slot. The manipulations were carried out by two senior BARC officials during the period 2016-2019, police alleged. These officials, the CEO and COO, were asked to resign or face action by BARC, Bharambe said. Both officials quit and are currently in police custody. “During that period, there were many complaints of manipulation that were suppressed,” Bharambe said. Police officials claimed BARC had knowledge about the officials’ involvement but did not inform the cops during its probe. The police came to know about the audit report through their own sources and from detailed interrogation of the two arrested ex-officials, they added. Bharambe read out some excerpts from the messages found. “Please find below numbers on English news. As required, Times Now’s numbers were changed while Republic was kept the same.’’ Another message read, “Please find below updates on English news channels for week X. Times Now, CNN -News18 will be changed. The impressions of Times Now have been decreased drastically across the universe. The impressions of Republic TV remain unchanged.” He declined to disclose the identities of people who had shared these messages. Bharambe said the forensic report is a strong piece of evidence and the police will be adding it in the supplementary chargesheet. Police have already submitted a chargesheet in the case. Police said their investigations have revealed that the arrested persons connived to manipulate the sampling metering services by inducing barometer users by paying them periodically to watch particular channels. Many people in whose homes barometers were installed have acknowledged benefiting monetarily for keeping their TV sets on. The ex-CEO of BARC, arrested on Thursday, was produced before Esplanade Court on Friday and remanded in police custody till December 28. He is the 15th person held in the case. In a statement, Republic TV described the police’s Friday revelations as a “ridiculous and bizarre witchhunt”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/barc-officials-were-asked-to-quit-or-face-action-police/articleshow/79961535.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 26, 2020||Noida||Pleas unheard, Shahberi buyers write to CJI, Allahabad HC||GREATER NOIDA: Homebuyers in Shahberi — an area deemed unfit for people to live in — are a helpless lot. With no aid visible from any quarters, they have finally decided to knock on the judiciary's doors. Last week, a group of buyers forwarded a representation to the chief justices of Supreme Court and Allahabad high court over an email and via post. Over the years, nearly 500 buildings with G+3 floors have been constructed illegally in Shahberi. The fate of 7,000 buyers who purchased properties in them remains uncertain. They have requested the authorities and the judiciary to provide alternative accommodations for them. The homebuyers claim to have already written dozens of times to the chief executive officer of Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) and the commissioner and district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, but the petitions have fallen on deaf ears. “We have been paying EMIs to banks and housing finance companies after taking loans. We have also been forced to stay on rent. It is a double whammy. For the past two years, I have been pursuing legal remedies. I have written to the authorities to take action against the erring developers. I do not have much savings left now,” said Sachin Raghav, a buyer who has been at the forefront of the fight and have been threatened by the developers. A private firm employee, Raghav had bought a flat for Rs 22.15 lakh in October 2016 after getting a home loan from Indian Overseas Bank. The total amount at stake in the Shahberi property market is estimated to be around Rs 1,400 crore. The buyers have pleaded before judicial officials to give directions to GNIDA or the district administration to provide new accommodation within 8km from Shahberi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/pleas-unheard-shahberi-buyers-write-to-cji-hc/articleshow/79960459.cms||Shalabh
December 26, 2020||Ghaziabad||Permission to be obtained for all New Year programmes||Ghaziabad: The district administration on Friday issued strict instructions for the New Year’s programmes. It said that any programme to be celebrated on the occasion of New Year will be organised only after giving prior notice to the district administration. The name, address, mobile number of the organiser will have to be listed at the time of taking permission and the estimated number of people attending the event will also be obtained from them. During the programme, the organiser will be solely responsible for compliance of the Covid protocol and guidelines. In case any event is being held in a closed space, permission will be given to accommodate only 50% of the hall or room’s rated capacity but up to a maximum of 100 persons at a time. For open space, the number of people permitted will be up to 40% of the area of any such place. The use of face masks, social distancing, thermal scanning, sanitizer and handwash are mandatory. Proper police patrolling around the programme sites will be effectively ensured by the police. Continuous monitoring will also be done at public places and programme sites through drone cameras as necessary. Action will also be taken to impose the required penalty on persons who do not apply masks at the venue, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said. Strict monitoring of social media will also be done at the district level to prevent misleading news and rumours from spreading. Moreover, adequate police arrangements will be in the vicinity of liquor shops and bars. The DM said, “Residents are expected to gather in large numbers in collective events to celebrate the New Year, which will likely spread the Covid infection. However, we are appealing to people that they should celebrate the New Year festival in their own homes as much as possible rather than celebrating it in public places.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/permission-to-be-obtained-for-all-new-year-programmes/articleshow/79960467.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||176 kg man with hypertension, asthma beats Covid after 55 days’ stay in ICU||MUMBAI: When financial analyst Jatin Sanghavi (46) got discharged from hospital on Christmas Day on Friday, he had defied most of the Covid-related theories gathered over the past nine months. Global statistics show that patients with co-morbidities such as obesity, hypertension, asthma and sleep apnoea do not do well with Covid-19; the death rate among such patients is high. Sanghavi, a resident of Sion with all the above-mentioned risk factors, walked out of Bhatia Hospital, Tardeo, with a smile. He was also happy that his weight had dropped by 20 kg from the 176 kg earlier. It was not easy. He was in the ICU for 55 days since admission to Bhatia Hospital on October 15. “If I had stayed a bit longer, I would have completed a platinum jubilee of sorts in the hospital,” he said. Humour and interactions with the staff kept him sane. “In these two months, I have seen many people who looked more stable than I did, pass away,” he said. For his sanity, he would frequently video-chat with his family and he struck a friendship with many of the ICU staff. Medically, Sanghavi was not easy to treat, said Dr Manish Mavani and Dr Sujeet Rajan. “When he was brought in, his oxygen saturation was 60 or so, and due to his frame we couldn’t put him through a CT scan to find out the extent of infection in his lungs,” Dr Mavani said. He needed non-invasive ventilator support for 50 days. He could not be turned in the bed easily, so the team was worried about bed sores. “He was given remdesivir for 10 days as well as plasma transfusion,” Dr Mavani said. Pulmonologist Dr Sujeet Rajan said that given Sanghavi's history with asthma and sleep apnea, “we were not sure we could salvage him”. He started him on special anti-fibrotic medicines to reduce the damage to the lungs. “His mental strength helped him immensely,” Dr Rajan said. Sanghavi will need medications and physiotherapy to get over the Covid effects on his body. “We have found that patients with co-morbidities take longer to heal. Even the post-Covid effect lingers on,” intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit, also a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/176-kg-man-with-hypertension-asthma-beats-covid-after-55-days-stay-in-icu/articleshow/79961584.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Enough to eat, but few toilets||SINGHU BORDER (SONIPAT): The protesting farmers, who braved water cannon and teargas shells to get here and stood like a rock for a full month of siege, now face a camp overrun by waste and human refuse. The reason—not enough toilets. The shop toilets opened to them with welcoming signs are inadequate for a 10-kilometre-long file of users. Installed 500 metres apart, even the NGOs’ mobile toilets don’t suffice. If these were 150 metres apart, some of the problem could be solved. To ward off infection, they self-clean with mineral water. The proof is in the defecation sites littered with empty plastic bottles. Open defecation is rife. The site’s only petrol pump, which doubles as night shelter, has long queues outside its toilets. Useful otherwise, the site’s medical camps have run out of sanitary pads. Bathinda farm unionist Ramandeep Singh Maan said: “For the farmers, these are usual hardships, yet we have deployed more volunteers to keep the campsite clean.” The winter’s no problem though. For surviving it, they have body warmers, shoes, warm socks, blanket, mattresses, and even thick jackets, which the seniors get first. They even have enough dry rations to last six months. The grain is stored around the protest site, in buildings and hotels under round-the-clock watch. The supply from Punjab and Haryana keeps coming. The farmers who stay the longest also get to go home in between. The rotation policy continues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/enough-to-eat-but-few-toilets-later/articleshow/79960471.cms||Ajay Sura
December 26, 2020||World||Saudi Arabia crown prince receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has received his first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, as part of a national COVID-19 vaccination plan being implemented by the ministry of health, state news agency SPA reported on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/saudi-arabia-crown-prince-receives-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/79961449.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||More coronavirus strains may emerge, SOPs will keep changing: Experts||BENGALURU: Experts have backed the new requirements of screening all international passengers at airports and placing contacts of positive flyers from the UK in institutional quarantine, saying the discovery of a coronavirus variant in Europe calls for such steps. They say that more strains may emerge in the coming weeks and health safety protocols will change accordingly. The new variant spreads faster than other known strains, and it is being blamed for a spike in cases in the UK. Some people who travelled from that country to Karnataka recently have tested positive, but the strain has not been identified yet. The National Institute of Virology in Pune is expected to shed light on these cases in a week. “It’s better to be careful as the new strain is highly infectious. Only the genetic sequencing of samples of UK returnees who test positive can give us more details,” said Dr V Ravi, a member of the state technical advisory committee on Covid-19. He believes the situation is dynamic and more strains may be seen. “The changing situation will demand stricter guidelines and revised SOPs,” he said. In a recent study, Nimhans said that seven lineages of SARS-CoV-2, the formal name of coronavirus, were found in Karnataka between March and May. Nimhans has received swab samples of two positive UK returnees and the genomic sequencing of their samples has begun. Another member of the technical advisory committee said that regardless of the strain and the fact that Covid-19 cases had decreased, the state should take all steps to prevent a second wave of infections. “It’s important to follow guidelines and identity and isolate symptomatic people,” the member said. Dr CN Manjunath, the nodal officer for Covid-19 testing in the state taskforce, also said that the situation was dynamic. “It’s possible that SOPs will change as and when new strains of the virus are found in a specific geographical area. But it is believed that the coronaviruses don’t mutate as frequently as influenza viruses do,” he said. Recently, the World Health Organization said that the variant detected in the UK might also be present in other places. A few countries in Europe have reported such cases. Some doctors suspect that such infections may have also occurred in Karnataka. “The new variant was seen in the UK in September. Several people have travelled from the UK and other European countries to Karnataka since then. Genetic sequencing of swab samples of Covid-19 patients with or without UK travel history will help us get a clearer picture,” Dr Manjunath said. Another expert working with the state government said that the now-cancelled night curfew was planned much before the new variant sparked global concerns. “The purpose was to prevent crowding during year-end celebrations and thereby, cutting infection risk,” the expert said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/more-coronavirus-strains-may-emerge-sops-will-keep-changing-experts/articleshow/79961603.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 130 species of migratory birds seen in Sultanpur National Park||GURUGRAM: With the onset of winter, migratory birds from various countries have started flocking to the shallow water bodies in Gurugram, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari and nearby areas. Bird watchers said that around 130 bird species have already arrived here, while some like Crake, Dunlin, Jack Snipe and Whimbrel Terek Sandpiper have been spotted here after several years. Thousands of migratory birds have already reached Sultanpur National Park, Najafgarh Lake, Basai wetland, Bhindawas Bird Sanctuary (Jhajjar), Dighal, and Basai. While the Haryana forest department is still waiting for guidelines to reopen the bird sanctuaries, bird watchers from Delhi-NCR have started reaching the spots. In fact, birders have also spotted European Roller, Rosy Starling, Western Crowned Warbler and White-eyed Buzzards. Usually, these birds arrive during the winter migration season from around 29 countries between October and December and leave by March. Around 25,000 migratory birds of 132 species have reached Sultanpur National Park, while around 6,000 migratory birds have been spotted so far at Najafgarh drain and lake this winter. Bird watcher Abhishek Sharma said that Northern Shoveler, Northern Pintail, Common Teal, Ferruginous Duck are reported to be more than 200 and Eurasian Coot have also reached in large numbers at the water body. Eurasian Wigeon, Tufted Duck, Common Pochard, Gadwal, White-tailed Lapwing have also arrived in smaller numbers at the Sultanpur National Park. Birders are looking forward to seeing the Bar-headed Geese and other migratory birds from Siberia. Sunder Sambharya, divisional forest officer of Rewari, said, “Over one lakh migratory birds have so far arrived at various places in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari and Gurgaon districts. The Pacific Golden Plover, which migrates from Alaska and other parts of America, has been spotted after a long time in Masani village.” He added that Godwit, four species each of Sandpiper and plover, 15 species of raptors, wagtails and pipits, seven species of ducks, avocet, cracks, locally migrated cormorants, darters, flamingo etc have been spotted so far. Every year, bird sanctuaries witness more than 300 species of winter migratory and domestic birds. While there are some species of resident birds, many others come from Siberia, Europe, Central Asia, and Afghanistan. Some migratory birds also use Sultanpur as a stopover before heading further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/130-species-of-migratory-birds-seen-in-sultanpur-national-park/articleshow/79960783.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
December 26, 2020||Hubballi||Mask & sanitiser sales fall in Hubballi||HUBBALLI: Medical stores are witnessing a steep drop in the sales of masks and hand sanitisers. Some say that the demand has shrunk by nearly 80 per cent. Store owners in Hubballi are wringing their hands as they have maintained huge stocks of the products after anticipating strong demand throughout the pandemic. A Pankaj, who owns a medical store in Gokul Road area, said that many people had become lax about Covid-19 precautions, avoiding wearing masks and sanitising their hands frequently, and this had resulted in poor sales. “People have almost stopped buying sanitisers,” he said. Another store owner, Sridhar, said that in the initial months of the pandemic, people scrambled to buy safety products. “They used to buy any brand. We sold a huge number of sanitiser bottles in April and May. Now, there is variety in the market, but no one is buying it,” he said. Mask sales are also down. Deputy drug controller Mallikarjun KS said the district administration was creating awareness about mask use and handwashing. “As masks are an unregulated commodity, it’s hard to tell by how much the sales have dipped. People should not lower their guard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mask-sanitiser-sales-fall-in-hubballi/articleshow/79961614.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
December 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 19 pubs, bars & liquor shops raided; eight of them found open till 3am, fined||GURUGRAM: The chief minister’s flying squad and the excise department raided 10 pubs and bars and nine liquor shops in the early hours of Friday and penalised eight of them for violating the rules and operating beyond the permissible time limit. Liquor vends, pubs and bars in the city are allowed to stay open till midnight. After paying a fee for an additional licence, they can operate till 1am. The establishments penalised on Friday were found to be open till 3am. After receiving information about liquor vends and pubs operating well past midnight, the CM’s flying squad, along with the excise department decided to conduct a midnight raid. Two teams comprising officers from the squad, assistant excise and taxation officer (AETO) Vivek Agarwal and excise inspectors Lalit and Radhshyam were formed to conduct raids. The joint teams raided several pubs and bars in sectors 29 and 53, MG Road, Cyber Hub and DLF areas, as well as nine liquor vends in DLF areas. Four pubs and four liquor vends were found flouting the license norms, and the excise department has issued challans against these outlets with a warning that their licences would be cancelled if they were found violating the norms again. “During the raid, wine shops were found selling liquor by pulling down their shutters,” said DSP (flying squad) Inderjeet Yadav adding that they will continue to conduct such raids. AETO Vivek Agarwal said two pubs in Sector 29, one in Sector 53 and one on MG Road were found open beyond the prescribed time. “All of them were penalised for violating the licence norm,” he said. Liquor shops in the city reopened on May 6 after the lockdown. Initially, they were allowed to stay open till 6.45pm, but the timings were increased gradually. The restaurants were given permission to resume their operations at 50% capacity from June 8, but they were not allowed to serve liquor. From July, hotels were allowed to serve liquor, but restrictions continued on operation of bars. They were allowed to operate from October with adherence to Covid-19 protocols. Gurugram has around 307 bars and most of them are struggling to survive due to decline in revenue. “Due to lockdown and Covid guidelines, we are facing huge losses. Government should not punish the industry, which generates a lot of employment and is one of the major sources of revenue,” said a pub owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/19-pubs-bars-liquor-shops-raided-8-of-them-found-open-till-3am-fined/articleshow/79960786.cms||Bagish Jha
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers free toll plazas for 3 days||Hisar/Rohtak/Karnal/Ambala: Responding to a call for three “toll free” days, farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws stopped toll collection across Haryana on Friday. The farmers riding their tractor-trolleys started gathering at toll plazas early in the morning and staged protests peacefully. BKU Haryana’s Ambala district vice-president Gulab Singh said, “We have freed the toll for three days and we will sit day and night on Devi Nagar toll plaza on GT Road till December 27 midnight. If a call is received to intensify the agitation, we would stage a permanent sit-in here.” In Hisar, Kisan Sabha district president Shamsher Singh Numberdar led farmers in a protest at Chaudhariwas plaza to ensure no toll collection from 6am. Kisan Sabha press secretary Sube Singh Boora said farmers will assemble at the mini secretariat in their tractor trolleys on December 27 and travel to Shahjahanpur border on Delhi-Jaipur highway on December 27. At least three to four tractor trolleys will go from every village in the district, he said. Farmers halted operation of toll plazas Makdoli and Rohad village in Rohtak district and two collection points on NH-44 at Bastara in Karnal. They also halted toll collection process at Peont plaza on the Karnal-Jind highway, at Khuian Malkana in Sirsa district and at Makrauli Kalan on Rohtak-Panipat highway. Meanwhile, at Makdoli village, locals and residents of neighbouring villages parked their tractors near the toll barrier on Panipat-Rohtak highway to stop fee collection. To keep up their spirits, sweets were distributed even as local folk song artists kept them entertained throughout the day. In Ambala, farmers freed the Devi Nagar toll plaza at NH-44 (Delhi-Jalandhar) at Shambhu border and another at Saini Majra village on Ambala-Hisar highway. They also freed a toll plaza on NH-152 (Ambala-Hisar) at Thana village in Pehowa area of Kurukshetra district, and another near Bhamboli village at NH-344 (Ambala-Roorkee) in Yamunanagar. Farm activist Mandeep, who was protesting at Bhamboli plaza, told TOI, “Our agitation will continue till the government repeals the three ‘black laws’. The Centre is suppressing the farmers as it has been over a month of protests in Delhi and their demands have not been accepted. Even if it takes six months for our demands to be accepted, we will not back down and continue to protest.” “If the government does not accept our demands, then we will free the toll plazas permanently by sitting on protest here,” he added. BOX Farmers do not need mediator: Charuni BKU (Charuni) president Gurunam Singh Charuni, who visited Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza, said the government was not ready to accept farmers’ demands despite several rounds of talks. Asked about Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s offer to become a mediator between Centre and farmers, he replied, “Farmers do not need any mediator for talks. If he (Dushyant) claims to be a big mediator, then where was he when the farmers were at the receiving end of the security forces while on their way to Delhi. Farmers have been sitting on the Delhi border for the last one month and around 30 to 35 attempt to murder cases have been registered against them. Wherever he (Dushyant) visits in the state, he will face opposition everywhere.” Compared to other states, Haryana government’s behaviour towards the farmers is the worst as as all tactics are being used to suppress this agitation, he alleged. BOX Fire out at Bastara toll plaza A fire broke out in the office of Bastara toll plaza in Karnal district on Friday morning. It took a fire tender around an hour to control the flames. The actual reason behind the fire is yet to be ascertained but police suspect a short-circuit behind it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-free-toll-plazas-for-3-days/articleshow/79960505.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers protest: Arrangements afoot for stay of more protesters||PATIALA: As a large number of farmers are expected to move towards Delhi borders on Saturday and Sunday following a call given by BKU (Ekta Ugraha) on the completion of one month of ‘Delhi Chalo’, those camping at the sites are making arrangements for temporary stay and toilets for more participants. On Thursday, a group of farmers from Mohali and Patiala had made arrangements for temporary stay for around 1,000 participants at Tikri border. Sleeping arrangement included beddings and quilts for more than 500 persons. “We arranged tents, beddings, quilts, water bottles and other things for more than 500 persons. The temporary provisions can cater to around 1,000 people,” said a farmer’s son and an economist. “In states like Bihar, where NDA has been in power for 15 years, farmers are forced to sell produce at 50% discount on MSP. If the government implements MSP across the country, farmers will get a fair price (still not as per Swaminathan report) but it will increase the rural incomes by 70-80%, which will be the ‘greatest rural stimulus package’ as nearly 60% of India’s population is agri-dependent. Consequently, it will spur rural demand and accelerate nation-wide growth and the GDP rate will exceed 10%. If the government starts buying other crops like maize, barley, bajra, oilseeds, dals and so on at MSP, farmers will automatically switch to these crops which will ensure crop diversification,” he added. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Rajpal, who is overseeing the arrangements at Tikri border, said, “Starting Friday, a number of farmers from Mohali are to reach here and a group has made arrangements for their night stay. It is a mass movement and the farmers who are already here are also making arrangements for temporary toilets near the highway.” A twitter handle Kisan Ekta March on Thursday also shared a video of farmers making toilet arrangements at Delhi borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/arrangements-afoot-for-stay-of-more-protesters/articleshow/79960531.cms||Bharat Khanna
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||7 US lawmakers write to Pompeo||Amritsar: Seven US Congressmen have written to US secretary of state Mike Pompeo, urging him to raise the issue of farmers’ protest in India with his Indian counterpart. While stating that they respect the right of the Indian government to determine its national policy, they said they also acknowledge the rights of those in India and abroad who are currently protesting peacefully against the new farm laws. India has asserted that the matter pertains to country’s internal affairs and termed the remarks by foreign leaders and politicians on protests by farmers as “ill-informed” and “unwarranted”. “We are compelled to reach out to you after seeing in the international press that protesting farmers from Punjab, who were marching peacefully to Delhi were brutally subjected to water cannon attacks, barbed wire barricades and tear gas by the security personnel,” the US lawmakers stated. They said, “Many Indian Americans are directly affected as they have family members and ancestral land in Punjab and are concerned for the well-being of their families in India.” They had also urged Pompeo to reinforce the commitment of US to the freedom of political speech abroad. The letter is signed by Donald Norcross, Brendan F Boyle, Brian Fitzpatrick, Pramila Jayapal, Mary Gay Scanlon, Debbie Dingell, and David Trone. Reacting to the letter, Sikh Coordination Committee East Coast coordinator Himmat Singh said it was due to their lobbying, alongwith American Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee and American Sikh Cucus, that the seven Congressmen had written to Pompeo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/7-us-lawmakers-write-to-pompeo/articleshow/79960550.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 26, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Land for six freight corridor ROBs set to be acquired||GREATER NOIDA: The GB Nagar district administration recently issued a notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act for constructing six railway over bridges in Dadri and Dankaur villages. The administration had to opt for the provisions of the Act as it failed to purchase land directly from the villagers of Astauli, Maycha, Rithori, Ajayabpur, Ramgarh and Bodaki villages. A total of 55 chunks spanning over 4.24 hectares are needed for construction of the bridges for Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor. Gautam Budh Nagar university will also carry out a social impact assessment (SIA) study and will be paid Rs 2.65 crore for the same. The university will also examine the impact of the freight corridors in Dadri and Bodaki villages. The project is being executed at the behest of the railway ministry and may face a delay of more than six months. Additional district magistrate (land acquisition) Balram Singh said, “Gautam Budh Nagar University has been asked to prepare the SIA study report. We have already provided them the description and plan of the entire project and the land handover process will take nine months.” The bridges have to be constructed over the level crossings at the six locations in order to ensure uninterrupted and high-speed movement of freight services on the corridor. A multimodal logistic hub as well as freight village will be developed in Dadri, where both eastern and western freight corridors will meet. While Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation was able to buy the land it needed to lay down tracks directly from the farmers, the land for over bridges has to be acquired by the administration. “The land for the bridge is located away from the tracks and has to be acquired by the administration. But the administration was not willing to match the price paid by the corporation and farmers opposed the move. Hence, acquisition will have to be done under the Act,” said a senior officer from the public works department, the agency roped in by the corporation to construct the bridges. Meanwhile, the villagers said that the corporation has offered per sqm rates between Rs 4,000 and Rs 5,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/land-for-freight-corridor-robs-to-be-acquired-under-act/articleshow/79960792.cms||Shalabh
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Don’t disrupt state’s telecom services: Amarinder to farmers||Chandigarh: Reacting to reports of disconnection of power supply to various mobile towers across the state, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday appealed to protesting farmers not to inconvenience the general public with such actions but to continue to exercise the same restraint as they had been showing over the past several months of their agitation. The appeal came in the wake of a request from the Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association (TAIPA), a registered body of telecom infrastructure providers, asking the state government to persuade the farmers not to resort to any unlawful activity in their fight for justice. Pointing out that telecom connectivity had become even more critical for people amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Capt Amarinder urged the farmers to show the same discipline and sense of responsibility which they had been exercising during their protest at the Delhi border, which has completed one month, and also earlier during their agitation in the state. Urging the farmers not to take the law in their hands by forcibly shutting down telecom connectivity or manhandling employees/technicians of telecom service providers, Amarinder said such actions were not in the interest of Punjab and its future. He said the people of Punjab had been standing with the farmers in their fight against the farm laws, and would continue to do so. He requested the farmers to reciprocate by ensuring that the battle for justice did not cause any problems for the people of the state. “Forceful disruption of telecom services due to snapping of power supply to mobile towers by farmers in several parts of the state was not only adversely affecting the studies and future prospects of students, who are dependent entirely on online education, but also hampering the daily life of people working from home due to the pandemic,” said Amarinder. Further, he said, the disruption of telecom services would also seriously affect the state’s already disturbed economy. Capt Amarinder pointed out that the prolonged economic crisis, which would be aggravated as a result of telecom service disruption in the state, would have a trigger-effect on the agriculture sector, as well as the farming community too. The effects would be detrimental to all sections, he said, adding that such actions would adversely impact his government’s efforts to attract more investment in the Telecom sector as part of its recently announced New Telecom Guidelines 2020, which was also aimed at improving telecom connectivity in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dont-disrupt-states-telecom-services-amarinder-to-farmers/articleshow/79960567.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Second police-public meet today||BENGALURU: In the second Masika Janasamparka Divas, city top cop Kamal Pant and his team will be interacting with the public at different police stations on Saturday. Pant will meet members of the public between 11am and 1pm at Tilaknagar police station in southeast division. The first Masika Janasamparka Divas, held on November 28, saw complaints and suggestion pouring in on issues like pavement encroachment, frequent traffic jams, loud noise from commercial establishments and potholed roads. As many participants raised traffic-related issues, it was decided that a Sanchar Sampark Din would be held every second Saturday of the month, at each of the 44 traffic police stations. The first Sanchar Sampark Din held on December 12 resulted in a special drive against encroached pavements in different parts of Whitefield division. However, the drive is yet to be taken up in other parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-second-police-public-meet-today/articleshow/79961654.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Amritsar||Farmers OK with PM-Kisan benefit, but against 3 laws||BATHINDA: Even as a farmer organisation initiated a digital campaign #FarmersNotOnSale against the central government for depositing money under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi direct transfer scheme at a time when the farmers’ agitation is on at full swing, many peasants who received the amount in their accounts were alright with it, but continued to oppose the government. The logic they offered was that the government had started the scheme long back and it was their right to get the money, but it would not stop them from opposing the new farm laws. Many of the farmers got the message of the Rs 2,000 transfer while staging protests but kept on raising slogans against the government and the Prime Minister. Farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan started a campaign on its social media platforms accusing the central government of trying to win over farmers by paying money from PM-Kisan while they are agitating against the agri-laws. Farmer Hakam Singh, 55, of Thikriwal village said, "We are deadly against the central government for the agri-laws. We are coming to protest against these three laws every day, but if the government has provided some financial help through a scheme, we don’t feel bad in accepting it. But I am making it clear that we are not going to support the government." Farmer Baljit Singh, 70, of Chuhanke village in Barnala said they will avail the benefit of the government scheme and raise their voices against the government for enacting the laws. Sitting at Barnala Railway Station protest, farmer Karnail Singh, 52, of Sehajara village said the farmers were against the central government which wanted to crush small farmers like him through these laws. He said if the Centre has a scheme to benefit small farmers they saw nothing wrong in getting money. Darshan Singh 51, of Thikriwal, said farmers from Punjab are fighting a do-or-die battle against the central government. “The government may be thinking of winning over farmers by paying small amounts of money, but it is badly mistaken. We will continue to protest, yet we will not leave our right on the transferred money,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-ok-with-pm-kisan-benefit-but-to-oppose-3-laws/articleshow/79960573.cms||Neel Kamal
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||Don’t let guard down as numbers drop, say doctors||MUMBAI: Even as the drop in Covid-19 cases continued in the state and city, the state government task force members said there was a need to stay vigilant against Covid-19 for another four to six weeks. The state health department update on Friday said 3,431 new cases and 71 deaths were registered in the state on a single day, and the city saw only 596 cases and 11 deaths in the same period. The total caseload in the state is 19 lakh, including 2.89 lakh in the city. The toll in the state is 49,129, including 11,056 deaths in the city since March. The state recorded below 4,000 daily additions for the ninth consecutive day, with 4,000-plus cases reported on December 16 (4,304). Of the 11 deaths in the city, nine had co-morbidities and eight were of patients more than 60 years of age. The doubling rate in the city is now 358 days and the recovery rate is 93%. “Given the threat of the UK strain, there is a possibility of a surge in cases. There is also a high possibility of transmission due to the festive and marriage seasons,” state task force member Dr Shashank Joshi, who is dean of the Indian College of Physicians, said. The period between December 23 and January 2 is crucial. “The effect of mingling in this period will be seen 15 days thereafter. So we need to be vigilant till the end of January,” Dr Joshi said. Dr Rahul Pandit, who heads the ICU in Fortis Hospital, Mulund, and is a member of the state task force, said the drop in Covid numbers would be gradual and slow. “By June or July, when we have enough people vaccinated, we will see a good control on Covid-19,” Dr Pandit said. Active cases reached 56,823 in the state on Friday. The active cases in the city were 8,218. Pune and Thane districts registered more active cases than the city, with 14,145 and 10,246 cases, respectively. Hingoli, with active 82 cases, was the only district in the state with fewer than 100 active cases. Over three days, recoveries showed a shrinking trend. On Friday, 1,427 persons recovered and were discharged from various hospitals, including 381 in the city. Last Wednesday, over 7,000 persons got discharged from various hospitals in the state. State minister for public health Rajesh Tope said that the recovery rate in the state was now 94.4%. Overall, 18.06 lakh people have recovered from the Covid-19 pandemic in the state till date, said the minister. Of the total 71 deaths in the state, 39 occurred in 48 hours and five were from the last week. The remaining 27 deaths occurred a week before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dont-let-guard-down-as-numbers-drop-say-doctors/articleshow/79961651.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Central Plaza Mall shop owners seek ad-hoc panel||GURUGRAM: Shop owners of the Central Plaza Mall, located along Golf Course Road in Sector 53, wrote to the district registrar on Friday for the reconstitution of an ad-hoc committee to manage the day-to-day affairs of the mall. They have also sought early election of the Central Plaza owners’ welfare association. In July, the district registrar had appointed an ad-hoc committee, but the shop owners had alleged that some members were involved in corrupt practices. The state registrar passed an order on September 9, allowing the district registrar to review its order and reconstitute the ad-hoc committee, however, nothing has been done so far, the shop owners said. They pointed out that in the absence of the committee, shop owners are facing a lot of problems in managing the day-to-day affairs of the mall for the last four months. They have also written to the deputy commissioner of Gurgaon and sought his intervention on the matter. Yogesh Saini, a shop owner, said: “We have received a notice for implementation of waste management rules for bulk waste generators, failing which we will be penalised. Since there is no ad-hoc committee, we are facing issues which are hampering the work. The post of district registrar was vacant for several months, but now that he has been appointed, we have requested him to resolve our problems as soon as possible.” Meanwhile, the district registrar said he has received the letter. “The matter is under consideration and will be resolved within a day or so,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/central-plaza-mall-shop-owners-seek-ad-hoc-panel/articleshow/79960708.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||Guardian minister alleges ‘syndicate in the BMC’||MUMBAI: Congress’s Aslam Shaikh, Mumbai city’s guardian minister, has alleged that a syndicate of officials who have been enjoying plum posts for several years operates in the BMC. In a letter to Chahal, Shaikh, who is an MLA from Malad, has asked that these officers be transferred. Shaikh’s letter to Chahal comes amid reports of an ongoing rift between him and Chahal over Shaikh’s alleged frequent interference in the BMC’s functioning. The minister alleged that many employees occupying the same position for years led to a syndicate that “works by twisting and bypassing rules solely for the interests of certain individuals rather than the public at large.” He requested Chahal to carry out “a timely reshuffle of postings, so that no officer holds a post above the prescribed limits,” Shaikh said in his letter dated December 23. According to government norms, officials are usually transferred every three years. Shaikh’s letter also comes at a time when there is talk of an alliance between the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress for BMC polls. While the Sena is said to be keen to have an alliance with the NCP, taking the Congress on board is unlikely, Sena leaders have said. While the Sena is the ruling party, the Congress is the opposition party in the BMC and party leaders said that it will now have to assert itself in the BMC as the principal opposition party. The Congress recently appointed trade union leader Ashok Jagtap as Mumbai Congress president. The party is believed to be not in favour of an alliance with the Sena for the Mumbai civic polls which are scheduled to be held in February 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/guardian-minister-alleges-syndicate-in-the-bmc/articleshow/79961606.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
December 26, 2020||Lucknow||Thick fog, cold wave in parts of Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Cold wave conditions prevailed at some places in Uttar Pradesh with Churk town recording the lowest minimum temperature in the state at 4.1 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said on Friday. Dense fog conditions occurred at isolated places over the western parts of the state while cold wave conditions occurred at isolated places over the eastern region in the past 24 hours, it said. In Meerut, the maximum and minimum temperatures recorded were 21 degrees Celsius and 6.4 degrees Celsius respectively. “While the maximum temperature was one degree Celsius below the normal temperature, the minimum temperature was one degree Celsius below the normal temperature,” said Brij Mohan, Met in-charge, Meerut. The MeT office said the weather is likely to remain dry with shallow to moderate fog very likely at isolated places on Saturday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/thick-fog-cold-wave-in-parts-of-uttar-pradesh/articleshow/79961671.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 12 tonnes of wet waste to be used for composting||GURUGRAM: As part of the state’s good governance day celebration, Gurugram observed zero waste day on Friday. A total of 12 tonnes of wet waste was collected which will be utilised by the horticulture department for composting. MCG employees and associations working in several fields were also awarded for their work during the Covid-19 pandemic. Only wet waste was collected from households on Friday and officials said residents also cooperated in making the zero waste day a success. Officials said the zero waste day marked the beginning of waste segregation at households by the residents. The civic body has been raising awareness for the past few days to observe zero waste day in Gurgaon. The civic body also trained the waste collectors to collect only wet waste from households. A programme to raise awareness on ‘zero waste day’ and award MCG employees and other associations was also organised at Rangbhoomi open theatre in Sector 29. Mayor Madhu Azad said the residents have shown their support for the campaign and should now start segregating their waste at households. “Wet waste can be utilised to make compost and dry waste can be recycled. The residents should keep three different bins for segregating dry, wet and hazardous waste. Residents should stop using polythene and single-use plastic and instead use cloth bags or jute bags,” said Azad. As the celebrations were a part of the good governance day, MCG employees were also awarded for their work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/12-tonnes-of-wet-waste-to-be-used-for-composting/articleshow/79960711.cms||---
December 26, 2020||India||PM Modi leads nation in paying homage to Atal on birth anniv||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, several Union ministers and a few leaders of opposition parties on Friday paid tributes to former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Madan Mohan Malviya on their birth anniversary. Modi was joined by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad and chairperson of public accounts committee Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in paying tributes inside Parliament’s Central Hall. On the occasion, the PM released a book titled ‘Atal Bihari Vajpayee in Parliament — A Commemorative Volume’ brought out by the Lok Sabha secretariat. The book highlights Vajpayee’s ideas and views on a wide range of important national and international issues. Later, AAP MP Sanjay Singh tweeted a video that showed him and his party colleague, Bhagwat Mann, raising slogans against farm laws and holding up posters in protest inside Central Hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-leads-nation-in-paying-homage-to-atal-on-birth-anniv/articleshow/79961668.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Dry run of Covid-19 vaccine in Krishna district on December 28||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh is one of the first four states identified by the Union health ministry for a dry run of Covid-19 vaccine to assess the readiness of the planned activities before the original rollout of the vaccine in the state. Health officials said the dry run will be conducted in Krishna district on December 28. The exercise would enable end-to-end mobilisation and testing of Covid-19 vaccination process (except the vaccine) and check the usage of Co-WIN IT platform in the field settings. Health and family welfare commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said the Union government asked the state to conduct the dry run in one or two districts. “We have chosen Krishna for the dry run. It would be conducted at five locations in the district on December 28. The dry run would help us understand the working mechanism of the vaccine’s web-based software,” said Bhaskar. The dry run is also expected to provide a hands-on experience to programme managers at various levels. Activities that would be covered under the initiative include data entries in Co-WIN such as vaccine receipt and allocation, deployment of team members, mock drill of session sites with test beneficiaries, reporting and evening meeting. This will also include testing for cold storage, transportation arrangements for the vaccine and management of crowd at the session sites with proper physical distancing. An important focus of the dry run will be on management of possible adverse events following immunisation. Andhra Pradesh is expected to receive one crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in the first phase. Nearly 3.7 lakh healthcare workers would be given first priority in the vaccine administration. The government has also identified 7 lakh frontline staff and 90 lakh elderly people for the first phase vaccine drive. Officials expect the vaccine to arrive in the second or third week of January 2021. The health department has been conducting regular review meetings on the arrangements for the last few weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dry-run-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-krishna-district-on-december-28/articleshow/79961700.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||Now, 1 flyer from UK who landed in Mumbai tests positive||MUMBAI: The search for the UK mutant strain of Covid-19 came closer home with one of the passengers who had travelled from the western country to the city after November 23 testing positive for the virus. Two other UK-returned passengers—one from Pune and the other from Nagpur—too have tested positive since the state government began a surveillance to check passengers who landed in Maharashtra between November 23 and December 25. Samples of these three patients will be sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for gene sequencing to check for the new highly contagious SARS-CoV-2 mutation. The new variant reportedly emerged in the UK in September and has become the dominant strain accounting for 70% of the cases since. “We now have three positive patients from 329 passengers tested using the RT-PCR test,” said Dr Pradeep Awate who heads the epidemiology cell of the state public health department. The state got 4,629 names of flyers and has traced 831so far. In another development, the BMC will test 187 passengers who arrived from the UK on December 21 as they would have completed five days in institutional quarantine on Saturday. “We will begin their testing on Saturday. Some of these passengers are from outside Mumbai but from MMR. The BMC will test them too. If their RT-PCR results are negative, they will be allowed to go home,” said BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. “Similarly, passengers from Europe, Middle East and South Africa will be tested as soon as they complete five days in quarantine. This will be done in a phased manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-1-flyer-from-uk-who-landed-in-mumbai-tests-positive/articleshow/79961704.cms||Malathy Iyer
December 26, 2020||Amaravati||Covid-19 in AP: Contact tracing of UK returnees begins||AMARAVATI: Amidst the new coronavirus strain scare, the AP government has launched contract tracing of all people who visited or have returned to the state from the UK in the last one month. It has been found that 1,148 passengers from the UK visited the state in the last one month, out of which 1,040 people have been traced. Health officials could not trace 16 UK returnees as the addresses they provided were found to be invalid. Two passengers are from other states. Efforts are on to trace the 88 remaining returnees. Health minister Alla Nani said as many as 982 of the total UK returnees have been directed to stay in home quarantine. Fresh samples of four persons, who tested positive for Covid-19 after their return, have been sent to NIV (Pune) and CCMB (Hyderabad) for further investigation to check if they tested positive for the new variant from the UK. It will take at least three days to get the results from NIV, Pune. “The state government is fully alert and ready to tackle the situation. District collectors have been directed to find out the whereabouts of the 88 UK returnees who were yet to be traced,” said Nani, while adding that there was nothing to panic about the situation. Meanwhile, the government has appealed to all foreign returnees to undergo fresh RT-PCR tests as a precautionary measure. The district collectors have been directed to keep a close tab on foreign returnees, particularly those arriving from the UK. Senior police officials have been asked to secure details of such returnees from different airports in the country and share the details with the district administration. A high alert has also been sounded in the districts with regard to tracking the foreign returnees. Medical and health department officials have started the search based on the data provided by the police. All foreign returnees have been directed to confine themselves to home quarantine till further instructions. Sources said a decision would be taken about shifting them to institutional quarantine after getting their RT-PCR test results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/covid-19-in-ap-contact-tracing-of-uk-returnees-begins/articleshow/79961740.cms||Samdani MN
December 26, 2020||India||Arunachal’s 6 of 7 JD(U) MLAs join BJP, Nitish plays it down||ITANAGAR/PATNA: Just over a month after being reduced to BJP’s junior partner in Bihar, Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) has lost six of its seven MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh to its NDA ally. Three of the defecting MLAs had been under suspension for anti-party activities since late November. The group of six had elected one among them, Talem Taboh, as their new legislature party leader allegedly without the knowledge of the JD(U) brass. Bihar CM Nitish, who is JD (U)’s national president, sought to downplay the split, saying in Patna that it would have no bearing on his party’s relationship with BJP since their alliance was “confined to Bihar”. “They (the defectors) have gone their own way,” he said. JD(U) general secretary K C Tyagi was far more candid. “Was it necessary?” he said of the six dissident MLAs’ decision and BJP’s acceptance of them. “What has happened is against the spirit of coalition politics,”. An assembly bulletin issued in Itanagar said the defecting MLAs filed papers, as required under Rule 4 of the Members of Arunachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly (Disqualification on Grounds of Defection) Rules, 1987, before crossing over to BJP. The lone People's Party of Arunachal legislator, too, joined the saffron party. "We have accepted the letters conveying their intention to join the party," BJP's Arunachal Pradesh chief B R Waghe said. BJP now has 48 MLAs in the 60-member House, while JD(U) has been left with one. Congress and the National People's Party have four members each and three are Independents. Though JD(U) has an alliance with BJP in Bihar, the relationship between the two parties is unclear in Arunachal. Both sides have fielded candidates against each other in multiple segments and wards for the panchayat and municipal elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arunachals-6-of-7-jdu-mlas-join-bjp-nitish-plays-it-down/articleshow/79961701.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Fire breaks out at mask manufacturing unit in Delhi's Mayapuri; one dead||NEW DELHI: A 45-year-old man died in a fire at a mask manufacturing factory in west Delhi's Mayapuri area early Saturday morning, a Delhi Fire Service (DFS) official said. A call about the fire was received around 3.50am, and six fire tenders were rushed to the spot, he said. DFS director Atul Garg said fire officials broke down the door of the factory and rescued three people, one of whom was unconscious. The man was taken to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, where he was declared brought dead, he said, adding that he was identified as Jugal Kishor. The fire broke out on the third floor of the factory where machines and raw materials are kept, Garg said. The two people rescued were identified as Aman Ansari (18) and Feroj Ansari (24), officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/one-dead-2-rescued-after-fire-breaks-out-at-mask-manufacturing-unit-in-delhi/articleshow/79961857.cms||---
December 26, 2020||World||Boston doctor has severe allergic reaction to Moderna Covid vaccine||A doctor in Boston with a shellfish allergy developed a severe allergic reaction after receiving Moderna’s coronavirus vaccine on Thursday, the New York Times reported on Friday, citing the doctor. Dr. Hossein Sadrzadeh, a geriatric oncology fellow at Boston Medical Center, said he had a severe reaction almost immediately after being vaccinated, feeling dizzy and with a racing heart, the NYT reported. It is the first severe reaction publicly linked to Moderna’s vaccine, which is in its first week of a nationwide rollout. David Kibbe, a spokesman at the Boston Medical Center, said in a statement on Friday that Dr. Sadrzadeh "felt he was developing an allergic reaction and was allowed to self-administer his personal epi-pen. He was taken to the Emergency Department, evaluated, treated, observed and discharged. He is doing well today." A U.S. Food and Drug Administration official said last week that the FDA is investigating around five allergic reactions that occurred after people were administered Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE's Covid-19 vaccine in the United States.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/boston-doctor-has-severe-allergic-reaction-to-moderna-covid-vaccine/articleshow/79961734.cms||---
December 26, 2020||World||Covid-19: France confirms first case of new virus variant||PARIS: French health authorities have confirmed the country's first case of the virus variant that prompted strict new lockdown measures in Britain and global travel restrictions. A French man living in England arrived in France on Dec. 19 and tested positive for the new variant Friday, the French public health agency said in a statement. He had no symptoms and was isolating in his home in the central city of Tours. Authorities were tracing the person's contacts and laboratories were analyzing tests from several other people who may have the new variant, the statement said. Some other European countries have also reported cases of the new variant, which British authorities said appears more contagious and was spreading fast. The British announcement Dec. 19 prompted countries around the world to suspend flights from the UK, and France banned all passengers and cargo from Britain for two days, causing massive traffic problems around the British port of Dover. France reopened the border but now requires anyone entering from Britain to have a test showing they do not have the new variant. A second partial lockdown sharply curbed France's infections, but they have been again on the rise over the past two weeks. France has among the world's highest virus death tolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/covid-19-france-confirms-first-case-of-new-virus-variant/articleshow/79961981.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||Gas cylinder explosion in Lalbaug: Death toll rises to 9||MUMBAI: The death toll in the cylinder blast-fire incident that occurred in Lalbaug area earlier this month rose to nine after a 50-year-old man succumbed to his injuries on Friday. According to officials, Bipin, who was injured in the incident that took place on December 6 in Sarabai building in Ganesh Galli locality, died at Byculla’s Masina Hospital in the evening. The cylinder exploded during a fire at the four-storey building, which has many small rooms. There was marriage in the family when the fire broke out in the kitchen. “Ten people injured in the incident were being treated at KEM and six were admitted to Masina Hospital. Three persons have been discharged after recovery from KEM,” an official said. “In all, 16 people were injured in the incident,” he added. Of the 16 injured in the incident, seven died at the civic-run KEM Hospital and three were discharged. While two burns victims died at Masina Hospital, one is still critical and under observation, and the condition of three others is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gas-cylinder-explosion-in-lalbaug-death-toll-rises-to-9/articleshow/79961783.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Madhya Pradesh woman raped by Insta friend||AHMEDABAD: A 22-year-old woman from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday filed a complaint of rape against a man, who was her Instagram friend but she did not even know his name, alleging that he had raped her multiple times in different guesthouses in Raipur and Khadia between August and October last year. The woman had first filed her complaint with Ujjain police, which was transferred to Khadia police in Ahmedabad. In her FIR, she states that the accused, who has profile name “Ziddi Ladka” had sent her a friend request in June 2019 after which she befriended him and they began chatting on Instagram. In August, the man, aged around 20, had sent her a picture showing his hand having multiple cut wounds telling her to come and meet him in Ahmedabad and threatened to commit suicide if she didn’t come. Scared by this, the woman had come to Khadia to meet him. The man had taken her to a hotel in the Raipur area where he raped her multiple times in two days. She states in her complaint that he had promised to marry her then. She had then returned to Ujjain and the man had again demanded she come and meet him. The woman had again came to the city in October and the man again raped her in a guesthouse. She said that she returned to Ujjain then and the man was in touch with her till October this year. Later, he went incommunicado. After waiting for a month, the woman first approached Ujjain police with her complaint which was transferred to Khadia police in city. Khadia police registered a case of rape and began an investigation. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/madhya-pradesh-woman-raped-by-insta-friend/articleshow/79962027.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: VC invites graduates to join his office as paid interns||MUMBAI: Much on the lines of fellows appointed by heads of states, the vice-chancellor (VC) of Mumbai University (MU) has decided to float a scheme to offer year-long internships in his office. MU will have three graduates who will work with him and assist him in running his office. The proposal was raised in the management council and after much discussion it was approved. The rationale behind appointing fellows was that ‘involving the youth could allow the university to take a fresh look at everyday functioning, and also inject new ideas that could better the university-student relation’. In other cases, retired people could also be brought back and the university could gain experience from them. “Just the way ministers are appointing officers on special duty, the VC’s office wants to have some kind of external consultants. While there was some opposition in the management council, it was later approved. We are not sure who would be interested in such work, as also, what role such candidates would play in the VC’s office,” said a management committee member, who likened the idea to one by former CM and now leader of the opposition in the state assembly Devendra Fadnavis, who had initiated the idea of CM’s fellows. The university’s job application details read that candidates may be from the field of information technology, legal, finance and/or management or engineering with fluency in English. Also, graduates of MU and those from affiliated colleges would be preferred. The appointment of ‘VC Fellows’ will be on a temporary basis for 11 months and it could be extend (if required) by another 11 months. Each VC fellow would be entitled to an honorarium up to Rs 30,000 a month. “The university has a lot of work in which we can involve VC fellows, including drafting, social media work, tech-based work. We feel the fellows will bring in new thoughts to many old processes,” said an MU officer. The VC fellows will work under the supervision and control of the pro-VC. Applications are being accepted till January 6. Apart from academic details, information is sought on industrial experience, if any, as also patents filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vc-invites-graduates-to-join-his-office-as-paid-interns/articleshow/79961770.cms||Hemali Chhapia
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Oil canisters double up as urinals at Singhu border||NEW DELHI: At Singhu border, there is no dearth of food for protesters, wood to keep them warm and tents to protect them from chilling weather. But the farmers’ protest site is facing a hygiene issue as there are not enough mobile toilets. The ongoing protest against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws entered its 31st day on Friday. To assist the protesters who have come from different states, a group of people have come together to create and set up toilets and urinals made with recycled materials. Their organisation—Basic Shit.org—has been making urinals from recycled oil canisters. “These canisters were discarded by the farmers after using the oil for cooking. We have hired a person from the nearby area who is helping us set up the urinals by stacking the canisters and tying them together. It is a fairly simple process,” said the organisation founder, Ashwani Agrawal. He said that they were paying workers who were helping them dig holes on the side of the road where the urinals were placed. “We add a creeper plant or the reeds from the roadside on the urinals and use stubble, which the farmers have brought with them, as we want to avoid water. The stubble eventually soaks the urine and since there are plants, the urine acts as a fertiliser. To remove the odour, we use charcoal.” The group has also started to set up toilets for women. “These are made with single-use plastic and are dry toilets. We use discarded bottles for the walls of the toilet cubicle and recycled silver foil for the toilet seat. Instead of water to flush, we have provided stubble. The pipe from the commode goes down to ten feet and the stubble soaks all up,” said Dev Gakhar, the design head of the project. One of the organisers, Sahaj Umang Singh, stated that the toilet cubicle was strictly for women and the door remained usually shut. “We have given extra keys to some of the women groups. And have also given the phone numbers that the women can call on if they want the cubicle to be opened.” Agrawal said that “the group wants to build several such toilets for women and over a hundred urinals as part of their effort to promote hygiene at the protest site.” “So far, we have collected over one lakh rupees from donations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/oil-canisters-double-up-as-urinals-at-singhu-border/articleshow/79962066.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 26, 2020||Delhi||Chain reaction: This farmer is in shackles to break another||NEW DELHI: For the last 18 days, Kabal Singh has been shackling his legs, hands and neck for the last every morning at 7am for 12 hours. However, Singh is not imprisoned, he is a 42-year-old farmer from Punjab who says that that farmers have become slaves in independent India due to the three new central farm laws and he will free himself from the chains only when the laws are withdrawn. A chained Singh dressed as a prisoner was part of a march at Singhu border on Friday along with other farmers, raising slogans against the “black” laws. A native of Abohar in Fazilka district of Punjab, Singh was accompanied by his mother when he left home. “My 86-year-old mother, Balbeer Kaur, broke her hip after she slipped near the tractor-trolley on our way to Singhu border around 20 days ago,” said the farmer. “I had to send my mother back home with a cousin for treatment, but stayed back as I wanted to fight for our rights.” Singh said his family in Punjab had to take a loan of Rs 1 lakh with interest for Kaur’s surgery. “Though my mother has recovered following the operation, I now have a huge loan to pay back. Like me, there are many farmers who earn little, struggle hard and have loans. However, the new laws will only add to our miseries and we have become slaves in our independent country due to involvement of corporates in the agriculture sector,” he said. “I have chained myself to awake the government from their sleep and attract their attention to our plight The farmer said due to chains, he faces difficulty in walking, eating and doing other chores, he is continuing his protest so that future generations of farmers do not have to suffer. “We would become free from shackles when the government will scrap new farm laws. I will end my protest and free myself when our demands are met,” said he.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chain-reaction-this-farmer-is-in-shackles-to-break-another/articleshow/79962119.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 26, 2020||Bengaluru||When online shopping became a vital service||The pandemic has changed the retail market--both online and offline--with consumers having no choice but to order many of their needs online sitting in their homes as India went into lockdown in March. After the initial flip-flop by the government on what can be sold online in lockdown, it finally allowed all goods to be sold through e-commerce platforms around May and since then online platforms have witnessed one of the sharpest recoveries in sales as consumers ordered everything from their grocery to electronics online. While pre-Covid-19 sales volumes were matched by June, e-commerce companies continue to see steady demand from consumers. Industry executives, analysts said at least parts of changes brought by the pandemic will be permanent and online commerce will go further mainstream while offline retail takes longer to recover. The slower recovery in the offline market also led to small retail shops and kiranas to adopt to digital commerce and they joined online platforms to reach consumers. Market research firm Forrester expects consumers to spend more online once economic conditions improve in 2021. It has estimated the market to grow at a rate of over 25% in 2021 to around $42 billion, much higher than 7% growth in 2020. Etailers lost several weeks of sales when the government allowed only essentials to be sold online, and they used to be typically 10% of online commerce sales. BONANZA FOR AMAZONAmazon India said the unprecedented situation of the pandemic brought about a rapid adoption and acceptance of e-commerce as an essential service. “One thing we’ve learned this year is how important a role Amazon and e-commerce can play with enabling policies – for our customers as much as for small businesses and the economy. Throughout the year, we remain focused on enabling small businesses to benefit from the widest reach made possible by e-commerce as they adapted to the unprecedented situation. For customers, we continued to put together and safely deliver the best of products from our widest selection by top brands across categories to address their needs,” a spokesperson of the company said. Amazon India is expecting businesses to seamlessly implement an omni-channel – which means the adoption of Amazon’s infrastructure. A senior executives of a top apparel brand agrees. “We used to typically see around 10-15% of total sales from online platforms. This has shot up to around 30-40%. It will come down a bit by the end of next year but it should stay at over 25% at least. E-commerce companies are exploring more delivery options where existing stores can be leveraged,” this executive said. NEW MODELSSatish Meena, senior forecast analyst at Forrester, said the online retail market in India will also see new models like social commerce scaling up, albeit at a slower but steady pace. A report this month from Bain & Co and Sequoia Capital said social commerce could be $20 billion in size in the next five years compared to around $2 billion currently. “Given the similarities between online behaviour in China and India, India also looks ripe for the emergence of new e-commerce channels. As in China, we expect Indian online retailers and investors to put their money on the livestreaming and reselling model of social commerce in 2021,” said Meena. At a recent event, Amazon India head Amit Agarwal had said Indian e-commerce is still early in its evolution with barely 3% of total retail consumption but it is already ushering in faster digitisation across the consumption value chain, and enabling expanded access and opportunities for customers and businesses across the country. “India must grab this rare opportunity with both hands, by focusing on enabling policies that accelerate this shift. It is important that we ensure a stable and predictable policy framework that attracts long-term investment, and proactively remove paper-cuts impacting ease of doing business online,” he said. TROUBLE IN TRADITIONTraditional retail, which is still limping on its way to recovery, will take longer to get close to pre-Covid-19 level sales anytime soon. Retailers Association of India (RAI), an association of brick-and-mortar retailers, said the festive season provided the much-required tailwind to the Indian retail industry which is now witnessing a steady month-on-month improvement. “Retailers are hopeful of achieving about 85% of pre-pandemic levels of business in the first six months of the year 2021. Although globally, Covid-19 vaccinations have started, the pandemic situation may take some more time to completely settle. Retailers should thus move ahead with cautious optimism in 2021,” a spokesperson of RAI said. 2021 is also expected to see entry of large Indian conglomerates to enter the e-commerce market while relatively newer entrants like Reliance will scale up operations aggressively. “With the entry of Reliance, online grocery will become more competitive in the 2021, where consumer behavior will shift to the online realm. Amazon and Flipkart struggled to fulfill grocery orders during the lockdown and will have to reevaluate their business models and logistics. Micro delivery companies are looking for consolidation, and Grofers and BigBasket, (two pure-play online grocery companies) will also be targets of acquisition,” a note from Forrester added. TOI has reported Tata group is looking to acquire majority stakes in Bigbasket and e-pharmacy platform 1MG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/when-online-shopping-became-a-vital-service/articleshow/79962150.cms||---
December 26, 2020||World||Major blast hits Nashville after chilling bomb warning||WASHINGTON: A huge blast tore through a section of downtown Nashville early Friday, after police responding to reports of gunfire discovered a parked motorhome reportedly blaring a warning it carried a bomb. The blast shattered windows and ripped apart trees but appeared calculated to spare lives, injuring just three people as it detonated at 6:30am (1230 GMT) in a section of the southern US city that was largely deserted due the early hour and the Christmas Day holiday. The blast left as many as 20 buildings, including storefronts, badly damaged and the road surface charred -- scattering glass, tree branches and bricks in an area filled with businesses, restaurants and bars. In a dramatic sequence of events that shattered the Christmas morning calm, police responded to calls that gunshots had been fired and noticed the vehicle as they arrived on the scene. A recorded message playing from the motorhome warned that a bomb would detonate within 15 minutes -- enough time for a bomb squad to clear the area before the explosion, police chief John Drake and spokesman Don Aaron told reporters. Witnesses told the Tennessean newspaper the warning, spoken in a woman's voice, counted down to the blast. "Evacuate now. There is a bomb. A bomb is in this vehicle and will explode," one recalled the chilling recording saying. Pictures shared on social media from the immediate aftermath showed thick plumes of black smoke rising from the burning RV and storefronts that had been torn apart. The blast happened near an AT&T facility, and the telecommunications company told journalists: "Service for some customers in Nashville and the surrounding areas may be affected by damage to our facilities from the explosion this morning." The Tennessean reported that officers were conducting door-to-door checks. A dog walker had been heading towards the vehicle just before the blast, the paper said, but police sent him back in the other direction, potentially saving him from serious injury or death. The blast knocked an officer to the ground, the paper said, and gave another officer hearing loss. President Donald Trump was briefed on the incident, which is being investigated by the FBI and the US Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Agents offered no possible motive immediately and made no link to any domestic terrorism plot. Neither was it immediately clear if anyone was in the RV when it exploded. "This appears to have been an intentional act. Law enforcement is closing downtown streets as investigation continues," the Metro Nashville Police Department tweeted. Firefighters said at least three people were taken to the hospital with minor injuries, according to local media. The blast was large enough to be felt several kilometers away. The damage was "limited but it is dramatic," Nashville mayor John Cooper said, adding that the city was "lucky" the blast had occurred on Christmas when few people were downtown. "It's unfortunate but any other morning I think it would have been a much worse story." Police said several people had been moved to a local station for questioning, although no arrests or details of suspects were announced. US Senator Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee led messages of concern from multiple public figures, saying she was "praying for all those involved" and thanking the "brave first responders for keeping us safe."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/major-blast-hits-nashville-after-chilling-bomb-warning/articleshow/79962159.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Tigress gives birth to five cubs at Aurangabad Zoo||AURANGABA: Tiger pair 'Samrudhi and Siddharth' at the Siddharth Garden and Zoo of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) gave birth to five cubs early on Friday morning. According to the press release from the director of AMC Zoo, it is confirmed that the yellow tiger pair gave birth to five cubs between 5am to 6am on Friday. The statement further stated that Samrudhi is presently feeding milk to the newborn cubs and their condition is stable. To protect them from the present cold wave, authorities have provided a heater. To watch movement, CCTV camera has been installed and a caretaker has been kept round the clock for taking care of the cubs. Except for him nobody is allowed there, the statement said. It may noted that the pair had given birth to three cubs including one male and two female on November 16, 2016 and again four cubs including one male and three female on April 26, 2019, the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/five-tiger-cubs-born-at-aurangabad-zoo/articleshow/79962148.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana man believes Geeta is his daughter; no, she says||An elderly man from Telangana approached Pakistan-returned Geeta on Friday in the hope that she is his long lost daughter. She said she didn’t recognize him, but the man appealed to the government to conduct a DNA test. Geeta, who can neither hear nor speak, had somehow ended up in Pakistan, where an NGO rescued her sometime in 2000-01. After spending nearly 15 years in Pakistan, she was repatriated to India and was put up at a shelter home until her parents could be found. The search continues. “Geeta had earlier told us that there were farms of sugarcane and wheat around her house, and there is a maternity hospital, railway station, a temple and a waterbody in the vicinity. We had identified some places on the Maharashtra-Telangana border and taken Geeta there,” Geeta’s caretaker and signlanguage expert Gyanendra Purohit said. During that visit, an elderly person, Bolli Swami of Peddapalli district of Telangana, came to know about Geeta and on seeing her picture, approached Purohit for a meeting with the deaf-mute girl. It came about on Friday. The elderly couple and Geeta met at the DIG office in Indore. “Geeta didn’t recognize the claimant as her father. Besides, she had said she has five siblings while Swami has three children, including his lost daughter,” said Purohit. Two more couples from Telangana have approached Purohit. “We plan to visit some other places in Telangana and Maharashtra in a week and during this, we will meet both claimants,” he said. Swami’s cousin Shyam, who had accompanied him, said: “My brother has recognized Geeta as his lost daughter, Bolli Sarita, who went missing after a fire broke out in the house. She ran away as she was afraid of being blamed for the fire. He is confident that Geeta is his daughter and has requested a DNA test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-man-believes-geeta-is-his-daughter-no-she-says/articleshow/79962186.cms||---
December 26, 2020||World||Breakfast, freezers, Lego: On the vaccine trail in Germany||BERLIN: It was over breakfast on the wintry morning of January 24 that Ozlem Tureci and her husband Ugur Sahin decided, "we need to fire the starting gun on this". Sahin "had concluded from a publication describing coronavirus cases in Wuhan... that there was a high probability that a pandemic could be imminent", Tureci recounted. The decision by the couple, founders of a small German company called BioNTech, gave birth to Operation Lightspeed -- in which the scientists in the company diverted all their resources from cancer therapy research to finding a vaccine to stop Covid-19. "Since that day... there has not been a day when we took a break from working on this project," said Tureci. Four days later, on January 28, Germany confirmed its first case of coronavirus infection -- also the first known human-to-human transmission on European soil. What was an epidemic hitting China hardest soon morphed into a global health crisis, forcing governments to close borders, schools and offices and keep their populations at home to halt the spread. As BioNTech and other pharmaceutical companies leapt into action in search of the winning formula, Germany's army of "Mittelstand" companies and other bigger manufacturing and logistics experts would soon prove crucial. Just a few minutes' drive away from BioNTech's headquarters in the city of Mainz, one such company quietly ramped up production. Little known to the rest of the world, the 130-year-old firm Schott is in fact a major player in the pharmaceutical industry because of its little glass vials designed to hold life-saving vaccines. Three-quarters of the more than 100 coronavirus inoculation trials across the world would end up using Schott products. The company alone aims to produce enough vials to hold two billion doses of a coronavirus vaccine by the end of 2021, head of communications Christina Rettig told AFP. Schott itself had an early scare with the virus at its Mitterteich plant in Bavaria. The town became one of Germany's first coronavirus hotspots in March after a beer festival, and Rettig said several Schott workers from the Czech Republic ended up "not seeing friends and family for weeks" as borders slammed shut. With passenger flights mostly grounded, the buzz at Frankfurt airport's terminals all but vanished to a hush in the spring. Its freight area however kept humming. Tens of thousands of boxes of urgently needed surgical gowns and masks were transiting through. The head of freight infrastructure at Fraport, Max Philipp Conrady, knew that was just the beginning for his division in the pandemic battle. No one knew then which company would find a vaccine or when it would be ready, but Frankfurt is already Europe's largest hub for transporting pharmaceutical goods. And so planning had to begin for the unprecedented logistical challenge of transporting millions of life-saving vaccine doses worldwide. Fraport's vast temperature-controlled hangar handled 120,000 tons of vaccines, drugs and other pharmaceutical products in 2019. The operator anticipated the demand for cold storage, and boosted investments in high-tech refrigerated "dollies" that would do the transporting from hangars to planes. It now has 20, so several freighters can be loaded at the same time. Fraport was not the only one upping investments in solutions to keep things cool. As it became clear that BioNTech's vaccine would need to be stored at minus 70 degrees Celsius (minus 94 Fahrenheit) the expertise of cold chain management became the next hot commodity in town. Amid the global scramble to solve the problem of keeping vaccines at the right temperature as they get transported across the world, it would appear that there is a German company for every obscure application. Binder in Tuttlingen has its "super freezers" which were already tapped as early as March to chill coronaviruses used in laboratory research by BioNTech and another German vaccine developer, CureVac. But demand further grew as BioNTech advanced in the race. "It started really in August, when we received these requests from logistics companies... they knew we must fit our cold storage... with freezers in order to distribute the vaccines around the world," said Binder spokeswoman Anne Lenze. While Binder ensured static refrigeration of up to minus 90 degrees, another company Va-Q-Tec makes moving boxes with an ultra-cool function for the actual transportation process. Using a silica particle technology, the containers can maintain temperatures ranging from one similar to a fridge to polar chills for up to 10 days "without the need for energy input", chief executive Joachim Kuhn told AFP. On November 18, BioNTech and its partner Pfizer finally announced that their Phase III study showed around 90 percent efficacy against the virus. The news sent stock markets into euphoria and was hailed as a watershed, a light at the end of a very long, dark tunnel. By then, the logistics sector was raring to go. As Fraport's Conrady put it: "We've been ready since August." Celebrating in their understated manner, BioNTech's founders knew it was too early to rest on their laurels. "Champagne is not our thing. We sat down and enjoyed a cup of tea and used the time to reflect on what had happened so far and what will come next," Sahin told AFP. Several hundred kilometres away in the German capital, 66-year-old Albrecht Broemme was placing a bunch of Lego figurines here and there as he visualised how to transform Berlin's old airports into centres for the unprecedented vaccination drive. An ex-firefighter and former head of civil protection agency THW, Broemme had been called out of retirement to help in the pandemic battle. Early on, he was pivotal in designing emergency sites in case patient numbers were to soar above hospital capacities. In the autumn, he was tapped again to conceptualise the vaccination drive for the German capital. "I came up with a system, thinking about how many (vaccination) booths we would need and how much space we would need in order to prevent bottlenecks," he said. Each visitor will follow a designated route from registration to the actual jab, then on to a consultation with a doctor and finally to a waiting room while final checks are performed. The patient should be in and out of the doctor's cubicle in a few minutes, Broemme said. Including the queueing and waiting time, "we imagine that all of this will take an hour." On December 2, BioNTech's vaccine became the first to get the go-ahead for use in the West, when Britain gave its approval. As other nations from the United States to Saudi Arabia to Singapore followed suit, Germany impatiently prodded the EU's drugs regulator to bring forward its decision from December 29. The EMA finally gave its greenlight more than a week early, on December 21. On the same night, the European Commission declared that the entire bloc would start the inoculation operation from Sunday, December 27. With the first jabs imminent, officials raced to put the finishing touches on the makeshift inoculation centres across Germany. At the country's biggest in Hamburg, doctors will be able to handle 7,000 daily jabs. BioNTech has also held webinars for nurses and doctors who will soon administer the shot, with 1,100 questions answered during the sessions. Lorries carrying vaccines rolled out from Pfizer's factory in Belgium on Wednesday. BioNTech said it would directly supply its vaccines to 25 distribution sites manned by federal authorities in Germany which would then send along the allocations to 294 districts. Local authorities will then further funnel the jabs down to 450 vaccination centres. A slew of mobile units will also be deployed to harder to reach districts. With an eye on potential sabotage by a growing wave of corona skeptics and anti-vaxxers, federal police with armed commando units are escorting the precious cargo on the move. First up will be the most vulnerable in elderly homes, several of which have been hit by deadly outbreaks of the virus. The inoculations could not come soon enough for Germany, which registered record high daily death tolls of nearly 1,000 people during the week. At least one district has reported that its crematorium is full. For Chancellor Angela Merkel, every jab means a life saved. "When we see how many people are dying because of coronavirus, we can see how many lives the vaccine can save."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/breakfast-freezers-lego-on-the-vaccine-trail-in-germany/articleshow/79962202.cms||---
December 26, 2020||World||Three Burundian peacekeepers killed in Central African Republic||NEW YORK: Three Burundian peacekeepers have been killed by "unidentified armed combatants" in the Central African Republic, the United Nations said Friday. The announcement came after a rebel coalition fighting the government called off a ceasefire ahead of a tense general election due to take place Sunday. "Three peacekeepers from Burundi were killed and two others were wounded" following attacks on UN troops and Central African national defense and security forces, the UN said in a statement. The assaults took place in Dekoa, central Kemo Prefecture, and in Bakouma, in the southern Mbomou Prefecture, it said, without providing further details. Sunday's elections are deemed a key test of CAR's ability to recover stability. In the week before voting day, incumbent President Faustin Archange Touadera accused his predecessor Francois Bozize of plotting a coup, a militia briefly seized the country's fourth biggest town, and Russia and Rwanda sent military personnel to help shore up his government. Mineral-rich but rated the world's second-poorest country on the Human Development Index, the CAR has been chronically unstable since independence 60 years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/three-burundian-peacekeepers-killed-in-central-african-republic/articleshow/79962252.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Raja Bhoj’s iconic statue masked to spread public awareness||BHOPAL: Failing to effectively drive home the message to people to wear masks at public places, the district administration and Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) administration have devised a new way to reach out to people — by masking the statue of Raja Bhoj, who is believed to have founded the city of Bhopal by many. Raja Bhoj’s life-size statue in the Upper Lake on the VIP Road, now stands masked to let people of the city he founded understand the importance of wearing masks in the Covid times. District collector Avinash Lavania, when asked whether the decision to mask the face of Raja Bhoj was the district administration’s initiative, said “Yes, the district administration and the BMC decided to do it to send across the message that wearing mask at a public place is a must and it should not be skipped or avoided at any cost.” Visitors at the VIP Road, who were many on the Xmas day, also appeared to be appreciative of the initiative. “You can see here itself. Many of us are without masks. When they go back home, I think the statue of masked Raja Bhoj should motivate them to come out masked when they step out of their house next time”, said Sanjay Goel, a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-raja-bhojs-iconic-statue-masked-to-spread-public-awareness/articleshow/79962266.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Civic polls likely in two phases||AHMEDABAD: The local body elections in the state are likely to be held in two phases. In a meeting held on Thursday, state election commission (SEC) told the district collectors to finalize the electoral rolls. Elections to six municipal corporations – Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar — along with 55 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats were scheduled for October-November but were postponed by three months because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The SEC asked the district collectors to send the list of booths for the elections. The collectors, corporation officials and the authorities of all urban bodies have been asked to appoint officials who will be responsible for ensuring safety of the polling staff, besides supply of masks, sanitizers, PPE kits, faceshields and other materials to be used in the elections. The SEC officials said that they have not finalized the dates of the elections, but the decision will be taken soon. “Like in 2015, the local body polls this time are likely to be in held two phases. This will help the officials to mobilize police force and poll staff in a better way for a smooth conduct of the elections,” said an SEC official. The officials said that in the first phase, they plan to conduct corporation and nagarpalika elections. In the second phase, they may take up taluka panchayat elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-civic-polls-likely-in-two-phases/articleshow/79962279.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Technological University will not hold online examination||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has declared that it will not conduct its semester examinations online and the students will have to appear in tests in person. This has led to a major unrest among the students and parents and they are now thinking of exploring legal option against the GTU’s decision of not offering online examination to its students, sources said. University officials said that it had conducted online examination for its final year students and the university had noticed significant instances of irregularities. This situation forced the university not to give the online test option to students. There were over 60,000 students who had appeared in online examinations. Against this, there are nearly four lakh students in GTU who will be appearing in semester examinations. Meanwhile, other universities in the state including the Gujarat University are continuing to offer the option of online examination to their students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-technological-university-will-not-hold-online-examination/articleshow/79962272.cms||---
December 26, 2020||World||Trump golfs in Florida as Covid relief hangs in the balance||PALM BEACH: President Donald Trump spent his Christmas golfing in Florida as a government shutdown looms and COVID relief hangs in the balance. Trump, at his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach for the holidays, had no events on his public schedule after throwing the future of a massive Covid relief and government funding bill into question. Failure to sign the bill, which arrived in Florida on Thursday night, could deny relief checks to millions of Americans on the brink and force a government shutdown in the midst of the pandemic. The White House declined to share details of the president's schedule, though he played golf Friday with South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, a close ally. White House spokesman Judd Deere said Trump was briefed on the explosion in downtown Nashville early Friday that authorities said appeared to be intentional, but the president said nothing publicly about it in the hours after. Trump tweeted that he planned to make “a short speech to service members from all over the world” by video conference Friday to celebrate the holiday, but declared: “Fake News not invited!” Without giving details, the White House said only that Trump would work “tirelessly” during the holidays and has “many meetings and calls”. Trump's vacation came as Washington was still reeling over his surprise, eleventh-hour demand that an end-of-year spending bill that congressional leaders spent months negotiating give most Americans $2,000 COVID relief checks — far more than the $600 members of his own party had agreed to. The idea was swiftly rejected by House Republicans during a rare Christmas Eve session, leaving the proposal in limbo. The bipartisan compromise had been considered a done deal and had won sweeping approval in the House and Senate this week after the White House assured GOP leaders that Trump supported it. If he refuses to sign the deal, which is attached to a $1.4 trillion government funding bill, it will force a federal government shutdown, in addition to delaying aid checks and halting unemployment benefits and eviction protections in the most dire stretch of the pandemic. “Made many calls and had meetings at Trump International in Palm Beach, Florida. Why would politicians not want to give people $2000, rather than only $600?" he tweeted after leaving the golf course Friday afternoon. “It wasn't their fault, it was China. Give our people the money!” Graham tweeted Friday night that Trump was still intent on getting changes in yearend legislation before signing it. "After spending some time with President @realDonaldTrump today, I am convinced he is more determined than ever to increase stimulus payments to $2000 per person and challenge Section 230 big tech liability protection," he said in his tweet. “Both are reasonable demands, and I hope Congress is listening. The biggest winner would be the American people.” In addition to the COVID aid, Graham was referring to another Trump priority: to get a repeal of Section 230 of the 1996 Communications Decency Act, a law that protects online platforms from liability for content posted by users. Trump's decision to attack the COVID bill has been seen, at least in part, as political punishment for what he considers insufficient backing by congressional Republicans of his campaign to overturn the results of the November 3 election with unfounded claims of voter fraud. “At a meeting in Florida today, everyone was asking why aren't the Republicans up in arms & fighting over the fact that the Democrats stole the rigged presidential election?” Trump tweeted Thursday. “I will NEVER FORGET!” he later added. Trump for weeks now has refused to accept the results of the election and has been pushing new, increasingly outrageous schemes to try to overturn the results. He has been egged on by allies like his lawyer, former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani, who accompanied the president to Florida aboard Air Force One. Trump has provided no credible evidence to support his election claims, which have been refuted by a long list of officials, among them judges, former Attorney General William Barr, Republican governors and local election administrators. Meanwhile, the nation continues to reel as the coronavirus spreads, with record infections and hospitalisations and more than 327,000 now dead. And millions are now going through the holidays alone or struggling to make ends meet without adequate income, food or shelter thanks to the pandemic's economic toll. To mark the holiday, the president and first lady Melania Trump tweeted out a pre-recorded video message in which they wished Americans a merry Christmas and thanked first responders and members of the military. Meanwhile, Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin have been trying to salvage the year-end legislation to try to prevent a shutdown. Democrats will call House lawmakers back to Washington for a vote Monday on Trump's $2,000 proposal. They are also considering a vote Monday on a stop-gap measure at least to avert a federal shutdown and keep the government running until Democrat Joe Biden is inaugurated on January 20. In addition to the relief checks, the Covid bill that passed would establish a temporary $300 per week supplemental jobless benefit, provide a new round of subsidies for hard-hit businesses, restaurants and theatres and money for schools, and provide money for health care providers and to help with COVID vaccine distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-golfs-in-florida-as-covid-relief-hangs-in-the-balance/articleshow/79962301.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Shimla||Young tourists turn Atal Tunnel into dance spot; 10 booked||MANALI: Ten tourists were booked for causing traffic chaos inside Atal Tunnel after they stopped midway and danced to loud music. Kullu police also impounded three vehicles belonging to the tourists. Police have arrested seven tourists from Delhi, aged between 19 and 25 years, and a driver late on Thursday evening. Police had registered a case based on complaints and video footage where tourists were seen dancing in the middle of the tunnel, thus causing a long jam. Police said more tourists can be booked as investigation is in progress. Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said, “Tourists caused nuisance inside the tunnel which was a clear violation of traffic rules. This will not be tolerated. Such activities in tunnel pose threat to the passengers. We are still investigating the matter.” Those arrested were identified as Simran Singh (25), Ritik Goyal (20), Harpreet Singh (21), Raveen Mangal (19), Shivam Singal (19), Rishav Gupta (19) and Sandeep (37), all residents of Narela, Delhi. Tourists have been flouting the norms at the tunnel since its inauguration by PM Narendra Modi on October 3. A large number of accidents have also taken place. Police frequently challan traffic violators and keep vigil on over-speeding vehicles. Watch Himachal Pradesh: Ten tourists booked for causing traffic chaos inside Atal Tunnel||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/young-tourists-turn-atal-tunnel-into-dance-spot-10-booked/articleshow/79962333.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Indore||Tax-payer MP farmers told to return money under PM kisan scheme||INDORE: At a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is reaching out to farmers, many farmers in Madhya Pradesh who were given money under PM Samman Nidhi Scheme are now being served notices to repay it. A scrutiny has found that they don’t qualify for the scheme as they pay income tax. Manish Rastogi, principal secretary of revenue department, said, “The Centre found that 50,000 of the 78 lakh farmer families listed as beneficiaries under the scheme have paid income tax during the last assessment year, thereby making them ineligible for the benefits.” The anomaly was detected during a check of Aadharbased data. It has triggered a political controversy, with former CM Kamal Nath accusing CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan of offering benefits to farmers ahead of bypolls and then making them repay it after coming to power. BJP hit back by accusing Congress of “twisting facts”. Wary of kisan backlash, govt stops issuing notices to ineligible farmersWary of a kisan backlash, the government has stopped issuing notices. “There is no scam in this. Since unwarranted conclusions were being drawn on recovery notices issued to ineligible candidates, I have asked all districts to refrain from doing so. Officials have been asked to contact the ineligible candidates, explain to them the situation, and ask them to repay the amount,” Rastogi said. Districts in Indore and Ujjain divisions have started verifying 5% of the beneficiaries, and more irregularities have already been found, say sources. Officials sought to explain it as a ‘routine process’. Dhar collector Alok Singh told TOI, “We have identified 22 farmers, who don’t qualify for the scheme, but had money deposited in their accounts.” Some beneficiaries were found to have died, and some could not produce the required documents, he said. For instance, the Ujjain administration has issued a notice to Mangubai Dabi of Khachrod village to return Rs 6,100, which includes Rs 100 processing fee. “If you fail to repay the amount, action will be taken against you, as per law,” it warns. Ujjain collector Asheesh Singh said, “We are taking appropriate action against those who failed to submit the right information and documents under Samman Nidhi scheme.” In Indore, at least 100 farmers are being told to return the money. “Under Samman Nidhi scheme, around 88,000 farmers of Indore district were shortlisted. In a random verification (of 3,700 farmers), we have identified around 100 who fail the eligibility criteria. It’s a continuous process and if we find any more ineligible farmers, appropriate steps will be taken,” ADM Mayank Agrawal said, adding that action will also be taken against the patwaris and tehsildars, who included their names in the list of beneficiaries. Congress is targeting the BJP government on the notices. Leading the charge, former CM Kamal Nath tweeted: “Shivraj sarkar ajab hai, gajab hai (Shivraj government is strange). Instalments of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Yojana were deposited in the accounts of farmers in view of bypolls. Now they are being insulted by being told to repay it. Some are asked to return more than what was deposited, some are falsely called tax-payers and some are called ineligible. Disrespecting farmers and oppressing them have become their habit.” BJP state spokesman Lokendra Parashar rejected the allegation, and said Congress is trying to twist false information and show the government in bad light. “During their rule, Congress leaders did not provide information to the central government regarding beneficiaries. Now, when the BJP government is doing so, they are raising questions?” he wondered, adding: “We had received complaints that some beneficiaries were income-tax payers and were not eligible under the scheme. They are being asked to return the money.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/tax-payer-mp-farmers-told-to-return-money-under-pm-kisan-scheme/articleshow/79962313.cms||Sagar Choukse
December 26, 2020||Thane||Thane: Cook jailed for life for killing friend who failed to repay Rs 5,000||THANE: Thane sessions court has convicted a 32-year-old cook for killing his friend who failed to repay him Rs 5,000. He was sentenced to life imprisonment. The accused, Anil Walmiki, convicted by district sessions judge H M Patwardhan, was also fined Rs 5,000. The prosecutor told the court the deceased, Sudhir Singh (33), and the accused were Thane residents who worked as cooks with a catering firm attached to a temple at Vartak Nagar. Annoyed that Singh did not return the money despite frequent reminders, on July 31, 2015, Walmiki took him to a room in Vartak Nagar and confined him there. He later stabbed Singh with a sharp knife-like weapon and killed him. Two days later, Walmiki walked into the police station and confessed to the crime. Police went to the room and saw the decomposing body of the victim and arrested the accused. A tea stall owner deposed in court that just hours before the incident, the duo had visited his shop. and had tea together. The prosecution examined 10 other witnesses. The judge heard both sides out in his order and noted the prosecution had successfully proved beyond all reasonable doubts the charges levelled against the accused who needed to be convicted and sentenced. The judge also noted, “...the entire prosecution was based on circumstantial evidence with the ‘last-seen theory’. The court has accepted both the said facts of the lastseen theory and circumstantial evidence.” The judge convicted the accused under Indian Penal Code sections 302 for murder and 342 for wrongful confinement and pronounced the quantum of sentence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/cook-jailed-for-life-for-killing-friend-who-failed-to-repay-rs-5000/articleshow/79961828.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Haryana seals NH-8 ahead of Beniwal’s Delhi march today||ALWAR/JAIPUR: A day before Rajasthan’s Nagaur MP and Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) leader Hanuman Beniwal’s scheduled march to Delhi on Saturday in support of farmers’ agitation, along with nearly 2 lakh farmers through Alwar’s Shajahanpur border, the Haryana police has sealed the highway for vehicles plying from both directions (Delhi-Jaipur), resulting to a huge jam on the national highway (NH-8). Beniwal had earlier resigned from three parliamentary committees in support of farmers’ agitation against the centre’s agriculture-related laws. He was a member of parliamentary committees on industries; petroleum and natural gas; and petitions. The RLP leader had also threatened to withdraw his support from the BJPled NDA government at the Centre. Now, even those vehicles travelling from Delhi to Jaipur are not allowed to pass through Shahjahanpur border. Earlier, national highway (NH-8) was sealed at Shahajahanpur on Rajasthan-Haryana border for Delhi bound vehicles owing to farmers’ agitation. In view of the jam, heavy vehicles have been diverted through Paota (Jaipur) via Bansur and the light four-wheelers were being diverted through the Behror-Tatarpur-Khairtal route. Meanwhile, thousands of farmers from various parts of the country, including Maharashtra, have gathered at the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/haryana-seals-nh-8-ahead-of-beniwals-delhi-march-today/articleshow/79962288.cms||---
December 26, 2020||India||Two TRF terrorists arrested in Jammu; arms, ammunition seized||JAMMU: Two terrorists affiliated with 'The Resistance Force' (TRF) have been arrested in Jammu and arms and ammunition seized, police said on Saturday. Raees Ahmad Dar of Churath, Qazigund, and Subzar Ahmad Sheikh of Ashmuji, Kulgam, were on their way to Srinagar in a car when they were intercepted and arrested by the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the local police at the Narwal bypass on Friday evening, they said. A police spokesperson said the SOG had set up a special checkpoint in the area after getting a reliable input regarding the movement of terrorists with automatic weapons. "At about 5.30 pm (Friday) when the SOG team was conducting vehicle checking in the area, one Alto car tried to escape the checkpoint. Observing the suspicious movement, the SOG team immediately chased the vehicle and apprehended the two suspects along with a bag," he said. The official said the bag, which was with Dar, contained an AK assault rifle with two magazines and 60 rounds, and a pistol along with two magazines and 15 rounds. A case under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act has been registered, the spokesperson said. With the arrest, he said, the police has busted a TRF module. TRF is believed to be a shadow group of the Lashkar-e-Taiba. "Dar has a history of involvement in terror activities and has four cases registered against him. Initial investigation reveals that he is working for TRF. The role of his associate is also being ascertained," the official said. He said Jammu police was investigating the case to unearth the network of associates providing support to terror activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-trf-terrorists-arrested-in-jammu-arms-ammunition-seized/articleshow/79962396.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||The Bikaner officer who captured Dhaka||JAIPUR: Lieutenant General Sagat Singh, one of the best corps commanders in India’s military history, had many accomplishments, but the finest among those was the liberation of Bangladesh. Born on July14,1919 in Bikaner state of erstwhile Rajputana, Sagat belonged to a family of soldiers. His father fought in WWI from the famous Camel Corps of Bikaner Risala. After passing out from Indian Military Academy in 1941, Sagat took part in WWII from Bikaner State Forces. After Independence, he opted to be part of Indian Army. When war broke out in Bangladesh, then East Pakistan, Lt General Sagat Singh, commanding 4 Corps, was given the task to advance and capture all the territory to the east of Meghna river. According to military historians, the original plan was to just capture a major portion of East Pakistan. Major General V K Singh in his book ‘Leadership in Indian Army’ mentions that although Dacca (Dhaka) wasn’t spelt out in the instruction given by the Army headquarters, high commands had decided that once every corps achieved its task, the forces would regroup and then launch a combined attack on Dacca from West. After a few days of war, it became clear to Sagat that only capture of Dacca would end the war. His seniors denied him the permission, which Sagat refused to abide by and started planning to enter Dacca. Pakistanis had destroyed the bridge on Meghna river leaving steamers and helicopter only option to move further. On December 9, 1971, Sagat commandeered many steamers and used his 12 MI-4 helicopters to airlift the troops to helipads that had been marked by torches. The operation lasted 36 hours. Major General Singh wrote that this was one of the first times when an air-bridge was used to cross a major water obstacle by a brigade group. After a few days, all the corps started advancing towards their goals and on December 14, the first attack on Dacca took place. Unfortunately, Sagat’s brigade wasn’t the first one to enter Dacca city, but the artillery shelling by his men on the nights of December 15 and 16 hastened the surrender of Pakistan and a ceasefire was declared on December 16. After the liberation of Bangladesh, Sagat was given the responsibility to stay in the newly formed country to maintain peace and security. He sent troops to the Dhanmondi area to rescue Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s family to safety. By December 25, peace had returned to Dacca. Despite good performance in the Bangladesh war, earlier in Operation Vijay capturing Goa in 1961 and his wise decision of holding on to Nathu La post defying his senior’s orders in 1967, Sagat was never given any gallantry award. He was awarded Padma Bhushan later, which is rarely given to soldiers. Sagat retired in 1974 and settled down in Jaipur. On September 26, 2001, he passed away after a prolonged illness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/the-bikaner-officer-who-captured-dhaka/articleshow/79962454.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
December 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cops file case against private firm for cheating Citibank of Rs 10 crore||MUMBAI: The city economic offences wing (EOW) has registered a case against a private firm, ABK Industries, for causing a loss of Rs 10.2 crore to Citibank allegedly by submitting forged tax invoices and bills of exchange. According to the complaint filed by a representative of Citibank at Kherwadi police, the crime took place between July 2017 and October 2018. Kherwadi police registered a case of forgery and criminal conspiracy, and the case was transferred to the EOW. A police source said that the managing director and two other directors of ABK Industries have been mentioned as accused in the FIR. Police sources said that the accused had approached Citibank for a business loan. They claimed that they wanted to purchase material from another company and needed a letter of credit. The accused mortgaged a residential property worth around Rs 5 crore and some trading stocks with the bank, which then issued a letter of credit. It was given to the company from where the material was being purchased. Citibank transferred Rs 20 crore to the seller company. Initial loan repayment was done by the accused, but later they stopped payment. While going through the documents submitted by ABK Industries, the bank found that the accused had submitted fake tax invoices and bills of exchange. Citibank then carried out an inquiry, and later approached the police. A police officer said that the material seller company, in whose account the money was transferred by the bank, was allegedly being run by a former employee of ABK Industries. The money from the seller company’s account was transferred to ABK Industries, police probe indicated. A source said that the accused company had initially purchased some material from the seller company, but later there was not much purchase as shown in transactions. Investigators are now going through all the financial transactions of the firm. The banking units of the EOW have registered over a dozen cases in the last three years, where the cheating amount crossed Rs 10,000 crore. Among the loan fraud cases probed were of Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank and Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank. But in the MSC Bank case, the officials filed a closure report stating there was no cognizable offence found in the investigation. The court also accepted the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-file-case-against-private-firm-for-cheating-citibank-of-rs-10-crore/articleshow/79961738.cms||Mateen Hafeez
December 26, 2020||India||Pakistan violates ceasefire along IB in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua||JAMMU: Pakistani Rangers violated the ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked firing at forward posts along the International Border (IB) in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Saturday. Firing from across the IB in the Satpal Border Outpost area of Hiranagar sector started around 9.35 pm on Friday, prompting strong retaliation by the Border Security Force (BSF), they said. The officials said cross-border firing between the two sides continued till 2.45 am on Saturday, but there was no immediate report of any damage on the Indian side. The latest ceasefire violation comes a day after two Army porters – Altaf Hussain and Mohammad Zaif – were injured in Pakistani firing along the Line of Control at Dalhan in Poonch district. The porters, both residents of Noorkote village, were moving towards a forward post when they were fired upon by Pakistani troops from across the border, causing serious injuries to them, the officials said, adding both were hospitalised and their condition was stated to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-ib-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kathua/articleshow/79962455.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||Accused of rape, power staff ends life in Bundi||KOTA: A 42-year-old rape accused, who was posted as lineman in Jaipur Vidutt Vitran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) in Bundi, allegedly committed suicide by consuming poisonous substance outside his home under Bundi Sadar police station early on Friday morning. The police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem by a medical board and lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC. Circle inspector at Bundi Sadar police station Satyanarayan Malav said the lineman, identified as Hemraj Meena, a resident of Laxmi Vihar on Bundi railway station road in Devpura, allegedly committed suicide by consuming poisonous substance a few meters away from his house. On noticing him lying unconscious, the passersby informed the family members following which he was rushed to Bundi district hospital where the doctors declared him dead, he added. Malav said the reason behind the extreme step by the deceased is not yet clear as no suicide note was recovered from his possession. According to family members, he had left home at around 5 o’clock on Friday for defecation in open, he said. A woman of the city earlier this month approached Mahila police station and lodged a case of rape under Section 376 against Hemraj Meena, however, investigation into the matter is underway and the accused Meena was not interrogated so far, SHO at Mahila police station, Bundi, Anjana Nogia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/accused-of-rape-power-staff-ends-life-in-bundi/articleshow/79962542.cms||---
December 26, 2020||Jaipur||NGT lens on mining in Chenupuria||JAIPUR: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has sought a factual and action-taken report from Baran district magistrate Baran and the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) in connection with the allegations of illegal mining using crusher machine at Chenupuria village which damaged forest areas. In March, it was found that the department of mining and geology did not issue any permission/permit for mining on the land following which NGT asked the construction company to complete the work by April and penalised it for past violations. The matter was disposed of on Thursday after the tribunal ordered that the SPCB keep strict vigil. Following NGT’s order, an inspection was jointly by a team of officials from the district administration as well as mining, forest, agriculture and health departments in December last year. During the course of inspection, the stone crusher was found nonoperative for maintenance of machinery. It was also reported that looking at the site conditions, mining in the pit might have been done prior to the last rainy season around six months ago and there were no marks/ sign of recent mining activities. After this, it was decided that the project proponent shall complete the remaining work of construction of boundary wall by April and shall also submit bank guarantee of Rs 1 lakh as a surety. Also, environment compensation shall be imposed for the past violation as per guidelines of the State Board. The officials of the state board again inspected the unit in August to verify the compliances done by the unit with respect to the deficiencies observed during inspection in July. The officials in their inspection report submitted that the unit has provided required pollution control measures except adequate plantation within the premises. While disposing of the application, NGT said, “the state PCB may maintain vigilance against violation of environmental norms in accordance with law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ngt-lens-on-mining-in-chenupuria/articleshow/79962563.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Illegal industrial unit sealed||CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee has closed an illegal electroplating industry releasing acid and chemicals in the open at Makhan Majra village. The unit had been operating from a residential area for the last couple of months. The administration has seized documents and started questioning the owner of the land. It was found that neither the electricity department of the UT nor the owner had given the power connection to the industry. In fact, some private people, with the name of ‘Janta Connection Electricity’, had given the power connection to the unit. Electricity poles had been fixed to supply power. Considering the power theft and its further distribution, the CPCC has written to the UT power department to look into the matter and find out how an illegal unit got the power connection. Initial probe has revealed that three people were actively involved with ‘Janta Connection Electricity’. Debendra Dalai, member secretary, CPCC, said “It is important to find out how this illegal industry unit got power supply. We have asked the power department to look into the matter. Moreover, a probe is going on and whosoever will be found responsible, will be penalised.” An electroplating unit generally makes screws and related items. Chemicals are used to coat the outer layers of these screws and effluents have to be disposed in a scientific manner. Illegal units: Parida to seek detailsThese types of industries fall in the red category, which means that they are dealing with dangerous chemicals. UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “I will personally look into the matter and collect information from officers of engineering and power departments.” There are over 100 electroplating industries in Industrial Area, phases I and II, Chandigarh. All of them have taken required permission and set up effluent treatment plants on their premises to discharge chemicals. Regular checks are conducted to ensure adherence to guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-illegal-industrial-unit-sealed/articleshow/79962574.cms||Deepak Yadav
December 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMCH to test if cow milk increases IQ in children||CHANDIGARH: Does drinking cow milk increases the cognitive ability and intelligence quotient in children or is there a difference in the IQ of those, who drink cow milk and those who drink packet milk? Scientific evidence is being collected in the form of a study at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, to understand the difference. The project has been sanctioned by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for three years. The clinicians shall enroll children up to 18 years of age. There will be three groups of subjects - one will include those children, who have been exclusively fed cow’s milk for last 15 to 20 years, the other will include children, who are fed milk from hybrid cows and the third group will include those, who are fed buffalo milk and packet milk. “We have been hearing about the value of cow milk in traditional science. But there is no such scientific evidence. So, we took this project and got approval from the ICMR,” said Dr Ravi Gupta, principal investigator of the study. The researchers plan to get children enrolled by contacting gaushalas, which have been supplying cow milk to families for over 15 years. “As the brain development is until 18 years of age, we will enroll children up to that age. In case we find cognitive development faster in those who have been fed cow milk only, we will then test biochemically and nutrients which cause the same,” said Dr Gupta. He said, “We will have a psychiatrist to assess the IQ levels in these children, who have been fed milk prospectively.” However, there have been previous studies which found that there are some nutritional deficiencies in cow milk. Studies revealed that infants, who were fed cow milk during their second year, are at a disadvantage compared to those who were breastfed. Thus, such studies have endorsed that infants should receive formula instead of cow milk when breast milk is unavailable as a dairy source until two years of age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-gmch-to-test-if-cow-milk-increases-iq-in-children/articleshow/79962631.cms||Shimona Kanwar
