December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Indrajit Lankesh held a special screening of his film Shakeela||South screen siren Shakeela’s story is now on celluloid and celebrating the same was the film’s director Indrajit Lankesh who held a special screening of the film on Friday in Bengaluru. Attending the close-knit show were some of the director’s friends from the film industry and beyond, as well as part of the cast and crew who are from Bengaluru. Easily one of the bigger on screen releases before the end of this year, the audience at the show were seen being diligent about following safety protocols, as they kept the masks on through the show and even during their interactions with others, except while posing for photographs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/indrajit-lankesh-held-a-special-screening-of-his-film-shakeela/articleshow/79970556.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||HD Deve Gowda says he is ready to pass JD(S) baton to HD Kumaraswamy after Sankranti||BENGALURU: Former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda is preparing to pass the party’s leadership baton to his son and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy. Deteriorating health and rapidly altering political landscape in Karnataka have compelled the 87-year-old to think of a generational shift in leadership. Gowda on Saturday dropped enough hints that Kumaraswamy would hold the reins of the party after Sankranti (January 14). For more than two decades, Gowda’s grip on the party’s functioning was vice-like but the old political warhorse appears to have sensed the need for a change, given the growing support among Vokkaliga voters for the BJP and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president DK Shivakumar looking to emerge as the next Vokkaliga strongman. Moreover, anointing Kumaraswamy as the heir-apparent would ensure his supremacy within the party. Unshackled by the party patriarch, Kumaraswamy would be free to reach out to the BJP well ahead of the next assembly elections. The former CM has repeatedly pointed out that he would have continued in the position had he allied with the saffron party instead of joining hands with the Congress, a decision motivated by Gowda’s image as a staunch secularist. “PM Narendra Modi has personally extended the hand of friendship,” Kumaraswamy had claimed. More recently, Kumaraswamy’s support to the BJP to ensure the passage of the farm bills in the state assembly and the role of JD(S) legislators when the saffron party moved the no-confidence motion against chairman Prathap Chandra Shetty raised eyebrows in political circles. There have also been rumours of a growing rift between Gowda and Kumaraswamy, prompting grumblings within the JD(S) about the leadership. Many voices in the party are reported to have called for Kumaraswamy to assume a larger role. Although Kumaraswamy’s decision to ally with the BJP in 2006, which resulted in the collapse of the Congress-JD(S) coalition government, was publicly condemned by Gowda, the reins of the party remained firmly in his hands. Nearly a decade-and-a-half later, Gowda, for the first time, is hinting at receding to the background and allowing Kumaraswamy to take over. Senior leaders in the JD(S) are well aware of the fact that, despite having enjoyed power in Karnataka twice, the BJP’s continued failure to obtain a majority is owing to its poor presence in the Old Mysore region, the bastion of the JD(S). The BJP is not closed to entering into an alliance with the JD(S) ahead of the 2023 elections since such a tie-up would be at the expense of the Congress, which holds considerable sway in the same region. “Gowda realises that for the BJP, with its well-oiled election machinery and resources, it will only be a matter of time to expand its base in the Old Mysore region. Gowda is choosing this wise move in order to pre-empt such an eventuality,” said a political analyst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/deve-gowda-says-he-is-ready-to-pass-jds-baton-to-hdk-after-sankranti/articleshow/79971165.cms||Anil Gejji
December 27, 2020||India||Al-Badr duo killed in Shopian encounter||SRINAGAR: Two Al-Badr terrorists were killed and an equal number of security men injured in an anti-terror operation in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Saturday, police said. The operation began on Friday afternoon after a joint team of Army, CRPF and J&K Police cordoned off Kanigam Imam Sahib area and launched a search acting on intelligence inputs about the presence of terrorists there. Two security personnel sustained bullet wounds when holed up ultras opened fire at the search party before escaping to another spot. The injured personnel were shifted to Srinagar’s 92 Base Hospital while the operation was called off later that evening as darkness fell. The encounter resumed on Saturday morning when security forces zeroed in on the house where the terrorists were suspected to be hiding. When the house was blown up using explosives, the ultras managed to take refuge in another but were eventually killed, police said. The slain Al-Badr duo was identified as Asif Ahmad Lone from Shopian and Owais Farooq from Pulwama, police said. The Shopian administration temporarily suspended mobile internet services in the district as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/al-badr-duo-killed-in-shopian-encounter/articleshow/79971181.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: What to do when cops take sides in civil disputes, ask citizens||BENGALURU: What should an ordinary citizen do when policemen act in a biased manner in a civil dispute? This was one question raised by many citizens to police honchos on Saturday during the second edition of Masika Janasamparka Divas, an interaction between police and the public. With rising instances of land grabbing and real estate-related complaints in the recent years, many said local police collude with land mafia and pressure them into yielding to the latter’s demands. Reacting to the poser, city police commissioner Kamal Pant and deputy commissioners of police suggested people escalate such matters to senior police officers, if they feel jurisdictional personnel are not helping them. Another interesting question that citizens put out was: Why don’t cops intervene in garbage-related issues while patrolling? Senior cops assured that policemen on patrol duty will be advised to crackdown on those who dirty public places by dumping garbage. Pant, who heard citizens at Tilaknagar police station, told STOI: “Many issues were raised. A large section of the participants sought increase in police patrolling and their concerns were addressed. The second-most serious concern was youngsters consuming ganja at certain places. To address this issue, we formed special teams and requested the public to share more information. Next was irregular parking of vehicles. Again, officials concerned have been directed to do the needful. Status of pending cases/complaints was also furnished. However, certain things like recovery of stolen money, unpaid salary or rent need a little time to be resolved. We also expedited investigation in some cases.” However, a few members of the public expressed dismay when some participants praised senior cops of their area saying “crime rate has dipped since their arrival”. “Such praise is staged,” they objected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/what-to-do-when-cops-take-sides-in-civil-disputes-ask-citizens/articleshow/79971238.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Probe into instant loan apps fraud throws up China link||BENGALURU: Criminal Investigation Department sleuths probing the alleged data theft by instant loan apps said they have sufficient circumstantial and scientific evidence to link the scam to China. According to the officers, the application server is based in China, the dashboard accessed through the app is located in the neighbouring country and directors of three of the four companies recently raided by CID are also from there. Confirming the China connection, superintendent of police, CID-cybercrime, MD Sharath, said: “Operations of the companies which were raided are controlled from China. This includes handling of the hacked mobile phones’ data.” The probe comes in the wake of complainants alleging their details were stolen and leaked by firms running instant loan apps. Using the stolen data, the accused would threaten the customers with dire consequences, including rape. In many cases, they created new WhatsApp groups using the victim’s phone book and sent lewd messages to the members. Earlier this week, CID police had raided four companies in Bengaluru — Mad Elephant Technologies, Borayanxy Technologies, Profitise Technologies and Wizzpro Solutions — and arrested two people, including a Chief Financial Officer and a human resource manager. Alerted about the gravity of the scam by CID, officials from Intelligence Bureau have collected documents from the arrested duo and are questioning them. Explaining the Chinese link, an investigating officer from CID said: “The director of Borayanxy Technologies Pvt Ltd is also the owner and director of the Chinese company Honghu Information Technologies Pvt Ltd. Mad Elephant is a fully owned subsidiary of a company called Rumingtech Pvt Ltd, one of whose owners is a Chinese citizen identified as Yanpeng Qu,” he said. Another firm to be raidedAsked whether more arrests are likely in the near future, CID police said, “We have traced one more fraudulent firm which owns around 10 instant loan apps. We will raid it soon and if necessary, will arrest the suspects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/probe-into-instant-loan-apps-fraud-throws-up-china-link/articleshow/79971255.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: I intervened as home secretary, says D Roopa||BENGALURU: The Rs 620-crore Bengaluru Safe City Project, envisaged to make urban spaces safe for women and children through installation of 7,500 surveillance cameras across the city, has sparked off an intense round of claims and counter-claims among Karnataka’s top bureaucrats and police officers. The project, which is in the tender processing stage, was mired in controversy after the Bengaluru city police complained to chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar that an “unauthorised person” had tried to access classified information related to it. On Saturday morning, IPS officer D Roopa wrote to the chief secretary (CS) stating she had intervened in the matter in her capacity as home secretary after the file on the project was given to her by additional chief secretary (home department) Rajneesh Goel for studying it. When contacted by STOI, chief secretary Bhaskar stated Roopa was ‘Secretary (PCAS), home department’ and not the head of the home department. Barely hours after Roopa’s letter was made public, Goel replied, asking her to furnish a copy of the government order or written instructions that stated that if any of the responsibilities of implementing the Bengaluru Safe City Project had been entrusted to her. This follows a complaint filed by Bengaluru additional police commissioner Hemant Nimbalkar, who is also the chairman of the tender inviting and scrutiny committee for the Safe City Project funded by the Centre under the Nirbhaya Fund, to the CS. The complaint stated that an officer, who was not related to the project, had contacted the two project consultants on November 7 (before the tender was uploaded) and sought details about the previous RFP that got cancelled, the status of the new RFP, the process followed for current RFP and other details. In her letter to the CS on Saturday, Roopa stated: “I am the home secretary and there is no impersonation as falsely alleged in complaint of Nimbalkar. The file on the Safe City project was given to me by the additional chief secretary of the home department himself to study. While studying I found serious irregularities in the tender drafting.” Goel, however, told STOI: “There is no question of handing her the file and authorising her to talk to the consulting agency.” In his reply to Roopa, Goel stated: “I have gone through the notings of the Safe City Project available in the home department. The file has never been marked to you and also does not contain any observations/comments made by you. Please let me know whether you have penned any observations in the file or brought any matter to the notice of CS or mine.” Goel sought to know from Roopa as to what had prompted her to call the representatives of project consultants to seek confidential information from them on November 7 and wanted to know whether she had addressed any report to him or chief secretary or any other authority before calling the project consultants. Claiming to be a whistleblower, Roopa said Nimbalkar must be removed as the Safe City Project head in view of the “said biased and unfair tender”. "I am a public servant governed by rules. I do not want to react to social media posts, WhatsApp messages...” Nimbalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/i-intervened-as-home-secretarysays-roopa/articleshow/79971256.cms||Kiran Parashar
December 27, 2020||India||PAGD winners being ‘forced’ to join Apni Party: Omar||SRINAGAR: National Conference vice-president and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah has accused the administration of the Union territory of “forcing” People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) winners in the recently-held district development council (DDC) elections to join Apni Party. “On the one hand, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha are boasting about holding polls and claiming that democracy has won, but on the other, democracy is actually being discredited here,” Omar said at a press conference here on Saturday. He played a phone call recording in which the conversation allegedly indicated that the husband of a woman candidate from Shopian, who had won a DDC seat, was being coerced to make his wife join Apni Party in lieu of getting her brother-in-law released from detention. “Winning candidates of PAGD are being threatened, humiliated and coerced to join Apni Party, which is a B-team of BJP. I do not know on whose instructions this is being done,” Omar said. Perhaps this is all being done to alter the outcome of the DDC elections, he added. “The process has started from Shopian where NC’s former MLC Sowkat Ganai and senior NC leader Shabir Ahmed Kullay have been kept under detention for no reason,” he alleged, and added that “perhaps the price of setting these leaders free is joining Apni Party.” Omar further said, “If the Parliament has an anti-defection law, and the assemblies too have it, why is the same not being implemented in J&K and those switching sides being disqualified.” He said the verdict of DDC polls clearly implies that a majority people have favoured PAGD and also gave the message that the August 5, 2019 decision is not acceptable. “I do not claim 100% people are with us, but yes, majority have voted against the August 5,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pagd-winners-being-forced-to-join-apni-party-omar/articleshow/79971304.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka Covid-19 cases in ICU fell 78% to 208 in two months||BENGALURU: The number of Covid-19 patients who require intensive care has decreased by nearly 78 per cent in the past two months as Karnataka’s overall caseload continues to ease. On October 25, 939 patients with severe infection were being treated in intensive care units (ICUs) across the state. A month later, this figure stood at 405 before falling to 208 on December 25. Early detection, aggressive treatment in the initial stages and timely use of antiviral drug remdesivir in moderate to serious cases have helped keep patients out of ICUs, said a member of the state technical advisory committee on Covid-19. Most of the current ICU cases are in government hospitals. As on December 25, Bengaluru Urban had 99 patients in ICUs, the highest among all districts. Kalaburagi had 11 and Tumakuru nine. Yadgir, Ramanagara, Chitradurga and Chikkaballapura districts had no such cases. On any given day, the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) has more than 100 Covid-19 patients. Of these, 25 to 30 need intensive care. “The majority of these cases are referred from private hospitals. When patients admitted to private hospitals can’t afford ICU treatment there, they are sent to government hospitals,” said Dr Smitha Segu, the nodal officer for Covid-19 management at BMCRI. With coronavirus infections declining, health officials have stopped referring patients to private hospitals for free treatment. Most are sent to government facilities, which have adequate bed capacity at the moment. According to Dr Segu, three to four ICU patients are from other districts and states. “As the number of cases is low currently, we are able to manage. Those who are admitted are mostly severe patients who need high-flow nasal oxygen, non-invasive ventilator support or ICU treatment,” she said. Geriatrician Dr Anoop Amarnath, who is a member of the state Critical Care Support Team for Covid-19 management, said that factors such as caseload, severity and mortality were interlinked. “As infections have come down, naturally the number of ICU cases has reduced, and so has the severity,” he said. Dr Amarnath and other experts on the team monitor Covid-19 patients in ICUs across the state through e-rounds. The team was set up in Bengaluru in May to standardise critical care in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-covid-cases-in-icu-fell-78-to-208-in-2-months/articleshow/79971314.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 27, 2020||India||Army capt, 2 civilians named in J&K fake encounter case chargesheet||SRINAGAR: A 300-page chargesheet filed by J&K police on Saturday in the Shopian fake encounter case names an Army captain and two civilians as alleged co-conspirators in the July 18 killing of three young Rajouri labourers who had been passed off as unidentified Pakistani terrorists. Shopian deputy SP Wajahat Hussian, who leads the special investigation team (SIT) that conducted the inquiry, identified the three accused as Capt Bhupinder Singh of the 62 Rashtriya Rifles, Shopian resident Tabish Ahmad and Bilal Ahmad of Pulwama. The chargesheet submitted in the court of principal district and sessions judge Sikander Azam details how Abrar Ahmad (25), Imtiyaz Ahmad (20) and Mohd Ibrar (16) were shot dead in an allegedly staged gunfight at Amshipora the very next day after they had last called their families at Dhar Sakri in Rajouri’s Kotranka. The trio said they had reached Shopian to look for work and rented a room. Three weeks later, as pictures of the alleged terrorists killed in Shopian surfaced on social media, their parents visited Peeri police station in Rajouri to report their sons missing. Deputy SP Wajahat later visited Rajouri with a forensic team to collect samples from the trio's family members for DNA matching. Based on the test results that established the trio's identity on September 25, the bodies were exhumed from their graves in north Kashmir's Baramulla on October 3 and handed over to the families. On October 8, J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha walked a 500m stretch to reach the youths' village and meet their kin. The Army last Thursday announced that the process of compiling the "summary of evidence" regarding the alleged fake encounter had been completed and the authorities were preparing for the next stage of proceedings in consultation with legal advisors. A spokesperson for the Army said the armed forces were committed to "ethical conduct" of all operations. "Further details will be shared in a manner so as not to prejudice the proceedings under Army law," he said. The Army had maintained for months that the slain youths were Pakistani terrorists, but the identification of the bodies and the public outrage that followed prompted it to institute an inquiry. The preliminary findings were that a unit of the Rashtriya Rifles had exceeded powers vested under the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act and contravened the dos and don’ts issued by the chief of army staff, as mandated by the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-capt-2-civilians-named-in-jk-fake-encounter-case-chargesheet/articleshow/79971349.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Cleanliness drive organised at PU||The centre for medical physics in collaboration with department of NSS, Panjab University, recently organised a swachhata abhiyaan at Mini Rose Garden near the biomedical block in PU's extension campus (Sector 25). Various members of teaching and hostel staff took part in the drive. All the participants cleaned the varsity campus and picked up trash from various pockets. Dr Vivek Kumar told that the main objective of cleanliness campaign is a step closer towards a cleaner, safer, and greener India. "It will also serve as a initiative in making people aware of the importance of cleanliness," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cleanliness-drive-organised-at-pu/articleshow/79971473.cms||---
December 27, 2020||India||Pak oppn’s talk same as Indian propaganda: Imran||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan PM Imran Khan on Saturday likened the language used by opposition parties to alleged Indian propaganda aimed at discrediting his country. "The way the political opposition of Pakistan has attacked the Pakistan army, this has never happened before in our history," he said of speeches and statements by former PM Nawaz Sharif and others, in which they held the powerful military establishment responsible for all the problems in the country. "Former military dictator Gen Pervez Musharraf used to be criticised, and it was understandable because he was the President. The criticism being dealt out these days, I am sorry to say, is using the language that India’s propaganda machine uses against the Pakistan army." Considered a pawn in the hands of the military, Khan made the remarks while addressing an event in Chakwal, a martial land that has produced more soldiers and officers than any other part of the country. On a recent report by the Brussels-based EU DisinfoLab regarding an alleged Indian disinformation network operating since 2005 to discredit nations in conflict with Delhi, particularly Pakistan, the PM said: "The purpose of this was to present Pakistan in a negative light in front of the world and to portray that there is chaos so that no one invests in the country." "The Pakistan Army was also targeted. India wants the army to be portrayed as a rogue army and as terrorists," he said, claiming it was also discovered that the fake sites unearthed in the investigation were promoting the Pakistan Democratic Movement, an anti-government alliance of 11 political parties. Referring to phrases like "Prime Minister-select, selected Prime Minister and selected government" that were being used by the opposition for him and the government, the PM said they were essentially accusing the army of rigging polls and ensuring the government and PM were "selected" rather than elected. "So then, did you go to the Election Commission, the Supreme Court, the Parliament?" he asked while dismissing the claims by the opposition that the country’s security establishment played its part in rigging the 2018 general elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pak-oppns-talk-same-as-indian-propaganda-imran/articleshow/79971472.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
December 27, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Mahurat of Udayan Aparajit’s bilingual film held in the city||Mahurat of upcoming Odia film,Naba Masa, was held in a city temple amidst the presence of its cast and crew. This is going to be a bilingual film in both Odia and Kannada languages. Ollywood actor Udayan Aparajit, who started his career from a Kannada film, is going to feature in this movie along with television and film actress Priyanka Panigrahi in lead roles. Talking about the film, Udayan informed that there would be dialogues in both Odia and Kannada, and it would cater to the cinematic tastes of both Odia and Kannada film audiences. “There will be actors from both the industries working in this film. The shoot will be held at various places in Odisha and in Bangalore,” said the actor. He didn’t reveal the story of the film, but informed that it would portray both modern and traditional lifestyles. It would showcase three generations of a film and the generation gap between them. “It took around two years for our team to develop the story. So it’s an original content and I’m hopeful that it would be liked by audience from both the states,” saidBadmas Toka actor. The shooting of this ND Uday directorial starts from January 1. The director also has penned dialogues for this film along with Sai K Ramu. G G Hastings is the music director of this project while Shubha Sanket Mahapatra is the cinematographer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/mahurat-of-udayan-aparajits-bilingual-film-held-in-the-city/articleshow/79971822.cms||Sandip Bal
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Simian troops spread terror in Chittaranjan Park, 2 trapped||NEW DELHI: Residents of a few blocks in Chittaranjan Park in south Delhi have been terrorised by monkeys for the past one month. The situation is quite grim in blocks 52, M, N, O and P where an increased frequency of simian attacks has been observed over the past 15 days. The RWA has even put up an advisory for women and children to avoid public spaces and parks. PK Paul, secretary of EPDP Association, told TOI that due to the aggressive behaviour of monkeys, people are afraid of stepping outside their homes. “There have been 20 monkey bite cases in the last two weeks alone. The frequency has gone up around the Kali Mandir and a few other blocks. The group of monkeys has been active for several months, but of late they have become very aggressive and injured many women,” he added. A veterinary department official from SDMC said the most aggressive monkey that was responsible for several attacks was captured on Monday. “We caught two monkeys from CR Park on Sunday and Monday, with the help of private catchers. We will continue to set traps in areas from where complaints are received,” he added. Edible items, like peanuts, bananas and gram, are used to lure them in the cages. The captured monkeys would be shifted to Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary. Last Friday, after multiple attacks were reported in Pocket 52, EBDP had requested the veterinary department of SDMC to catch the monkeys in the park. “Many cases of monkey bite have been reported from Kali Mandir, Block 88, Pocket 52, J-Block, among others. We have advised women and children to avoid open spaces and public parks till this group of monkeys is caught. We want more cages placed in the area,” Paul said. Dr Ish Kathpalia from Ariston Hospital, who has treated many monkey attack victims, said they had been receiving a couple of cases daily over the past 10 days. “The victims are of all age groups. Yesterday, we treated a woman whose nose was bitten by a monkey while she was visiting the local temple. Earlier, there used to be sporadic cases. But now it seems more simians are coming from Tughlaqabad side where a lot of construction is going on. Maybe, they are getting aggressive after being unable to find food,” he added. A vet official said monkeys should be handled by the wildlife department as they were wild animals. “The monkeys released in Asola sanctuary jump out as there is no significant barrier separating the forest from the surrounding residential areas. Once monkeys are relocated, they are fed by the wildlife department,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/simian-troops-spread-terror-in-cr-park-2-trapped/articleshow/79971961.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||PU prof gets STE Green Excellence Award for his research work in science||Dr Surinder Kumar Mehta, professor at the department of Chemistry, Panjab University, recently bagged the the prestigious STE Green Excellence Award for his research contributions in the field of science. Mehta, an ex-chairman of the department and ex-director SAIF/CIL/UCIM, Panjab University, was given the honour during virtual international conference on 'Environment, Water, Agriculture, Sustainability & Health (EWASH-2020)', held December 19 and 20. Recently, Prof Mehta also featured in the world ranking of top 2% scientists in subject wise analysis conducted at Stanford University. His subjects and research ranges from etallosurfactant chemistry, nano electrochemical sensors, synthesis and application of semiconducting nanoparticles and colloidal chemistry, etc. An award-winning professor has been a visiting scientist to UK, Germany, Japan, USA and France.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-prof-gets-ste-green-excellence-award-for-his-research-work-in-science/articleshow/79971654.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||National Mathematics Day celebrated||Recently, the Society for Promotion of Science and Technology in India (SPSTI) and the Chandigarh Chapter of National Academy of Sciences, India (NASI) along with Haryana State Council for Science, Technology & Innovation, organised a lecture series to celebrate National Mathematics Day-- the birth anniversary of the great mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan. Various online activities involving lectures, quiz, poster competition and declamation will be conducted up to March, 2021. Recently, the first in this series was a lecture, 'Mathematics behind Data Transmission' by Prof Gurmeet Kaur Bakshi from PU's department of Mathematics. Prof Bakshi started the lecture on data transmission, digital transmission and digital communication in the context of the physical transfer of data over a point-to-point or point-to-multipoint communication channel and its correction using examples such as ISBN number, which is a code allotted as International Standard Book Number. She spoke about Hamming code which is used in computer memory, nano-satellite and telecommunication, Golay code, which was a search for the perfect coding and Hamming code. The session was followed with questions about use of such information by a number of students and mathematics enthusiast. There was also a detailed discussion on accuracy and secrecy of the message and also no interruptions that can occur during data transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/national-mathematics-day-celebrated/articleshow/79972013.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Delhi beats 2020 stress with nature walks and excursions in bird sanctuaries and parks||Due to the pandemic, the peak summer months saw most places of interest shut across NCR. The parks, picnic spots and monuments where families would go to for their occasional Sunday outings were all off-limits. The various stages of unlocking just preceding the winters have changed that though. As places have gradually opened up, many people are heading to be in the lap of nature to beat the stressful year. And in that, bird sanctuaries and biodiversity parks of NCR have come up as the go-to destinations. The Okhla Bird Sanctuary reopened for the general public in September after being closed due to the pandemic for almost six months. On the Gurgaon border, Aravalli Biodiversity Park had opened in July. Both places have strict social distancing rules in place. Wetlands and sanctuaries have become popular spots for avid birders and casual enthusiasts on weekend morningsSince these places do not see heavy crowds, many go here for family outings or for a Sunday morning hike with kids. Ratika Sinha, who goes with her two kids to the Aravalli Biodiversity Park every Sunday, tells us, “It is important to stay in touch with nature. During the summers, we were all cooped up inside our houses. That was necessary. But now, we can come out with masks and maintaining social distancing. It is important to get the kids reconnected with nature. Anyway, they are growing up in a world full of gadgets.” Amit Singh Rana, a Mayur Vihar resident, recounts, “For me, the Okhla Bird Sanctuary is a five-minute drive. But when the borders were sealed due to the farmers’ protest, it became impossible to reach since the entrance to it lies at the Delhi-Noida border. So, I had to stop my visits for a couple of weeks but I have restarted again.” Okhla Bird Sanctuary has become a popular spot for avid birdersAs migratory birds have started visiting the wetlands and sanctuaries in NCR, they have become popular spots for both avid birders and casual enthusiasts on weekend mornings. The most popular spot for many such enthusiasts is the Okhla Bird Sanctuary, located right along the Delhi-Noida border. Bharat Kumar, an east Delhi resident and birdwatcher who frequents the sanctuary, tells us, “I go here every Sunday morning with a few friends. We carry our cameras to click birds. Particularly during November and December, the place is beautiful because the weather is nice and we have birds from across the world coming.” Even for those who are not into birdwatching, the place has become a popular destination. “I like coming into the lap of nature. This is just the perfect place, right in the heart of the city and yet so far removed from its hustle-bustle. 2020 has been a stressful year and being here for a few hours every weekend helps me unwind and destress,” says Noida resident Kavish Agarwal. Many NCR residents are turning to nature to beat the stressful yearAravalli Biodiversity Park is popular for nature excursionsAnother popular spot for nature excursions – particularly for those living in west Delhi and Gurgaon – is the Aravalli Biodiversity Park. While the park does not see the kind of diversity in fauna that the Okhla Bird Sanctuary does, it is still popular among nature lovers. Mohmmad Ayub, a Gurgaon resident who has been visiting the park for three years, says, “It was weird when the park was shut during the summer months. It is the hub of activity every morning and the perfect escape from the concrete jungle that NCR is. These days, one can even spot migratory birds and butterflies if you are lucky. I go here every weekend in the mornings to just run and spend some time in a natural setting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/delhi-beats-2020-stress-with-nature-walks-and-excursions-in-bird-sanctuaries-and-parks/articleshow/79969021.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
December 27, 2020||Noida||Delhi beats 2020 stress with nature walks and excursions in bird sanctuaries and parks||Due to the pandemic, the peak summer months saw most places of interest shut across NCR. The parks, picnic spots and monuments where families would go to for their occasional Sunday outings were all off-limits. The various stages of unlocking just preceding the winters have changed that though. As places have gradually opened up, many people are heading to be in the lap of nature to beat the stressful year. And in that, bird sanctuaries and biodiversity parks of NCR have come up as the go-to destinations. The Okhla Bird Sanctuary reopened for the general public in September after being closed due to the pandemic for almost six months. On the Gurgaon border, Aravalli Biodiversity Park had opened in July. Both places have strict social distancing rules in place. Wetlands and sanctuaries have become popular spots for avid birders and casual enthusiasts on weekend morningsSince these places do not see heavy crowds, many go here for family outings or for a Sunday morning hike with kids. Ratika Sinha, who goes with her two kids to the Aravalli Biodiversity Park every Sunday, tells us, “It is important to stay in touch with nature. During the summers, we were all cooped up inside our houses. That was necessary. But now, we can come out with masks and maintaining social distancing. It is important to get the kids reconnected with nature. Anyway, they are growing up in a world full of gadgets.” Amit Singh Rana, a Mayur Vihar resident, recounts, “For me, the Okhla Bird Sanctuary is a five-minute drive. But when the borders were sealed due to the farmers’ protest, it became impossible to reach since the entrance to it lies at the Delhi-Noida border. So, I had to stop my visits for a couple of weeks but I have restarted again.” Okhla Bird Sanctuary has become a popular spot for avid birdersAs migratory birds have started visiting the wetlands and sanctuaries in NCR, they have become popular spots for both avid birders and casual enthusiasts on weekend mornings. The most popular spot for many such enthusiasts is the Okhla Bird Sanctuary, located right along the Delhi-Noida border. Bharat Kumar, an east Delhi resident and birdwatcher who frequents the sanctuary, tells us, “I go here every Sunday morning with a few friends. We carry our cameras to click birds. Particularly during November and December, the place is beautiful because the weather is nice and we have birds from across the world coming.” Even for those who are not into birdwatching, the place has become a popular destination. “I like coming into the lap of nature. This is just the perfect place, right in the heart of the city and yet so far removed from its hustle-bustle. 2020 has been a stressful year and being here for a few hours every weekend helps me unwind and destress,” says Noida resident Kavish Agarwal. Many NCR residents are turning to nature to beat the stressful yearAravalli Biodiversity Park is popular for nature excursionsAnother popular spot for nature excursions – particularly for those living in west Delhi and Gurgaon – is the Aravalli Biodiversity Park. While the park does not see the kind of diversity in fauna that the Okhla Bird Sanctuary does, it is still popular among nature lovers. Mohmmad Ayub, a Gurgaon resident who has been visiting the park for three years, says, “It was weird when the park was shut during the summer months. It is the hub of activity every morning and the perfect escape from the concrete jungle that NCR is. These days, one can even spot migratory birds and butterflies if you are lucky. I go here every weekend in the mornings to just run and spend some time in a natural setting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/delhi-beats-2020-stress-with-nature-walks-and-excursions-in-bird-sanctuaries-and-parks/articleshow/79969023.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi beats 2020 stress with nature walks and excursions in bird sanctuaries and parks||Due to the pandemic, the peak summer months saw most places of interest shut across NCR. The parks, picnic spots and monuments where families would go to for their occasional Sunday outings were all off-limits. The various stages of unlocking just preceding the winters have changed that though. As places have gradually opened up, many people are heading to be in the lap of nature to beat the stressful year. And in that, bird sanctuaries and biodiversity parks of NCR have come up as the go-to destinations. The Okhla Bird Sanctuary reopened for the general public in September after being closed due to the pandemic for almost six months. On the Gurgaon border, Aravalli Biodiversity Park had opened in July. Both places have strict social distancing rules in place. Wetlands and sanctuaries have become popular spots for avid birders and casual enthusiasts on weekend morningsSince these places do not see heavy crowds, many go here for family outings or for a Sunday morning hike with kids. Ratika Sinha, who goes with her two kids to the Aravalli Biodiversity Park every Sunday, tells us, “It is important to stay in touch with nature. During the summers, we were all cooped up inside our houses. That was necessary. But now, we can come out with masks and maintaining social distancing. It is important to get the kids reconnected with nature. Anyway, they are growing up in a world full of gadgets.” Amit Singh Rana, a Mayur Vihar resident, recounts, “For me, the Okhla Bird Sanctuary is a five-minute drive. But when the borders were sealed due to the farmers’ protest, it became impossible to reach since the entrance to it lies at the Delhi-Noida border. So, I had to stop my visits for a couple of weeks but I have restarted again.” Okhla Bird Sanctuary has become a popular spot for avid birdersAs migratory birds have started visiting the wetlands and sanctuaries in NCR, they have become popular spots for both avid birders and casual enthusiasts on weekend mornings. The most popular spot for many such enthusiasts is the Okhla Bird Sanctuary, located right along the Delhi-Noida border. Bharat Kumar, an east Delhi resident and birdwatcher who frequents the sanctuary, tells us, “I go here every Sunday morning with a few friends. We carry our cameras to click birds. Particularly during November and December, the place is beautiful because the weather is nice and we have birds from across the world coming.” Even for those who are not into birdwatching, the place has become a popular destination. “I like coming into the lap of nature. This is just the perfect place, right in the heart of the city and yet so far removed from its hustle-bustle. 2020 has been a stressful year and being here for a few hours every weekend helps me unwind and destress,” says Noida resident Kavish Agarwal. Many NCR residents are turning to nature to beat the stressful yearAravalli Biodiversity Park is popular for nature excursionsAnother popular spot for nature excursions – particularly for those living in west Delhi and Gurgaon – is the Aravalli Biodiversity Park. While the park does not see the kind of diversity in fauna that the Okhla Bird Sanctuary does, it is still popular among nature lovers. Mohmmad Ayub, a Gurgaon resident who has been visiting the park for three years, says, “It was weird when the park was shut during the summer months. It is the hub of activity every morning and the perfect escape from the concrete jungle that NCR is. These days, one can even spot migratory birds and butterflies if you are lucky. I go here every weekend in the mornings to just run and spend some time in a natural setting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-beats-2020-stress-with-nature-walks-and-excursions-in-bird-sanctuaries-and-parks/articleshow/79968039.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Importance of Artificial Intelligence in human life discussed||The centre for academic leadership and educational management (CALEM), department of education, Panjab University and the department of computer science and applications recently organised a faculty development programme (FDP) on ‘Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning – Basics and Applications’. The event which will go on till December 28 will touch various aspects of AI. The speaker during the event stressed that AI needs attention from various disciplines to solve real life problems and fulfill India's AI initiative. The inaugural session saw Prof Kuldeep Chand Agnihotri, vice chancellor, Central University of Himachal Pradesh, discussing use of machine learning. He said AI has increased tremendously in almost every field. PU VC Prof Raj Kumar talked about the importance of AI for society. He also discussed that artificial intelligence has lots of opportunities in the coming time. He shared that Panjab University has been actively conducting extension activities, webinars, faculty development programmes etc. and in future also such programmes should be organized to give the future directions to the researchers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/importance-of-artificial-intelligence-in-human-life-discussed/articleshow/79972299.cms||---
December 27, 2020||India||Sena says need united opposition front, Pawar should lead it||MUMBAI: Terming the opposition at the Centre and Congress “weak and ineffective,” Shiv Sena on Saturday suggested that all anti-BJP parties should unite under the banner of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) to offer a formidable alternative to the Modi government and indirectly suggested that NCP chief Sharad Pawar was best equipped to lead the opposition combine. The Sena mouthpiece Saamna, while criticising BJP’s alleged indifference to the farmers’ protest, said it was disregarding the opposition because it was feeble and fragmented. Saamna stated that a morcha had been organised on Thursday under Rahul Gandhi’s leadership in support of agitating farmers, but Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said even people within Congress did not take Rahul seriously. “An ineffective opposition is leading to the disintegration of democracy. Instead of blaming the government, the opposition party should introspect. There has to be a mass appeal to the opposition’s leadership… Rahul Gandhi individually is putting up a strong fight, but something is lacking... Even parties which are a part of UPA might not have taken the farmers’ protest seriously,” the paper said. Stating that “the Congress Working Committee should discuss why BJP dares to make fun of the party’s leadership”, Saamna noted the UPA “does not have a strong leader like Narendra Modi and a political manager like Amit Shah”. It said “the Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, Akali Dal, BSP, Akhilesh Yadav’s SP, Jaganmohan Reddy’s YSR Congress, K Chandrasekhar Rao from Telangana, Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik, Karnataka’s H D Kumaraswamy are all against BJP, but they are not part of the Congress-led UPA. Unless all these parties unite against BJP, the opposition cannot provide a formidable alternative”. Praising Pawar, the editorial said, “Pawar is an independent and powerful personality... and every party, including PM Modi, draws the benefit of his experience.” Saamna pointed out that “Mamata Banerjee is waging a lone battle in West Bengal. BJP is trying to split her party. The opposition parties unitedly need to stand with her”. Though top state Congress leaders were not available for comment, former Congress state minister Naseem Khan said, “Shiv Sena should keep in mind that it is not part of the UPA. They have no right to advise Congress. Congress has extended support to Sena in the state on the basis of the common minimum programme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sena-says-need-united-oppn-front-pawar-should-lead-it/articleshow/79972594.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 27, 2020||World||White House paves way for nuke reactor on moon||MUMBAI: USA’s plan to have the first nuclear reactor on the moon by the end of 2026 — for which the US Department of Energy in collaboration with Nasa intends to solicit industry design proposals in early 2021 — got an impetus with a recent White House directive. On December 16, outgoing President Donald Trump, as a parting shot, issued the “National Strategy for Space Nuclear Power and Propulsion” asking Nasa to “initiate fission surface power project for lunar surface demonstration by 2027 with scalability to a power range of 40 kilowatt-electric and higher to support a sustained lunar presence and exploration of Mars”. The order emphasized the need to “develop uranium fuel processing capabilities that enable production of fuel suitable to the lunar and planetary surface”, as “the ability to use space nuclear power and propulsion systems safely, securely and sustainably is vital to maintaining and advancing United States’ dominance and strategic leadership in space.” Earlier, in an email interview to TOI, Nasa spokesperson Clare A Skelly had said the space agency aims to establish a flight hardware system that is ready for integrating with the lunar lander by 2026-end. The fission power system — as the nuclear reactor is called — will benefit future robotic and human exploration missions to the moon as well as Mars. “The availability of safe, efficient, and readily available power is critical to these missions and a fission surface power system meets those requirements,” she stated. “The fission surface power system will be fully manufactured and assembled on earth and integrated on a lander as a payload. The system will be designed to deploy and operate from the payload platform after the lander arrives on the lunar surface,” Skelly said. The system — consisting of four major subsystems including a nuclear reactor, an electric power conversion unit, heat rejection array, and power management and distribution subsystem — will be designed to operate for up to 10 years. Skelly said all safety requirements would be strictly adhered to and the fission process initiated only after the nuclear system lands on the moon on a command from the earth. “Unlike terrestrial reactors (those on earth) there is no intention of fuel removal or replacement, and the reactor is fully encapsulated so it will not produce a waste containment concern,” she said, adding that the region of the moon where the reactor would be placed was being worked out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/white-house-paves-way-for-nuke-reactor-on-moon/articleshow/79972733.cms||Srinivas Laxman
December 27, 2020||Business||India to become 3rd largest economy by 2030: Report||NEW DELHI: India will regain its position as the fifth-largest economy by 2025 and emerge as the third-largest by 2030 in dollar terms and remain in that position until 2035 while China is now forecast to overtake the US economy in 2028, five years earlier than in 2033 as previously forecast, a top economic research firm has estimated. The latest World Economic League Table 2021 published by the Centre for Economics and Business Research (CEBR) which has forecasts for 193 countries up to 2035 said the working of the table has been done due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on global economies. “While virtually all countries have been affected by the pandemic, one of its impacts has been to redistribute economic momentum between countries with Asia doing best and Europe worst,” CEBR said in its report, estimating that the pandemic has had a $6 trillion GDP cost in 2020. “India has been knocked off course somewhat through the impact of the pandemic. As a result, after overtaking the UK in 2019, the UK overtakes India again in this year’s forecasts and stays ahead till 2024 before India takes over again,” the report said. According to the IMF, India emerged as the fifth largest economy in 2019, ahead of the UK and France. The Indian economy, Asia’s third-largest has been hit hard by one the strictest lockdowns in the world imposed to ward off the spread of the deadly Covid-19 infection. As economic activity stalled, the economy contracted by a record 23.9% in the June quarter. This was among the sharpest contractions among major and G-20 economies. But the lifting of the lockdown since June and easing of curbs has led to a sharp recovery and the contraction has narrowed to 7.5% in the September quarter. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) now estimates the economy to return to positive territory by the third quarter of the current fiscal year that ends in March. The economy is forecast to record robust growth in 2021-22 due to the low base and the pace of recovery, which is seen sustained on the back of measures unleashed by the government and the central bank. The bruising impact of the economy has also meant that India will have to wait to achieve its target of emerging as a $5 trillion economy by 2024. Economists say it will take a few years before India’s economy returns to the 7%-8% growth trajectory. “We estimate that world GDP will fall by at least 4.0% this year, clearly with a huge margin of error. If this is correct, the fall will be more than twice as large as in 2009 during the financial crisis and will be the largest drop in GDP in one year since 1931 other than in years affected by war,” the CEBR said in its report “Provided that both fiscal and monetary action are taken on the extensive scale promised, there should be a sharp economic recovery in 2021 with world GDP growth of 3.4% although it will be 2022 before world GDP overtakes the 2019 level,” the report added. Watch India to become world's third largest economy by 2030: Report||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-to-become-3rd-largest-economy-by-2030-report/articleshow/79972584.cms||Surojit Gupta
December 27, 2020||India||MP ‘love jihad’ bill: Maintenance for ‘victims’, arrest without warrant||BHOPAL: The Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet on Saturday approved the MP Dharm Swatantra Vidheyak 2020 (MP Freedom of Religion Bill). It will be tabled before the assembly in the upcoming winter session that begins on Monday. MP would be the second state after UP to have such a law, once the bill is passed in the assembly. What sets the MP bill apart is a provision of maintenance for the victim and her child. The ‘burden of proof’ is on the accused, and the crime will be cognisable and non-bailable, which means police can arrest without a warrant. Talking to the media after the cabinet meeting, home minister Narottam Mishra said that the MP bill is stricter, with longer terms of imprisonment. It will replace the Religious Freedom Act of 1968. “Having a person convert from one religion to another by enticement, threats, force, marriage and conspiracy has been made punishable under this law. Provisions have been made for the parents of the victim or an organisation to register a complaint after which police will start an inquiry,” said Mishra. “Such marriages, done with the intention of conversion, will be annulled,” the home minister said, adding that relatives of the victim will need to approach a family court with an application for this. A child born of such an annulled marriage will have the right to maintenance expenses and inherit both paternal and maternal property. Once a marriage is annulled, the converted person will be deemed to have returned to their paternal religion. According to the proposed bill, anyone found guilty of forcibly converting another person will be jailed for a year to five years and fined Rs 25,000. If the victim is a minor, woman, or belongs to an SC/ST community, the jail term will be between two and 10 years and fine Rs 50,000. If a person violates the law while hiding his religious identity, the jail term will be three-10 years and the fine Rs 50,000, Mishra added. Mass conversions (of two or more persons) incur harsher punishment — five to 10 years’ imprisonment plus a fine of at least Rs 1 lakh. For a repeat offence, the jail term will be up to 10 years. In case one wishes to convert voluntarily, the priest who conducts the conversion must inform the district magistrate two months in advance. If he doesn’t, he will be jailed for three years to five years and fined Rs 50,000. MP pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma had met UP CM Yogi Adityanath earlier this month to discuss features of the law in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-love-jihad-bill-maintenance-for-victims-arrest-without-warrant/articleshow/79972829.cms||Suchandana Gupta
December 27, 2020||India||India sees 18.5k fresh cases, lowest in 6 months||NEW DELHI: India reported the lowest single-day count of fresh Covid-19 cases in nearly six months on Saturday, as a receding pandemic, as well as lower testing on Christmas day, resulted in less than 19,000 new infections being detected across the country. India recorded 18,475 fresh cases on Saturday, the lowest daily count since June 30, when 18,333 infections were registered, as per TOI’s database collated from state government figures. Its total caseload stood at 1,01,88,263. The daily death toll remained below 300 for the second day running, with 280 fatalities being reported on Saturday. A day earlier, India had recorded 253 deaths, the lowest in a single day since June 2. With this, the cumulative deaths have risen to 1,47,607. The Covid graph in Maharashtra dipped further, with less than 3,000 cases registered on Saturday. Only 536 patients tested positive in Mumbai, once the worst hotspot in the country. The mortality too continued to drop, with Maharashtra authorities announcing 60 deaths — including 12 from Mumbai — in the 24-hour period ending on Saturday. The state toll stands at 49,189, including 11,068 from Mumbai. In Bihar, 474 new cases were registered, taking the state’s tally past the 2.5-lakh mark on Saturday. Officially, six deaths were reported as the toll mounted to 1,379. With 2,43,985 recoveries so far, there are 5,084 active cases in Bihar. Andhra Pradesh reported 282 fresh cases on Saturday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,80,712. The toll increased to 7,092 with one more patient succumbing to the pandemic in Kadapa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sees-18-5k-fresh-cases-lowest-in-6-months/articleshow/79972839.cms||---
December 27, 2020||India||WHO lists ten global health issues for 2021||NEW DELHI: Countries around the world will need to move swiftly to reinforce their health systems in 2021, the WHO has said. “In 2021, WHO will work across all three levels of the organisation and with partners worldwide to help countries strengthen systems so that they can respond to Covid-19 and deliver all essential health services required to keep people healthy,” WHO says, while listing out 10 global health issues to track in 2021. It includes speeding up access to Covid-19 tests, medicines and vaccines and to tackle health inequities. It said it is vital to ensure that screening and treatment programmes for diseases like cancer and heart disease are accessible to all who need them when they need them. “This will be a major focus, along with a new Global Diabetes Compact, and a campaign to help 100 million people quit tobacco,” WHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/who-lists-ten-global-health-issues-for-2021/articleshow/79972849.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 27, 2020||India||Whole genome sequencing likely on 5% of cases on UK strain threat||NEW DELHI: The National Task Force on Covid-19 has recommended that as part of “prospective surveillance”, 5% of positive cases from all states and UTs be tested for whole-genome sequencing to check for the presence of the “UK strain” that is seen to have a higher degree of infectiousness. A genomic surveillance consortium, INSACOG, has been formed under National Centre for Disease Control for laboratory and epidemiological surveillance of circulating strains of SARS-CoV-2. Further, over 50 samples of UK returnees are under sequencing at the designated laboratories. The task force said it is critical to conduct enhanced genomic surveillance for SARS-CoV-2. Read AlsoNew Coronavirus strain: Back to unchartered watersScientists are baffled by the quick evolution of the new strain of novel coronavirus. First detected in the UK a fortnight ago, it has undergone mutations 23 times within a few months. This is rare. A year into the pandemic, the new strain has brought us back to square one. What is this new strainAs part of the surveillance strategy at work, all passengers who came from UK between December 21 to 23 have been tested for Covid-19 at airports and passengers who report negative are allowed to exit. On Saturday, the NTF deliberated on aspects related to current National Treatment Protocol, testing strategy and surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 vis-à-vis the UK variant strain. The meeting was convened by ICMR under co-chairpersonship of Vinod Paul, member, Niti Aayog, and ICMR director general Balram Bhargava.  NTF concluded that there is no need to change existing treatment protocol in view of mutations emerging in the strain. It was also emphasised at the meet that since the UK variant strain is implicated to cause increased transmissibility of virus, it is critical to identify individuals infected with this strain and adequately contain them to prevent its transmission in India. Read AlsoCovid strain: Govt says focus on enhanced genomic surveillance; taskforce suggests no change in treatment protocolNEW DELHI: In the wake of a mutated variant of coronavirus detected in the UK, a genomic surveillance consortium has been formed for laboratory and epidemiological surveillance of circulating strains of the SARS-CoV-2 in India, the Centre said on Saturday. The genomic surveillance consortium,The current strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant works at three levels — at points of entry (all international airports in India), community surveillance and prospective surveillance. Persons who, on arriving from UK have tested positive, are under institutional isolation and their samples sent for WGS. The list of all UK arrivals during the last 28 days has been shared by Bureau of Immigration with states and all passengers who arrived between November 25 and December 20 are being tracked by the IDSP State Surveillance Units and District Surveillance Units. Watch Coronavirus new strain: How concerned should we all be?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/whole-genome-sequencing-likely-on-5-of-cases-on-uk-strain-threat/articleshow/79972836.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmer who spoke to PM supports protest||Hisar: Hari Singh Bishnoi, a farmer from Nadhori village of Fatehabad district, who interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to share his experience of crop diversification, said he wanted to raise the issue of MSP with the Prime Minister but did not get an opportunity to share his thoughts as it was a brief interaction. Talking to the TOI, Bishnoi, 50, said he supported the demands of protesting farmers, including assured minimum support price (MSP).  “It was a good experience to interact with the PM but as a farmer, I support farmers who are on an agitational path on demands for betterment of the farming community,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmer-who-spoke-to-pm-supports-protest/articleshow/79972018.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Patna||Patna: Junior doctors refuse to relent, continue indefinite strike||PATNA: Functioning in government hospitals in the state remained affected for the fourth consecutive as junior doctors continued with their strike on Saturday demanding hike in their stipend. The OPD, emergency and medical services in different wards of several hospitals were hit and some of the planned operations had to be postponed. In some cases, the relatives had to shift their patients to private hospitals for lack of proper care. Even in PMCH, several patients had to move to private health institutes because of lack of doctors due to the strike. Attendants even complained they were facing problem in getting ultrasound done. Very few doctors visited the wards and that, too, occasionally. The junior doctors refused to relent despite the state health department’s order to the hospitals to take action against them. The health department on Friday asked the respective medical college and hospitals administration to deduct the stipend money given to junior doctors under no-work, no-pay rule and initiate legal action against those who hindered essential health services in the hospitals. PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said a meeting held with the representatives of Junior Doctors’ Association (JDA) in the presence of principal and department heads on Saturday could not break the ice. “I told them to resume their service soon and asked them for one month time so that I could get their grievances redressed. However, they were not ready,” said Dr Karak, adding, “I have asked the department heads to submit the attendance register so that we could identify those who were abstaining from their duty as their stipend amount will be cut. We will also take action against JDA office-bearers,” he said. PMCH JDA president Ramchandra Kumar said their demand was genuine and they expected the government to help rather than treating them like goons. “We have served with devotion even in the Covid-19 pandemic. If our demands are not fulfilled, we will continue with the strike,” he said. Talking about the meeting with the college administration, Dr Kumar said they wanted the government officials to give them time and sort out their issues. The JDA members said the state government had, in 2014, taken the decision to revise their stipend every three year. Their stipend was revised last in 2017. Apart from boycotting work, the junior doctors staged protest in their college campuses. Admitted in the orthopaedics department of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Rajesh Kumar said he had to come back from the operation theatre door as his operation was postponed because of the strike. “I had bought all the necessary medicines for the operation,” he said. Another patient in the same ward, who had injury in his hand, said his dressing was not being done since the strike started on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/junior-doctors-refuse-to-relent-continue-indefinite-strike/articleshow/79970462.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Restructuring of ULBs may have a bearing on panchayat elections’||PATNA/GAYA/MADHUBANI/AURANGABAD: The decision of the state cabinet to create 103 new nagar panchayats, eight nagar parishads, 32 municipal councils and five municipal corporations might have an impact on the panchayat elections scheduled to be held in the state in April-May next year, experts said. They added the move would partially alter the demography of at least 194 gram panchayats, whose parts would be included in the upgraded nagar nikays. Nearly 65 gram panchayats would lose their major share and the same would be included in nagar nikays. “Once the notification is issued, the existing number of gram panchayats will also be reduced,” a senior officer in the urban and housing development department said. The officer, however, didn’t specify the number of the gram panchayats to be affected by the government’s new decision. Additional chief secretary of panchyati raj department Amrit Lal Meena said a detailed report has been sought from the urban and housing development department on the matter. He said some gram panchayats would become parts of nagar panchayats, nagar parishads and municipal corporations following the new decision. “We don’t have any problem in these panchayats as far the panchayat elections are concerned. But the electoral rolls will be prepared afresh in those gram panchayats whose parts would partially be affected,” he added. Meanwhile, the move has made people of the areas concerned upbeat as they are hopeful of rapid urbanisation now. In Gaya district, four new nagar panchayats – Wazirganj, Fatehpur, Khisersarai and Imamganj – will be created. There existing nagar panchayats – Sherghati, Tekari and Bodh Gaya – have been upgraded as nagar parishads. Locals feel that the move will usher in development in their respective areas. Prabhat Kumar, a resident of Wazirganj, said, “Upgradation of Wazirganj as nagar panchayat was a long pending demand of the locals. Apart from MLA fund, other funds will also come now for development works in the area.” In Madhubani town, which has been upgraded from a municipal council to a municipal corporation, locals hoped the civic conditions would improve. Some, however, sounded sceptical of any qualitative change in real terms and see it as yet another political move. Altogether 13 more panchayats are likely to be incorporated in the Madhubani Municipal Corporation. Sunil Kumar Jha, a resident of Station Road, said, “The move will pave the way for greater infrastructural development in the town.” Anil Kumar Jha, a Congress worker, described the move a gimmick. “Existing municipal corporations in the state lack basic civic amenities. Mere upgradation of the civic body is unlikely to change things,” he added. Aurangabad’s Deo and Barun will also be converted into nagar panchayats. Deputy secretary in urban development and housing department K D Projjwal, who was in Aurangabad on Friday, said Deo is known throughout the country for the ancient Sun Temple and more than one crore pilgrims visit the place every year. “Civic amenities will improve at Deo as it will now be a nagar panchayat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/restructuring-of-ulbs-may-have-a-bearing-on-panchayat-elections/articleshow/79970488.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Patna||OTA-Gaya commandant lauds Nalanda Sainik School’s feat||PATNA: Lieutenant general Sunil Srivastava, AVSM,VSM, commandant, Officers’ Training Academy, Gaya and colonel commandant of the Regiment of Artillery visited Sainik School Nalanda on Saturday and institutionalised a trophy to be presented to the house that sends maximum number of cadets to the coveted National Defence Academy (NDA). Addressing the staff and day-scholar cadets, Srivastava applauded the school’s recent achievements in the field of academics, co and extra-curricular activities and NDA entrance examination alike. He said that Sainik School Nalanda, in a short span of time of 17 years, has carved a niche for itself and is regarded as one of the best Sainik schools in the country. He complimented the steps initiated towards the overall improvement in the school’s culture and infrastructure since his previous visit in October 2019 and appreciated the preparations towards receiving girl cadets from the forthcoming academic session. Principal Colonel Tamojeet Biswas received the trophy on behalf of the entire Mauryan fraternity. He thanked Srivastava and stated that his invaluable suggestions and guidance would go a long way in taking Sainik School Nalanda to even greater heights in times to come. The event culminated with Madhusudan De, senior master, proposing the vote of thanks. Wing commander P S Gujral, vice-principal Ajay Chand and administrative officer were also present along with other members of the staff during the presentation ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ota-gaya-commandant-lauds-nalanda-sainik-schools-feat/articleshow/79970529.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Railways cancels two BPSC special trains||PATNA: The railways cancelled two special trains for Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) examinees – Sonepur-Chhapra MEMU (03253/03254) and Dhanbad-Ranchi intercity (03303/03304) – due to technical reasons on Saturday. Five pairs of other special trains for BPSC examinees, on the other hand, were rescheduled on Saturday. The BPSC examinations will be held in the state on Sunday. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the rescheduled Patliputra Junction intercity special (05201/05202) left Patliputra Junction at 5pm on Saturday and reached Narkatiaganj at 11.35pm. “On its return journey, the train will leave Narkatiaganj on Sunday at 4.20am and reach Patliputra Junction at 11.30am the same day,” the CPRO said. Similarly, the rescheduled Muzaffarpur-Narkatiaganj intercity special (05215/05216) left Muzaffarpur at 7:20am on Saturday and reached Narkatiaganj at 11.15am. On its return journey, the train will left Narkatiagnaj at 1.45pm the same day and reached Muzaffarpur at 7.15pm. “The Samastipur Katihar MEMU special (03315/03316) left Samastipur at 5.55am on Saturday and reached Katihar at 3.35pm. On its return journey, the train will leave Katihar at 12.15pm on Sunday and reach Samastipur at 8.01pm the same day,” Kumar said, adding the Raxaul-Darbhanga MEMU special (05217/05218) left Raxaul at 10.20am on Saturday and reached Darbhanga at 3.30pm. On its return journey, the train will leave Darbhanga at 6.35pm on Sunday and reach Raxaul at 11.25pm the same day. Likewise, the Rajgir-Danapur intercity special (13233/13234) left Rajgir at 4.30pm on Saturday and reached Danapur at 9pm. On its return journey, the train will leave Danapur at 7am on Sunday and reach Rajgir at 11.45am the same day. “We are strictly following Covid-19 protocols and the examinees are being asked to wear masks during the journey,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-cancels-two-bpsc-special-trains/articleshow/79970535.cms||Kumod Verma
December 27, 2020||Lucknow||997 PAC jawans to be deputed as jail warders for 2-years||LUCKNOW: The state home department has allowed the prisons department to deploy 997 Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) jawans as jail warders for two years. Director general, prisons, Anand Kumar said the step was taken as there was a shortage of 4,600 jail warders in the state and filling up of vacancies and training of new recruits would take two years. The government has already initiated the process for the recruitment of 3,638 jail warders. “We will provide proper training to PAC jawans before deploying them in jails,” said Kumar. The DG said all the jawans who had been chosen for deputation in prisons department were asked for their willingness and also informed about the work of a jail warder. The officer said the Uttar Pradesh Police Recruitment & Promotion Board had also organised the examination for 3,638 posts of jail warders and they would be recruited soon. Prisons department officials said the jails in the state were also being upgraded. “At least 271 jammers and 2,800 CCTV cameras have been installed in the prisons of the state, deterring criminals to use phones and carry out other nefarious activities from inside jails,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/997-pac-jawans-to-be-deputed-as-jail-warders-for-2-years/articleshow/79972583.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Dehradun||1,500 farmers booked in US Nagar for ‘attacking policemen’ while trying to reach Ghazipur border||Rudrapur: Udham Singh Nagar police has booked 1,500 unidentified farmers for indulging in clashes with police personnel while trying to cross the district borders on their way to Ghazipur border. A protest march, 'Delhi chalo', had been organised by Terai farmers on December 25, which marked day 30 of farmers’ agitation in the country. Sources in the police department said farmers who created ruckus and attacked police personnel on duty will be identified. With security beefed up at the Uttar Pradesh-US Nagar border, farmers had taken interior routes to reach Ghazipur. While Rudrapur city remained peaceful, clashes between police and farmers took an ugly turn on the outskirts. A tractor ploughed through police barricades in Kashipur. Station house officer (SHO) of ITI police station Vidya Dutt Joshi, who lay down in front of a vehicle, was forced to retreat, as was Sitarganj sub-inspector (SI) Sudhakar Joshi, who also tried to stop a tractor. In Nanakmatta, police put up barricades and formed human chains to stop farmers, who had blocked a national highway by sitting on dharna. After a clash broke out, farmers tore the uniform of Nanakmatta SHO Kamlesh Bhatt. Additional superintendent of police (ASP), Kashipur, Rajesh Bhatt told TOI, “Available video footage will be scanned and names will subsequently be added to the FIR.” In a video conference chaired by inspector general (IG), Kumaon region, Ajay Rautela, it was decided that all those who attacked police personnel across the district would be booked. The cases have been filed at Bazpur police station under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1932, as well as relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1500-farmers-booked-in-us-nagar-for-attacking-policemen-while-trying-to-reach-ghazipur-border/articleshow/79970573.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 27, 2020||Patna||Patna: Youth’s body recovered||PATNA: Police recovered the body of one Monu Kumar (23) from Ranighat in Patna City late on Friday night. The victim, a resident of Takiapar under the Danapur police station area, had gone missing on December 22. SHO of Danapur police station Ajeet Kumar Saha said Monu’s father Raj Kumar had lodged a missing complaint on Tuesday. “The body was recovered in a decomposed state. It is still not clear whether it was a case of murder or something else as no external injury mark was found on the body,” he added. Four held with arms: Police arrested four criminals from Malahi village under the Barh police station area in rural Patna late on Friday night when they were planning to commit road robbery. SP (rural) Kantesh Kumar Mishra said the arrested criminals were identified as Nitish Kumar alias Bajrangi, Rajnish Kumar alias Bagarbilla, Prince Kumar alias Pandey Ji and Pawan Kumar. A country-made semiautomatic pistol, two live cartridges, 3kg ganja, a looted bike and a cellphone were recovered from the possession of the criminals, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youths-body-recovered/articleshow/79970506.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Vadodara||Accident victim can’t get ICU bed at government hospitals, dies||VADODARA: An accident victim from Amod in Bharuch district whose family could not find an ICU bed at the largest government medical facilities in the city died on Saturday. According to sources, Nazim Rathod (28) had met with an accident near Olpad in Surat on Friday. From here he was brought to Bharuch and then to a private hospital in Vadodara. From the private hospital he was rushed to the SSG Hospital (SSGH) as the family found treatment at the private hospital costly. The youth needed a surgical ICU, but there were only five such beds in SSGH. From SSGH, the patient was rushed to the GMERS Hospital, Gotri. At the Gotri hospital too, the family was informed that there was no vacant bed there and the patient was brought back to SSGH. The family then took the patient to a private hospital where he died on Saturday. In-charge superintendent of SSGH Dr Ranjan Iyer said, “All these ICU beds were occupied when the patient was brought there and hence the family was asked to rush him elsewhere. We are looking into the details. In the meantime, we will increase surgical ICU beds,” he added.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/accident-victim-cant-get-icu-bed-at-govt-hosp-dies/articleshow/79971003.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Allahabad||Noted Urdu writer-critic Faruqi passes away at 85||PRAYAGRAJ/NEW DELHI: Accomplished Urdu litterateur Shamsur Rahman Faruqi, who wrote the sweeping and celebrated novel Kai Chand Thhey Sar-e-Aasmaan, who brought out the seminal literary magazine Shabkhoon, and who was central to the revival of dastangoi, passed away on Friday. He was 85. Faruqi had tested positive for the novel coronavirus last month in Delhi. “After treatment he was fine but he developed fungal infection in one of his eyes. As his condition worsened, he kept asking to go home. Finally he arrived in the city by air ambulance on Friday. He breathed his last just half an hour after reaching home,” said his brother, N R Farooqui. Pratapgarh-born Faruqi’s works traversed languages and genres. He was a critic, a theorist, a novelist, and more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/noted-urdu-writer-critic-faruqi-passes-away-at-85/articleshow/79970226.cms||Rajiv Mani
December 27, 2020||Goa||Park at Patto, walk to casinos on December 31||PANAJI: On New Year’s Eve, motorists in the state capital may have to park at Patto multi-storey parking and walk to the casinos. After the resumption of casinos, traffic woes in Panaji has resumed in addition to the nightmare of haphazard parking in the narrow roads and bylanes adjacent to the DB Marg. While the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has started clamping such vehicles since November and charging them a fine, the night patrol team continues to detect violators – most of who are casino visiting tourists. Anticipating traffic choking the roads and causing inconvenience to residents and local motorists on New Year’s Eve, the CCP has decided to put together a plan along with the Goa police traffic cell for the night. “It is difficult to discipline the violators when the fine is only Rs 100, but we will clamp vehicles even on New Year’s Eve if they are parked on roads that clearly have a ‘No Parking’ signage,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. He further said that Patto multi-storey parking and Patto plaza can be used to park vehicles on December 31 night. “We will be deploying extra staff on the roads to control the New Year’s rush and additional measures will be taken for the regulation and smooth flow of traffic. We have already deployed additional staff at Calangute, Mapusa and Anjuna and will soon follow in Panaji. They will be regulating the traffic which will be supervised by senior officers,” DySP (traffic) Salim Shaikh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/park-at-patto-walk-to-casinos-on-dec-31/articleshow/79972021.cms||Nida Sayed
December 27, 2020||Rajkot||Saurashtra’s green warrior who ‘dug his own grave’ dies||Rajkot: In 2012, Premjibhai Patel left everyone surprised when he dug his own grave, literally!. Patel, who is credited with planting over 10 million trees, told his family members that not a single piece of wood should be used in his cremation. On Friday, Premji Bapa of Upleta taluka in Rajkot died in Ahmedabad. But the pandemic, the family could not complete his last wish — to be buried in the grave he dug for himself. He was 94.“Due to the prevailing Covid situation, we had to perform his last rites in Ahmedabad as per the protocol,” his industrialist son Rayji Patel, with whom he lived, told TOI. "I can't see the trees which I planted being chopped for my death. No wood should be used in my agni sanskar," he had said then, urging family members to cover the pit after burying him and start farming on it.Premjibhai was felicitated with the National Water Award -2008 by the union ministry of water resources for building nearly 1,700 check dams across Saurashtra.A successful businessman in Mumbai, Premjibhai returned to his native 1967 with a sole aim to embark on a mission to turn arid Saurashtra green. He founded a non-governmental organization (NGO), which initiated a number of water harvesting and tree plantation projects in Rajkot district. He also wanted to make a forest area from Gir stretching right up to Dwarka.Interestingly, he had encouraged planting of gando bawal (prosposis), the menacingly invasive specie, with an aim to stop chopping of wood for fuel. Gando bawal is used to make charcoal.Premjibhai had started broadcasting seeds, the method of plantation by scattering the seeds, with the help of his volunteers. Later, his son-in-law designed and gifted him a blower machine to broadcast seeds as his work spread in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.“Impressed by the innovative blower machine, former President, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam had also met him during a function in Ahmedabad,” said Menshi Saraiya, an environment activist who has been working with Premjibhai since 1997. He was amused all by planting trees not just in dedicated places, but those like roadsides and railway tracks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/saurashtras-green-warrior-who-dug-his-own-grave-dies/articleshow/79970359.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Elderly exercise in the cold to boost morale||Jandiala: A group of elderly farmers have taken to exercising and wrestling to boost farmers’ morale and motivate the youth to join the struggle in Delhi. “We are not feeble, we are as strong as we were in our youth and so is our commitment to get the three agri laws scrapped,” said Gurcharan Singh while talking to TOI on Saturday after doing a round of squats. He said as the winter approached its peak, the farmers’ struggle also neared climax and there was a need to motivate more people, especially the youth to go to Delhi and join the movement. Kartar Singh, in his late sixties, said it was a symbolic gesture to convey to the Centre that Punjabis were not weak and would not settle for anything less than repealing of the three agri laws. Elderly people from all walks of life take a round of the village, warm up, exercise and motivate village youth to be physically strong and help in the farmers’ struggle. “This is our style of giving a message to the Modi government to repeal the three agri laws, I have been in Delhi for three days and I am ready to go again,” said Pritam Singh, adding that nothing could stop them from achieving their target. Meanwhile, family members and friends of farmers as well as others who have gone to Delhi to participate in the agitation took out a march in the city to express solidarity with the struggling farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/elderly-exercise-in-the-cold-to-boost-morale/articleshow/79972016.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar Covid-19 tally crosses 2.5 lakh-mark||PATNA: Altogether 474 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,50,450. Officially, six deaths were reported as the toll mounted to 1379. However, with 2,43,985 recoveries, there are 5084 active cases in Bihar. Health minister Mangal Pandey said 730 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and the state’s recovery rate was 97.42%. Of the 474 cases, 196 were from Patna, taking the district tally to 47,918. But there were only 2055 active cases in Patna and 373 deaths. The other districts with new cases included Muzaffarpur (28), Sitamarhi (20), Nawada (14), Arwal (13), Araria (13), Khagaria (12), Lakhisarai (12), Saran (12), Banka (11) and Begusarai (11). The state health department reported four deaths from Patna, taking its toll to 273, followed by one each from Begusarai and Supaul. AIIMS-Patna reported three deaths, all from Patna. One was retired civil surgeon Dr S P Ambastha (78) of Lohia Nagar while another a 32-year-old woman of Kadamkuan. The third one was a 72-year-old male of Kankarbagh. While no new Covid-19 patient was admitted to AIIMS-P, 17 were discharged on Saturday. NMCH reported two deaths, including a 70-year-old man of Raja Bazar and an 80-year-old male of Chaudhrainchak in Barh. While six positive patients were admitted, one was discharged as there were 16 Covid patients in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-5l-mark/articleshow/79970448.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Patna||OPDs to reopen at AIIMS-Patna tomorrow||PATNA: After a gap of nearly nine months, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) is set to reopen its outpatient departments (OPDs) on December 28. However, emergency and trauma cases will not be taken up by the hospital. “Only 20 patients would be registered for each department per day,” AIIMS-P director Dr P K Singh said on Saturday. The important departments to resume OPD services are medicine, surgery, gynaecology, orthopaedics, psychiatry, dermatology, ophthalmology, ENT, dentistry, burns, plastic surgery, gastro medicine, haematology, cardiothoracic and vascular surgery and radiotherapy. “The trauma and emergency services will be closed till further orders,” added the director. The OPDs were suspended following the lockdown enforced in the country in March this year to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. In July this year, AIIMS-P was converted into a dedicated Covid hospital. AIIMS-P medical superintendent Dr C M Singh said the Covid ward with 170 beds, including 60 intensive care units (ICUs), has been shifted to the trauma block. He said registration for OPD service would be made online and the patients in need of indoor treatment would be admitted in respective wards. Surgeries in all departments would also be taken up as usual. Head of trauma and emergency Dr Anil Kumar said an internal emergency service for the doctors, employees, paramedical staff and students of AIIMS-P was being introduced in the flu clinic. Though the telemedicine department of the institute has already been functional, it is now being strengthened so that more patients can avail the facility. Dr Anil, who is also in charge of telemedicine department, said while three doctors were providing round-the-clock consultation to people through telephone and video calls, three more doctors, one each in medicine, obstetrics and gynaecology and paediatrics, were being appointed under a collaboration with the Bihar State Health Society. “Strengthening of telemedicine department would help a large number of patients from far off areas in getting medical suggestions for various ailments,” Dr Anil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opds-to-reopen-at-aiims-patna-tomorrow/articleshow/79970470.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: University teachers to get arrears as norms eased||PATNA: Acting on the recent judgment of Patna high court on fixation of pay of university teachers, the state government has withdrawn its earlier order of withholding payment of arrears of revised UGC scales to those teachers whose pay has not been verified by the pay revision committee (PVC) of the state education department. In its latest circular, the education department has directed the universities to make the payment of arrears to all those teachers whose pay in the revised scale has been fixed by the statutory pay fixation committee of the university. Earlier, in its order issued on May 18 this year, the state government had directed the universities to pay the arrears of revised UGC pay to the teachers only after getting the pay slip issued by the PVC. Consequently, the universities were not making the payment in spite of the fact that they had already received necessary funds from the government for the payment of arrears. Anguished over this decision of the state government, some university teachers moved the high court which, in its recent judgment, took strong exception to the government order in utter violation of the court’s earlier order dated January 15, 2015 directing the universities to pay salaries and arrears of salaries as per pay fixation done by the statutory pay fixation committee of the universities and not by the PVC. The court had then observed that PVC is only an advisory body which may audit the payment made by the university as per university’s pay fixation committee’s recommendations and, in case of any discrepancy, it may point it out to the university. But, in any case, the final authority will always be the university’s pay fixation committee, the court order said. Welcoming the government’s recent order lifting the embargo on payment of arrears in the light of the court’s order, Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha urged the vice-chancellors of all the universities in the state to disburse the arrears of revised pay from January 2016 to March 2019 to the teachers in full as per the government direction, failing which they would be liable for contempt of court. He further urged the government to release the arrears for the pensioners, who retired before January, 2016. The Patna University Retired Teachers’ Association has also urged the state government to release necessary funds to the university for payment of arrears of their revised pension at the earliest. “Even though the working teachers of the university have started getting their salaries in the revised pay scale and paid all their arrears, the retired teachers have been left in the lurch,” said association general secretary S K Ganguli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/university-teachers-to-get-arrears-as-norms-eased/articleshow/79970492.cms||B K Mishra
December 27, 2020||Allahabad||No revaluation unless examinee produces answer script: Allahabad HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has recently held that the burden to prove fair evaluation cannot be shifted on the examining body unless the candidate produces an answer script to prove any discrepancy in marking. Dismissing a writ petition filed by one Manoj Kumar Tiwari seeking re-evaluation of his answer script, Justice Yashwant Varma observed, “The practice of approaching this court directly without obtaining copies of the answer scripts or seeking directions requiring examining bodies to produce answer books cannot but be deprecated in the strongest terms, discouraged and curbed.” The petitioner had filed this petition seeking re-evaluation of his answer script for a particular subject in the entrance exam conducted for admission to D.EL.E.D course. After being declared unsuccessful in the entrance exam and on being denied admission, he had petitioned before the high court for re-evaluation. The first observation made by the court was that the petitioner had failed to present before it a copy of the answer script in question. The procedure of obtaining a copy of the answer script has been laid down by the apex court in the case of CBSE Vs Aditya Bandhopadhya and others, the court reminded the petitioner. To establish that the examining authority has made a mistake in evaluation of an answer script, it is crucial for the petitioner to first prove that such an illegality has been committed by the examiner, the court added. “The onus and burden on this aspect lies solely on the petitioner and is one which must be discouraged at the threshold,” the court further observed. The court gave this decision on December 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-no-revaluation-unless-examinee-produces-answer-script/articleshow/79970217.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Amritsar||Amid disruptions, Ashwani in Bathinda||BATHINDA: A day after disruption of the programme held to observe the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma visited Bathinda despite fierce opposition on Saturday. He went to the home of a party worker and held a meeting with party workers at a hotel. Knowing about his visit, farmers headed towards the Sharma’s place of arrival on Goniana road, but were stopped by the three-tier security ring put up by the police. Farmers held a protest against the BJP president. On Friday, farmers disrupted the BJP programme on Friday, damaging several chairs. Talking to TOI, Ashwani Sharma said, “I visited the home of a party activist who suffered an injury in the chaos on Friday and also held a meeting with party workers. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured to address all the concerns of farmers about agri laws, they must believe in the government and lift their protest. The Prime Minister has made it clear that MSP and APMC will not be disturbed due to the laws.” Security for BJP leadersPunjab government has provided security to BJP leaders at whose houses farmers have been holding protests for a long time. Two security men from Punjab police have been provided to every BJP leader. Barnala BJP district president Yadwinder Shunty said, “I have been provided two police personnel for security as farmers have been holding protest outside my home for a long time. Similarly, security has been provided to more party leaders.” BJP activist booked A case has been registered against BJP activist Loveleen Sharma at Dhanola police station in Barnala district for using objectionable words about women in the farmers’ protest. Police said Sharma had put up a post on his Facebook wall using objectionable words about women but later deleted it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/amid-disruptions-ashwani-in-bathinda/articleshow/79972019.cms||Neel Kamal
December 27, 2020||Amaravati||SEB accounts for 35% of all registered cases in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: In a span of seven months since the inception of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), the number of cases it has registered accounts for 35% of all cases registered in the state. In total, SEB registered 69,683 cases to curb smuggling of liquor and sand. According to latest SEB data, it made 89,617 arrests, out of which 77,537 relate to illegal liquor sales and possession while the rest are sand smuggling cases. Till date, 3.64 lakh litres of Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) and 8,452 litres of Indian-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) have been seized. Bureau officials point out that the formation of the SEB is one of the primary reasons behind the increase in enforcement work in the state. Officials also seized 3.77 lakhs of ID liquor and destroyed 85 lakh litres of fermented jaggery wash used for making arrack. In terms of action against belt shops, officials recovered 47,200 litres of IMFL and 2,628 litres of beer. Enforcement percentage saw an unprecedented increase by 72% in excise cases and 56% in sand theft cases in 2020 compared to 2019. Overall enforcement by state police increased by 58% in 2020. Major contributors to illegal liquor cases are the border districts of Krishna, Anantapur and Kurnool while the lowest shares are from Prakasam, Nellore and Tirupati urban. In terms of enforcement against sand smugglers, SEB booked 6,337 cases and arrested 12,080 persons in the last seven months. Sleuths recovered 4.61 tonnes of sand. Vizag rural, Anantapur and Prakasam jurisdictions contribute the majority of illegal sand smuggling cases whereas Vijayawada city, Guntur urban and Rajahmundry urban have the lowest number of cases. Enforcement officials noted that a bulk of the liquor smuggled into the state is from Telangana, Karnataka and Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/seb-accounts-for-35-of-all-registered-cases-in-ap/articleshow/79974354.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 27, 2020||Vijayawada||SEB accounts for 35% of all registered cases in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: In a span of seven months since the inception of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), the number of cases it has registered accounts for 35% of all cases registered in the state. In total, SEB registered 69,683 cases to curb smuggling of liquor and sand. According to latest SEB data, it made 89,617 arrests, out of which 77,537 relate to illegal liquor sales and possession while the rest are sand smuggling cases. Till date, 3.64 lakh litres of Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) and 8,452 litres of Indian-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) have been seized. Bureau officials point out that the formation of the SEB is one of the primary reasons behind the increase in enforcement work in the state. Officials also seized 3.77 lakhs of ID liquor and destroyed 85 lakh litres of fermented jaggery wash used for making arrack. In terms of action against belt shops, officials recovered 47,200 litres of IMFL and 2,628 litres of beer. Enforcement percentage saw an unprecedented increase by 72% in excise cases and 56% in sand theft cases in 2020 compared to 2019. Overall enforcement by state police increased by 58% in 2020. Major contributors to illegal liquor cases are the border districts of Krishna, Anantapur and Kurnool while the lowest shares are from Prakasam, Nellore and Tirupati urban. In terms of enforcement against sand smugglers, SEB booked 6,337 cases and arrested 12,080 persons in the last seven months. Sleuths recovered 4.61 tonnes of sand. Vizag rural, Anantapur and Prakasam jurisdictions contribute the majority of illegal sand smuggling cases whereas Vijayawada city, Guntur urban and Rajahmundry urban have the lowest number of cases. Enforcement officials noted that a bulk of the liquor smuggled into the state is from Telangana, Karnataka and Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seb-accounts-for-35-of-all-registered-cases-in-ap/articleshow/79970576.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 27, 2020||Meerut||4 injured in Muzaffarnagar pharma factory boiler blast||Muzaffarnagar: Four people, including a woman, were severely injured when a boiler blasted in a pharma factory located in the densely populated Kotwali area here on Saturday morning. The blast was so strong that a part of the roof of the building came crashing down. Owner of the factory, Deepak Kumar, claimed, “It was not a blast but a minor fire had erupted.” The factory, located in the residential Amba Vihar colony under city police station area, has been running for several years. It has 100 employees, including women, working in it. Ramashankar Tripathi, circle officer of the fire department, said, “The factory is not registered with the fire department and no safety norms were being followed. Strict action will be taken against the factory management, and it will be removed from the residential area.” Now, the administration has demanded that the factory’s legal documents be presented before it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/4-injured-in-muzaffarnagar-pharma-factory-boiler-blast/articleshow/79969730.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 27, 2020||Meerut||Day after court issues proclamation, rape accused constable held in Bijnor||Bijnor: A police constable in UP’s Bijnor who was accused of raping a woman on the pretext of marriage and also attempting to rape her daughter was arrested on Saturday. The absconding constable was arrested a day after a local court issued a proclamation notice under section 82 of the CrPC against him. The woman had alleged that constable Rastogi met her 10 years ago when she had gone to Seohara police station to file a complaint against her husband following a tiff. Thereafter, he continued to maintain relations with her by giving false promise of marriage. According to police, Manoj Rastogi was on the run ever since a case under section 376 (punishment for rape, 521, 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and various sections of the POCSO Act was lodged against him. “Woman had filed a complaint against a constable Manoj Rastogi last month. Earlier, the accused was trying to sort out the matter on his personal capacity. But the woman did not withdraw her complaint. The accused was posted here in Bijnor district during the alleged crime. But last year, he was transferred to Moradabad,” said Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh, while adding that the accused constable has been sent to jail. The SSP had then instructed to take strict action in the matter and wrote a letter to his Moradabad constable, seeking his help in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/day-after-court-issues-proclamation-rape-accused-constable-held-in-bijnor/articleshow/79969731.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 27, 2020||Dehradun||Govt hosp doc dies of Covid-19, toll touches 1,476 in U’khand||Dehradun: A doctor serving at Pauri’s District Hospital, involved in the treatment of the patients at the Covid-19 facility, died of coronavirus infection at AIIMS-Rishikesh on Friday. Dr VP Maurya (55), senior surgeon posted at the district hospital in Pauri, had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 4. Later, he was put on a ventilator. However, he succumbed to the virus on the date of his birth — December 25. Dr Maurya had been serving in the state for the last three decades. In his illustrious career, he has worked in Pauri, Chamoli, Nainital, and Haridwar districts. He is survived by his wife, a daughter, and a son. The state recorded 13 more fatalities on the day, taking the toll of the virus to 1,476. “Among the 13 deaths recorded, none people died in Dehradun district and one death each was reported from Haldwani, Haridwar, Uttarkashi, and Chamoli districts,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. On Saturday, 374 new cases of Covid-19 took the total tally of the virus to 89,218 in the state. The maximum of 152 new cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 53 in Nainital, 42 in Haridwar, 36 in Uttarkashi, 20 in Udham Singh Nagar, 19 in Pithoragarh, 15 in Bageshwar, 11 in Pauri, nine in Champawat, seven in Rudraprayag, six in Chamoli, three in Almora, and one in Tehri. Meanwhile, 416 people recovered from Covid-19 infection on Saturday. With this, the total number of cured cases in the Himalyan state reached 81,154. The state, till December 26, has tested over 17 lakh Covid-19 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-hosp-doc-dies-of-covid-19-toll-touches-1476-in-ukhand/articleshow/79970585.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||IT companies in Andhra Pradesh await government’s new policy||VISAKHAPATNAM: More than 250 information technology (IT) firms across Andhra Pradesh are waiting for the state government’s new IT policy, which will help them make business decisions from the new year onwards. The old IT policy, for 2016–20, developed by the former TDP government expired in March, 2020. But the Covid-19 induced lockdown halted progress on the new policy front. Now, IT firms are expecting the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led government to come up with a new IT policy soon. Leading executives of IT firms recently held a meeting with the IT department core team at the secretariat to discuss the overall needs of the industry. Speaking to TOI, Sreedhar Kosaraju, president of Information Technology Association of Andhra Pradesh (ITAA), said: “The state government is very positive about IT development in the state. We expect the government to announce the new IT policy soon. We also expect pending incentive dues to arrive by January.” The government, including the previous regime, owes nearly Rs 100 crore as pending incentives to IT firms. According to an official source at the secretariat, “The present chief secretary, Nilam Sawhney, reviewed the IT policy 20 days ago. Now, the new chief secretary will hopefully review it after January. We have no update on the IT policy and expect a fresh review by the new chief secretary.” At present, there are around 250 IT companies in the state with annual turnover in the range of Rs 1 crore to Rs 500 crore. All these firms combined employ nearly 35,000 people. Around 70 per cent of these employees are currently working from home. Sources said that the government is expected to scrap some of the features of the old IT policy such as 50 per cent rental subsidy and employment subsidy wherein the government gave Rs 1lakh to the employer for creating every new employment. Instead, the government is likely to come up with more value-added incentives in the new IT policy, sources in the industry informed. The tenure of the old IT policy was five years; however, sources indicate that this government may come up with a four-year policy. According to existing rules, the policy’s minimum tenure must be three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/it-cos-in-andhra-pradesh-await-govts-new-policy/articleshow/79970582.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 27, 2020||Lucknow||Banarasi silk makes fresh waves abroad||LUCKNOW: Powered by chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s push for the ‘one district, one product’ (ODOP) scheme, Varanasi’s famous Banarasi silk has been making fresh waves in countries like Greece, Rome and the US, the government has claimed. Though the supply of gowns and headgear for clergy to be worn on special occasions like Christmas began in 2005, more and more people abroad are now purchasing Banarasi silk. In 2005, a trader from Varanasi’s Adampur Syed Hussain went to Greece and Rome to set up an exhibition of Banarasi silk. Impressed with his work, local designers asked Hussain to prepare gowns and headgear for the clergy in Rome, Greece and the US. Since then, Hussain has been supplying clothes for the clergy and often uses zardozi and brocade in the designs. “To promote the ODOP campaign, the CM had urged people to buy these products as gifts for friends and family on festivals. As a result, people from other countries made a lot of purchases on Christmas and gifted these ‘desi’ products to their loved ones. These products included Banarasi silk products,” said the spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/banarasi-silk-makes-fresh-waves-abroad/articleshow/79972589.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Meerut||Meerut family robbed of cash, jewellery worth over Rs 30 lakh at gunpoint||MEERUT: Four armed assailants barged into the house of a jeweller in the city's posh Shastri Nagar area, held the family of Tejpal Verma at gunpoint for three hours and decamped with cash and jewellery worth over Rs 30 lakh. According to the family, the assailants broke into the house through the terrace. When the family woke up due to commotion, the assailants claiming themselves to be sleuths of Ghaziabad crime branch held the family hostage at gunpoint. "The assailants were armed with pistols, knives and rods. They entered through the terrace by breaking bolts of the door. We woke up by the sudden commotion and saw a torch light flashing at us. When we confronted them, the assailants took out their pistols and claimed they were sleuths from the crime branch and are here to take us away. They took our mobile phones into custody and held us captive in a room on the first floor," Kapil Verma, son of jeweller Tejpal Verma, said. There were three members - Tejpal, his wife Shahsi and their son Kapil - at home when the incident took place. According to them, the assailants decamped with Rs 10-11 lakh in cash and 500 grams of gold jewellery. After an alert in the morning, a team of cops from local Nauchandi police station led by superintendent of police (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh reached the spot and started an investigation in the case. "The family claims assailants decamped with their cash and jewellery. Attempt was also made to break into the vault, but it wasn't successful. Four teams have been formed and efforts are on to crack the case at the earliest," SP (city) Singh said. The incident in Meerut is one of the many such cases of attack on jewellers in the recent past. In September this year, a jeweller named Aman Jain was shot dead at his store in the city's Jagriti Vihar. In another such incident in November, Atul Kumar Garg, a jeweller of Bulandshahr, was waylaid and shot dead by armed assailants on a motorcycle in the main market in Shikarpur area of the district. He was on the way home after his day's work at the store. Another jeweller Abhishek Kesarwani was shot in his store in Lucknow last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/jewellers-under-attack-meerut-family-robbedof-cash-jewellery-worth-over-rs-30l-at-gunpoint/articleshow/79969735.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Metro station on Pimpri to Dapodi route almost ready||PUNE: The construction of the Sant Tukaramnagar Metro station is in its final stages, making it the first among 31 stations in both the corridors to near completion. Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) officials on Saturday said about 90% of work on the station has been completed so far. The remaining work is expected to be done in the next few days, officials said. According to MahaMetro, the station will feature commuter-centric facilities — ticket kiosks, ticketing machines and escalators — to go from the concourse to the platform level. The facility also boasts a foot overbridge connecting the staircase from the street level and the concourse, aimed at giving pedestrians from both sides of the road easy access to the either side of the platform. MahaMetro further said that it has expedited the construction of the other stations on the PCMC-Dapodi stretch — Phugewadi, Kasarwadi and Dapodi. The 7km “priority stretch” falls on the 16.59km long PCMC-Swargate Metro corridor. MahaMetro is developing another priority section — Vanaz to Garware College — on the Vanaz-Ramwadi line. Hemant Sonawane, general manager (public relations) of MahaMetro, work on the stations was taken up on a war footing after the viaduct was completed. “Construction of the stations is very delicate and requires perfect coordination between all the agencies involved in the work. Apart from Sant Tukaramnagar, the station at Phugewadi is also at an advanced stage — nearly 50% is complete,” Sonawane said. The Sant Tukaramnagar station is the second on the route, which originates near Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. The route will be elevated till Range Hills, before going underground for the final five kilometres of the route, culminating in Swargate. MahaMetro said that its goal was to ensure all the “priority” stations — PCMC, Sant Tukaramnagar, Nashik Phata, Kasarwadi, Phugewadi and Dapodi — were operational by the time the service is launched on this 7km stretch. As all stations are coming up above the road median, they can be accessed from both sides of the road via escalators and staircases. “We have identified the locations for the foot overbridges and staircases. At some stations, we plan to install elevators as well to ensure that commuters can approach the stations without hassles from all sides,” Sonawane said. Each station will comprise two levels — the concourse level, which can be accessed any anyone. This level will feature ticketing kiosks and machines. Only those with valid tickets will be allowed access to the platform level. Meanwhile, MahaMetro said it was getting ready to launch full-fledged trials of the Metro rakes between the Sant Tukaramnagar and Phugewadi stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/metro-station-on-pimpri-to-dapodi-route-almost-ready/articleshow/79971203.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 27, 2020||Pune||Batteries of 10 vehicles stolen at FTII||PUNE: A sanitation worker was arrested on Friday night on the charge of stealing batteries of 10 vehicles parked on the Film and Television Institute of India’s (FTII) boys hostel premises since December 20. The suspect, Rahul Bhandve (20), an employee of a private contractor appointed by the FTII to collect garbage, also stole five window grilles, four pipes and a tubelight cover. The theft came to light when the FTII security officer, Bhagwan Shekawat (57), found the batteries and other articles stolen during his visit to the hostel on Friday. Shekawat then registered an FIR with the Deccan Gymkhana police.  The police station in-charge, Murlidhar Karpe, said, “A team led by sub-inspector Kishore Shinde contacted businessmen and others dealing in batteries and instructed them to contact the police if they came across any person involved in selling used batteries. A businessman tipped off the police that a man involved in stealing batteries from the FTII was travelling in a yellow tempo and that he would be passing through the Mhatre bridge. We laid a trap and signalled the tempo to stop. On seeing the police, the driver sped away. We chased the tempo, intercepted it and took the driver, Bhandve, into custody.” Bhandve was later remanded in magisterial custody for 14 days and was sent to the Yerawada jail. Karpe said they recovered the batteries and other articles stolen from the FTII, collectively worth Rs18,500, from the tempo and brought its driver to the police station. “Bhandve admitted to his involvement in the crime during questioning. We then arrested him and seized the vehicle worth Rs2 lakh used in the crime,” he said The security guards posted at the FTII gate did not make an entry of Bhandve’s name and vehicle registration number in the visitors’ register as he regularly visited the institute to collect garbage, he said. “We shall write to the FTII director to improve security on the institute’s premises,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/batteries-of-10-vehicles-stolen-at-ftii/articleshow/79971188.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 27, 2020||Lucknow||Nodal officer for cow shelters, cane buying||LUCKNOW: To keep a check on illegal practices in cow shelters, paddy and cane purchase centres, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has posted senior officials as nodal officers at these centres. These officials will visit their centres over the weekend and submit a report to the government by Tuesday. “The CM has directed the nodal officers to visit paddy and cane purchase centres. He has also asked them to visit cow shelters and see the arrangements, review the ongoing varasat abhiyan, Covid-19 vaccine distribution mechanism and also hold dialogues with farmers,” said a government spokesperson. He said the nodal officers should also ensure that there is sufficient power availability in all the districts and whether irrigation facilities are available to farmers. During a review meeting on Saturday, the CM directed officials to ensure that the paddy purchase centres are run without any problems and farmers coming to sell their produce are not inconvenienced. Directing officials to implement the PM and CM housing schemes, the CM said deadlines should be set for completing the projects and they should be monitored regularly to ensure that the construction is completed as per the deadline. For the UP Diwas celebrations which have been scheduled from January 24 to 26, 2021, the CM said that inter-departmental coordination is necessary to ensure the success of the programme and all arrangements for the event should be completed ahead of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nodal-officer-for-cow-shelters-cane-buying/articleshow/79972593.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Amritsar||Thermal wear to pinnis, support pours in for farmers||BATHINDA: One month later, the farmers’ struggle at Delhi borders still sees strong support from people across various sections of the society. The support is pouring in both cash and kind. From food stuff to free bus services, thermal wear, blankets, shoes to shelter, farmers lack nothing and their spirit is as high as they began a month ago. A score of youth, trade and employee organisations are providing monetary assistance to farm organisations spearheading the protests. The residents of urban areas too are providing assistance from across the state. International Charity Khalsa Aid has put up a kisan mall at the Tikri border providing a lot of items to the protesters. The two bus operator organisations from Bathinda are providing daily one or two buses free of cost to those wanting to go to Delhi borders to participate in protests. Transport union leader Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon said, “We are sending a bus daily to the protest site without any fare.” Other transport union leader Baltej Singh said every other day a bus goes from Bathinda to either Tikri or Singhu. Pinnis and laddoos continue to pour in from many villages of the state to the protest sites at Singhu and Tikri. A lot of philanthropists have distributed blankets to the protesters sleeping in trolleys to save them from chill. Milk is being provided even in tankers for the protesters from various villages, mainly from villages in Haryana. Farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann thanked people for showering warm love on farmers. “People, especially from Haryana villages, are providing such assistance that we will not be able to repay their love being showered on us. We never expected such a warmth from Haryana and Punjab folks.” Randeep Sangatpura, an activist, who spent some days at Singhu border said , “Though every penny in cash is accounted for, but people are also being so large hearted with things. Their mere gesture is stupendous.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/thermal-wear-to-pinnis-support-pours-in-for-farmers/articleshow/79972028.cms||Neel Kamal
December 27, 2020||Meerut||Missing youth found dead in well, kin suspect murder||Bijnor: A youth in his 20s, who had gone missing two days ago, was found dead in a well under mysterious circumstances in UP’s Bijnor. Police fished out the body and sent it to the district hospital for postmortem. Though the cause of the death is yet to be ascertained, the victim’s family suspects that the youth, Devraj Singh of Tivadi village under Bijnor city police station area, was murdered and then his body was dumped in the well. A group of farmers on their way to the fields first spotted the body in the well near Jalalpur village. According to family members, after the youth went missing on Thursday evening, they lodged a missing complaint at Bijnor police station. The family said several injury marks on the victim’s face indicated that he was murdered, and demanded a fair probe. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said the autopsy would ascertain the cause of death. Meanwhile, a probe was on, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/missing-youth-found-dead-in-well-kin-suspect-murder/articleshow/79969741.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 27, 2020||Amritsar||A month later, farmers sit with strengthened resolve, from Shambhu to Singhu||BATHINDA: From Shambhu-Sardulgarh to Singhu and Khanouri-Dabwali to Tikri, the path was arduous, full of difficulties with harsh winter staring in the face. And yet, for the last one month — from November 26 to December 26 — farmers have managed to stay focused on their demand, pushing everything else to the background. The farm activists faced everything that came their way with never say die spirit and kept mobilising more support. A month at Delhi borders after nearly two months at various places in Punjab, the Punjab-based farm activists are determined not to go back without getting agri laws repealed. They also have the unwavering support of the neighbouring Haryana and everyday more support from all corners — from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra — is adding strength to their resolve. From two borders — Singhu and Tikri — the farmers have blocked another border at Gazipur apart from putting up blockades at Palwal and Shahjhanpur, situated on different highways. The farmers had started opposing the ordinances when these were issued in June and the protests reached its crescendo when the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), an umbrella organisation comprising over 200 farm organisations from across the country, gave a call to hold protests in Delhi on November 26-27. Now, in a month, the movement has gathered such force that the farm leaders from Punjab and Haryana have started visiting far away states for mobilisation of more support to keep the momentum going. Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chadauni on December 21 visited Patna for mobilisation and it is after that visit that the Bihar Kisan Manch president Dhirendra Singh announced three days protest from January 5. He also announced they will move towards Delhi with a convoy on January 8 in support of farmers’ protest. BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh, said he will be going to Bihar on December 29 to participate in a rally and to ensure mobilisation from Bihar. Kirti Kisan Union leader Satbir Singh on December 22 visited Mumbai to participate in a rally organised by Shetkari Sangathan. The farmers from Nashik and other parts of Maharashtra had left that day in hundreds of vehicles for Delhi and reached the Delhi borders on Friday. A large number of farmers from UP and Uttrakhand, mainly from Bajpur and Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar districts, reached the Delhi borders in support of farmer struggle while facing a lot of blockades on the way. Voices in support were raised in many countries too, including Canada, United States, United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand and many countries in Europe in one month. People held marches in front of Indian embassies and consulates. A score of parliamentarians in Canada, US and UK, the most vocal among them being Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, lent support to farmers. UK Parliamentarian Tanmanjit Dhesi wrote in support of farmer protest, seven US lawmakers, including Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, wrote to secretary of state Mike Pompeo urging him to raise farmer issue with India. Some NRIs from Toronto have announced they will come to Singhu border on December 30 in support of farmers’ struggle. The farm leaders from Punjab, including Balbir Singh Rajewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Darshan Pal, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Buta Singh Burjgill, Kulwant Singh Sandhu and many more, who had become familiar faces by now, were joined by Gurnam Singh Chadauni, Yogendra Yadav, Abhimanyu Kohad from Haryana, Hanan Mollah from West Bengal, Shiv Kumar Kakka Ji from Madhya Pradesh, Rakesh Tikait from UP and so on. Farm organisation BKU (Dakonda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh and Kirti Kisan Union vice-president Rajinder Singh said this struggle will go a long way in the history telling people how farmers had fought to safeguard their rights. “In the fight, we have lost over 30 farmers. But we will come out victorious, which will be a tribute to the departed souls,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/a-month-later-farmers-sit-with-strengthened-resolve-from-shambhu-to-singhu/articleshow/79972022.cms||Neel Kamal
December 27, 2020||Goa||Govt to study feasibility of waste-to-energy plant||Panaji: Waste management minister Michael Lobo on Saturday said that the Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) and IVL Swedish Environmental Research Institute will soon sign an agreement for undertaking feasibility studies to set up a waste-to-energy plant at Verna. During the month of October 2019, a team from Goa led by Lobo visited Sweden and Norway wherein they visited waste incineration facilities. Speaking to TOI, the minister said that the plant will come up at around 1.5 lakh sqm of land, which will treat all the refuse-derived fuel (RDF) in the state. The facility will also generate energy. During the visit, a consultation was held with the institute, which then submitted a proposal for pre-feasibility studies to set up the plant. As per the scope of work, the institute will look into the quality and quantity of waste, plant location, system evaluation, technical evaluation, stakeholder analysis, institutional factors, financial evaluation, project implementation strategy, and the step forward. Subsequently, the proposal was placed before the GWMC board of directors that subsequently approved the appointment of the institute to conduct feasibility studies for an amount of 35,000 Euros (approximately Rs 31 lakh). In this regard, a draft agreement to be executed between GWMC and the institute for pre-feasibility and feasibility studies was mailed to IVL for comments and suggestions. Subsequently, the institute submitted a revised agreement for further perusal. The revised draft agreement was then vetted by GWMC’s legal counsel and an internal auditor. Currently, Goa collects about 55 tonnes of RDF per day, of which 30 tonnes comes from the Saligao waste management plant and another 25 tonnes from village panchayats. The RDF is baled at Verna and sent to cement plants for co-incineration. The waste-to-energy plant will generate electricity and also help in disposal of RDF retrieved from remediation of legacy dumps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-study-feasibility-of-waste-to-energy-plant/articleshow/79972032.cms||Murari Shetye
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt trying to evade no confidence motion: Hooda to Guv||Chandigarh: Former Haryana chief minister and opposition leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda, on Saturday, requested the governor to call a special session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha saying that the government is trying to evade a session of the House and thereby, a no confidence motion. Hooda said the government has lost public support. On chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s remark that there is no need to call a special session of the Assembly as the opposition does not have specific issues, Hooda pointed out that farmers of the state are protesting on roads all over Haryana and at the Delhi border. “Every day, one of the agitators sitting in the open dies of the bitter cold. Does the state government not consider such a big agitation of farmers an issue? Does the government not consider the martyrdom of farmers on a daily basis an issue that merits a discussion? What can be a bigger issue for the government?” he questioned. Hooda reiterated his stand of bringing a no confidence motion against the government in the Assembly on the issue of farmers as many Independent MLAs have withdrawn support from the government. “In this battle between farmers and the government, many legislators of coalition partner JJP have spoken out in support of farmers. It is clear that the BJP-JJP coalition government has not only lost public support but also the confidence of its own legislators,” he said. Pressing his demand for a special session, he said, “If a motion of no confidence comes in the Legislative Assembly, then their allies in the government itself will vote against them. That is why we have demanded a special session from the governor. By dismissing this demand, the chief minister tells us that he does not trust his MLAs.” Since the governor and chief minister have different statutory powers, he wrote directly to the governor, urging him to use his constitutional powers and call a special assembly session in view of the state’s farmers and the political circumstances, Hooda said. The Leader of Opposition said the governor can use his constitutional powers to convene a special session of the Legislative Assembly. “This will not only reveal the truth about the government’s declining numbers but also expose the doublespeak of MLAs who were elected with the support of farmers but are driven by their greed for power,” Hooda asserted. *||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-trying-to-evade-no-confidence-motion-hooda-to-guv/articleshow/79972030.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Lucknow||PM Modi hails Maharajganj-based farmer as harbinger of revolution||GORAKHPUR: Ram Gulab, a farmer from Maharajganj, was overjoyed when he received words of appreciation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who told him that he would bring about a revolution in Maharajganj. In a virtual interaction with farmers during ‘Samwad’ programme while releasing over Rs 18,000 crore to more than 9 crore farmers’ families across the country under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Scheme, the PM appreciated Ram Gulab for forming an FPO (farmer producer organisation) with 100 farmers and subsequently taking the number to 300. During a 4.2-minute conversation with the PM, Ram Gulab lauded the new farm laws and said the legislations would be beneficial for small farmers as it would end exploitation by mediators. “Small farmers will get better price for their produce and there is no question of them losing their land,” he said. Ram Gulab, who hails from Beet Vantangia village in Maharajganj, said after joining the FPO, his income had increased considerably. “It was amazing to talk to the PM. He introduced himself very humbly and appreciated my work. I told him that I am a small farmer with only 1.5 acre land and I have 10 members in my family,” he said. “The PM asked me how I was managing such a small farm, I told him that I made an FPO with 100 farmers with the help of a social worker Vinod Tiwari and now 300 farmers from nine villages in four blocks of the district are associated with the organisation,” he added. The farmer told the PM that they were carrying out farming of V-43 golden sweet potato which was rich in Vitamin A. “We have signed a contract with an Ahmedabad-based company to purchase 400 ton golden sweet potatoes from us in a year at the rate of Rs 25/kg. We get Rs 15-20/kg in the local market. The first consignment of 10 tons will be sent in February while the second lot of 200 tons will be dispatched in June next year,” he said. “I told the PM that we are working in association with NABARD and the agriculture department. The company will also bear the transportation cost and we will get a better price for our produce,” he said. Claiming that no farmer would lose his land under the new arrangement, Ram Gulab said: “People are spreading rumours about the new farm laws. I am very happy that I am no longer getting exploited at the hands of mediators in mandis. They used to purchase our produce from us at a low cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/modi-hails-maharajganj-based-farmer-as-harbinger-of-revolution/articleshow/79972598.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 27, 2020||Allahabad||History-sheeter’s bungalow razed||PRAYAGRAJ: A joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), police and administrative officials demolished an illegal house owned by history-sheeter Ganesh Yadav in Jhunsi area of the city on Saturday. Yadav has dozens of cases registered against him in several police stations of the district including Jhunsi and Sarai Inayat. “The two-storey building was constructed on an area of around 700 square yard and the bungalow was around Rs 13-14 crore. This the 38th demolition drive undertaken by PDA,” said zonal officer Sat Shukla. “We have inputs that the land, on which the building was constructed could be illegal and have started a probe. If the land does not belong to Yadav, it would be reinstated to its actual owner. If the property belonged to Yadav, it could be attached under the provisions of Gangster Act,” said Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/history-sheeters-bungalow-razed/articleshow/79970231.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Varanasi||PM hails Maharajganj farmer as harbinger of revolution||Gorakhpur: Ram Gulab, a farmer from Maharajganj, was overjoyed when he received words of appreciation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who told him that he would bring about a revolution in Maharajganj. In a virtual interaction with farmers during ‘Samwad’ programme while releasing over Rs 18,000 crore to more than nine crore farmers’ families across the country under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Scheme, the PM appreciated Ram Gulab for forming an FPO (farmer producer organisation) with 100 farmers and subsequently taking the number to 300. During a 4.2-minute conversation with the PM, Ram Gulab lauded the new farm laws and said the legislations would be beneficial for small farmers as it would end exploitation by mediators. “Small farmers will get better price for their produce and there is no question of them losing their land,” he said. Ram Gulab, who hails from Beet Vantangia village in Maharajganj, said after joining the FPO, his income increased considerably. “It was amazing to talk to the PM. He introduced himself very humbly and appreciated my work. I told him that I am a small farmer with only 1.5 acre land and I have 10 members in my family,” he said. “The PM asked me how I was managing such a small farm, I told him that I made an FPO with 100 farmers with the help of a social worker Vinod Tiwari and now 300 farmers from nine villages in four blocks of the district are associated with the organisation,” he added. The farmer told the PM that they were carrying out farming of V-43 golden sweet potato which was rich in Vitamin A. “We have signed a contract with an Ahmedabad-based company, Tuber Food Private Ltd, which will purchase 400 ton golden sweet potatoes from us in a year at the rate of Rs 25/kg. We get Rs 15-20/kg in the local market. The first consignment of 10 tons will be sent in February while the second lot of 200 tons will be dispatched in June next year,” he said. “I told the PM that we are working in association with NABARD and the agriculture department. The company will also bear the transportation cost and we will get a better price for our produce,” he said. Claiming that no farmer would lose his land under the new arrangement, Ram Gulab said: “People are spreading rumours about the new farm laws. I am very happy that I am no longer getting exploited at the hands of mediators in mandis. They used to purchase our produce from us at a low cost.” “Now, I am getting a better price and don’t have to worry about searching a market for my produce. The PM congratulated me and said a big revolution will come to Maharajganj with me,” said a beaming Ram Gulab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-hails-maharajganj-farmer-as-harbinger-of-revolution/articleshow/79970626.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 27, 2020||Dehradun||Over 2.5k fish seeds, meant to be distributed to farmers for pisciculture, die in pond as water freezes in cold conditions||Ice formed on the surface of the pond, cutting off Oxygen supplyDehradun: More than 2,500 fish seeds, meant to be distributed to farmers for pisciculture, died in the pond of Champawat’s Nariyala village as the water freezed due to cold conditions. The development comes after the district recorded negative temperatures of 2 or 3 degrees in the past few nights. According to the district fishery and horticulture officer, Sanjeev Kumar, the department had bought around 30,000 fish seeds using the Central government funds. The fish seeds were meant to be distributed to around 350 farmers of Champawat district. “Around 22,000 fish seeds were distributed and the remaining were kept in three ponds. The water in one of these three ponds — which had 2,000-to-2,500 fish seeds froze,” said the official. A thick layer of ice was formed on the pond and that cut down the oxygen inside the water body, added Kumar. Meanwhile, the fishes were kept in four artificial ponds. Two among those four ponds have frozen completely. “The ponds that witness some sunlight are still fine but those which get no sunlight due to tall trees around them were frozen,” said Kumar. He further said that these fish seeds were bought at the rate of Rs 600 per thousand. It is worth mentioning that the regional meteorological department has already forecast scattered showers in various districts of both Kumaon and Garhwal regions on Sunday and Monday. The hills are likely to receive snowfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-2-5k-fish-seeds-meant-to-be-distributed-to-farmers-for-pisciculture-die-in-pond-as-water-freezes-in-cold-conditions/articleshow/79970610.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 27, 2020||Dehradun||DGP Uttarakhand asks DIG Garhwal for day-to-day updates on rape, murder of Haridwar 11-year-old||Dehradun/Haridwar: Director general of police (DGP) Uttarakhand Ashok Kumar on Saturday reviewed the progress in the investigation of an 11-year-old girl from Rishikul, Haridwar, being raped and murdered, allegedly by her neighbor. The DGP asked the deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Garhwal Neeru Garg to give him daily updates on the case. The incident took place on Sunday and while the prime accused, the neighbor, was arrested the next day and confessed to the crime, the second accused, his uncle, continues to be on the run. The uncle's brother, who allegedly played a part in his escape, was arrested by Haridwar police on Saturday evening. The DGP assured that apart from Haridwar police, an SOG team and an SIT unit were working on tracking down the absconding man. “His in-laws live in Faizabad. We are conducting multiple raids to track him down. The case will be heard in a fast-track court and we will present all facts and evidence strongly, so the guilty are awarded no less than death penalty,” the DGP said earlier in the day. On arresting the man’s brother, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Haridwar, Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “The uncle of the prime accused managed to flee Haridwar before we sealed the border. His brother, who we believe helped him escape and holds crucial information, has been arrested.” The 11-year-old was lured away with the promise of flying kites in the terrace by the prime accused, a native of Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh. “According to the initial probe, the girl was missing since 3pm. The second accused did not reach the crime scene till around 6pm. Prima facie, it appears he helped in hiding the body. Our probe is on and more facts will come out soon,” the DGP said. The DGP also sought the support of the locals to help crack the case early by maintaining the law and order situation. Rishikul residents, who have been agitating for speedy justice, are miffed over cases lodged against around 700 of them for protesting. “Everybody has the right to peaceful protests. All we have done is take out candle marches. No public property has been vandalized,” said student activist Novjot Singh. On Monday, on the basis of a complaint filed by the girl’s family, police registered a case under sections 376 A (punishment for causing death or resulting in persistent vegetative state of victim), 376 (D) (gangrape), 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 366 A (procuration of minor girl), 302 (punishment of murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the POCSO Act against the two accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dgp-uttarakhand-asks-dig-garhwal-for-day-to-day-updates-on-rape-murder-of-haridwar-11-year-old/articleshow/79970602.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Dushyant, Birendra have tarnished their ancestors’ image: Charuni||Hisar: State president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Gurnam Singh Charuni said it is Haryana’s misfortune that two descendants of farm leaders Devi Lal and Sir Chhotu Ram have tarnished their ancestors’ image. He was interacting with media persons at Surewala chowk near Uklana in Hisar while visiting Sarsaud-Bichi Padi toll plaza. “Maternal grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram, Birendra Singh is professing support for farmers. If he is genuinely farmer-friendly, he should get his son to resign from the post of MP and support farmers,” Charuni said. Targeting Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, he said, “Dushyant was voted to power by people of the state against the BJP but he betrayed them by selling votes to the BJP and taking the chair of the deputy chief minister in return. He tarnished the image of Tau Devi Lal. We do not need his mediocrity because he does not deserve it,” he said. Referring to raids on arthiyas, Charuni said farmers will not let anyone bother them and if the government does not stop then they will gherao offices of the Income Tax department. On civic body elections, Charuni asked people to vote according to their wish but to support those who are on the side of farmers. Saying that the movement has become a battle between people and corporate houses, he said this is the reason for freeing of toll plazas. He said products of a few corporate houses need to be boycotted but no one can be forced into it. On the government letter for talks, he said the government called farmers five times and they went every time. “The government is doing drama now and wants to show that we are calling and farmers are not coming. When the Home Minister is refusing to buy farmers’ crops on MSP, then what talks?” He asked. According to him, first 70 farmers of Uttarakhand were called but only 10 were farmers. Farmer producer organisations (FPOs) from Haryana were called and later, they also supported the farmers, he said. Charuni urged the Prime Minister to give the assurance that all 23 crops would be purchased on MSP in his Mann ki Baat programme. Referring to misbehavior with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Ambala, he maintained that he was treated well because someone who does not listens to people cannot be the chief minister and has no business going amid the people. Maintaining that the police is not really the enemy of the people, he said farmers would not withdraw the movement fearing registration of these cases. He added that their future strategy would be decided in the meeting itself. He also commended people across the country for seeing through efforts to divide them on religious and communal lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dushyant-birendra-have-tarnished-their-ancestors-image-charuni/articleshow/79972031.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Meerut||Two woman, child buried alive as mud caves in Bulandshahr||Meerut: Two woman and a child were buried alive after a mound of earth they were digging caved in on Saturday morning. The accident occurred in Bulandshahr’s Dhalna village under Narsaina police station limits. A rescue team sent by the local administration used earth movers to pull the trio out of the debris and rushed them to the nearest community health centre, said Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police. The trio -- Meenakshi (25), Kavita (18) and Deepanshi (12) -- all residents of Dhalna village, were declared brought dead at the hospital, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-woman-child-buried-alive-as-mud-caves-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/79969743.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 27, 2020||Kanpur||Woman, her three kids killed as hut catches fire||KANPUR: A woman and her three children were burnt to death in their sleep when their thatched hut caught fire in Banda district’s Dubey Ka Purwa Majra in the small hours of Saturday. As per reports, Sangeeta (35) was sleeping with her three children—two daughters Anjali (9) and Chutki (3) and a six-year-old son Ashish—in their hut when it caught fire probably following a spark caused by a bonfire. Banda SP Siddharth Shankar Meena told reporters that it is yet to be ascertained what exactly caused the fire, but prima facie, evidence indicates that Sangeeta had set up a bonfire in order to beat the cold, which might have led to the unfortunate incident. Investigations are underway. Another police official said, “The fire had spread across the hut very soon through a huge dump of fodder in proximity to the bonfire. The victims could not escape as they all were sleeping. We have recovered severely burnt bodies of the victims and shifted them to the mortuary for postmortem.” Police said the burning roof of the hut made of wooden logs had collapsed on Sangeeta and her children by the time they could reach out for help. Sangeeta’s husband Kallu was away working as a labourer in Jaipur, said police. SDM, Saurabh Shukla said, “We have apprised the woman’s husband about the incident. We are also planning to give him compensation from the district’s calamity fund.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-her-three-kids-killed-as-hut-catches-fire/articleshow/79970760.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Goa||‘Ignore Cong stir against farm bills’||Bicholim: The central government is working towards understanding and addressing the issues of farmers. It will undertake the required activities for the farmers’ welfare, and hence farmers should not fall prey to the anti-government propaganda of Congress, Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik said on Friday. “The farm bills enacted by the BJP government are in the interest of the farmers. The Congress has only cheated the farmers in the past,” said Naik. Naik was speaking at the programme organised by BJP Sakhali office during the distribution of the second installment of Kissan Sanman Nidhi. The day was also observed as the birth anniversary of former prime minister late Atal Bihari Vajayee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ignore-cong-stir-against-farm-bills/articleshow/79972029.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||Elderly man intervenes in fight, trio rob his ornaments||PUNE: Three unidentified men robbed a 65-year-old man of his gold ring and chain on Friday evening in Dighi, when he tried to intervene after seeing the men quarrelling on the road. A case has been registered in this regard with the Dighi police station. According to the police, the victim was walking on the road at around 5.30pm when he spotted the three young men, aged around 20 and 22 years, quarrelling among themselves. The men seemed to be in an inebriated condition. The elderly man decided to intervene and pacify them. Enraged, the trio grabbed the elderly man, assaulted him. When the victim fell to the ground, the suspects pulled off his gold ring and chain, totally worth Rs65,000. The police said that the suspects fled from the spot on their black scooter. The investigators are studying CCTV footage collated from different commercial establishments located in the vicinity to ascertain the identity of the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-man-intervenes-in-fight-trio-rob-his-ornaments/articleshow/79971216.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||ATM containing Rs 19.5 lakh uprooted using SUV in Pune||PUNE: Three persons stole an automatic teller machine containing Rs 19.5 lakh from the ATM kiosk of a nationalised bank at Pabal village near Shikrapur at 2.45 am on Friday. The Shikrapur police have recovered CCTV footage from the cameras installed in the kiosk and found that three men, all wearing robes, dislodged the ATM unit by tying it to the rear hook of a sports utility vehicle (SUV). The men also damaged the other ATM unit present in the kiosk. Inspector Umesh Tasgaonkar of the Shikrapur police said, “We are looking for the men and the SUV in different parts of the state and have registered theft case against the trio.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/atm-containing-rs-19-5l-uprooted-using-suv/articleshow/79971220.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Goa||Self-made Goa businessman, who dared to be different, lived life on his terms||Peter Vaz saw things differently. The most successful first-generation Goan businessman and owner of Sporting Clube de Goa, a popular football team, passed away in Bengaluru on Thursday night. His battle with Covid-19, inside three hospitals, lasted almost a month. His death at the age of 53 shocked the state. A self-made businessman, who rose high on the strength of his willpower and a sharp mind, Vaz dared to be different. He never used computers or a laptop at his seventh-floor office in the city. Instead, he trusted his own ability to get everything right. He never followed a path that was carved by others. He was never afraid to take the road less travelled. Vaz studied at the Don Bosco HS in the city, often cycling from his home at Caranzalem to school. He then opted for diploma in engineering at Government Polytechnic, Altinho. It was here that Vaz showed his true colours. Once, after being left out of the Polytechnic football team’s starting eleven, he packed his bags for home, leaving elder brother Francis—his senior at the college and playing on the field—flabbergasted. “Peter could never call a spade by any other name. He could never be diplomatic and could never tolerate injustice of any sort,” said his friend Elvis Gomes, a former bureaucrat and football administrator, who has now turned politician. After passing out from Government Polytechnic, Vaz landed himself a job at the PWD at Vasco as a junior engineer. He was just 22 and had big dreams. But this was a government department where things moved at snail’s pace. That didn’t suit the youngster, who quit his government job after just eight months. At 22, when most boys dream about their first date, Vaz had much bigger ambitions. Along with Edgar Afonso, he started the Models Group (in 1989), focused on construction and real estate. Over the years, it became a brand synonymous with quality construction buildings in the state and, now, the most trusted developers. With over 60 real estate projects, Models had little competition, so the company went on to diversify and lend its name to projects in hospitality, cruises and leisure. “You need to constantly innovate, otherwise you’ll be left behind,” Vaz often said. Football was always the love of his life. In 1999, Vaz took his love for football to a different level: He took over Cidade de Goa’s football and made it his own. While most bigwigs sponsoring football clubs chose their company name, Vaz didn’t follow that path. He named his club Sporting Clube de Goa, modelled on the famous club with the same name in Portugal. Sporting Clube made a mark for itself quickly, rising to become India’s more popular and consistent teams, known for its attractive football and bright orange jerseys. While football made Vaz a popular figure across the country, his philanthropic acts largely went unnoticed, simply because he never cared for mileage. He helped almost anyone who knocked at his door and was extra helpful when it came to his friends, faith, or football. “He most willingly funded the setting up of a primary school in a remote part of Mormugao taluka, the first in that area since liberation,” said another friend, Savio Noronha. That’s not all. It was Vaz who re-built the Rosary Church at Caranzalem, constructed a full-fledged primary school for Don Bosco and had a dental college at Colvale in memory of his late father, Diogo. Those who knew Vaz well wondered why he never took a plunge into politics. Known to have his ear to the ground and a keen student of politics, he was among the few who predicted that Congress would emerge as the single largest party at the state assembly elections in 2017. Pulling out his trademark notebook and pen, Vaz drew up a list of constituencies where Congress had a chance. The list had two categories: Definite and probable. His estimation was 18 seats. Congress won 17. Known to have staked his claim for a ticket in the past and spurned, he turned down the opportunity when he was subsequently offered a chance. That was so typical of Vaz. He lost elections to the Goa Football Association (GFA) president against Shrinivas Dempo—a difference of six votes—in 2010 and, despite repeated requests from clubs to take over the association, unopposed, in 2014 and 2018, he didn’t change his mind. “I have to do things that I want, not what others want of me,” was his explanation. He lived his life on those terms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/self-made-businessman-who-dared-to-be-different-lived-life-on-his-terms/articleshow/79972037.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Jakhar takes on Ghulam Nabi Azad over farm laws||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar took on party colleague and leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad for not giving due recognition to party MPs sitting on dharna against the Centre’s farm laws at Jantar Mantar for over a fortnight. Jakhar’s retort to Azad came at a party programme in Delhi on Thursday, where he voiced his grouse against the All India Congress Committee (AICC) not standing by party MPs from Punjab, including Ravneet Singh Bittu and Jasbir Singh Gill, who have been demanding withdrawal of the farm laws. Jakhar told TOI, “I only pointed out that Punjab is highlighting a battle for the nation and deserves support from everybody, it’s not Punjab Congress’s role alone. The programme against the farm laws was kicked off by Rahul Gandhi with a tractor rally in October. The agitation is being seen as the first battle of Sonipat, which is not only about farmers or Punjab, but for the entire country. What stops party leaders from extending it to other parts of the country?” The incident took place in the presence of Rahul and began with Azad highlighting how Congress Rajya Sabha members staged a nightlong dharna near Gandhi’s statue after the farm Bills were “undemocratically” passed in Upper House. Sources said Jakhar taking on the old guard was appreciated by most party leaders and was not seen as him questioning the party leadership. Box: Cong leadership not serious about protest: AAP AAP leaders said Jakhar had pointed out that Congress Central Committee was not serious about the protest being staged by Punjab Congress MPs, which proved that the Congress was not serious about the farmers’ issue. AAP MLA Aman Arora said it was already being discussed that the Congress was equally responsible for making black laws and the BJP, Shiromani Akali Dal and Congress were only pretending to be pro-farmer. He said the statement made by the Congress state president on Friday proved that both the Congress and BJP were hand in glove on the issue of farmers. Arora alleged that the Amarinder Singh-led state government was anti-farmer and was using various manoeuvers to suppress the agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jakhar-takes-on-ghulam-nabi-azad-over-farm-laws/articleshow/79972034.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Goa||PWD considering UPI mode for payment of water bills||PANAJI: Even as many consumers face difficulties in paying their water bills through the online portal, the PWD is considering to allow the water bill payments through the united payments interface (UPI) system and are likely to employ the central government’s Bhim UPI. Earlier, the PWD had allowed banks to accept the bills. However, as per sources, lately, many banks have stopped accepting this work as it proved cumbersome for a nominal payment for the service from the government. The workload was especially heavy as huge queues would gather for payment as the deadline for the bill payment neared each month, the source said. The pandemic made the consumers even more dependent on the online payment mode. But many face difficulties in using this. “For the gateway a third party was engaged by the government. But if Bhim UPI is allowed to be used for bill payments, no third party is required. The payment can be either using QR code scanning or by just using the phone number,” a source said. There were complaints of the current gateway for payment getting stuck and the consumer would not be able to pay the bill again before a 24 hour cycle. “If consumers tried paying the bill closer to the deadline and if the gateway got stuck, this led to the consumer being needlessly penalised for an issue with the gateway,” the source said. PWD officials, however, said the UPI mode was being considered only to improve the service to consumers further and denied having received any complaints of issues with the current gateway for the bill payments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-considering-upi-mode-for-payment-of-water-bills/articleshow/79972082.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: 2.2 tonne of vegetable seeds to boost rabi farming||PANAJI: The agriculture department has set a target to distribute 2.2 tonne of vegetable seeds for the rabi season this year. This is owing to the phenomenal response they have received during the lockdown by Goans to grow their own food. “Many people that had adopted farming during the lockdown want to continue irrigating the land. After the kharif season harvest, the next step to take on their irrigated land would be to start growing rabi crops,” deputy director of agriculture, Chintamani Perni said. The agriculture department has already distributed approximately 1.2 tonnes of seeds this season and is going to distribute the rest in the coming days. These are seeds of vegetables like brinjal, raddish, cabbage, cauliflower and even leafy greens like methi, red amaranthus and even cluster beans. The vegetable seeds are procured from the Goa state horticulture corporation limited (GSHCL) and a few seed companies. The prices of the seeds vary accordingly. “The response to procuring these seeds from us is comparatively better from the responses received in the last rabi season. We expect to complete the target of disbursing 2.2 tonne of seeds through this sowing season,” Perni said. In the rabi season last year, only one tonne of seeds were distributed. In addition to this, the agriculture department is also raising seedlings for vegetables and are providing the same to farmers at a 75% subsidised rate. Approximately 5 lakh such seedlings will be distributed among farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-2-tonne-of-vegetable-seeds-to-boost-rabi-farming/articleshow/79972035.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||Some BJP workers ready to join NCP: Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday said some BJP workers from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad were ready to join NCP, claiming that a section of the main opposition party was unhappy over its decision to field its state president Chandrakant Patil from Kothrud, a day after the latter said he would go back to Kolhapur. Taking a dig at Patil over his remark on leaving Pune, Ajit Pawar said, “He (Patil) is talking of going back within a year of his election from Pune. Why did he come to Pune if wants to go back? People from Kothrud have elected him for five years and they expect him to do their work.” The deputy chief minister claimed that the BJP’s decision to field Patil from Kolhapur made Medha Kulkarni and other BJP workers unhappy. He said a BJP leader (Fadnavis) was talking about coming back, while Patil spoke about going back. “They are disturbed because they could not form the government,” he said. Referring to his statement made on the floor of the assembly that some leaders had joined BJP expecting that it would form the government and their works would be done, Ajit Pawar said these leaders wished to leave BJP now because that did not happen. He said BJP felt great when they wooed leaders from other parties, so the party should not mind now. Patil, the BJP state unit chief, clarified during a news conference later in the day that he had been sent to Pune by the party’s central leadership on a mission and he would not leave the city until it was accomplished. He said whenever he would think about settling down after retirement, he would prefer to go to Kolhapur. He said he was not in a position to reveal much about the mission but iterated he would think of leaving the city only after it was completed. Patil said he cannot comment on contesting the next assembly polls from Kothrud as the elections were far away. He expressed confidence that the BJP would win the corporation elections in 2022. “We have 97 seats in the PMC (Pune Municipal Corporation) now. The party will win more seats. All leaders will put united efforts. There has been much progress in resolving many civic issues. Development works would be expedited in the next one year,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/some-bjp-workers-ready-to-join-ncp-ajit-pawar/articleshow/79971217.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Goa||After fresh testing, 16 more UK returnees in Goa Covid positive||PANAJI: Sixteen travellers who arrived in Goa after December 8 have been tested positive when they were subjected to fresh RT-PCR tests since Thursday. All have been referred to the isolation facility at the ESI hospital in Margao. During the last two days, tests were conducted on as many as 425 passengers. Tests on the remaining were underway on Saturday, said health secretary Amit Satija. As many as 979 travellers have arrived in Goa since December 9. The swab samples of all eleven who were tested positive initially on arrival – two tested after experiencing symptoms of the virus - after November 25 in Goa have already been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. The samples of other passengers will be sent for genomic study to Pune on Saturday, Sajita said. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) of the central government with respect to the UK travellers require that contacts of those who test positive under RT-PCR tests are also to be placed in isolation facility identified by the government. Meanwhile, the state witnessed 61 fresh cases of Covid-19, 87 recoveries and three deaths taking the tally of active cases to 950 and mortality count to 732. With 1,205 tests conducted, the positivity rate was pegged at 5% and recovery rate at 96%. Two men and a woman – a 68-yr-old from Caranzalem, a 60-yr-old from Bicholim and a 62-yr-old from Quepem – died at the Goa Medical College (GMC). The two men had comorbidities, but the woman had no health issues. After a long period, Porvorim witnessed a drop in Covid cases. Its tally was reduced to 52 on Saturday while that of Panaji to 64. The caseload of other centres in north Goa has gone below 50 while Casarvarnem, Mayem and Valpoi have the least cases. In south Goa, Margao also witnessed a decline and its count dropped to 91 while that of Ponda increased to 78. Except Quepem, the tally of all other centres has also gone below 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-fresh-testing-16-more-uk-returnees-in-goa-covid-positive/articleshow/79972071.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Kanpur||2 hurt in firing at wedding||KANPUR: Two persons including a minor boy were injured after multiple gunshots were allegedly fired during a marriage function at Moti Nagar area of Jajmau under the limits of Chakeri police station on Friday night. “An investigation has been launched, the injured include a minor boy. They have been admitted to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital,” police said. Other guests present at the wedding told police that chaos prevailed when the incident took place at the wedding venue where people were having food. The injured have been identified as Ali and Obaid (13). Police said that Ali claimed his rivals had barged at the wedding venue and after targeting him opened fire at him over an old enmity. Inspector Chakeri, Ravi Srivastava, said, “Both the injured are undergoing treatment at LLR Hospital. Their statemnts are being recorded,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-hurt-in-firing-at-wedding/articleshow/79970654.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 made U’khand’s healthcare system, already fragile, even more inaccessible||Dehradun: The outbreak of novel coronavirus in Uttarakhand caught the health sector of the state, already in a fragile state in the hills, completely off guard and the public health officials saw their worst nightmares come true in 2020. The first case surfaced in the state on March 15, 2020, when a trainee officer, who had gone abroad on a study tour, was tested Covid-19 positive. During the initial days of the outbreak, the samples had to be sent out of the state for Covid-19 testing. Already grappling with Covid-19, the health sector was brought to its knees due to the several protests staged by medicos, nurses, and junior residents (JRs). For months now, they have been asking the state government to pay them their full salaries and have even held strikes four times to push their demand. Notably, the JRs — employees of Uttarakhand government — are taking postgraduate education on education leaves for which they get half the amount of the salaries that they used to get while serving in government hospitals. The nursing and pharmacists’ association also staged protests for full-time emolument and salaries. Amidst the pandemic, the health department gave nod to several high profile transfers, including that of former secretary (health), Nitesh Jha, and two chief medical officers (CMOs) of the state capital. Also, the OPD services got hit in many public hospitals after they were turned into dedicated Covid-19 facilities. In 2020, several patients lost their lives after being turned away by hospitals. In some cases Covid-dedicated hospitals didn't have free ICU beds, in others, patients who did not have the virus could not be admitted at Covid-19 facilities. In mid-August, a five months pregnant woman died after being shunted between two hospitals in Almora. The case made national headlines. The OPD services could be restored only by November. However, in the first three months of the pandemic, the state, which had just one virology lab till March 2020, was able to set up four more such facilities. Further, the health department managed to sanction the hiring of 201 doctors via the Medical Service Selection Board in April. Meanwhile, the state secured a go-ahead from the Centre for the construction of a cancer institute in Haldwani and two new medical colleges in Haridwar and Pithoragarh districts. The state also launched air ambulance and telemedicine services in 2020. The proposal for the construction of an elevated helipad at AIIMS Rishikesh was also approved. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state) said, “The state still lags behind on indices like neonatal health, immunisation, maternal health, institutional deliveries, and treatment of fatal ailments. However, a lot of steps were taken to better the public healthcare system in Uttarakhand in 2020. The best among them being the launch of telemedicine service, a free-of-cost online doctor consultation facility. Though I feel that it has not been advertised in the best possible manner, I believe the service will be of immense help even in the post-pandemic era.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-made-ukhands-healthcare-system-already-fragile-even-more-inaccessible/articleshow/79970634.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 27, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar rape cum murder case: DIG to monitor on day to day basis; SOG, STF also working on the case: DGP||Dehradun: Director general of police Ashok Kumar, on Saturday, reviewed the progress of the case of a minor’s alleged rape and murder at Haridwar. After the meeting, Kumar said that DIG Garhwal Neeru Garg would monitor the case on a day-to-day basis and update him of the developments. “Besides Haridwar police, our SOG team and STF unit is also working on the case to arrest the accused at the earliest,” he said. Last Sunday (December 20), a 10-year-old girl was allegedly raped and murdered in a neighbour’s house. One of the accused Ram Teerth Yadav, native of district Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh, who is a relative of the house owner, was arrested, whereas accused Rajiv Kumar is still at large. “Initial probe reveals that the girl was missing since 3 pm. Till 5:30 pm, Rajiv – who is on the run – was at another location. After conversation with Ram Teerath, he came to the scene of crime at around 6 pm. Prima facie, it appears that Rajiv helped in hiding the body. However, our probe is still on and more facts would come out soon,” said the top police officer. He did not fail to mention that the in-laws of Rajiv live in Faizabad. “We are conducting multiple raids and will arrest him soon,” said the DGP. The trial of the case would be conducted in the Fast Track Court. “In the court too, we will strongly present all the facts and evidence so that the guilty get no less than death penalty,” he added. The DGP also sought the support of the locals to help crack the case early by maintaining the law and order situation. Earlier, on the basis of the complaint made by the girl’s family, police registered a case under sections 376 A (punishment for causing death or resulting in persistent vegetative state of victim), 376 (D) (gangrape), 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 366 A (procuration of minor girl), 302 (punishment of murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code and the Pocso Act against the two accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-rape-cum-murder-case-dig-to-monitor-on-day-to-day-basis-sog-stf-also-working-on-the-case-dgp/articleshow/79970623.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 27, 2020||Goa||Melauli locals threaten stir outside CM’s home||Valpoi: Villagers of Shel-Melauli, Sattari, on Friday said that they will be forced to protest outside chief minister Pramod Sawant’s residence if the proposed IIT project is not shifted from their village within the next few days. The villagers were left infuriated following the alleged statement by local MLA and health minister Vishwajit Rane urging the CM to go ahead with the plans of setting up IIT-Goa’s permanent campus at Melauli as BJP has won all seats at the zilla panchayat p(ZP) olls in Sattari. The locals said that they are firm against the IIT project as it will impact the village’s biodiversity and their rural lifestyle. They also challenged Rane to come to their village and then reiterate his statement about establishing the IIT. Convenor of Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan (MPGBA) Shashikant Savordekar slammed Rane, alleging that he was spreading rumours in the state that people of Sattari had voted in favour of the IIT project. “The good percentage of voting for BJP’s zilla candidates in Sattari was a mandate in favour of the party, and not for IIT project,” Savordekar said. Co-convenor of MPGBA Shubham Shivolkar said, “Let anything happen to us, we will not stop the protest against the proposed IIT project.” Since the past few months now, the villagers have been camping at the proposed project site to prevent surveyors from entering the area. Due to this, the work of surveying the land for the project has come to a standstill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/melauli-locals-threaten-stir-outside-cms-home/articleshow/79972058.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Goa||Illegal laterite quarries raided at Pissurlem||Valpoi: A team led by Sattari mamlatdar Dasharath Gawas raided illegal laterite stone quarries in Pissurlem-Sattari following a complaint by a resident. The team comprising assistant geologist Shyam Sawant, PSI Karishma Parulekar and talathi of Pissurlem panchayat Ravindra Gawas conducted the surprise raid on illegal extraction of laterite stone at quarries situated in Pissurlem on Thursday. The team also seized the machinery in use. According to the mamlatdar, the team during the raid observed three open illegal laterite pits, however, no one was present at the site. He also said that a special drive will be taken up soon to take action against illegal laterite stone quarrying in Sattari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/illegal-laterite-quarries-raided-at-pissurlem/articleshow/79972059.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Lucknow||94 UK returnees test negative for Covid, one still untraceable||LUCKNOW: One of the city residents with a travel history to the United Kingdom between December 9 and 22 is yet to be traced, even four days after the identification. At least 94 travellers tested so far have been found to be negative for Covid-19. Union aviation ministry had provided a list of 134 travellers to district health authorities on December 23 to carry out testing drive in view of the risk following detection of a new variant of novel coronavirus infection in UK. A scrutiny by district health officers found that three names were repeated in the list, while 22 travellers had given their permanent addresses in Lucknow but were found to be living in other districts of the state. These 22 names have been forwarded to the chief medical officers of the respective districts for sampling and testing. “One traveller could not be traced as his mobile phone is constantly switched off. The residential address given by him in documents reads Kathauta in Lucknow but the exact location is vague,” an officer said. District immunisation officer and additional CMO Dr MK Singh said, “We have sent an email provided by the traveller in his documents and have asked for specific location of his house so that we can send a team for sample collection.” “Out of 109 people traced in Lucknow, samples of 102 were swiftly collected and sent for testing on Thursday and Friday. Reports of 94 people released on Saturday found them negative for infection while the reports of remaining eight will come on Sunday,” he said. “Samples of six more persons will be collected and sent for tests on Sunday. Their reports will come on Monday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/94-uk-returnees-test-ve-for-covid-one-still-untraceable/articleshow/79972604.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Sagar Sen kin create app as global ode to musician||KOLKATA: In a unique tribute, legendary singer Sagar Sen’s son has created a non-commercial app titled ‘Sagarsen | Timeless Legend’, in which he has digitally immortalized his father in the form of videos and an archive of all his works. He has also provided a platform where the singer’s fans worldwide can interact with each other. Known for his mellifluous renditions that never wavered in following Tagore’s notations, Sen breathed life into the songs. His rich baritone and emotional delivery left a lasting impact on connoisseurs and masses alike. Now, his son Pritam has come up with the idea of creating a digital avatar of his father that can be used for music videos. Being an entrepreneur based out of Bengaluru and with an experience of having developed IT parks, Pritam initially did not have the technical skills for such a venture. But an undying urge to “break new grounds” to take his father’s music to the global audience prompted him to dive into the project. “It took over three years for me to develop the app. The idea was to present to the world the timeless musical genius of my father and take his enduring, ethereal renditions beyond the conventional Bengali diaspora, breaking language barriers.,” Pritam said. Unfortunately, only three black & white video recordings of his father have survived. Initially, he had reached out to various international and national VFX firms to develop the app. But the price quoted was too high. The next step was to personally get into research and sit with his team of animators to create the digital avatar. “I had to make sure that the digital avatar didn’t look like a cartoon or a ghost. My father used to wear dhoti and half-sleeved shirts. But the style of wearing the dhoti was unique with both the ends tucked behind. Instead of hand-painting, I superimposed high-resolution photos to make the digital avatar realistic,” he said. Finally, after years of hard work, Sen came up with 22 such videos. These have been divided into four segments. While the beach house videos have been set inside a beach house off the California coast, the stage performance videos have the digitally-recreated Rabindra Sadan stage as the backdrop. An iconic studio is the background for the studio series while the painterly videos are a series of sketches set in fantasy landscapes that follow the songs’ lyrics. Among these, his four favourite videos are of ‘Naa bujhey keno tarey bhasale aankhi joley’, ‘Amay thaktey de’, ‘Aami ki gaan gabo je bhebe na pai’ and ‘Ogo deko na more deko na’. An interesting video in the painterly series is of a film song titled ‘Tomar jonnye shawb tuku shukh pichhone pheley elam’ where the song has been picturized on the legend’s digital avatar as he is shown driving a car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sagar-sen-kin-create-app-as-global-ode-to-musician/articleshow/79971272.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
December 27, 2020||Goa||Families at Vaddem wait to return home||VASCO: Ajit Borkar, 37, endured a nightmare on the night of September 21, when a huge boulder came rolling down from the hillock and crashed into his house at Vaddem. His 65-year-old mother was crushed to death. It has been three months since the incident, but the authorities are yet to carry out any restoration work of the hill. Borkar’s house still stands in half. But there are also six other families, who had been asked to relocate following the incident, and are still waiting for the hill restoration and authorities’ go-ahead to return to their homes. Borkar was immediately shifted to a rented premise by his friends and neighbours in the same locality, where he pays a monthly rent of Rs 4,500. Borkar wants to reconstruct the broken portion of his house and shift back. But he can’t, as few more boulders stuck midway threaten to crash down any moment. Borkar has also not received the promised compensation from the relief fund. Borkar’s neighbour, Manvi Naik is also affected. Her husband is the sole breadwinner of the six-member family. His tourist taxi has little business now due to the pandemic. “We have taken a house on rent and shifted our belongings there. With great difficulty, we are making ends meet,” she said. Five families in the vicinity were also served notices by the mamlatdar and have shifted elsewhere. Few of them are living with their relatives, but are now left to wonder how much longer they will have to be away from home on rent or on charity of relatives. “We have tried meeting all authorities, from disaster management cell to local MLA Carlos Almeida, and former chairperson of Mormugao Municipal Council Nandadeep Raut, who was our councillor. We have written letters to the chief minister, but to no avail. The authorities had turned up here only to cut and clear the 10-feet boulder from the site,” said another affected resident Shrijeet Kavlekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/families-at-vaddem-wait-to-return-home/articleshow/79972088.cms||Ruvina Khan
December 27, 2020||Goa||Agitating lifeguards call off hunger strike||Saligao: The All Goa Marine Lifesaving Guards on Friday called off their fast unto death protest at Mapusa. This decision was taken after chief minister Pramod Sawant on December 24 assured them that the issue of regularisation of their service would be resolved. “A delegation of Goa Marine Life Saving Guards Union, led by Ajeet Singh Rane, Swati Kerkar and Shekhar Kamat met the chief minister with their demands of regularisation in government service as lifesaving guards. These guards were employed under Drishti Marine for Goa Tourism Development Corporation. The scope for regularisation was thoroughly discussed with the CM. He has assured an early solution to their demands, post consultation with all stakeholders,” the CMO said late Thursday evening. The striking lifeguards broke their fast by sipping on lemonade offered by Rane and Kerkar. “We have already resolved some of the issues with the labour department. It was clear that the contractor was paid about Rs 15,000 per worker by the government, but in reality, these lifeguards would get only Rs 4,000 each. To bridge this gap, they need to be recruited directly into government service,” Kerkar said. Stating that it is unfortunate that the labour minister is promoting the interests of entrepreneurs without protecting those of workers, Kerkar said, “At present, we have withdrawn the agitation to show our full faith in the government’s assurance. If required, we will protest again.” Rane said a list of all 230 lifeguards has been submitted to the chief minister and it has been suggested that they be accommodated in government service through Goa Human Resource Development Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agitating-lifeguards-call-off-hunger-strike/articleshow/79972075.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Goa||Goa Meat Complex yet to open, but traders keep shops afloat||Panaji: Even after holding a meeting earlier this week and getting a green signal from the chief minister to source beef from Belagavi, the Goa Meat Complex at Usgao is not yet operational. “Goa Meat Complex can resume operations only once traders bring live animals. Sourcing animals from Karnataka is very difficult at present. The traders are bringing fresh meat from Belagavi at present, owing to the demand of the festive season. At the government abattoir, there is a long process of keeping the animals for three days, passing of fit-for-slaughter fitness test, ante-mortem, post-mortem only then can the animals be slaughtered,” an officer said. Meat traders in the state have managed to keep their shops afloat by sourcing the beef from other states themselves, much like they were prior to the directorate of animal husbandry’s decision to restart the government abattoir. While the fresh meat traders have been getting the beef by themselves from Belagavi, cold meat traders are relying on suppliers from Delhi and Karnataka. With the Karnataka cattle anti-slaughter bill looming around, general secretary of the Quraishi Meat Traders’ Association, Anwar Bepari said that the traders are currently grateful that they are at least getting to transport fresh beef. “We have not been able to get stable quantity of beef - 15 tonnes - daily, but the quantity is somewhat enough to fulfil Goa’s consumption. There is more consumption of beef during the Christmas-New Year festive season, and for now we are grateful that we can transport the beef from Karnataka seamlessly. The problem was solved only after the intervention of the CM,” Bepari said. Compared to the fresh meat traders, however, the cold meat business received only 50% response for Christmas. “After fresh meat traders resumed supply just days before Christmas, buyers preferred that over cold meat. We will continue to source pre-packed beef tongue and undercut from Delhi till December 31. If it stops coming from there as well, we will have to reach out to suppliers in Kerala,” cold meat trader, Simon Baretto said. To ensure steady beef supply in the state, the reopening of the abattoir is a must, meat traders said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-meat-complex-yet-to-open-but-traders-keep-shops-afloat/articleshow/79972100.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Intellectuals’ meet to protest ‘lies’ against Nobel laureate||Kolkata: Intellectuals from across the city, including artists Suvaprasanna and Jogen Chowdhury, poets Subodh Sarkar and Joy Goswami, singer Kabir Suman, film personalities Arindam Sil and Raj Chakraborty will meet at Bangla Akademi at 3pm on Sunday to raise their voices against Visva-Bharati University and the BJP-led Centre’s, “attempt to target” Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, whose family links with Santiniketan goes back several decades. State cabinet minister Bratya Basu, who is also the convenor of the meet, is likely to be the only Trinamool Congress leader, to speak in the protest meeting.Basu said “Amartya Sen is being deliberately victimised. If someone as iconic as him can be politically targeted like this, one can imagine what they can do to others.” Basu said even Tagore had given up his Knighthood to protest against the British. “Did the British think of throwing him out of Uttarayan? Isn’t this absurd? In a democracy you can have differences with another political thought, but does that mean that one will have to face such a scathing attack?” Basu asked.Sarkar agreed and said that democracy is under attack and a reign of terror prevails now. “It’s a baseless and absurd allegation that Amartya Sen has grabbed land. They are trying to silence a globally respected voice. They are talking about a house that has been in existence for the last eight decades. Just because he is not aligned to their line of thought, they are maligning a person of Sen’s stature like this,” Sarkar said.Goswami said, “I am thankful to chief minister Mamata Banerjee that she reacted fast. We need similar voices of protest to be with her. How can anyone call Sen an encroacher? That house has been in existence since the days of Tagore.”Banerjee on Friday wrote to Sen expressing her “surprise and anguish over some recent developments” reported in the media alluding to his ancestral links in Santiniketan. On Thursday, responding to reports that Visva-Bharati had written to the Bengal government on land encroachment — including a parcel of several decimals belonging to the Nobel laureate’s Santiniketan home — Banerjee said, “On behalf of Bengal, I apologise to Amartyada for this. I have deep respect for him. He is respected across the world. Bengal will not tolerate an attack on its icons. Amartya Sen brought us global recognition. Every Bengali household reveres him..” The chief minister also appealed to Bengal’s intellectuals to protest against the “disrespect and lies”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/intellectuals-meet-to-protest-lies-against-nobel-laureate/articleshow/79971288.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 27, 2020||Dehradun||History-sheeter shot at in an encounter with U’khand STF, op to arrest him on||Dehradun: History-sheeter Kuldip Singh (alias KD) suffered a bullet injury in an encounter with Uttarakhand Special Task Force in Chandpur area of Bijnor district on Saturday evening. However, Singh along with his two accomplices managed to hide in the nearby sugarcane field. The police team of Bijnor district has also reached the spot and started a joint operation with Uttarakhand STF to search for KD and his aides. Till the time of filing of this report, the encounter was on and the joint police team had launched a massive search and combing operation to nab the notorious criminal and his accomplices. The history-sheeter belongs to the Bazpur area of Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand and has been named in over 12 cases of murder, loot, and kidnapping. There is a bounty of Rs 20,000 on his head. SSP STF Ajay Singh told TOI, “We received an input that he was in Chandpur on Saturday. Subsequently, an 18-member STF team was rushed to the location. Upon seeing the officials, KD and his two aides opened fire. In the cross-firing, KD suffered a bullet injury in his thigh. Blood stains were also found on his car.” The official added that under the cover of darkness, KD and his two accomplices were successful in hiding in the nearby sugarcane field. “We are coordinating with the UP police and they are also helping us in the operation. We are confident of arresting him soon,” said the senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/history-sheeter-shot-at-in-an-encounter-with-ukhand-stf-op-to-arrest-him-on/articleshow/79970658.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Razing of damaged Posta flyover’s parts to start in January||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) is likely to start dismantling sections of the ill-fated Vivekananda Road flyover from January. KMDA on Saturday floated a tender to engage a firm by the first week of January to pull down portions of the flyover that have been identified as hazardous. On March 31, 2016, a 40-metre-long deck slab of the under-construction flyover had collapsed, killing 26 people. KMDA officials said that four to five steel spans at both ends of the flyover, from where the slab collapsed, are vulnerable and will be dismantled. “Experts appointed by the state government recommended that the entire structure be pulled down and KMDA plans to do it in a phased manner to minimize traffic disruptions along the busy stretch and prevent damage to surrounding buildings. Right now, we are focusing on the most damaged sections of the flyover,” an official said. Officials said the dismantling work was challenging, given the density of population in the area and the busy street below the flyover. Diamond cutters, heavy duty lifting machines, trestles, earth movers and other equipment will be deployed to slice and remove the steel and concrete slabs. The agency selected for the job will conduct a detailed survey before starting work. KMDA, the agency and the police will also have to work out traffic management and safety plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/razing-of-damaged-posta-flyovers-parts-to-start-in-jan/articleshow/79971305.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 27, 2020||Trichy||Victims remembered on 16th tsunami anniversary||MADURAI/NAGAPATTINAM: Coastal villages in Kanyakumari, Tuticorin, Ramanathapuram and Nagapattinam paid homage to the victims of the tsunami on the 16th anniversary of the disaster on Saturday. Handloom and textile minister O S Manian participated in an event organised at Arukattuthurai coastal village where he paid tributes by pouring milk at the sea. In Kottilpadu village in Kanyakumari, 199 people including children and women were killed in the tsunami wave. The villagers gathered at a public spot and prayed for the departed souls. Father C Raj inaugurated a silent march at the village. Special prayers were also conducted in the local church. The fishermen in Ramanathapuram paid tributes by throwing flowers at the sea. They also conducted a prayer meeting. In many of the villages, the parents of children and relatives also made offerings of food and fruits on the sea shore in memory of their loved ones. In Tuticorin, fishermen conducted special prayers at the coastal villages in memory of those who lost their lives in the tsunami. Minister O S Manian, Nagapattinam MP M Selvaraj, district collector Praveen P Nair, superintendent of police Om Prakash Meena paid tributes at the tsunami memorial pillar established near the collector office in Nagapattinam. Family members and relatives of tsunami victims also participated in the event. Cadres from various political parties, outfits and traders also took out a rally and paid floral tributes at the memorial. People took out a march from the shrine Basilica of Our Lady of Good Health in Velankanni headed by the Rev Father AMA Prabakar, rector of the shrine and paid tributes at the memorial in Velankanni. Children staying at the Annai Sathya Government Orphanage in Nagapattinam prayed for their departed parents by lighting candles at the portraits of their parents and relatives. The residents of the fishing hamlets such as Keechankuppam, Nambiar Nagar, Akkaraipettai, Aarukattuthurai and Palayar took out a rally and paid floral tributes at the tsunami memorial pillars at various places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/victims-remembered-on-16th-tsunami-anniversary/articleshow/79972116.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Dehradun||Will release fresh fake sadhus' list soon, won’t allow them at Kumbh: Akhara Parishad||ABAP seers hand over a letter to mela officer Deepak RawatHaridwar: Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), the apex body of saints, said on Saturday that they were planning to release a fresh list of “fake saints and babas”. The akhara parishad has released such lists before but ABAP president mahant Narendra Giri told TOI that they were planning to issue a fresh one ahead of Kumbh. “Those who have already been declared fake saints will not be allowed to put up camps at Kumbh. However, they are welcome to visit as devotees and bathe in Ganga. We will not compromise on fake saints, who dupe people in the name of religion,” said Giri. On Friday night, members of the ABAP also met education minister and Haridwar MP Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and conveyed their concern, saying the pace of work for Kumbh was too slow for an event planned in less than a month’s time. They have expressed dissatisfaction with the quality and pace of work several times before and have asked the state government to release a notification on Kumbh before January. The government hasn’t released any notification for Kumbh mela so far, which means the date on which the mega event will commence isn’t known yet. However, Kumbh Mela police plans to organize the first ‘snan’ (bathing ritual) on the occasion of Makar Sankranti on January 14. Arrangements for it have already started. Inspector general (IG), Kumbh Mela, Sanjay Gunjayal told TOI, “Ample security personnel, consisting of state police and paramilitary force will be deployed for the event on Makar Sankranti.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-release-fresh-fake-sadhus-list-soon-wont-allow-them-at-kumbh-akhara-parishad/articleshow/79970662.cms||MS Nawaz
December 27, 2020||Trichy||Special teams formed to probe ‘lynching’||TRICHY: Trichy rural police have formed two special teams to ascertain the identity of a 25-year-old man who died after being allegedly attacked by a group of villagers in Allur on Friday. Some local people said that the man was lynched by villagers, but police said this would be known only after post-mortem. Another man who was injured has been admitted to hospital. Though preliminary investigation found that the deceased was Deepu and the injured Aravindan, 24, from Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, their identities were yet to be confirmed. “Once his identity is ascertained, his family and relatives can be informed and the post-mortem done after which only the cause of death can be found out,” Trichy district SP T Jeyachandran told TOI. Jeeyapuram police have registered a case of suspicious death of the man at MGMGH based on a complaint from the village administrative officer (VAO) of Allur village P Jeyakumar. The duo was found roaming near Chellayi Amman temple on Friday when some local men intercepted them on the suspicion that they were thieves. It is alleged that after heated arguments, Deepu attacked the locals and a resident Sambasivam was injured. Soon, more local people joined them and chased them away. Police said Deepu slipped and fell down leaving him injured on his head while Aravindan also sustained injuries. A senior man in the village came to the spot and rushed them to hospital. Deepu died at the hospital on Friday evening while Aravindan was still being treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spl-teams-formed-to-probe-lynching/articleshow/79972125.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Trichy||Stray animals continue to rule Trichy city roads||TRICHY: Traffic snarls and accidents caused by stray cattle are recurring in Trichy as the corporation has not initiated any action to contain the menace for a year now owing to lack coordinated effort from the district administration, police and civic body. On Saturday, two stray bulls locking horns against each other had brought the vehicular movement on the collector office road to halt for a while. The aggressive bulls invading the road situated not far away from the district collectorate had pedestrians waiting at the bus stops a scare. For almost 15 minutes, onlookers and autorickshaw drivers had attempted to chase away the bulls, but in vain. “We have been used to the menace for a long time. Cattle sleeping on roads have caused accidents at night, but no solution is at sight,” said S Murugavel, an autorickshaw driver. Residents had complained of similar problems in Srirangam, Vayalur road, Cantonment and KK Nagar. The corporation has not impounded stay cattle on roads since October 2019. While the owners of the cattle can be penalised up to Rs 5,000 per animal, such action is evasive. Corporation sources claim they do not have adequate space to accommodate the animals impounded during the enforcement drives. As the city lacks a shelter to accommodate the impounded bovines, corporation officials said they are wary of a backlash from the owners in case the cattle gets injured or lost. Animal activists said that every week at least three to four stray cattle sustain injuries in road accidents in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stray-animals-continue-to-rule-trichy-city-roads/articleshow/79972147.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Trichy||Chain-snatching act to kill woman; locals catch gang leader||PUDUKOTTAI: Pudukottai police cracked a case construed to be an attempt to murder a woman in the pretext of attacking her for snatching her chain. The chain-snatching drama was busted when hired killer M Mukilan,20, a member of a five-member gang, was chased down by the residents of Kovanur village after he and four of his accomplices attacked T Shanthi,52, with a machete and snatched her gold chain weighing six sovereigns in the evening on December 23. According to Ponnamaravathi police, the gang came to the house of Shanthi and found her speaking to someone else on her mobile phone. They asked for some drinking water and when she brought water from inside, the gang attacked her with the weapon leaving her injured severely on her head. The gang also snatched her gold chain before escaping from the scene. On hearing the noise, local people chased the gang and caught Mukilan, while others fled the scene. Police said that he fractured his right wrist in a fall during the chase. On questioning, he revealed the real story behind the incident. Shanthi has had previous enmity with her neighbour Vasantha. Shanthi allegedly insulted Vasantha in one of the incidents of quarrel. Vasantha shared her anguish with her son Thangam who is in Singapore. He decided to avenge the insult by murdering Shanthi. Hence, he contacted Alagu alias Alagupandi in Sivagangai through his colleague. Alagu hired Mukilan, Ananth, Aasai and Amul for Rs 50,000 and conspired to kill Shanthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/chain-snatching-act-to-kill-woman-locals-catch-gang-leader/articleshow/79972136.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Trichy||Cab driver fills pothole in Trichy at night, earns public appreciation||TRICHY: Frustrated over authorities turning a blind eye towards roads ravaged by potholes and ignoring repeated complaints, a 32-year-old cab driver has been filling potholes on his own in Trichy. A video clip of the driver, M Anish Kumar, filling a big pothole at Singarathope street here has been going viral in social networking platforms, receiving appreciation from the public. A resident of Sriram Nagar in Thiruverumbur, Anish said he had frequently seen people on two-wheelers slipping while negotiating the huge pothole on Singarathope street. Located at the junction of Fort station road and Madurai road near Holy Cross College, the pothole which surfaced about a month ago became wider and deeper due to rain, but has been left unattended by the authorities. After witnessing a a couple survive an accident by a whisker on December 21 while suddenly discovering the pothole, Anish said he decided to fill it the same night so that he could save at least one tragedy. He reached the spot around 1 am, filled the crater with stone, soil and crusher dust he had purchased and levelled it. It took about 30 minutes for him to finish the work. “Since the authorities were not doing anything to make the road safe, I volunteered,” Anish said. This is not the first time the cab driver had filled a pothole. Anish said he had previously filled them in Kailash Nagar residential locality in Thiruverumbur. However, unlike this time when he got friends to film and share it on social media, he did not document it. “I did not expect the video to go viral, but many people appreciated the effort and attitude in not waiting for authorities to act,” Anish said. What is encouraging is that it has been four days since he repaired the road, but the pothole has not resurfaced since it was levelled well. The viral video saw many people urging Trichy corporation to initiate repair works on the roads damaged in the rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cab-driver-fills-pothole-in-trichy-at-night-earns-public-appreciation/articleshow/79972145.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 27, 2020||Trichy||Monsoon turns bountiful for Ariyalur, deficient for Trichy||TRICHY: More than 60% of major and minor tanks have filled up while 12 tanks have realised more than 70% of their storage capacity during the northeast monsoon in Ariyalur district. While the monsoon has been near-normal in Ariyalur, it has been 31% deficient in Trichy which continues to be one of the few districts with deficient rainfall. Out of the 69 major and minor rain-fed tanks in Ariyalur district, 42 have achieved their full storage capacity. Nakkambadi big tank, Sendurai big tank and Kulumur big tank were among the major tanks that have filled up. Similarly, 12 tanks including Sitheri tank have water more than 70% its capacity. PWD officials said that the water is crucial to meet irrigation and domestic requirements in agrarian hamlets in the coming months. The successive cyclones have helped in filling up the water bodies even as Ariyalur faces 8% deficiency. “Two more spells of sufficient rainfall will fill the remaining tanks. Compared to last year, the water levels in the tanks are in a good position. There are only three tanks with water level below 25% of their storage,” said V Velmurugan, PWD assistant executive engineer. Even as central districts have received adequate rainfall in the last three months, in Trichy district, against the normal rainfall of 389.9 mm between October 1 and December 26, it has recorded only 268.7mm. Trichy’s rainfall is lower than the average northeast monsoon in the state, only a few districts have received deficient rainfall. Although India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted fresh spell of rain in the state from December 28, the forecast has said that it will benefit delta and southern districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/monsoon-turns-bountiful-for-ariyalur-deficient-for-trichy/articleshow/79972143.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Into the wild for Covid-safe New Year bash; jungle stays packed||BHOPAL: The ongoing pandemic has forced people to think outside the box to usher in the New Year. With ban on late night hotel parties, people have decided to go out and welcome the New Year in jungles and other places close to nature. All hotel rooms of the MP Tourism Development Corporation in the national parks and Pachmarhi are 100% booked. However, foreign tourists are completely missing. This has come as good news for the tourism industry amidst spread of the deadly coronavirus, forcing the people to stay indoors. A young traveller in Bhopal, Abhishek Das, is too excited for his proposed visit to Bandhavgarh, about 460 km from here. “Enough of corona, we want to bid farewell to 2020. Hope 2021 will actually bring good times.” Raghav Rai, a resident of Jabalpur, which is close to Kanha national park, said, “My prayers for a really happy 2021.” Because of the pandemic this year, the number of tourists in the park has declined drastically. The foreign tourists are missing completely from the national park scene because of the pandemic and flight restrictions, said a private hotel owner. “Otherwise, in the pre-Covid days, we would get all our hotels booked as soon as the parks opened on October 1,” he said. But this year, only people from a 500-km radius are reaching the park, a majority of them with their own vehicles. SP Singh, regional manager MP Tourism Development Corporation in Jabalpur said, “All our units in the national parks are full for December 31. The bookings started in the last one month or so.” A private hotel owner in Bandhavgarh national park said, “There is 100% Gypsy entry booking for the parks as it is done online. But most of the private hotels do not have good bookings for the coming days.” A hotel owner in Kanha national park said, “We expect the absence of foreign tourists in the next tourist season also because of the new coronavirus strain.” Pachmarhi too is witnessing “good bookings in MP tourism hotels”. A large number of people have been reaching Pachmarhi for the past few months and the trend is continuing for the New Year too, MP Tourism Development Corporation sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pandemic-safe-ny-bash-100-bookings-in-hotels-in-jungles/articleshow/79971319.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
December 27, 2020||Trichy||Stalin reiterates corruption charges against state government||TRICHY: DMK president M K Stalin has alleged that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami calls himself “Cauvery Kappalar” (Guardian of Cauvery) and a farmer only to cover up corruption involved in direct procurement centres, kudimaramath works and PM-Kisan schemes in the state. Addressing farmers through video-conferencing as part of “Tamizhagam meetpom” campaign in Thanjavur on Saturday, he said the AIADMK government has mortgaged the state’s rights to protect its corrupt regime. “If he were a real farmer, would he support the three farm laws that would destroy agriculture?” Stalin asked. Even Prime minister Narendra Modi has acknowledged for the first time that farmers may be sceptical of minimum support price (MSP), but Edappadi Palaniswami keeps saying that the three laws will benefit farmers, he stated. “The government said it has spent over Rs 1,600 crore on kudimaramath works. However, the water released in Mettur dam does not even reach the tail end. Tamil Nadu is the only state where corruption has taken place in the PM-Kisan scheme. We have handed over a list of ministers with corruption charges to the Governor of Tamil Nadu,” he said. “Today is the tsunami memorial day. I personally handed over Rs 21 lakh as tsunami fund to the then chief minister J Jayalalithaa. However, no work was done for the victims. After DMK took over charge in 2006, I carried out the task of building tsunami houses,” he claimed. Stalin said no farmer has received compensation for crop loss caused by cyclone Nivar. Though DMK demanded that farmers be given Rs 10,000 as interim relief, the government did not accept it. Already a central team has inspected the loss but we are told that another committee will come. How many more teams will come to assess the impact, he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stalin-reiterates-corruption-charges-against-state-govt/articleshow/79972178.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Trichy||Thirunallar, Kuchanoor temples all geared up for Sanipeyarchi festival||Karaikal/ Madurai: As Madras high court has refused to ban congregation of devotees in Thirunallar Saneeswara Bagawan temple for the Sanipeyarchi festival scheduled for Sunday, the Karaikal district administration has made elaborate arrangements with precautionary measures to ensure strict compliance of Covid-19 protocol. Similar arrangements have also been made at the Kuchanoor Sani Bagawan temple in Theni district though there are no court-imposed restrictions in place.A set of instructions has been issued for devotees who have to register their names online. They are to submit certificate of testing (RTPCR/antigen test) taken 48 hours before. The number of devotees has to be staggered to avoid mass gathering and only a maximum of 200 can be inside the temple premises, collector Arjun Sharma has said. The sacred pond, Nalan Kulam, will be closed to public for taking bath and annadhanam will also not be permitted. Face has to be covered at all times and six feet social distancing should be maintained. Shopkeepers and hoteliers have also been asked to follow the instructions strictly.A large number of devotees, especially those who believe in astrology, visit Kuchanoor Sani Bagawan temple in thousands on the day of Sanipeyarchi. Sources said the temple doors would open as early as 3 am and elaborate arrangements have been made to screen devotees. Masks are must and CCTV cameras will monitor the crowds. The transition of saturn is expected to happen at 5.22 am on Sunday, after which special pujas would be performed on the deity. Children below the age of 10 and those above 65 will not be allowed into the temple.Special arrangements have also been made at Kuruvithurai temple near Sholavandan in Madurai district, where there is a separate shrine for the deity. Barricades have been erected to regulate the crowds. As it is a Sunday, people from many other districts are also expected to visit these temples on the auspicious day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thirunallar-kuchanoor-temples-all-geared-up-for-sanipeyarchi-festival/articleshow/79972170.cms||---
December 27, 2020||India||3rd serosurvey to cover health workers: ICMR||PUNE: A third Covid-19 serosurvey by the Indian Council of Medical Research is set to assess the infection’s spread among health workers in India. The survey, which began on Thursday, is expected to conclude by January-end. It will test 29,000 people and health workers across 70 districts — same locations as the second survey. Head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR, Dr Samiran Panda, said results from the survey should be out before priority vaccination begins for health workers. The second serosurvey had studied infection trends in kids above 10. Covid’s trends among medical staff could help authorities finalise target areas for priority vaccination. Dr Manoj Murhekar, director of National Institute of Epidemiology, which is executing the survey, said the aim is to understand prevalence of infection and immunity levels in a large representative population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3rd-serosurvey-to-cover-health-workers-icmr/articleshow/79972851.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Kovai Kutralam to remain open after 9 months||COIMBATORE: Kovai Kutralam will be open for tourists from today, forest department sources said. However, visitors will have to undergo temperature check and wear mask. Those who arrive without a mask can buy one at the entrance counter. Visitors should use the hand sanitizer placed in front of the ticket counter before buying ticket. People who come to the tourist attraction on bus from Chadivayal will have to undergo temperature check before getting on the bus and also use hand sanitizer. There will be random checks along the route and at the waterfalls to ensure that people are wearing masks, sources said. The waterfall was closed to tourists when the pandemic lockdown was imposed on March 22. The place attracts hundreds of visitors during weekends, public holidays and during the holiday season. It is closed only during heavy rainfall and flooding in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kovai-kutralam-to-remain-open-after-9-months/articleshow/79971331.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Daily positive cases drop below 100||COIMBATORE: Three months after the state government instructed it to bring down the number of fresh Covid-19 cases to less than 100 a day and the death rate to 1%, the district administration has achieved the first target. The district recorded 93 fresh cases, which took the total tally to 51,884. Saturday was the third day in a row that the district recorded less than 100 cases a day. The numbers are unlikely to change, with the 97 UK returnees testing negative. Only 3,066 cases have been recorded this month until Saturday. Even if the district records 100 cases a day for the next five days, the count will be around 3,600, which is the lowest monthly tally since July, when 4,282 cases were recorded. “There are several reasons for the steady drop, including conducting fever camps next to areas with fresh cases, tracing primary contacts immediately and isolating them,” said deputy director public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar. “Some strict measures like banning home isolation, and allowing it only on rare occasions, also helped us reduce the spread.” Increasing immunity among the general public has also helped to bring down the transmission rate, said former director of public health Dr K Kolandaswamy. “As more people recover from the infection and gain immunity, they will not catch the infection or spread it for awhile. The number of people a person can get infected from has gradually been reducing since September.” Though the death rate remains at 1.24%, the number of deaths has reduced noticeably this month. December has so far recorded only 30 deaths due to the virus, which is the lowest monthly death toll since July. “We even had three or four days that had not even a single death,” said a health department official. “ This was again because of the ban on home isolation and time-tested protocols,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/daily-positive-cases-drop-below-100/articleshow/79971323.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK MLA slams corporation for poor upkeep of parks||COIMBATORE: DMK MLA N Karthik condemned the city corporation on Saturday for not maintaining the parks in its limits. He said most of the parks were filled with thick vegetation and home to reptiles. In a press statement, he said the state government had in 2010 created several parks in the city limits with herbal and flowering plants, and playing equipment for children. “Without proper maintenance, the plants have withered and playing equipment have rusted. The parks are also filled with thick vegetation.” The Singanallur MLA said he had visited the parks at HUDCO Colony near Peelamedu in the city. Pointing out that the parks have turned into an abode for reptiles, he said the public were scared to use the recreational facility. “Despite petitioning corporation officials several times, no steps have been taken to clean and maintain the parks till date.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-mla-slams-corpn-for-poor-upkeep-of-parks/articleshow/79971335.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Tusker creates panic||COIMBATORE: Tense moments prevailed at Green Garden in Poochiyur village near Narasimmanaickenpalayam on Saturday morning after a lone tusker was spotted in the area. Residents watched the wild elephant from terraces, clicked photographs and recorded videos using mobile phones. It was a sub-adult male elephant, forest department sources said. Villagers informed Periyanaickenpalayam forest department officials and a team of anti-depredation watchers rushed to the spot. They burst crackers to chase away the elephant. The officials requested the residents not to come out of the houses during early morning and night hours to prevent man-elephant conflict. Two-wheeler users should avoid night travel, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tusker-creates-panic/articleshow/79971328.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Replace battery-run auto rickshaw...||AHMEDABAD: Mehsana’s Kanaiyalal Parmar opted for a battery-run auto rickshaw to do away with the mileage issue, but his bid to get rid of costly fuel failed. The battery also failed him and the issue landed in consumer court. The Gujarat State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission last week ordered the auto agency either to rectify the battery issue or to replace the vehicle. If the dealer is not able to replace the auto, Parmar should get back the auto price, Rs 1.10 lakh, with 9% interest since 2015. In April 2014, Parmar purchased the battery-operated auto rickshaw - Eco Sathi Battery Rickshaw of Om Sai Auto from Mehsana’s Innovative Sales. The vehicle was sold to him with a promise that the power source was capable of running the auto 70-80 kilometre in a single charge. Parmar would not mind five-hour charging time against the surging petrol price to run the 1+4 passenger auto thinking that he would save on the running cost by paying only 30 paise per kilometre. Not a month passed and Parmar began having problems with the battery. His auto could run only 10 kilometre in a single charge. He requested the agency to either repair or replace the batter because it was within the warranty period. However, his complaints and demand were not heeded. He approached Mehsana district’s consumer forum in 2015 demanding that the auto sellers should be ordered to either repair his vehicle or replace it with a new one. He argued that he had borrowed money from different sources to purchase the battery-operated auto so that he could save on fuel and get better mileage, but got into debts instead. The consumer forum rejected his plaint the next year. Parmar appealed before the state commission, which perused the evidence of sale. The commission issued notice to the managing partner of Innovative Dealers, Priti Patel. The notice was served, but none appeared before the commission, which ordered Patel either to solve Parmar’s problem by replacing the vehicle or return his money with interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/replace-battery-run-auto-rickshaw-/articleshow/79971359.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Post offices to disburse Rythu Bandhu amount||Hyderabad: In what could benefit farmers in a big way, they can now withdraw Rythu Bandhu amount from 4,860 post offices in rural areas of Telangana. India Post, Telangana Circle, took a decision to provide this facility to the farmers through micro ATMs available in the post offices. Through micro ATMs, a maximum amount of Rs 10,000 can be withdrawn by the farmers in a day in any of the 4,860 post offices, said postmaster general, Telangana Circle, PVS Reddy. In an official release issued by the PMG on Saturday here, Reddy explained the procedure for withdraw the amount. He said: “The farmer can visit the nearest post office along with his/her Aadhaar card which is mobile linked to any bank account. They can withdraw cash by impressing fingerprint and informing about the OTP received on their registered mobile numbe to the post office.” Farmers have been facing technical glitches in the banking network and forced to stand in serpentine queues while withdrawing their amounts. Meanwhile, the commissioner, agriculture department, has instructed all the district agricultural officers to inform farmers to avail the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/post-offices-to-disburse-rythu-bandhu-amount/articleshow/79971348.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Coimbatore||RTO officials fine vehicles with bull bars||Coimbatore: Intensifying their drive against bullbar-fitted vehicles, regional transport officers on Saturday penalized 27 vehicle owners, collected a penalty of Rs 27,000 and seized the bars.RTOs from central, south, west and north zones conducted vehicle checks at several places including Gandhipuram, LIC signal and Anna statue junction. “As it was difficult to remove the bars from the vehicle at the busy junctions, the vehicles were taken to VOC park, where, with the help of mechanics, the bars were removed and seized,” said central RTO J K Baskaran. “In the last one week, ever since the drive was intensified, we fined over 300 vehicles across the district.”Usage of bull bars is prohibited under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. The central government had notified it again in 2017. A few weeks ago, the state government directed the transport department to intensify drives across the state to find vehicles fitted with the bars. Bull bars pose serious danger to pedestrians, often fatally, and other vehicles. The bars can prevent airbags from opening during accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rto-officials-fine-vehicles-with-bull-bars/articleshow/79971337.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Remove all encroachments on drainage pathway: Residents||ERODE: Residents of Erode Municipal Corporation ward 53 lambasted the corporation officials for not removing encroachments on the drainage pathway and restoring smooth flow of sewage water, which now overflows and remains stagnant around their residences, posing health hazards. S Salim, one of the residents, said many people had encroached the drainage pathway and constructed buildings there over the past 10 years. He said the corporation had implemented the drainage system in Kona Vaikkal area, where more than 1,000 families reside, two decades ago. “Now that the drainage pathways are blocked, our houses are surrounded by sewage water. Residents are developing diarrhoea and skin diseases every other day.” According to the residents, more than 30 houses, two hotels and two tea stalls are constructed on the encroached land. They said they were spending nearly Rs 3,000 per family to clean the drains once a month. “The drainage pathway is encroached for about half kilometre,” said M Shanthi, another resident. The residents urged the corporation officials to remove encroachments and desilt the drainage pathway at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/remove-all-encroachments-on-drainage-pathway-residents/articleshow/79971350.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Pongal gift: Ration shops begin token distribution||Coimbatore: With just 10 days to go for the distribution of Pongal gift hampers that the state government announced, fair price shops in the district have started distributing tokens to the cardholders on Saturday.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had inaugurated the scheme recently. At least 10.09 lakh cardholders would receive the gift hampers, which comprise Rs 2,500, 1kg sugar and rice, one large sugarcane stick, 20g of cashew nuts and raisins, and 5g cardamom, in the district.An official with the office of district supply officer said the distribution of gift hampers would commence on January 4. “To avoid crowds in front of ration shops, we have started distributing tokens to cardholders at their doorsteps. Only 200 beneficiaries - 100 in the morning and another 100 in the evening – would be allowed in a day.” He said the tokens would be distributed till Wednesday (December 30). “If people fail to collect the gift hampers on the allocated date, they could get it from the ration shops on January 13.” Pointing out that the gift hampers would be distributed only to rice cardholders, the official said 10.09 lakh of the 10.47 lakh cardholders in the district would benefit from the scheme. In an interview to a news channel, food minister R Kamaraj had unveiled the government’s plans to distribute the Pongal gift hampers by swiping the smart ration cards, instead of employing the biometric system. According to him, cardholders could get the hampers only from the ration shops that they are registered with. Officials, however, said they had not received any notification from the government regarding swiping the card for gift hamper distribution so far.While the tokens are distributed by ration shop workers at most of the places in the district, there are complaints that members of the ruling AIADMK are distributing the same in a few places after collecting them from ration shops.A source with the district administration said they had instructed the ration shop workers to distribute the tokens on their own at the beneficiaries’ doorsteps and not to hand them over to others.G Rajendran, state president of Tami Nadu Ration Shop Employees’ Union, lauded the government’s decision not to distribute the gift hampers through biometric process, which he said was time consuming. “There is also delay in reading the fingerprints of some people, especially the elderly.”He also called on the officials to upgrade the software to minimize the waiting time. “It will be better if they replace the 2G/3G sim cards with 4G cards. It will help minimize the network issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pongal-gift-ration-shops-begin-token-distribution/articleshow/79971347.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Highway heist: Car found abandoned||COIMBATORE: A day after a gang stole a car, Rs 27.5 lakh and two mobile phones from a Kerala realtor near Navakkarai in the district, the vehicle was found abandoned on Siruvani Main Road near Madampatti on the outskirts of the city in the early hours of Saturday. The mobile phones, one of which belongs to the realtor’s driver, were found near Perur Pachapalayam. The gang had taken away the cash, which the realtor, Abdul Salam, 50, of Malappuram in Kerala, said belonged to Mohammed Ali, 65, of the same locality, who was into gold business. Police brought Mohammed Ali to the city for inquiry and he told them that the amount didn’t belong to him and he was not aware of the money transportation. Forensic experts, meanwhile, visited the spot to lift the fingerprints from the car. The gang had waylaid the car near Navakkarai on Friday around 4.05am, attacked Salam and his driver Samsudin, 42, and sped away in the car, in which Salam had reportedly carrying Rs 27.5 lakh. Based on the realtor’s compliant, the KG Chavadi police had registered a case and formed three special teams to nab the robbers. District superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said a special team was camping in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/highway-heist-car-found-abandoned/articleshow/79971351.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bollywood villains captured in NID faculty’s book||AHMEDABAD: Who could be a villain in a typical Bollywood blockbuster? Answer to this question varies greatly depending on which decade we’re talking about. “In the earliest times, it used to be the cruel kings. With passage of time, they transformed into rich men/zamindar with era of socialism. In the era of nationalistic potboilers, they were the enemies of the state from other countries, which later gave way to larger-than-life portrayals of Mogambo or Shakal. After 2000s, the boundaries started blurring between the antagonist and protagonist,” says Arun Gupta, principal faculty of film and video communication discipline at National Institute of Design (NID), Ahmedabad. Gupta’s recent book ‘Purab Aur Paschim’ published by NID Press is the first of intended anthology of different era of Bollywood baddies which covers four films and four villains that were shaped by the country’s contemporary turmoil. They come in all shapes and sizes, but the common theme that binds all the villains on silver screen, says Gupta, is their ‘otherness.’ “In films like Lagaan, it could be a black-and-white English Captain, or in Sangharsh a man dressed as woman who frightens us. They are often portrayed as persons with some disabilities – lack of an eye, or a limb, or having a metallic arm or leg,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bwood-villains-captured-in-nid-facultys-book/articleshow/79971394.cms||Parth Shastri
December 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Northeast monsoon fails to deliver, district gets only 171mm rain against usual 343mm||COIMBATORE: The district has received only 49% of the usual northeast monsoon showers so far this year. While weather experts had predicted 318mm rainfall, which was the long-term average and 7% less than the normal rainfall of 343mm, the district has received only 171mm rain. As per the data available with the Agro Climatic Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, it is the lowest rainfall that the district has recorded during the northeast monsoon since 2016, when it received just 134.6mm rain. The government had declared drought in the state back then. The district, however, recorded more than 200mm rainfall in the next three years. It is to be noted that it had received an excess of 450mm rain last year. Weather experts have attributed the sharp drop in rainfall to fewer number of low-pressure troughs and weather systems this year. S P Ramanathan, director, Agro Climate Research Centre, said, “Northeast monsoon showers mainly occur when low-pressure troughs form over the Bay of Bengal, often causing cyclones or heavy rain. This year, we hardly had two such systems, both weakening or bringing more wind than rain. The delayed onset of monsoon is also a reason.” The monsoon set in only on November 3 in the district. However, agriculture is unlikely to be affected to a large extent, thanks to the 296mm rainfall that the district received during the southwest monsoon. “Since we received excess rainfall last year and good summer and southwest monsoon showers, the groundwater table has improved. Hence, we are getting enough water from borewells for irrigation,” said T Nadusivam, a farmer who grows coconut and spinach at Pollachi. “Most of us have installed micro irrigation system, which has also helped.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/northeast-monsoon-fails-to-deliver-district-gets-only-171mm-rain-against-usual-343mm/articleshow/79971366.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Corporation resumes sewage treatment plant work; Sai Nagar folk protest||COIMBATORE: Sai Nagar residents at Podanur continued their protest against the upcoming sewage treatment plant in their area for the second consecutive day on Saturday. The city corporation and Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board officials, who came to the construction site in the morning, placed barricades on the roads leading to the site and began work with police protection. Residents were not allowed near the construction site. Sivakumar, a resident, said, “Police officers threatened to file first information reports against us if we kept protesting and obstructed the work, which they wanted to continue uninterrupted. When one of the residents tried taking a video of them working, they snatched his phone and tore his shirt.” After the scuffle, he said, the corporation commissioner, deputy commissioner and senior officers turned up at the spot and tried reasoning with the residents. The residents had begun a sit-in on the project site on Friday itself, saying the city corporation was constructing the sewage treatment plant, despite the Madras high court ordering a status quo. On Saturday evening, a section of residents met city corporation commissioner Kumaravel Pandian to air their grievances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-resumes-sewage-treatment-plant-work-sai-nagar-folk-protest/articleshow/79971374.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 1,000 Covid vaccine points to give shots to 51 lakh in Phase-I||NEW DELHI: Around 1,000 vaccination booths will be created across Delhi’s 48 government and 100-odd private hospitals to roll out the Covid vaccination programme under which Covid shots will be given to 51 lakh people in Phase I. The vaccination booths will be attached to 603 cold chain points. The vaccination booths will also be created at mohalla clinics. Preparations for an effective vaccination rollout are on. A total of 3,500 persons have been trained, including 600 healthcare professionals from dozens of private hospitals, for giving Covid shots to people. Private hospitals, which employ more than 100 healthcare workers and have expressed their desire to be part of the vaccination programme of the government, have been included in the exercise. Dr Suneela Garg, director-professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and state Covid-19 taskforce member for Delhi vaccination programme, said all the 51 lakh people would get the vaccination for free. The booths are being created across the city. The vaccination exercise will start from 9am and continue till 5pm. Lok Nayak Hospital, which has 3,000 employees, has a cold chain and may have five vaccination booths. Some big private hospitals may also have multiple vaccination booths. The individual will receive SMS from the authorities before their scheduled vaccination informing them that they have to report at the vaccination booth located in their area at a particular time. “We have trained 600 individuals from different private hospitals. The number will increase in the days to come as the training is still going on,” Dr Garg said. “The overall supervision of the vaccination will be done by government officials across all the booths,” added Dr Garg. Around 100 vaccine shots will be given in a booth from 9am to 5pm because the vaccination process is time-consuming. There will be three rooms at each vaccination booth. In one of them, the verification of the persons will be done by checking their legal identity proofs like Aadhar cards. Vaccine shots will be given in a separate room and the vaccinated person will stay in another room for nearly half an hour so that they can be observed for any side effects. The person will be under monitoring for 28 days. The second dose of the vaccine will be given after 28 days. In the first phase, the priority group of people who will get Covid-19 vaccine shots include 3 lakh healthcare workers, 6 lakh frontline workers and 42 lakh people either above 50 years of age or below 50 but with comorbidities. An official said that people above 50 years of age were being identified from voters’ lists available in all the districts, some data was also being collected from Arogya Setu app. “Anyone who wants to get their name registered can contact the office of the chief district medical officer,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1000-covid-vaccine-points-to-give-shots-to-51l-in-ph-i/articleshow/79971462.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cop accused of domestic violence||AHMEDABAD: A 30-year-old woman from the Shahibaug area on Friday filed a complaint of domestic violence against her husband, an unarmed constable with Ranip police, alleging that he tortured her to an extent that she had on December 22 tried to commit suicide by ingesting acid. In her FIR with Shahibaug police, the complainant Jayshree Chauhan, who stays with her husband Ashok Chauhan in Shahibaug police line, said that they had got married in 2015. After their marriage, her husband and in-laws used to taunt her over petty issues. She said that her parents had given a motorcycle to Ashok as dowry. Around eight months ago when his motorcycle was parked outside and some monkeys damaged it, he abused her and thrashed her for giving a low quality motorcycle, she alleged in the FIR. She said that she had suffered violence for a long time thinking that he would understand and behave like a normal person but her husband continued to harass her. Around a week ago, she had a dispute with her sister-in-law over wearing chaniya-choli. As her husband knew that she had fought with his sister, he abused and thrashed her. He forced her to consume acid and did not even take her to a hospital, she alleged. She said her husband even punched her indiscriminately when she was pleading to take her to a hospital. Her neighbours took her to the Civil Hospital where she filed a complaint against her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-accused-of-domestic-violence/articleshow/79971396.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nun from Gujarat run over by train||A 46-year-old nun who hailed from Gujarat and worked in a school in Jharkhand’s Simdega, was killed while trying to get down from a moving train that she wrongly boarded at Jharsuguda railway station on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Sister Jyotsna Parmar, a resident of Anand district. Parmar, who worked at St Ursula’s School in Simdega, was at the station to board a train for Gujarat, to see her ailing mother. As there is no direct train from Simdega to Gujarat, she had planned to go via Jharsuguda in Odisha. Parmar boarded the CSTM Howrah-Geetanjali Express that arrived at 4:28am and was to depart at 4:30am. She was supposed to board the Howrah-Porbandar Express, which was scheduled to arrive at 4:38am. Upon realizing that she had boarded the wrong train, she immediately tried to get down. As the train had started moving, Parmar fell on the tracks and was killed. Soudamani Nag, inspector in charge of GRP (Jharsuguda), said, “We have informed her family about the accident and have sent the body for postmortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nun-from-gujarat-run-over-by-train/articleshow/79971400.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man posing as cop caught||AHMEDABAD: Sabarmati police on Saturday arrested a man from Banaskantha for allegedly posing as a cop and seeking licence from a man to recover money in Tragad village. The accused was caught as the man from whom he sought licence sensed that the fake cop was drunk and caught him. Kirtirajsinh Hada, 24, a resident of Idar in Sabarkantha, who caught the fake cop, Sunil Panchal, 25, a resident of Tatiyana village in Kankrej taluka of Banaskantha, filed a complaint against Panchal with Sabarmati police. Hada stated in his FIR that he along with five other friends had gone to Ambaji temple in Banaskantha on Friday and were returning to Ahmedabad late evening when the incident took place. Hada said that Panchal drove in front of their SUV and suddenly stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-posing-as-cop-caught/articleshow/79971419.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||Pune police allow commute with valid reasons during curfew hours||PUNE: The city police permitted people with valid reasons to commute between 11pm and 6am amending its night curfew orders effective till January 5 next year, but assembly of more than four persons would remain prohibited. People involved in the emergency services would be able to move freely, the police said. After issuing the revised order late in the night on Friday, joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve said, “People can step out of their houses at night, but they must have valid reasons. People would have to explain the reason behind their movement if asked by the police Also, gathering of five or more than five persons at a place will not be allowed.” The orders have been issued under the provisions of the Section 144 (1) [3] of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The police said people should adhere to the curfew orders and should not step out of their houses in a large group. People found moving on the city roads in groups of five or more than five without valid reasons would face action under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Ganesh Shetty, the president of Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA), said, “We have asked our employees to leave for home in groups of three-four people after the closing hours following the latest rule. We had a meeting with the police, who also advised us the same thing. Earlier, our staffers would leave the establishment in groups of 10 or more people.” Parth Gupta, a city-based working professional, said, “The authorities are thinking about preventing crowding for New Year celebrations. Hence, the ban on the assembly of five or more people. It does make sense from that angle. But I’m not really sure how helpful it would be in controlling the pandemic as the infection can spread from one person to another also.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-police-allow-commute-with-valid-reasons-during-curfew-hrs/articleshow/79972693.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||Flame, marking India’s 1971 victory over Pakistan, arrives in Gwalior||BHOPAL: Southern Cardinal victory flame that marked the 50th anniversary of India’s victory over Pakistan in 1971, arrived at Gwalior Military Station on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday, lit up ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal' from the eternal flame of the National War Memorial. Four victory mashaals (flaming torches) were lit from the eternal flame and were carried to four cardinal locations of India, including to the villages of Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra awardees of the 1971 war. In this series, a mashaal was sent to Gwalior. “Soil from the villages of these awardees and from areas where major battles were fought in 1971 are being brought to the National War Memorial (NWM)," according to an official release. India celebrates December 16 as Vijay Diwas to commemorate its victory over Pakistan during the 1971 war that led to the creation of Bangladesh. Southern Cardinal victory flame arrived at Gwalior Military Station through Delhi-Mathura-Agra route on Thursday, officials informed. Station commander, Gwalior Military Station, the chief guest received the victory flame at Baaz Auditorium. On the occasion, a short film on various operations conducted during the war of 1971 was screened. Master of ceremony Lieutenant Nishant Nauhwar welcomed all the sitting members for the screening of the movie. He made a brief introduction about the battle of Chak Amru, wherein Trinco Brigade played a vital role in the 1971 war. Officers and Jawans of BSF from Tekanpur were also present. Station Commander Gwalior Military Station interacted with the officers and jawans after the movie. He reiterated the value of “Naam, Namak Nishan” at all levels of power which led to outstanding victory in the history of the nation. As part of the series, various commemorative events are being conducted across India wherein war veterans are being felicitated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/flame-marking-indias-1971-victory-over-pakistan-arrives-in-gwalior/articleshow/79971423.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vaghela under house arrest before Delhi march||GANDHINAGAR: Former chief minister Shankersinh Vaghela claimed on Saturday that he was placed under house arrest and not allowed to move out. The former CM and convener of Praja Shakti Morcho had earlier announced that he will hold a protest march from Sabarmati Ashram to Delhi from Saturday in solidarity with farmers who are agitating against the new farm laws. Vaghela said, “I was about to move to Ahmedabad Sabarmati Ashram to join Delhi farmers’ protest with about 100 supporters. However, my house has been gheraoed by police and I am not allowed to move out.’‘ He added, “This is like an emergency situation where people are not allowed to move around or speak freely. I will not stop, and my protest against the government will continue. When the BJP is allowed to organize party programmes, why are others not being allowed?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaghela-under-house-arrest-before-delhi-march/articleshow/79971428.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ex-worker found dead in multiplex||AHMEDABAD: A 25-year-old man who was a former employee of City Gold multiplex on Ashram Road was found dead in the basement parking of the multiplex on Saturday evening, Navrangpura police said. Mystery surrounds the case because the deceased, Shailesh Thakor, a resident of Balasinor, had come to the multiplex to collect his salary from his contractor on December 22 but never returned. Inspector P B Desai of Navrangpura police said: “The multiplex staffers were experiencing a foul smell from the basement area and began sanitization work.” The body was found in the gap beneath the ground floor and the lift. The staffers informed the cops and a team of Navrangpura police began an inquiry. Desai said that Thakor’s arrival at the multiplex on December 22 was captured by CCTV cameras. Desai said that there were no injury marks on the body and a team of forensic experts was called to analyze the scene of crime. The exact cause of death will be known only after the autopsy report is delivered. Sources in police said that Thakor worked at the multiplex for about two years but lost his job during the lockdown and was unemployed since then. “Staffers said that Thakor was employed by a labour contractor named Manish Solanki and was removed from the job in the last week of March,” said a cop. “After a long time, he had come to the multiplex and demanded his dues. But when he was denied his payment, he told his contractor and other staffers that he would not go till he gets his money.” The cop said that people saw him roaming around in the basement parking area but never saw him again. The cops have begun collecting CCTV footage and have registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ex-worker-found-dead-in-multiplex/articleshow/79971431.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: CBI files Rs 67 crore bank fraud case against Vapi firm||AHMEDABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday filed a bank fraud case where a company into manufacturing of cotton yarn and knitting of fabrics in Vapi town of Valsad district allegedly cheated the State Bank of India (SBI) of Rs 67.07 crore. A statement from the CBI reads that the accused directors of the firm Krishna Knitwear Technology in nexus with public servants and others cheated SBI during the years 2011 and 2015 by way of forgery, falsification of accounts and diversion of funds. “The company allegedly availed Fund Based Working Capital (FBWC) with SBI, main corporate branch, Vapi branch. Only around 20% of its receipts and payments from its debtors and creditors respectively were routed through banking channels, and the remaining amount was siphoned off,” reads the statement. The company was engaged in manufacturing of cotton yarn, knitted grey fabric and finished garments. Searches were conducted at 10 places including official and the residential premises of the accused and private company at Silvassa and Mumbai which led to recovery of incriminating documents and articles. CBI’s action came in midst of multiple search operation in various banks across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cbi-files-rs-67-crore-bank-fraud-case-against-vapi-firm/articleshow/79971418.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Rajinikanth’s condition stable, some medical reports awaited: Hospital||HYDERABAD: Putting to rest all speculations about actor Rajinikanth’s health condition, Apollo Hospitals on Saturday evening said there is nothing alarming about his health and that he is stable. The hospital described the actor’s condition as stable and said that reports of some of the investigations had come and that there was nothing alarming. “A few other medical investigation reports are awaited. Based on the reports of the remaining investigations and his blood pressure status, doctors will decide on Sunday morning to discharge from the hospital,” the hospital said. In the morning, the hospital in a medical bulletin said his blood pressure was high. “His blood pressure is still on the higher side although under better control than Friday,” the hospital said. “His blood pressure medications are being titrated carefully and he will continue to be under close monitoring,” the hospital said. It said the actor had been advised complete rest in view of the blood pressure fluctuations and visitors were not being allowed to meet him. The actor, who was shooting for his forthcoming film in Hyderabad, was admitted to the hospital on Friday. Four crew members of the film unit had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 24. Rajinikanth, who was part of the shooting, however, tested negative. Meanwhile, leaders wished the actor for his speedy recovery. Tamil Nadu chief minister E K Palaniswami called up Rajinikanth and enquired about his health. He wished him speedy recovery. IT minister KT Rama Rao tweeted, “Wishing a speedy recovery to the inimitable man, ‘Thalaiva’ Rajnikanth garu.” Finance minister T Harish Rao also tweeted, “Get well superstar Raijnikanth garu. Wishing a speedy recovery and good health (sic).” Leaders wished the actor for his speedy recovery. Tamil Nadu chief minister E K Palaniswami and IT minister KT Rama Rao enquired about his health||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rajinis-condition-stable-some-medical-reports-awaited-hospital/articleshow/79971425.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC takes serious view of stone crushers||HYDERABAD: Telangana HC issued an ultimatum to the state government and Telangana State Pollution Control Board asking them to explain steps they are taking to solve problem of dust arising out of stone crushers. Court took a serious view of grievances raised in a PIL that narrated woes of people living around illegal stone crushers in Rangareddy and Sangareddy. “We gave you (government) enough time,” said a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy addressing state counsel Sanjeev Kumar. The bench was hearing a plea by businessman T Sarat Kumar Reddy who brought to notice of the court the plight of people affected by stone crusher dust. The bench gave time till Dec 31 for the authorities to file their replies and posted the case to January 4. “These crushers are playing havoc with the lives of people,” Sarat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-takes-serious-view-of-stone-crushers/articleshow/79971427.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||‘Sex chat’ with strangers landing gullible netizens in blackmailing trap||Nagpur: A 55-year-old man approached city police cyber cell after an unknown woman whom he had met on a dating and video chat app started blackmailing him after a sex chat session. She is threatening to send the recording to his family members and circulate it on social media. In another case, a housewife is seeking help as the man she befriended on a dating and video chat app started demanding money to ensure that her sex chat clip from bedroom and bathroom and screenshot of their conversations doesn’t go viral. A young student too was trapped by a youngster in a similar manner. Sources in the cyber cell said victims include people from different age groups and backgrounds. “Those looking for a break from routine life through social media are the most vulnerable, whether it’s man or woman from any age group. Once the victim’s private chats, videos go to the blackmailers, they start demanding money,” said an experienced cop. Though cops are tight-lipped about such complaints, they cautioned netizens against befriending strangers, and most importantly, trusting them without knowing their backgrounds or verifying their claims. “The blackmailers initially sound caring, doting, loving and faithful. They may also fake a tragic story to win sympathy of the victim and later trap them emotionally,” said cops while divulging the modus operandi of the blackmailers. According to a source, the blackmailers initially lure their preys into sex chats with or without videos. “Later, the victims are made to pose naked in video chats and masturbate in front of the mobile camera or laptop,” said the source. The source said these video clips are also sold on various porn sites. “One also gets the amount credited or free membership of such social media channels or sites,” said the source. The blackmailers use fake names, identities and socio-economic backgrounds, said police. “Do not trust the DPs of men posing with cars or high-end bikes. We have come across a case where a car pick-and-drop driver who used to create DP with every expensive car he had driven to-and-fro from the garage,” said a cop. “Getting into explicit private conversation and opting for video chats in such compromising position should be avoided as they can be used as a tool for blackmailing,” said the cop and added that they are deleting objectionable clips of victims regularly “but the issue is widespread”. It’s reliably learnt, cyber cops are being approached by such victims in desperate need of help but they are not keen on bringing the complaint on record fearing social stigma if the case gets leaked. Modus operandi · Blackmailers look for persons seeking a mate on dating or video chatting apps · They befriend the victim by faking their identities and backgrounds · They gather sympathy with a heart-touching story · Sound caring, loving and doting in the beginning so as to develop emotional bond · Gradually get into sex talks and chats · Pressure victims for video calls from bathroom or bedrooms without clothes or scantily dressed · Insist on a masturbation session which is recorded or screenshot taken · Demand money by threatening to make clips viral on social media or mail it to near and dear ones||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sex-chat-with-strangers-landing-gullible-netizens-in-blackmailing-trap/articleshow/79979490.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Palakkad man falls victim to ‘honour killing’||PALAKKAD: In an incident that has sent shockwaves across the state, a 27-year-old husband of three months, Aneesh, was hacked to death by the father and uncle of his wife, Haritha, 19, at Thenkurissi near Kuzhalmannam, in the district, on Friday. Kuzhalmannam police arrested both the accused on Saturday and the search for a third accomplice is ongoing. The father, Prabhukumar, was detained in Coimbatore while the uncle, Suresh, was held in Palakkad. Police suspect it to be case of honour killing as the girl’s family, financially sound Tamil Pillais, had previously threatened Aneesh, who was from a poor OBC family. The attack took place when Aneesh, accompanied by his brother, Arun, had stepped out of their house to shop for some groceries on Friday, police said. Prabhukumar stabbed Aneesh, who sustained a fatal wound to the neck. Aneesh was rushed to a private hospital but he succumbed to his injuries. According the police, the couple, who had been in a relationship since their school days, had eloped and got married in September at the local registrar’s office against the wishes of Haritha’s family. The deceased’s father, Arumughan, said that Suresh had come to their house some days ago and threatened to kill Aneesh. He also took a mobile phone from the residence. Though a complaint was filed no action was taken by local police on the grounds that they were busy with the local-body election. After their marriage a complaint was filed by the girl’s family and police had summoned the couple to the Kuzhalmannam station. Haritha had then declared her intention to stay with Aneesh. The police were well aware of the threats, Arumughan said. Minster for SC/ST welfare A K Balan said, here, on Saturday the government will investigate the murder case promptly, and also examine allegations of lapses on the part of police in taking action on the complaint of threats from the girl’s family. Youth Congress state president Shafi Parambil MLA has demanded an investigation by a special police team. The body was released to the family after postmortem at Palakkad district hospital on Saturday. The postmortem report said internal bleeding from the deep stab wound had resulted in Aneesh’s death. Aneesh’s body was then moved to his house to heart-rending scenes. The final rites were performed at the Chandranagar electric crematorium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/plkd-man-falls-victim-to-honour-killing/articleshow/79970701.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Dehradun||Four years on, not all encroachments removed in Rudrapur despite HC order||RUDRAPUR: It was in June 2016 when the Uttarakhand high court ordered the Rudrapur municipal corporation (RMC) and the district administration to remove encroachments and demolish illegal structures that were marked by the administration in August 2013 in the US Nagar district headquarters in Rudrapur. However, even after four and half years, several structures remain largely "due to apathy of the RMC officials". “Every citizen has a fundamental right of movement and this cannot be allowed to be infringed by a few violators in public and due to apathy of state authorities. Even after the demolition drive, almost 20 percent structure remains," claimed Mohan Lal, a local resident. A local trader also alleged that RMC has been biased. "Several buildings owned by influential people were not demolished and they were allowed to make partial changes just to show that they complied with the court order." "People have resorted to aerial encroachments now. They have razed the ground floors as per the court's order but have again raised structures to the disputed length from the first floor upwards. RMC has turned a blind eye to this violation," activist Santokh Singh said. Meanwhile, RMC commissioner, Rinku Bisht, said, "There are a few religious structures which are yet to be demolished. We are conducting talks with the concerned organisations and will find a way out soon." Earlier, the order came when a double bench of the Nainital high court comprising the then Chief Justice K M Joseph and Justice V K Bisht was hearing a PIL filed in 2015 by an NGO seeking the court's intervention in removing illegal structures and encroachments. The HC had also issued an order to the municipal corporation to demolish all structures that have encroached on footpaths and roadsides that were identified and marked in red in August 2013. Later, 1,319 such encroachers were issued notices by the corporation. When the competent authorities did not act, on March 23, 2018, the HC had issued a contempt of court notice against the district magistrate and RMC commissioner on a petition alleging that they failed to remove encroachments in the city. The court had directed both the DM and commissioner to appear before it on April 25 only after removal of the identified encroachments. Later on April 7, 2018, a demolition drive was initiated by the RMC. Several structures were razed and it was planned that pavements will be made at the vacated space so that people could walk freely in the city's main market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-years-on-not-all-encroachments-removed-in-rudrapur-despite-hc-order/articleshow/79970706.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||FIR against traffic cop for remaining absent||AHMEDABAD: In a rare instance, a traffic police inspector on Friday filed a complaint against a constable for remaining absent from duty for about four months giving the excuse of illness. In his FIR filed with Sola police, inspector P B Khambhla of A Division traffic police said that Ranjitsinh Chamansinh, a resident of Chandkheda, was transferred to traffic police from the city police last year. On August 11, the constable went on sick leave without prior information and did not return in a week. He was given notices thrice to resume duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fir-against-traffic-cop-for-remaining-absent/articleshow/79971437.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||FIR against Sidhpur MLA junked||AHMEDABAD: A Congress MLA from Sidhpur, Chandanji Thakor, got a reprieve from Mehsana court about the FIR registered against him and his son for violation of lockdown norms and for allegedly slapping a constable when his vehicle was stopped. A sessions court recently discharged Thakor and his son Sanjaykumar from the case of violation of lockdown norms. Thakor and his son were stopped on April 22 while on their way to the Bechraji temple. The MLA allegedly entered in an altercation with the TRB and slapped him for stopping his vehicle. The Bechraji police filed an FIR against the father-son duo under various sections including 188 and 186 of IPC for violation of notification and for stopping the cop from performing his duty. Besides, they were charged with causing hurt and criminal intimidation. A magisterial court accepted the chargesheet and summoned Thakor, who sought discharge in this case on the ground that court is prohibited from taking cognizance of chargesheet under section 195(1)A of CrPC because sections 188 and 186 of IPC were invoked. A government officer has personally filed complaint in court, which was not done in this case. The magisterial court rejected the discharge application and Thakor approached the sessions court, which has accepted Thakor’s contention and held that chargesheet cannot be accepted in this case. There were more than 1 lakh FIRs filed for lockdown violations across the state. Police have filed chargesheets for violation of notification. Many courts have refused to accept chargesheets as non-cognizable. The director of prosecution has asked government lawyers to appeal in higher courts against such junking of chargesheets for lockdown violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fir-against-sidhpur-mla-junked/articleshow/79971442.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Tightening Net: Cops ask Google to block 158 instant finance apps||Hyderabad: Police have asked Google to block 158 instant financing applications (apps) on its Play Store as the companies behind these were found harassing and shaming defaulters. In a related development, Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials have started gathering information from Telangana police about companies involved in the instant financing apps since the role of Chinese nationals have emerged. After arresting 14 persons for the operation of instant loan apps, Hyderabad police have sent a requisition to remove 42 financing apps, while their Cyberabad counterparts sent a list of 116 which are on Google Play Store since it was through these apps the accused had disbursed loans and later started harassing the defaulters by shaming them. When contacted, Hyderabad joint commissioner of police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty confirmed writing to Google to remove the apps from the Play Store. `”We are awaiting response from Google,’’ he said. The role of these 158 apps came to light based on complainants lodged by victims, who were harassed by the representatives of these apps. Officials suspect the callers’ telephone numbers, which are displayed on victims’ phone whenever the representatives called them, might be spoofed numbers. The callers were using voice over internet protocol (VoIP) calls to reach out to defaulters. With the initial inputs available with investigators, Cyberabad police said many of these instant financing companies have dedicated training teams, who train their tele-callers to gain different skill sets, including intimidation tactics and hurling abuses, while approaching defaulters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tightening-net-cops-ask-google-to-block-158-instant-finance-apps/articleshow/79971436.cms||Srinath Vudali
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||10% Covid fatalities in Madhya Pradesh due to delay in reaching hospitals||BHOPAL: Nearly 10% of the Covid-19 deaths occurred due to late arrival at hospitals, say experts. They add that even in cases with co-morbidity, if patients reach hospital on time, they mostly recover. Despite the number of fresh cases going down in the state in December, the number of deaths per day has increased on an average. Overall, a total 309 deaths were reported in MP in the month of November, which averaged to around 10 deaths due to Covid-19 per day. In December, a total 276 deaths have been reported till now, which averages to around 11 deaths a day in December. Even if seen nationally, the death rate — the number of deaths per 100 positive cases — in Madhya Pradesh is more than the national average. Nationally, the death rate due to Covid-19 is around 1.44 and that of state is 1.49. “Even now, late arrival in hospitals is contributing to at least 10% to the total mortality due to Covid-19 in the state capital. This was higher in the early days as in certain cases, there is a state of happy hypoxia in patients wherein they do not feel any scarcity of oxygen and their body compensates for it. But finally it fails to do so. This has reduced ever since the government issued instructions for use of oxy-meters,” director AIIMS, Dr Sarman Singh, said. He further said: “We have also come to notice unfortunate incidents in Bhopal wherein patients, who are already co-morbid, claim that they do not have Covid-19, but if they go to doctors, they will be detected as Covid positive and admitted. This lack of awareness is also contributing to late arrivals. Even if patients with co-morbidity reach hospital on time, most of them recover.” And the conditions are more or less the same in districts all across the state. Chief medical and health officer, Gwalior, Dr Manish Sharma, said, “Most of the deaths are due to co-morbidity, i.e., patients who are suffering with severe diseases. But there have been nearly 2-5% such cases where patients were not suffering from any disease, but were elderly and late arrival at hospital is also a reason.” Experts in Jabalpur also opined that even if a patient is co-morbid and tests positive for Covid, most likely the patient will recover if he/she reaches hospital on time. “The main cause of death is co-morbidity of the patients, but delay in reaching hospital is also one of the reasons. If patients reach hospital on time, then the chances of their recovery increases,” dean, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College, Jabalpur, Dr PK Kasar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/delay-in-reaching-hosps-a-key-reason-for-covid-deaths/articleshow/79970720.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Dennis moved to India in Feb||Hyderabad: Yi Bai alias Dennis, chief operating officer (COO) of XIKAI Holding PTE Ltd (XHPL) who was arrested by Cyberabad police for running instant money apps in India, has a Master’s degree in finance from New York University. Investigators said Dennis, 35, after he was employed at XIKAI, a Singapore-based Chinese-run company, was moved to India in February, 2020 by Zixia Zhang, chief executive officer of XHPL, to be head of their Indian-based sister company Skyline Innovations Technologies India Private Limited, Delhi. It is learnt that Dennis drew a salary of $3 lakh per month. Police suspect Zhang in the past had visited India for setting up instant loan app business. Though XIKAI is based in Singapore, Zhang reportedly resides in New Zealand. Cyberabad police have informed the Chinese embassy about his arrest. However, till now the embassy authorities did not contact the Telangana police. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dennis-moved-to-india-in-feb/articleshow/79971438.cms||Srinath Vudali
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||City startup develops UVC-disinfection equipment for Southern Railways||AHMEDABAD: In times of the pandemic, disinfection and sanitization are the buzzwords. As public services and transport resumed in full swing, the need for disinfection of products, surfaces, air and water media has intensified. Addressing the need for disinfecting equipment and products used in the railways, Ahmedabad-based start-up, ShiUV India Private Limited, which developed UVC (Ultra Violet C-Spectrum) based disinfection products, bagged an order from the Southern Railways for one of its products – a disinfection oven. "Soon after the trains resumed, the Southern Railways were facing major problems in disinfecting different products, because each product be it linen or spares that goes out from the store exchanges many hands. Chemical-based disinfectants not just proved less effective but were even a costlier affair. We have developed a huge oven for them which they use for disinfecting linen, bedsheets and other products used in the train," said Harsh Shah, founder, ShiUV Lighting Private Limited. Incorporated in March 2020, the startup now offers some six different disinfection products for water, air and surface sanitization, which disinfects up to 99.9% killing all microbes and germs, including the Covid-19 virus. Shah was into the business of commercial lighting before he founded the startup. "While researching about disinfection technologies, I realized that chemical-based disinfectants have a number of problems and come at a recurring cost. On the other hand, UVC-based disinfection is a dry mechanism. Our products are certified by NABL-accredited laboratories wherein 99.9% disinfection is achieved within minutes including that for Covid-19 virus." The company is also in talks with the Central Railways at present for another order. "We have also developed a product that will help disinfect the air-conditioning vent in the train, and it has already been tested by the Central Railways. We are in the final stages of negotiation and working out details of the order," said Shah. The startup is incubated at Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII) at present. It caters to clients including the likes of International hospitality brands such as Hyatt Hotels and Marriott International. That apart, it also provides a wide range of disinfection products for the Indian Railways, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Aegis Infoware, Omega Elevators and FirstCry.com. The company manufactures hand-held devices as well as industrial disinfection devices using the UVC-based technologies that help disinfect water media, surfaces and even AC vents. "At present, we are a self-funded startup and the entire funding is done through our commercial lighting company, which is a six-year-old firm," said Shah, a 29-year-old alumnus of EDII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-startup-develops-uvc-disinfection-equipment-for-southern-railways/articleshow/79971447.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||Strengthen your mind, fill heart with hope to beat Covid: Survivors||BHOPAL: Contracting the Covid-19 infection can be overwhelming for almost all patients. Almost all battle with questions such as “Will I die? What will happen to my family?” Eventually mustering the mental strength to fight back can be the key to defeating the infection. TOI spoke to some survivors to know how they won over the deadly virus. An intensive care specialist, in his 50s, shared his story. He contracted the Covid-19 infection while working on the frontline – the ICU of the city’s largest coronavirus care centre. “I slept in the TV room initially during the pandemic. I did not want to take the slightest chance of infecting my family,” said the specialist, whose identity cannot be revealed. “After getting a scratchy throat and that nagging feeling that I have contracted Covid-19, I tested myself. I was COVID-19 positive. Ironically, I was treated in the same ICU where I was on Covid-19 duty,” the doctor said. No sooner, after about a 12 days of hospitalisation, the doctor returned home. The luxury — of some fresh air and sunlight and a break from work — did not last long. He returned to the hospital within a fortnight, the doctor explained. “It might not be the first time, I have been infected. We await a viable vaccine. Till then, we serve and cure,” the doctor added. Some survivors faced anxious moments coming to terms with the social impact of Covid-19, and not just the ailment itself. A school teacher recollected his belief. “I stayed in contact with my family through regular video-calls. The amazing thing is my family was only on the next floor,” he said. “I did not want to leave my bubble due to the fear of infecting my family. It was the most stressful when we had the ‘Covid-19’ sticker outside our residence,” he said. “Even today, there are people who tend to stay at a safe distance from ‘us’,” he said. “Medically, there is a gradual disappearance of symptoms, socially, it is here to stay. I contracted Covid-19 when I reached out to infected families and did my duty to help them with essentials. I do not regret it. Anyone can get infected. What we need to understand is the social stigma that has been attached to the infection,” he stated. Coming home after the infection is a real celebration. Being physically distanced for treatment can take a toll. It is a small sacrifice compared to what the disease does to those who experienced it, like 40-year-old Vinay (name changed). “The post-recovery period has its own challenges. I was advised to stay in my room for seven days, did not eat with the family, and during the night, I was advised oxygen support. I have still not recovered to being my old self. If I work hard for a day, the next day, I can barely drive to work. Covid-19 has reinstilled the lesson of eating healthy and avoiding a sedentary lifestyle,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/be-strong-of-mind-fill-your-heart-with-hope-to-beat-covid-survivors/articleshow/79970722.cms||Jamal Ayub
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Bachupally cops arrest 10 for extorting money after cross-dressing||HYDERABAD: Bachupally police on Saturday arrested 10 persons who cross-dressed and allegedly extorted Rs 16,500 by trespassing into a house where a function was taking place. Police said that the complainant’s son got married on Thursday. On Friday morning, 10 persons who had cross-dressed barged into the house demanding Rs 20,000 when a pooja was planned. When the complainant refused to give money, they created a ruckus. The complainant gave Rs 16,500 which was in his pocket. Police registered a case, nabbed the victims and seized phones and extorted cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-10-for-extorting-money-after-cross-dressing/articleshow/79971444.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stable gold prices push bullion demand up in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: As the risk premium is going up amidst territorial lockdowns and restrictions globally and a surge in cases, the stability in gold price is keeping gold demand upbeat. Yellow metal has been trading at Rs 51,800 per 10 gram in the Ahmedabad market on Saturday. The prices have remained in the range of Rs 51,000-Rs 52,000 per 10 gram since about two weeks now. Analysts explained that gold prices are expected to go up in the days to come. “As the recovery of the economy is expected to be slower, the risk-premium is high. The demand for gold as a haven investment is once again high and as a result, prices are expected to go up in the days to come. Several investors are investing in the yellow metal at present,” said a city-based bullion trader without willing to be named. Analysts also said that investments in the sovereign gold bonds has also remained good. “People are thinking of investing in gold in the longer term,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). With more bullion purchases, even jewellers are getting a huge cushion in terms of business because of jewellery sale. “Jewellery sales are very low-key as it is not considered auspicious for people to buy gold at this time of the year and therefore, the business we are getting from bullion is a cushion to keep our revenues afloat,” said Jigar Soni, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). Even the assets under management (AUM) for Gold Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), have shown a growth in the past one month. According to data by Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), the AUM stood at Rs 282.36 crore in November 2020, rising from Rs 277.09 crore in October 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stable-gold-prices-push-bullion-demand-up-in-gujarat/articleshow/79971454.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Schools set to reopen in January, parents consent must||BHOPAL: Several schools which have kept their doors shut even after the state government gave them to the go-ahead to open have decided to reopen from January first week. Schools have also sent a format of consent letter to the parents. Notably, schools have been allowed to open regular classes from December 18. Several schools could not open their campuses after parents objected. Schools said that parents have been objecting to the opening of schools. “As parents were not ready, it was not possible to open schools. Now, they have started asking about the school opening. We have also decided to open the campus,” said a school owner on condition of anonymity. Several schools have sent a format wherein parents are asked to sign. A few parents have objected to that format citing that schools have put all responsibility on them. “I wish to send my child to school as this year he is to appear in the class 10 board exams. However, it was shocking when I read the consent letter format. Schools said that it will be the responsibility of the parents if any student tested positive,” said Animesh Rawat, father of a student. Despite announcement of re-opening of the classes, several schools in the state capital decided not to open their campuses. Schools had cited the ongoing exams, absence of parents’ consent and no instructions from higher authorities. Even Kendriya Vidyalayas running in Bhopal could not open as higher authorities did not instruct them. “We have asked for the consent from the parents, but they were not willing to send. As they have agreed to sign the consent letters, there was no problem in opening the schools,” said a school principal, not wishing to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/schools-set-to-reopen-in-jan-parents-consent-must/articleshow/79970736.cms||Ramendra Singh
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||1,006 new cases take Madhya Pradesh corona count to 2,23,532||BHOPAL: The count of Covid-19 patients in the state reached 2,37,406 on Saturday as 1,006 new cases were reported. However, on Saturday too, more people recovered from Covid-19 than testing positive in a single day. Against 1,006 new people testing positive, 1,129 patients recovered, taking the total recovery tally to 2,23,532. As on December 26, the overall recovery rate for Covid-19 in the state was 94.15%. Apart from the fresh cases, nine casualties were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the death toll reached 3,545 in the state on Saturday. Districts where these casualties were reported include 2 deaths each in Indore and Bhopal and one death each from Jabalpur, Ratlam, Betul, Chhindwara and Jhabua. On Saturday, fresh cases were reported from 49 of the total 52 districts of the state. Districts where no new cases were reported include Morena, Seoni and Dindori districts. Of the 49 districts that reported fresh cases, new cases were reported in double figures from 20. Maximum cases were reported from Indore where 301 new patients were found on Saturday, followed by Bhopal where 240 new patients were found, then Jabalpur where 46 new patients were found and Khargone where 30 new patients were found. A total 25,812 samples were tested on Saturday, 1,006 tested positive. Thus, the positivity rate — number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested — for Saturday stood at 3.8 percent. As on December 26, there were a total of 10,329 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1006-new-cases-take-state-corona-count-to-223532/articleshow/79970729.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Chill may set in from next week||AHMEDABAD: The temperature remained high on the third consecutive day for the city with maximum temperature reaching 30.3 degrees celsius. The maximum temperature was 1.4 degrees above normal, mentioned India Meteorological Department (IMD) website, whereas the minimum temperature was 3.8 degrees higher than the normal at 16.7 degrees. The minimum temperature may rise further at 18 degrees on Sunday, mentioned IMD forecast. This year, only a few days required the citizens to bring out their woollens and quilts with relatively higher temperature during November and December. For the next five days, the IMD forecast mentioned that there will be no large change in the minimum temperature in next 24 hours, after which the minimum temperature will fall by 3-4 degrees celsius. The forecast has also mentioned possible cold wave in Rajkot and Kutch (Naliya) on December 28 and 29. Thereafter, the temperature could again rise. Naliya with 12.1 degrees celsius of minimum temperature was the coldest weather station, followed by 12.4 degrees in Keshod and 12.6 degrees in Deesa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chill-may-set-in-from-next-week/articleshow/79971459.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||No deterrents can stop our tractor protest, says Congress||BHOPAL: Former Union minister Arun Yadav on Saturday said that despite deterrents put up by the state BJP government, Congress MLAs on Monday will go to assembly on tractors in support of farmers’ protest against the three agricultural reforms laws. “Our programme is decided and Congress party will stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers in their fight against the three black laws,” Yadav said. In a joint press conference with former minister Sajjan Singh Verma on Saturday morning, Yadav claimed that the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government has passed an order to impose and strictly implement Section 144 within a five-kilometre radius around the state assembly building when winter session commences on Monday. “Let the government do whatever they wish. But Congress legislators will not drift from the tractor protest,” Yadav said. He argued that the repercussions of the ‘black laws’ are already visible. Yadav said that in Pipariya block in Hoshangabad district, a renowned private company announced purchasing rice from farmers. “Half-way through the purchase, the company’s personnel disappeared from the scene and switched off their mobile phones,” he said. “I am proud to say that whether it was the Mandsaur police firing or waiving of Rs72,000 crore by the erstwhile Manmohan Singh government at the Centre, Congress party always stood in support of farmers,” Yadav said. Verma said that no matter what the obstructions, he will reach the assembly in a tractor. “I have no car, no other vehicle. I only have a tractor and will go to the assembly riding it. How can they stop an MLA who doesn’t have another vehicle? I live in Kolar which is more than five kilometres from the state assembly. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, no one will give a lift and I cannot walk the distance. So, I will definitely reach the assembly in my tractor,” he said. Former chief minister and leader of opposition Kamal Nath will lead the MLAs’ protest on tractors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-deterrents-can-stop-our-tractor-protest-says-cong/articleshow/79970745.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Delay in project: Aliens told to refund flat buyer Rs 30 lakh||HYDERABAD: Stating that Aliens Developers failed to construct its Space Station venture at Tellapur, the Telangana State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed the firm to refund Rs 30 lakh to an aggrieved home buyer. A bench of the commission, comprising president Justice MSK Jaiswal and member Meena Ramanathan, pronounced the order after hearing a complaint filed by Balanagar Srinivas, who complained about the failure of the firm and also about its unfair methods. The bench directed the firm to also pay the customer interest at 12% per annum from the day he paid his money. Stating that the developer did not keep its promise of timely construction of the flats, the bench said that it was a clear deficiency of service on the part of Aliens. It also slapped costs of Rs 5,000 and asked the firm to pay this to the aggrieved customer. Several customers like the petitioner were attracted towards the publicity given by Aliens in 2009 wherein it announced its plan to build a 29-storied complex in 20 acre at Tellapur and christened it as Aliens Space Station-1. “While the developer firm was wrong for its failure to complete the construction as was promised, Bank of India, LB Nagar, too was wrong because it released money without verifying the status of the construction,” V Appa Rao, the counsel for the complainant, said. “If a customer wants to go back from the agreement, he has to forego 10% percent of the amount he paid or he should refer the matter to the arbitrator appointed by the company and this was the mutually agreed part of the joint agreement,” realty firm counsel P Raja Sripathi Rao said. The bench brushed aside the argument and said arbitration was an additional remedy available to a customer. Agreeing with the petitioner’s argument that the customer need not forego 10% to seek refund because it was the builder who brought things to this passe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/delay-in-project-aliens-told-to-refund-flat-buyer-rs-30-lakh/articleshow/79971457.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Several Aliens customers still fighting for their money||HYDERABAD: Over a decade after they put their life’s savings into buying a ‘hi-tech’ home, several customers of Aliens Group are running from one court to the other, seeking help. With no house in sight yet, they are desperate to at least recover their hard-earned money – ranging anywhere between Rs 20 lakh to Rs 50 lakh, or more. “They played with the aspirations of the middle-class by promising high-end facilities at an affordable rate. Now, all that we are left with is a financial burden,” said Amit Gupta, who booked an apartment at the Tellapur project in 2010. Though he paid more than 50% of the total value – which is Rs 42 lakh – he still doesn’t have a home. “Initially I filed a group consumer case with other buyers, but it didn’t work. So, in 2019, I filed an individual case. I don’t know how long I'll have to fight for my money,” said the private employee. The firm’s managing director, Hari Challa, maintains that most customers – who sought a refund — have been paid. “We have already settled accounts with 150 to 200 people. Just about 50-odd are remaining. Also, many who cancelled flats earlier now want to come back to the project,” he said. Buyers, however, dismiss his claim and insist that hundreds of people have been making rounds of courts for years to retrieve their money from Aliens. While some have managed to get orders in their favour, the battle is still on for more than 100 buyers, they allege. They also confess that a sense of fatigue has set in over time. “I have gone through hell between 2010 and now. It is only because of my children’s support that I am not on the roads,” said Dr Hari Shankar Jain, who put his entire PF money – about Rs 40 lakh – to buy this property in 2009. His case too is pending in consumer court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/several-aliens-customers-still-fighting-for-their-money/articleshow/79971460.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Police chief frowns on barricade bottlenecks||NEW DELHI: You know that feeling of utter frustration when you are stuck in a traffic jam because of a police barricade which is either unmanned or where cops are just standing by and watching. At many places, the yellow barricades on wheels are just left blocking lanes on either side as vehicles slowly squeeze through the narrow opening. Few would have any issue with a legitimate law and order operation, but the barricades have become so ubiquitous that people now consider them to be a nuisance. The good news is that police commissioner S N Shrivastava has now instructed his men to remove such unnecessary or unmanned barricades which create bottlenecks. “The putting of barricades on the road by the police for the purpose of checking, at times, results in huge traffic jams,” says the order, December 25. “This causes inconvenience to commuters and even hampers the movement of emergency vehicles. In the interest of the public at large, it is desired that putting of non-permanent police pickets, with barricades, during peak hours should be avoided, unless under specific instructions from senior officers.” The message should percolate down in a few days. A drive through south Delhi on Saturday morning revealed how such barricades have proliferated in the city and how they create congestion. The one at Andrews Ganj, near a petrol pump, is a constant pain. It takes the traffic streams from the direction of Chirag Dilli, Nehru Place and Greater Kailash-I and squeezes them through a few lanes, creating a perfectly avoidable bottleneck. Down the road, it was the same scene at Oberois and near Delhi Golf Club. On the other carriageway near Defence Colony, there was another barricade close to the Lajpat Nagar metro station, inflicting the same pain on commuters. At Jangpura, too, the barricades had been left on the roadside but thankfully there was no traffic chaos. The police chief has ordered that whenever such pickets are under operation and officers on duty there observe that their checking has caused a traffic jam, the picket should be immediately “loosened” to ensure smooth flow of traffic. “The jam should not exceed 6-7 metres,” Shrivastava has said. If this order brings some relief to the hapless commuter, it would be a welcome development. There are, of course, those barricades too which have not been removed from residential colonies though the lockdown has been over for a long time. People park their cars behind these barricades, either effectively blocking the road or reducing the number of lanes. This causes inconvenience to people and defeats the very purpose of having a wide road. These are used to seal off many colonies at night. There should be a review of all such spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-chief-frowns-on-barricade-bottlenecks/articleshow/79971487.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two more UK returnees found Covid positive||NEW DELHI: Two more persons who returned from the United Kingdom between November 25 and December 22 and were living in Delhi have tested Covid positive. A total of 21 UK returnees have tested positive for the coronavirus so far and all of them are admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital. By Monday, it will be known whether the UK-returned persons who have tested Covid positive are infected with the new variant of the coronavirus or not. All samples have been sent to National Centre for Disease Control, which will get them tested from National Institute of Virology, Pune to check if the viral genome sequencing resembles the mutated coronavirus variant detected in the UK. “The reports are expected to be out by Monday. The people may have returned from the UK but there is no way we can say that they are infected with the strain spreading in the UK or they got infected with the local strain of the coronavirus,” said an official. “The reports are expected to be out by Monday. The people may have returned from the UK but there is no way we can say that they are infected with the strain spreading in the UK or they got infected with the local strain of the coronavirus,” said an official. Altogether 19 UK-returned people were admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital till Friday. The hospital has created a special isolation ward to keep the UK returnees suspected to have been infected with the new coronavirus variant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-more-uk-returnees-found-covid-positive/articleshow/79971491.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||ITM College closed, backlog students worried about exams||NAGPUR: After Nagpur University entrusted colleges to conduct examinations for the failure (ATKT) students, those associated with ITM Engineering College, Kamptee, are in a quandary as its management has locked the premises. The college has already stopped admissions and applied for closure about a couple of years back after facing several controversies. A majority of its faculty members and non-teaching staff have switched over to other institutions. Even the students were shifted to other colleges, but some of them had their backlog subjects whose exams are supposed to be conducted by the ITM management. But now, there’s no one from the management to guide them, as per the aggrieved students. In a series, TOI had also reported about many discrepancies in the college. “We are clueless at the moment as our college is completely locked and even the faculty doesn’t have any idea about our fate. We can’t get the degree until our backlog subjects are cleared. Our new college can’t conduct our exams for backlog papers as per the rules. The university should guide us or else we would lose our academic year,” the aggrieved students told TOI. Their teachers said the management hastily locked the college without giving any intimation, putting the future of students at stake. “They only told us that the entire premises would be locked from December 18. We are permanent faculty members here and we should be given at least three months’ notice. They locked the gates on scheduled dates. We have already complained to NU vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari and pro-VC Sanjay Dudhe about this mismanagement,” college’s head of mechanical engineering department, Mithilesh Pandey told TOI. NU Board of Exam and Evaluation (BoEE) director Prafulla Sable said they haven’t receive any complaint from students in this regard. “In a similar case from Wardha, we had shifted students to other colleges. If students approach us, we would help them out,” he told TOI. College clerk Suyog Taywade though the college was closed, exams would be held online. “Students don’t have to worry as some non-teaching staff like me are still there. We will ensure that their exams are held online from February 2 to 19. We will approach the NU authorities soon in this regard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/itm-college-closed-backlog-students-worried-about-exams/articleshow/79971469.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||Aim for ‘smart’ transformation of villages: Nitin Gadkari||NAGPUR: Union minister Nitin Gadkari called on young changemakers to set up businesses in villages, on the second day of the 66th national conference of student organization Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP). His address was a part of the Prof Yashwantrao Kelkar Youth Award ceremony at Suresh Bhatt Auditorium. Gadkari said, “A social worker should be a reflection of good values to the society. Bring forward young people like Manish who are working for agriculture and rural upliftment, set up business in villages and transform villages into ‘smart villages’, for the betterment of people living there.” Manish Kumar, a young activist from Bihar and an IIT Kharagpur graduate was felicitated by Gadkari for his contribution in the field of agriculture. He was awarded Rs1 lakh and a certificate. With regards to the gross domestic product (GDP), Gadkari said, “85 per cent of the population used to live in villages, but now, around 30 per cent have migrated to towns and cities, leaving the country’s GDP for only 12 per cent in the rural areas. This has drastically affected the farmers’ income and has also resulted in deterioration due to non-availability of produce in rural areas. Organic farming can help in improving the situation farmers are in, if more people head back to villages.” General secretary Nidhi Tripathi focused on the urgent need of recognizing farming as an important business, like the others. She said, “It is really important to start connecting farming with professionalism. This mentality, that farming is a low-sector working area should be eradicated from the minds of people.” Kumar, in his speech, said, “Going back to my village after completing my studies was a selfless motive and the only aim was to do something noteworthy for the nation. All the problems being faced by the farmers can be solved if the youth steps back into the villages instead of highly advanced cities. In Back to Village (B2V) organization we educate the youth about the importance of education and staying in a village and educating the farmers.” South zone organising secretary Anand Raghunathan introduced the work of Yashwantrao Kelkar, saying he was a man of principles. He said, “Kelkar had a balance in all aspects of life, and strongly believed in teamwork, which also became a reason why he discussed everything with his members.” The programme was moderated by head of Nagpur division, Ajay Chavan, and was presided over by ABVP president Chagganbhai Patel and welcome committee secretary Samay Bansod, along with over members from ABVP. The ceremony was streamed live on ABVP’s Facebook and YouTube handles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aim-for-smart-transformation-of-villages-gadkari/articleshow/79971490.cms||Anchal Bhatia
December 27, 2020||Aurangabad||8 SPI centres to hold defence exams||Aurangabad: The Services Preparatory Institute (SPI) in Aurangabad, which prepares cadets for NDA and other premier defence institutions in the country, has announced its entrance test for the 45th course on February 14 next year with the number of test centres increased to eight. Latur ,Amravati, Nashik and Mumbai are four new added centres in addition to existing Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Pune and Nagpur. SPI director Amit Dalvi on Saturday said that the entrance examination would be held simultaneously across eight centres instead of separate exams being conducted at each centre. “In view of growing response for SPI admission, we have decided to decentralize the process of conducting entrance exam by increasing the number of centres. The reform of conducting simultaneous exam at all centres was mooted for a long time and it will be implemented from next year,” he said. Last year, the SPI had received as many as 13,082 applications against the intake capacity of 60 seats, implying the popularity of the institute. As per official schedule, January 27 is the last date to apply for SPI entrance whereas hall tickets can be downloaded from website of the institute from February 10. There will be a single question paper with 150 multiple choice questions carrying one mark each. Equal weightage will be given to mathematics and the general ability test and each wrong answer will have negative marking of 0.5 mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/8-spi-centres-to-hold-defence-exams/articleshow/79970247.cms||Prasad Joshi
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Rise in steel, cement prices worries builders||Hyderabad: The continuous and sharp rise in prices of cement and steel has caused concern among the real estate developers and those constructing individual houses in the city. The real estate developers who are resuming construction activity after lockdown say that the steel prices have gone up by at least 30% and cement prices have gone up by around 20% in the last couple of months. Ramakrishna Rao, president, CREDAI Hyderabad said, “The price has been rising since the last two months and it has now gone up very steeply. Cement price has also gone up and it keeps fluctuating. They have a habit of stopping all dispatch at the start of the month or during month-end for 10 days or so to create an artificial shortage.” The developers said that in January 2020, cement price of a 50 kg bag, which was around Rs 350, has increased to Rs 430 to Rs 450 per bag. Also, they claimed that the per tonne rate of steel, which was around Rs 40,000 has now crossed Rs 55,000. “The modus operandi of the cement industry is that they first increase the price by Rs 35 or Rs 40 and then reduce it by Rs 10. Both steel and cement industries are playing havoc with the industry and it is certainly going to reflect on the sale price of houses,” said Rao. The body also sought the state’s intervention in regulating prices. Ashwin Rao, director of Manbhum Constructions, said, “Increase of price by almost 30% is a big hit for developers because the selling price is still the same. Many developers are being forced to halt construction work which is in turn impacting the delivery of the projects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rise-in-steel-cement-prices-worries-builders/articleshow/79971464.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Spike in black marketing of tickets to visit Charminar||HYDERABAD: After remaining shut during the Covid-19 induced lockdown, Charminar reopened for visitors in October. One-and-a-half months on, the footfall has stayed between 2,000 and 2,500, swelling marginally during weekends. However, there has been a spurt in black marketing and looting of ticket money by the staff deployed at entry points and other areas of the monument after the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) introduced online ticketing system and shut down the manual transactions to ensure safety of visitors from Covid-19. On receiving credible information about the situation, TOI visited the site recently and found that the staff deployed outside the heritage site was collecting the ticket money directly from the visitors without any record of the transaction made between both the parties. When enquired about how to get a ticket to enter the monument, taking advantage of the situation, one of the guards said, “All you have to do is pay Rs 25 for each person in cash. Don’t worry about online transaction. You can pay here and go inside to see the monument.” As per the ticket prices listed by ASI, it costs Rs 25 per ticket for an Indian visitor and Rs 300 per ticket for foreigners taking a tour of Charminar. In the video evidence gathered by TOI, a person is seen taking the money from visitors and sending them inside the monument instead of guiding them to the online ticket scanning board. When questioned about why they were collecting cash when there is an online system, they said that they were following orders of senior officials. While many who were visiting the site were unaware of this loot, some of them raised concerns about not receiving a ticket in exchange for the money from the staff. Mansoor Abdul Mannan, a resident of Red Hills said, “I have been visiting Charminar since I was a child. We were always given a ticket after we paid them money to enter the monument.”  ASI officials said they will look into the matter and start probe based on the video evidence provided by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spike-in-black-marketing-of-tickets-to-visit-charminar/articleshow/79971468.cms||Moulika.KV
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Construction too close to Qutub Minar, court orders action||NEW DELHI: Taking note of a construction that came up 40 metres away from the “protected and world-renowned” Qutub Minar, Delhi High Court has directed South Delhi Municipal Corporation to look into the matter and fix responsibility of the officers. “Similarly, the matter be also looked at by the director general of ASI. The DCP, South, too, shall look into it,” added Justice Najmi Waziri. The petitioner had contended being aghast of the inaction of the corporation in relation to the large-scale construction activity next to Qutub Minar. The petition relied on Google Earth images of the area and the alleged construction activity. The Delhi high court, therefore, observed that “the construction has been carried out in such a large area. Surely, this could not have escaped the attention of either police, ASI or the corporation.” The standing counsel for the civic body submitted that on the basis of “misrepresentation of facts and fabrication of documents”, permission for a building was taken from ASI and the corporation. The court, however, said, “This is odd because permission could not have been granted for any construction in the prohibited zone of 100 metres abutting a protected monument. The construction has taken place roughly 40 metres from Qutub Minar.” When the corporation’s counsel submitted that a full-grown tree had been cut, the court said from the images placed on record, it could be seen that several trees had been felled. The corporation also informed the court that any further construction was stopped and wouldn’t be allowed and Delhi Police and ASI had intimated in the same regard. “The affidavits, along with photographs and relevant documents, on behalf of the aforesaid four departments shall be filed within four weeks from today (December 23),” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/construction-too-close-to-qutub-court-orders-action/articleshow/79971494.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Repeat Covid-19 test for Aurangabad teachers before schools reopen on January 4||AURANGABAD: Amid proposed reopening of schools from municipal limits of Aurangabad for Class IX from January 4, the education department has asked the teaching and non-teaching staff to get their Covid-19 tests done. Education officer B B Chavan of Aurangabad Zilla Parishad on Saturday said that those teachers and non-teaching staffers, who undergone testing earlier, would also have to get themselves tested for Covid 19 again. “The Covid-19 testing is free at state-run facilities and therefore, there is no need of any resistance on the part of teachers,” he said. Chavan said a staff of around 2,500 from 253 schools located within municipal limits of Aurangabad is expected to undergo the test before January 3. Notably, educational institutions from rural areas of Aurangabad have already reopened for students from Class IX to Class XII from November 23. Also, the classes of junior colleges located within municipal limits have commenced from December 15. Principal of SBOA Public School, Surekha Mane, said teachers and non-teaching staff should voluntarily opt for Covid-19 test considering the safety of all. “The safety of students cannot be compromised at any cost. Its been more than a month since majority of teachers had undergone Covid test and therefore, we should not take any chance,” she said. Savita Mulay, principal of SBES-run school, said the government health machinery should extend all possible support for conducting another test. “During last time, the testing set-up was made available in our campus. We expect similar kind of cooperation for another round of testing,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/repeat-covid-19-test-for-aurangabad-teachers-before-schools-reopen-on-jan-4/articleshow/79970263.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||SPC asks police officers to remove curtain, sun film from vehicles||Thiruvananthapuram: Police seem to have woken up to the fact that before imposing rules on the public, they have to set examples by complying with the rules themselves. The state police chief has instructed all the police officials to remove window curtains, bull bars and sun films from their own vehicles. The vehicles in the department, especially that of senior police officials, are using sun films or curtains. Several vehicles are also using bull bars in front of the vehicles, apparently to reduce damage during a crash. “Existence of these contraband articles on government vehicles will give a negative message to the general public that government machinery is taking action against private vehicles, but violating the same in their own vehicles,” the message by state police chief Loknath Behera to all the unit heads and senior police officials said. Asking all the officials to strictly comply with the direction, the message further said it will be the personal responsibility of the officer to ascertain that department vehicles under their control are fitted with these articles. The Supreme Court had much earlier made it clear that sun films should not be affixed on the vehicle window glasses. As per the rule, there should be at least 50% visibility through the side window glasses and 70% visibility from the front and back glasses of vehicles. While the tinted glasses ensuring this visibility from the manufacturing stage of the vehicles are allowed, any further modification using sun films are against the law, as any further modification on the glasses would adversely affect the property of glasses. Similarly, the bull bars affect the structural design as any impact on the bull bars on collision is transferred to the chassis of the vehicle and thereby on the safety of the passenger, and not the bumper and external portion of the vehicle which are meant for absorbing the crash. After a strict drive was undertaken by the authorities against sun-films, many vehicles, especially government vehicles, had shifted to window curtains instead of sun-films. Later, the high court had made it clear that window curtains also cannot be allowed instead of sun-films. Last year, the motor vehicles department had issued a directive to all the government departments including the offices of ministers to comply with the order as a large number of government vehicles are using such materials in their vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/spc-asks-police-officers-to-remove-curtain-sun-film-from-vehicles/articleshow/79970772.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||De-reserve Urdu faculty posts: Assn to govt||Hyderabad: The Urdu Struggle Organization, an association for the protection of minorities’ rights, here on Saturday urged the state government to de-reserve posts related to the appointment of Urdu medium faculty. The organisation notified that out of 900 teacher posts for Urdu medium schools in the state during 2017, only 347 have been filled, while 553 posts are vacant as they are reserved for SC, ST, BC (A,C & D) categories. “Since then there is no staff in these categories, this is an irreparable loss to the Urdu medium schools and its students,’’ the organisation said. According to the organisation, many Urdu medium students who hail from weaker sections are categorised as below poverty line, belonging to the Muslim minority community. The organisation said that representations have been submitted to the state government. It urged the government to allow the vacant posts to be filled by candidates in open category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/de-reserve-urdu-faculty-posts-assn-to-govt/articleshow/79971474.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Shiv Sena backs Sikhs’ protest against Centre’s farm laws||AURANGABAD: Members of the city’s Shiv Sena unit joined a large number of Sikhs in their mega- protest against the three farm laws passed by the central government. While extending support to the farmers agitating at the Delhi border, the members of the Sikh community cutting across party lines called out the ‘insensitive’ approach of the Centre to introduce laws that are ‘pro-corporate’ and ‘anti-farmer’ in nature. Khushbirsingh Chandol, Navin Oberoi, Gurbachansingh Fauji, Surendrasingh Sabarwal, Rajendra Singh Jabinda were some of the prominent faces spotted at the protest. “It is wrong on the part of certain politicians to paint the farmers as anti-nationals. Farmers from across the communities and religious beliefs are participating in the agitation,” said Oberoi. Sena MLC Ambadas Danve said, “Over 2 lakh farmers are sitting out in cold but the Centre is not ready take cognizance of their demands. Their priority is West Bengal, not the farmers.” Danve said that if the Centre failed to meet the demands of the farmers, then his party would launch a drive at the village and taluka-level to make people at large aware about the anti-farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/shiv-sena-backs-sikhs-protest-against-centres-farm-laws/articleshow/79970262.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Video of ascetic waiving swords goes viral||AURANGABAD: A video depicting a 40-year-old ascetic waiving swords and threatening villagers in Meharbannaik tanda, a small hamlet near the Jambhali village in Paithan taluka, has gone viral on social media. He was allegedly attacked by the villagers and sustained injuries, including a fractured hand. He has been admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital. Ganesh Giri Maharaj, a self-proclaimed Naga sadhu of a hill-top temple in the neighbouring the hamlet, hails from Aurangabad. It is believed that he had been to an akhada in Uttarakhand where he stayed and practised for 12 years, before returning to this hilltop two years ago. When contacted, Bidkin police station’s assistant inspector Pankaj Udawant said: “No one from either side has come forward with a concrete complaint yet. However, taking cognizance of the video, we will register a case under the Arms Act.” According to the villagers, as it was Mokshada Ekadashi on Friday, a large group from Nilajgaon had gone to the temple. They said when the women sat down to eat, a cow from the gaushala belonging to Maharaj sparked commotion. When one of the villagers shooed the cow away, Maharaj got angry. Following an argument, the ascetic allegedly took out two swords. Villagers said that after Maharaj tried to attack them with swords, they pelted stones at him. His disciple Jaisingh Chavan said: “The villagers were carrying stones, sticks and axes when they approached Maharaj. There were over 100 people.” Maharaj said, “I drew the swords for my own protection. After they attacked me, I am being accused of attacking them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/video-of-ascetic-waiving-swords-goes-viral/articleshow/79970248.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CPM’s bet on youth is part of a smart strategy||Thiruvananthapuram: While CPM went for young blood to lead city corporation council, the party put its weight behind experienced hands in district panchayat. D Suresh Kumar, who was elected from Malayinkeezhu division, will be the LDF candidate for district panchayat president post. A Shylaja Begum from Kizhuvilam is set to be the vice- president. In city corporation, the deputy mayor candidate will be announced by CPI. Beyond the optics of the decision to project 21-year-old Arya Rajendran as city mayor, CPM is learnt to have been driven by clear conviction to make a statement regarding its choice. When the local party members zeroed in on Arya to contest from Mudavanmugal for the civic body elections, there was hardly any dissent. Arya and her parents were familiar to many party members since three of them attended party functions together. Her parents have long been party members. She rose to become Bala Sangham state president and SFI state committee member, gaining exposure to some of the prominent party faces. She has never been the one to fluster in front of party giants, a trait which was well noted by the party leadership. The party is banking on her organizational and oratorial skills and her ability to handle crisis with a maturity that belies her age. Her women predecessors had walked into the council with age and experience and Arya comes with pleasant demeanour and her roots are from a middle class family, something that could fuel the aspirations for young party workers. V K Prasanth had demonstrated what likeability quotient does to negate serious ideological differences. The party decided to stick to the pattern and this time around, Arya was the right match for different factors like local presence, loyalty to party, history of association and promise to rise to expectations. “It’s true that there were other senior names party could have considered, but there was nothing surprising about Arya’s choice. She has been devoted to the party since her childhood and she has exhibited leadership skills. As for other names, that direct association with the party was missing,” said a former councillor and CPM member. Arya’s ward Mudavanmugal falls under Nemom assembly constituency which is the only constituency represented by BJP in the state assembly. Her candidature has also set off a theory of nurturing a probable candidate who will be able to win back Nemom which had been a CPM stronghold since 2015. The party has provided a cushion for Arya with a council where she doesn’t have to give too much concern about opposition parties to get items on the agenda passed. Her choice is also considered a direct appeal to young voters and going by the trend which hugely favoured young candidates in civic body election, the party believes that the climate wouldn’t change much in assembly polls as well. Kumar who is set to become district panchayat president had been a district panchayat member in 2005 and headed welfare standing committee of Nemom block panchayat in 2015. Begum had been a member of district panchayat in 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpms-bet-on-youth-is-part-of-a-smart-strategy/articleshow/79970847.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nashik||Three more lanes to be added at Ghoti toll plaza||NASHIK: Amid the rush of vehicles at the Ghoti toll plaza, three more lanes are being added to accommodate more vehicles. The work for this is in progress. The huge volume of vehicular traffic on the Mumbai-Agra highway often causes long queues at the toll plaza. On Friday, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal who was travelling from Mumbai to Nashik got down from his car after seeing a long line of vehicles and asked the toll operator to take measures to ensure there is no traffic congestion at the toll plaza. Dileep Patil, the project director of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), said there are currently 10 lanes at the Ghoti toll plaza and the work of adding three more lanes is underway. This would do away with the problem of vehicular traffic to some extent.” He said, since FASTag is becoming mandatory from January 1, so the entire problem will be solved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/three-more-lanes-to-be-added-at-ghoti-toll-plaza/articleshow/79970277.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: GHMC to begin work on roads, nalas||SECUNDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is renovating the network roads and storm water drains in the Secunderabad Zone. The October floods severely damaged the roads and drains in five municipal circles. Over 20 km CC and BT roads and about 15 km-long open drains were damaged due to flooding. The civic body has floated tenders and released work orders to take up these repair works on priority. As per the schedule, the works had to be taken up in November itself, But were delayed due to the GHMC elections. Earlier, following instructions from the municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) department, the GHMC officials inspected Secunderabad, Begumpet, Musheerbad, Amberpet and Malkajgiri municipal circles and compiled a report on damaged CC and BT roads. The corporators of these areas are urging the government to expedite these works. “Based on representations and reports from the officials, tenders were floated and agencies were finalised to take up these works. The damage caused by the October floods to roads is expected to be around Rs 50 crore. Laying BT, filling potholes and re-carpeting will be taken up,” said a senior GHMC official, adding that Rs 25 crore would be spent on repairing storm water drains. “We have to spend Rs 25 crore to repair the storm water drains. Major works like rebuilding the retaining walls, chain link mesh, box type drains, side walls, precast slabs, raising the height of the side walls and upgrading the existing open drains are the major works,” the official said. He added that the GHMC directed the agencies to complete all works by the end of next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-begin-work-on-roads-nalas/articleshow/79971481.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Maratha outfit opposes EWS||Aurangabad: Maratha Kranti Thok Morcha has raised serious questions over granting reservation to members of the Maratha community under economically weaker section (EWS) category. The organisation has demanded that Marathas be given the promised 13% reservation by regarding the community as other backward Class (OBC). Members of the Morcha said that 42 people from the community sacrificed their lives while demanding reservation and offences were registered against 14,000 people. “All this was not done for the EWS reservation,” they said. Morcha’s key office bearer Ramesh Kere Patil said that if the state fails to get the stay on socially and educationally backward classes of citizens (SEBC) reservation vacated in the Supreme Court, they will not allow MLAs and MPs to step out of their homes. The next date for SC hearing has been scheduled for January 25. “The EWS is meant for the economically weaker sections of society that do not have any other reservation,” he said. The Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission, in its report submitted in 2018, recommended 16% reservation for the Maratha community. “Though the reservation percentage has been brought down to 13%, we want it and that too without disturbing the existing OBC quota,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maratha-outfit-opposes-ews/articleshow/79970271.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seafood exporters in soup as payments held up in China||Rajkot: Faced with stricter scrutiny of shipments and subsequent blockage of payments in China, exporters in Veraval have been forced to halt seafood exports to that country, which is a major marine export market. The suspension of exports has hit the business in Veraval. The coastal town is one of the biggest regions for marine exports in India.With delays in clearance of shipments, the payments are being deferred by the importers in China. This has resulted in payments worth Rs 1,200 crore getting stuck with Chinese importers, say industry players.The Chinese authorities have tightened the container vigil after they found coronavirus traces in export consignments of some Ecuadorian companies in July. "The development has broken the routine export cycle," said an exporter, adding that the goods that were previously reaching buyers in 20 days, now take 45 days for the strict inspection. Hence, the payments which were getting released in 25 days are now taking around 55 days."The consignments shipped in October are being cleared now. Since the past one month, we have stopped exports to China because funds worth Rs 1,200 crore are currently held up," said Jagdish Fofandi, president, All India Seafood Exporters Association."Barely 1-2% exporters are sending consignments on their own risk because they have very old business relations with Chinese buyers," he added.The disruption in exports has come when seafood demand from across the world is severely affected amid Covid-19 pandemic. Sluggish demand coupled with suspension of shipments to China have seen stocks piled up across cold storages in Veraval. A rough industry estimate pegs the stocks in cold storages at 25,000 tonnes, worth Rs 1,500 crore. Exporters in return have stopped fresh procurement from fishermen."We have around 25,000 tonne stock worth Rs 1,500 crore piled up in cold storages across Veraval. We don’t have more capacity to buy now. We are facing a tremendous liquidity crunch," said Kenny Thomas, a leading exporter from Veraval.Veraval exports marine products to the tune of Rs 5,000 crore annually and China alone accounts for exports worth Rs 3,000 crore. The coastal town houses about 120 fish processing units, which buy seafood from fishermen in Veraval, Mangrol, Okha, Porbandar, Diu and South Gujarat.The exporters fear that the marine exports from the region is expected to drop by 30-35% during April-December period. Muted demand from Europe has further added to the exporters’ woes."Europe is the second largest market after China for seafood exports from Veraval. The closure of restaurants for several months following lockdown in several European countries hit the demand very hard," said another exporter.The lack of demand from exporters has slowed down fishing activity noticeably. Gopal Fofandi, president, Akhil Gujarat Macchimar Mahamandal, said, "About 80% boats are not venturing into the sea currently as exporters demand goods on a credit of 3 months, which we cannot afford."There are a total 10,000 boats registered on Veraval and Porbandar coasts. "If we ask for cash payment from exporters, they demand a 40-50% discount in return," he added.Pointers:EXPORT JAMExports to China halted following blockage of payments worth Rs 1,200 croreFrozen seafood stock of 25,000 piled up across cold storages across VeravalExporters also faced with non-release of Rs 200 crore under the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS)80% fishing currently remains anchored on shores Industry Snapshot:Marine exports from Veraval: Rs 5,000 crore Export to China: Rs 3,000 crore Number of exporters from Veraval: 120Fish varieties exported to China: ribbon fish, croaker fish, pomfret and leather jacket fishSource: All India Seafood Exporters AssociationPhoto Quotes:Exporters are facing several problems. Rs 1,200 crore stuck with Chinese importers, Rs 200 crore not released under MEIS and huge stocks have piled up in cold storages: Jagdish Fofandi, president, All India Seafood Exporters AssociationAbout 80% boats are not venturing into the sea currently as exporters demand goods on a credit of three months, which we cannot afford: Gopal Fofandi, president, Akhil Gujarat Macchimar Mahamandal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seafood-exporters-in-soup-as-payments-held-up-in-china/articleshow/79971505.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Youth electrocutes 51-year-old wife 2 months after marriage||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The rural police took into custody a 28-year-old youth in connection with the death of his 51-year-old wife at Karakkonam here on Saturday. Arun, 28, a resident of Balaramapuram is learnt to have confessed to police of murdering his wife Shakha Kumari whom he had married two months ago. Arun works as an electrician in a private hospital in the city. While Kumari was brought to hospital dead on Saturday morning, Arun told the doctors that she got electrocuted from contact with decorative lights at home and that he found her motionless in the house. The doctors grew suspicious and informed the police. During questioning, Arun confessed to murder. The Vellarada police registered a case of unnatural death on Saturday. The motive of murder and modus operandi can be revealed only after receiving postmortem report, said police. Along with forensic examination, the police plan an examination by electrical inspectorate officials to find out how the electrocution took place. According to local residents, Arun had been in a romantic relation with Kumari, a spinster who lived with her ailing mother at Thresyapuram, near Karakonam. Kumari’s family owned several acres of land and Arun had agreed to the marriage with an eye on the assets. Her relatives told police that she had given him Rs 10 lakh and a car at the time of marriage. However, Arun didn’t want to publicize the marriage, solemnized as per religious customs. Though police didn’t reveal any motive, sources hinted that a quarrel between Kumari and Arun took place recently. A home nurse taking care of Kumari’s mother is learnt to have testified to police about it. Kumari circulated their marriage pictures and this angered Arun who had then hatched ways to get rid of her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/youth-electrocutes-51-yr-old-wife-2-months-after-marriage/articleshow/79970787.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Protest town: How supply chains sustaining farmers||NEW DELHI: It is now a month since the farmers started their protest against the three central government agriculture laws at Singhu border. The site where police burst teargas shells to prevent the progress of tractor-trolleys into Delhi on November 27 is now occupied by the stables of the Nihangs’ horses. With no signs of an early resolution to the stalemate, the farmers’ unions are using their members by turns, with new jathas arriving periodically with replenishments of food and vegetables and tonnes of firewood. At the trolleys marked “relief supplies”, 70-year-old Sadhu Ram from Khedi Lamba village near Kaithal, Haryana, kept vigil. “The central government is wondering who is funding the protests. If they want to know, our help is coming from the ordinary villagers, who are contributing wheat, rice and sugar for use at the protest site because they know that the farm laws will affect livelihoods,” said Ram. “With each household contributing a few kilos of wheat, we brought 30 sackfuls to Singhu alone.” The septuagenarian came two weeks ago and will return once a new batch of protesters arrive. With food and vegetable collection drives being held in the villages of Punjab and Haryana and the supply lines intact, the protesters’ morale remains high and they express their readiness to continue the agitation until the Centre gives in to their demand for the repeal for the three laws enacted in September. In the past month, Singhu has developed into a self-sustaining protest town with a number of langars providing hot meals, makeshift toilet complexes, medical camps run by NGOs, laundry facilities and sleeping accommodation, whether in tents or in tractor trolleys. There’s even a gurdwara in a bus for those seeking spiritual solace. While the springing of over a thousand mobile toilets has been a comfort, a shortage of those for women remains a pressing problem. The medical camps are well equipped to handle the complaints of seasonal cough and cold, and the regular blood pressure and diabetes. “We have enough medicines. People donate regularly, but some more strips for the glucometer are welcome,” said Rajinder Singh, a medical professional at the camp put up by United Sikhs Organisation. With mercury level dropping, trucks arrive regularly with firewood for cooking food, for boiling water in ‘jugaad’ geysers and to keep people warm at night. Gurvinder Singh, 16, unloading wood from a truck, disclosed, “We have come from Kurukshetra and belong to the gurdwara of Baba Amrik Singh ji. This is our third trip to bring firewood.” People are taking it in turns to sit in at Singhu. TOI spoke to people in numerous jathas arriving to replace the tired protesters. Farmer leaders exude confidence that that they can stay put for many more months. The John Deere tractor outfitted as the main dais has given way to a tent equipped with LED screens. Addressing the crowd on Saturday, Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Committee leader Sarwan Singh Pandher said that more jathas would reach Singhu between January 10 and 20 from Hoshiarpur, Tarn Taran and Amritsar. “People are excited to come here, and we don’t want to stop anyone. But we need to ensure the supply lines are not broken because no battle can be won when the link between the army and the headquarters is broken,” Pandher intoned. “We should also make sure there are mechanics and supply points every few kilometres to ease the way for our brothers and sisters coming in tractors.” A free bus service has also been organised to ferry people to Singhu. Pawan Maan of Mehmoodpur village came four days ago. “People need to be rotated to enable works like crop watering and cattle care to continue back home,” he said. “The villages will keep sending more people and the government will be forced to listen to us.” The incoming jathas have already added a kilometre or two to the protest town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/protest-town-how-supply-chains-sustaining-farmers/articleshow/79971498.cms||Paras Singh
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Singhu border: Dholakwalas & street vendors do brisk business||NEW DELHI: Among the unintended beneficiaries of the protest at Singhu border are percussion instrument sellers from Bawana and Almora. Not only have their sales gone up, but the presence of langars makes sure they do not go to sleep on an empty stomach. And for many of the sellers, the new point of sale has been a confidence builder after the fallow months of the pandemic-hit business year. Mahtab Ali, 22, who lives in the JJ cluster at Bawana, said his business had dried up in the past months, but the Singhu border protest has turned his fortunes around. Dholaks and dhaplis are used to rouse the sloganeering crowd. “I now sell 10-15 dholaks every day. And everyone is gracious with food too,” Ali said. “All these instruments are made in Almora in Uttarakhand. We buy them at wholesale rates and sell them in the city.” Raju Kumar, 19, said that most customers are young people who use them while singing and shouting slogans. Mohammad Lal, 50, added, “Each drum costs around Rs 150, but we have been selling them at lower prices here,” he said. “Sales are good and people keep offering me fruits, peanuts and food items.” Lal said that he doesn’t know anything about the farm laws, but it is the duty of the government to listen to its people. With thousands of farmers camping at the border, numerous street vendors from neighbouring localities have flocked to Singhu. The protest town has also led to a boom in the business for the small shops along the highway. Over 30 farmer unions continue to be at loggerheads with the central government over their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws. The next round of talks is expected on December 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dholakwalas-street-vendors-do-brisk-business/articleshow/79971512.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||Central team inspects flood hit villages in Bramhapuri||CHANDRAPUR: A team of central government inspected the flood affected villages in Bramhapuri tehsil on Friday. This is the second visit of the central team to the flood affected areas. Earlier, a Union government team had paid a visit to the same area between September 13 and 15. Officials said the inquest of the damage caused to all farmers have been carried out and compensation collectively amounting to Rs42 crore has been sanctioned for beneficiary farmers. The villagers, however, pointed out that many infrastructure works are still incomplete and demanded more works while interacting with the team members. Villages along the bank of river Wainganga suffered devastating floods between August 30 and September 1 after all 33 gates of Gosikhurd dam were opened following heavy rains in catchment areas. Dozens of villages in Brahmapuri, Mul, Saoli, Gondpipri and Sindewahi suffered heavy losses due to heavy floods. The central team headed by joint secretary, National Disaster Management Authority, Ramesh Kumar Ghanta inspected the crop damage, destruction of infrastructure, roads and bridges during their visit to village Ladaj, Pimpalgaon and Belgaon. The team had to travel by boat to visit village Ladaj for inspection and interacted with affected people. Villagers demanded aid against damaged houses. The team members directed officials to record details of encroachers, unregistered flood affected people, those without bank accounts and missing from beneficiary list. District collector Ajay Gulhane said government has sanctioned relief of Rs42 crore for flood affected people. Of this, Rs36 crore has been distributed under different heads while remaining Rs6 crore are going to be distributed soon. People failing to get compensation as per the inquest details have been told to file complaints and investigations are underway over such complaints, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-team-inspects-flood-hit-villages-in-bramhapuri/articleshow/79971500.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 27, 2020||Kochi||Kevin was state’s 1st ‘honour’ victim||Kottayam: Friday’s suspected honour killing in Palakkad has revived memories of the first such case in the state. Kevin P Joseph, a dalit Christian, was kidnapped along with his relative, Aneesh, in the early hours of May 27, 2018 by a gang led by Shyanu Chacko in separate vehicles just days after Kevin moved papers to marry Shyanu’s sister, Neenu. Kevin’s body was found dumped in a canal near Thenmala on May 28. Exactly 452 days after Kevin was found dead, a court, here, found ten accused persons guilty of murdering the 23 year old. All the accused were sentenced to life imprisonment and a fine of Rs 25,000 for murder under Sec 302. A second life term and a fine of Rs 15,000 were also slapped on all under Sec 364A for kidnapping for ransom. Additionally, all were sentenced to three years of rigorous imprisonment under Sec 506(2) for criminal intimidation. The judge, in his ruling, termed it a case of honour killing. The motive was caste prejudice, the judgment read. This was the first instance in the state when a court had confirmed an honour killing. It was also the rare instance when a court found the accused guilty under Sec 364A for reasons other than demanding ransom. In this case, Kevin was kidnapped for getting the custody of Neenu. Judicial proceedings in honour killing cases have to be completed within six months. However, the trial was completed in a record time of three months during which 113 witnesses were examined. The court worked even during the vacation and from 10am-5pm instead of the traditional 11am-4pm hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kevin-was-states-1st-honour-victim/articleshow/79970813.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Arya Rajendran, 21, set to be Thiruvananthapuram mayor||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPM district committee meeting held here on Saturday upheld the decision of district secretariat to field Arya Rajendran as the candidate for mayor of Thiruvananthapuram municipal corporation. The 21-year-old second-year BSc Mathematics student at All Saints College is the councillor of Mudavanmugal ward. Arya is certain to be voted to chair of mayor in the council where LDF has an absolute majority. LDF has 53 seats in the council and BJP and UDF share 35 and 10 seats, respectively. On December 28, when Arya is set to be voted to chair in mayor election, she will join the club of youngest women mayors in the country. CPM nominee Sabida Beegom became the first mayor of Kollam city corporation in 2000 at the age of 23. She had then become the youngest woman mayor to be elected in civic body elections in the country. Arya is the daughter of LIC agent Sreelatha and electrician Rajendran, and she lives in a modest house on Kesavadev Road, Mudavanmugal. Rajendran is an active CPM worker. She is the state president of Balasangham and state committee member of SFI. Arya was elected to the council in the civic body polls from Mudavanmugal ward with a majority of 549 votes. The election to the post of mayor and deputy mayor will be held on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/arya-rajendran-to-be-tvm-mayor/articleshow/79970866.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Kochi||Section of laity declares Sister Abhaya as saint||KOTTAYAM: Sister Abhaya was declared a saint by a section of laity and they also issued a calendar for 2021 carrying the picture of Abhaya here on Saturday. The members, including a nun belonging to the Kerala Catholic Church Reformation Movement (KCRM), also gave the name ‘Abhaya Raju’ (meaning one who gave shelter to Abhaya) to the main witness ‘Adakka Raju’ whose statements proved crucial in the Abhaya case. Raju was named ‘Adakka (areca nut) Raju’ by police for his penchant for stealing areca nuts. The members had initially planned to hold the programme in front of Knanaya bishop’s residence. “There was heavy police deployment and so we decided to change the venue to Gandhi Square,” said George Joseph, secretary of KCRM. He compared Abhaya with Italian saint Maria Goretti who was beatified in 1947 and canonized in 1950. “Abhaya had gone through similar circumstances, which Saint Goretti also had gone through. She gave her life to protect the faith of the church,” he said. Meanwhile, KCRM urged the church not to misuse the church’s money for meeting the legal expenses for Fr Thomas Kottoor and Sr Sephy. They also urged the church to defrock both of them. “Expel them. Let them remain as ordinary laity,” Joseph said. KCRM said that Fr Poothrikkayil, who was let free by the CBI court, should also be punished since he too was a co-accused. “The church misused the money provided by the laity for influencing officials and police to win the case,” Joseph added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/section-of-laity-declares-sister-abhaya-as-saint/articleshow/79970827.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
December 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Live kidney donations resume in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: Live kidney donations, which had come to a halt in Aurangabad following the Covid outbreak, have resumed after nine months. As per the official data, six live kidney donations — involving donors who are close family members — have taken place in Aurangabad in the past few days. As per the new standard operating procedure (SOP), the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), whose role was earlier limited to cadaver organ donation, has been roped in for live kidney donations along with the Government Medical College and Hospital-governed authorisation panel to ensure that the precautionary measures are followed given the Covid-19 threat. Nephrologist Shrikant Deshmukh of the Hedgewar Hospital said the SOP for organ donation has undergone changes due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “As per the revised rules, both the patient and the donor have to undergo Covid testing twice within a gap of seven days. The approval is obtained from both the ZTCC and the GMCH panel only after test results return negative both times. Besides, the CT scan of both the donor and the patient’s chest is carried out to see if any of them are suffering from Covid-19. Among other new norms, the donor as well as the recipient are kept in a special isolation unit to protect them from contracting the viral infection,” said Deshmukh. ZTCC Marathwada president Sudhir Kulkarni said different hospitals have started planning live kidney donations with the consent of patients and their families. “The patients who are need of renal transplant can survive on dialysis alone. As theCovid-19 infection has been curbed to some extent, there is growing demand from patients and their families to resume the live kidney donations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/live-kidney-donations-resume-in-aurangabad/articleshow/79970299.cms||Prasad Joshi
December 27, 2020||Madurai||ASI identifies 5 Adhichanallur sites for museum||TUTICORIN: Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has identified five sites in Tuticorin district’s Adhichanallur for the establishment of an on-site archaeology museum. A team led by ASI superintending archaeologist (Trichy Circle) T Arun Raj inspected the site on December 11 and again on Saturday. Raj said the team had sent a report on the selected sites to the Union government. The team also visited the site where the excavation was conducted in the year 2004. Srivaikuntam tahsildar Gopala Krishnan was also present. “This is a pre-historic site, among the iconic ones identified in India and the only one in Tamil Nadu. The on-site museum would have parts of the site exposed with sheds built for shade, and would allow visitors a peep into the past,” Raj said. The museum, which will be of international standards, will be established near one of the identified sites. ASI is now creating awareness and also promoting these sites with cultural notice boards. A petition was filed in the Madras high court bench, seeking the establishment of a museum at Adhichanallur. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had also mentioned in the Union Budget for 2020 that a world class museum would be established in Adhichanallur. The Trichy circle office was established in October on the court’s direction to facilitate the museum. The latest excavation, conducted beyond the ASI’s protected area, at Adhichanallur by the Tamil Nadu archaeology department has led to many interesting findings. Burial urns, mud pipelines and other artefacts have been found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/asi-identifies-5-adhichanallur-sites-for-museum/articleshow/79972323.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||EoW arrests six in Rs 86 crore scam||NAGPUR: The economic offence wing (EoW) of city police have arrested six office-bearers of Jai Shreeram Urban Credit Cooperative Limited in the Rs86 crore scam. On Friday, president of the cooperative society Khemchand Meharkure was taken into custody. Earlier, police arrested his son Abhishek, Yogesh Charde, Archana Teke, Ankush Kawre and Ashok Durbude for luring investors with lucrative returns and eventually duping them. Police claimed that the six accused embezzled funds under 23 different heads to the tune of Rs79.54 crore. The diversion of assets for personal gains was exposed during an audit which is now part of the investigation. In addition, the office-bearers also siphoned off at least Rs6.47 crores of the investors’ money which they had accumulated on the pretext of offering them high returns. The EoW, under the supervision of DCP Vivek Masaal, Addl CP Sunil Phulari and CP Amitesh Kumar, may take more people into custody for recoveries. Searches are under way at different places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/eow-arrests-six-in-rs-86cr-scam/articleshow/79971511.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Surat||Female blue bull, calf make farm in Bardoli their home||SURAT: In an uncommon sighting, a mature female blue bull and its calf have made a vegetable farm their home at Kikwad village near Bardoli since last one week. Animal experts also suspect presence of a male blue bull, but it’s presence is yet not reported. Environment enthusiasts are excited about the discovery while villagers are considering it as a threat. “ The blue bull and its calf have already damaged some part of my vegetable farm, though I have plantation in only half of the farm. I have no issues with it at present but it can become a problem in the future,” said Jitendra Patel, in whose farm the female blue bull and calf are staying. Villagers claim that they have never seen a blue bull in the village and were not aware of how to deal with it. “We are not disturbing it and hopefully it will go away on its own,” said Patel. Environmental enthusiasts Jatin Rathod, who has shot videos and clicked pictures of the animals for record said, “A sighting was reported several years ago in Mandvi, but I have only heard of it.” Attempts are being made by the animal lovers in the district to trace the male blue bull. “There are mixed responses from people about the presence of blue bull here,” Rathod added. Damage to crop by blue bull is a major concern in many parts of the country. In many states, special programs are also being run to control its population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/female-blue-bull-calf-make-farm-in-bardoli-their-home/articleshow/79970563.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
December 27, 2020||Kochi||Won’t protect accused: Thangal||Kozhikode: Muslim Youth League (MYL) state president Panakkad Syed Munavvar Ali Shihab Thangal assured that his organization will not protect the accused in the murder of DYFI activist Abdurehman Aouf, who was killed allegedly by MYL activists. Speaking to reporters after visiting Aouf’s house at Kalluravi in Kanhangad, Kasaragod, on Saturday, he strongly condemned the murder. “IUML is against the culture of politics of violence. I had taken out a Kerala march against political killings two years ago,” Thangal said. Unruly situation prevailed near Aouf’s house when Thangal arrived along with some local IUML leaders. Aouf’s friends protested the presence of IUML workers but allowed Thangal to visit the house alone. Aouf’s relatives met chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan during his Kerala Yathra at Padannakkad in Kasaragod. Meanwhile, minister for higher education K T Jaleel said there could be more people involved in the conspiracy behind the murder. Speaking to reporters after visiting Aouf’s house, he said IUML was angry because the party lost its traditional seats in Kanhangad municipality. Police arrested MYL Kanhangad municipal secretary Irshad, MSF Kanhangad municipal president Hasan and MYL worker Ashir in the murder case. Police brought first accused Irshad from a Mangaluru private hospital and recorded his arrest. Probe in the case was handed over to crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/wont-protect-accused-thangal/articleshow/79970844.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nashik||No Covid hotspot in Dhule as number of fresh cases drops||NASHIK: With the number of Covid-19 cases dropping, north Maharashtra’s Dhule district does not have any Covid-19 hotspots at present as a result of the efforts made by the district administration. For about five months, Dhule city and Shirpur taluka of the district were the two Covidhotspots as most of the Covid patients were reported in those two zones. Vishal Patil, the district coordinator of Covid-19, told TOI, “But since November, the trend started to change in these two areas. The number of cases reported daily started to reduce significantly. Now, we have two to three cases per day in Shirpur and less than 10 cases a day in Dhule city.” On December 25, three cases were reported in Dhule city while Shirpur added one case. The district health department and Dhule Municipal Corporation had worked overtime to carry out screening and testing of suspected Covid patients, which prevented the spread of the infection. Of the 14,388 cases in the district so far, Dhule city added 6,835 cases and Shirpur registered 2,694 cases. There are 124 active cases in Dhule while Shirpur has 11 active cases. As many as 172 patients from the city have succumbed to Covid while 67 from Shirpur taluka died due to Covid. “We had a recent review of the pandemic situation in the district. Sanjay Yadav, the district collector, has instructed the authorities to not to lower their guards despite the current trend as there could be another wave of Covid cases. The authorities have been asked to carry out screening and testing of suspected Covid-19 patients,” added Patil. Now the district’s recovery rate has crossed 96% mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-covid-hotspot-in-dhule-as-number-of-fresh-cases-drops/articleshow/79970316.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
December 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP third best performing state in PMAY-U||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh has secured the third position in the ‘best performing state’ category in the annual awards announced by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for its implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban (PMAY-U) Mission. AP has also been selected for ‘project monitoring tools’ and ‘innovative construction technology’ under the ‘special award’ category while Visakhapatnam has bagged an award under the ‘best performing municipal corporation’ category. Further, three housing beneficiaries of the state, including Satraboina Durga of Vizag city, have been selected under the ‘best house construction’ category. According to the communique from Housing for All joint secretary and mission director, Amrit Abhijat, to the Andhra Pradesh principal secretary for housing, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will felicitate the state and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy may personally receive the award on January 1, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-third-best-performing-state-in-pmay-u/articleshow/79970579.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||‘Govt forcing helpless sr citizens to fight legal battles for pension’||The Employees’ Pension (EPS-95) Coordination Committee is fighting for the cause of over 68 lakh pensioners to increase their meagre pension. With over 25,000 direct members spread nationwide and lakhs of indirect ones, the organization had staged many protests in the national capital and across the country. However, despite repeated orders from the Supreme Court and various high courts, the central government’s Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has failed to increase their pension citing financial crunch. Despite writing several times to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top leaders in the BJP-led NDA government, there’s been no response at all. In an exclusive chat with TOI, EPS-95 committee’s national general secretary Prakash Pathak explains the plight of lakhs of senior citizens, who are struggling for survival, especially in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic.Excerpts...Q. What are the aims and objectives of your organization?A. It was founded in 2008 by a group of senior citizens like me to bring aggrieved pensioners from the entire country under one umbrella and fight for a pension hike which is their genuine right. Noted lawyer Prabhakar Marpakwar was our first president while Ratinath Mishra was the working president and I was appointed as national general secretary. Now, Prakash Yende is our head and Bhimrao Dongre is the working president. We’ve started a social movement to fight for the legitimate rights of over 68 lakh pensioners who are finding it hard to survive with their meagre pension which is calculated as per the old rules.Q. In what way did the pensioners’ condition deteriorate after the Covid-19 induced lockdown?A. Earlier, we used to survive with the help of our sons or daughters. However, the coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown have taken away their jobs and adversely affected their income and now they themselves are finding it difficult to survive. In such a situation, our children are finding it hard to take care of us. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman had announced packages for all sectors hit by the deadly virus, but ignored us completely. Our condition is really alarming.Q. What are your main demands?A. We want the government to implement Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s report on amending Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. This committee, set up by Parliament on the lines of the Swaminathan Commission, has recommended a hike in pension of all these 68 lakh retired employees and provision of dearness allowance (DA) like central government employees. We want the government to remove the ceiling of Rs15,000 per month of all retired employees who used to earn more when in service. In our times, salaries were very meagre. Now, they have jumped phenomenally over the years and pension should be calculated accordingly. At least the government should grant Rs9,000 pension to all along with DA. We should also be provided free health facilities through the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS).Q. Why didn’t you approach local leaders?A. In the beginning of our movement, we met Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who was then the BJP president. At that time we used to receive a paltry Rs400 as pension as salaries were very less. Gadkari helped us immensely by writing to the then labour minister Bandu Dattatray. We also met environment minister Prakash Javadekar who gave us assurances. The issue was raised in the Rajya Sabha by Javadekar after which the Koshyari committee was constituted in 2012. The then UPA government under former PM Manmohan Singh had raised the pension from Rs400 to Rs1,000. Before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, both Gadkari and Javadekar assured us that our pension would increase within 90 days if the BJP came to power.Q. When the SC and HC have passed orders in your favour then why is the government reluctant?A. The first order was delivered by the Kerala HC which ruled in favour of pensioners by asking the government to remove the ceiling to calculate the pension amount. Earlier, the ceiling was Rs5,000 which was then increased to Rs6,500 and later to Rs15,000 in 2014. It means that any employee with a Rs15,000 salary would receive a pension equivalent to the same amount. The HC went to the extent of directing the government to calculate the difference in amount from ex-employees. It fixed the criteria for providing DA while disbursing the pension. The order was upheld by the Supreme Court. For a few days, the EPFO started providing pension after the top court’s directives. Some like Praveen Kohli from Haryana received Rs32,000 as pension. However, the EPFO then filed a review plea in the apex court citing financial constraints. The matter is pending. It also discriminated between exempted and unexempted establishment employees through a circular (May 31, 2017).Q. Where is the process stuck?A. After EPFO moved the SC, a high level empowered committee was constituted to fix the pension. Its report was submitted in 2016, but the government is sitting on it since four years. Now, a new panel of 31 MPs has been constituted. It is yet to submit its report to Parliament. The EPFO had taken the difference in amount, around Rs5 lakh, to grant increased pension, but it was returned on May 19 last year after it filed a review petition in SC. The government is delaying it under some pretext or the other. It’s making the old and helpless senior citizens fight legal battles at the fag end of their lives. While many have passed away, the remaining ones likes us are waiting for justice to be delivered.Q. What’s your next step?A. Our Rashtriya coordination committee has now decided to request PM Modi to divert some amount from the Rs55,000 crore unclaimed deposits with EPFO for extending CGHS to all pensioners who are being deprived of their legitimate rights. We are also approaching all MPs to request them to support our demand for implementation of the Koshyari committee report and also to amend the EPF Act along with providing CGHS services.xxxxxxxxxxxxx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-forcing-helpless-sr-citizens-to-fight-legal-battles-for-pension/articleshow/79971886.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||Over a century old, but memories forever young||Trees could be seen shooting off the roof of an empty home as the nameplate still hung on the door. On a calm afternoon, those left behind bid farewell to one more family leaving the neighbourhood. Quickly workers broke the roof and floor of the single storey house, making ground for overgrowth to take over. Shrouded under the complex network of the Nagpur metro rail line flying overhead on viaducts and fast changing Sitabuldi, just a few paces off the main road is also a world fast fading into oblivion. Once a bustling neighbourhood and a prominent landmark, it’s the last surviving lane of Sangam Chawl, just behind Haldiram’s outlet. The over a century old locality can now only be accidentally discovered by manoeuvring along road diversions due to the ongoing metro rail work. Around 10 to 12 old couples are the only residents who remain in this once crowded lane. Other than anecdotes of their growing up days, residents hold on to their homes, living with memories that go back to the riots that broke out after Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination in 1948 , the Gowari stampede (1994) and the flood from Nag River that came during rains. The chawl was once a haven for migrants from South India and Bengal who came here in search of work. They took up blocks on rent since the 1900s. The property belongs to the Buty family. Locals say these were mud quarters built to accommodate delegates coming for the Nagpur Congress session held in 1920. Later, tenants took over and also carried out repairs and some minor alterations. Some say the structures are older and there were horse stables and accommodation for workers. The larger portion of the chawl across the road has already paved the way for Fortune Mall. Sangam Chawl may remind one of the plot of the Amitabh Bachchan starrer movie Gulabo Sitabo or the Anjan Dutta directed 2004 move Bow Barracks Forever. Even though there is no landlord or builder hounding the tenants, there is passive insistence on leaving, say residents. Landlords have stopped accepting rent and money-orders are sent back to tenants. Rentals range from Rs19 to 50 a month for homes of 900 to 1200 square feet in size. Residents have been asked to pay taxes. Each one has a story of struggle and a reason to remain at Sangam Chawl despite the changing times. “I grew up here and retired from a private company. There is no pension in the private sector. I have no means to buy another house,” says 65-year-old Ravi Chandran. Soon, neighbours go down memory lane recalling names like Venkatramans Kumar, Iyer, Banerjees, the police officer, finger print expert or the lawyer who once lived in the lane. Then followed stories of the summers when the whole neighbourhood slept outdoors. All the beds lined in a row got it the name general ward. There were days when manual scavenging was done of the lavatories by workers or sometimes by the pigs, remembered residents. Former CEO of TCS S Ramdaorai is also is ex-Sangam Chawl resident. “I was born in this room,” says eighty year old N Haygriv pointing inside. He retired from CPWD. “I was six years old when Gandhiji was killed. There was curfew outside and mobs were hounding RSS members. There used be a Kulkarni family living just opposite. The mob broke open their door and beat up the couple. They were not killed though and stayed here for many years. Their grandson lives somewhere in Lamxi Nagar,” says Haygriv. “I was allotted a quarter by the CPDWD but I preferred to stay here. I’m a pensioner with no means to buy a new home. I had to borrow money to clear my tax dues after the landlord shifted the liability on us,” he says, breaking down “Of course the rents are paltry but we carried out the maintenance work and refurbished the walls. After spending a lot of money, we can’t leave just like that,” says 65-year-old Ravi Chandran. “With the passage of time, many have left. Some have shifted, but haven’t handed over possession. Those like us who cannot afford to shift continue to stay there. I have retired from a private company with no pension I have no means to buy another house,” he says. Retired banker T K Venkatesan, who has shifted but not vacated the house, says in 2008, the NIT had issued a notification that the homes are dilapidated. Residents challenged the order in court and won. This saved the homes from being demolished. Venkatesan also shared tax receipts as old as 1942 to prove the antiquity of Sangam Chawl. Seventy-year-old Sunita Chakravarthy is alone. Her husband passed away two months ago. “When I came from Lucknow as a newly-wed, it was a bit awkward to live in such crammed places, but soon, I began to feel at home. If the landlords still want the land back, he can construct alternative homes for us. As we are not many in number, a single block of apartments would be enough,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-a-century-old-but-memories-forever-young/articleshow/79971769.cms||Shishir Arya
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||Schools in Nagpur to reopen from January 4 for Std IX-XII||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has finally agreed to allow schools in the city to reopen and conduct physical classes for students from Std IX to XII from January 4. The decision paves way for reopening of schools for students after a closure of nine months due to the pandemic. Municipal commissioner B Radhakrishnan, while issuing the orders on Saturday, asked the school managements to strictly follow all Covid-19 protocols as directed by the government from time to time. All schools in Vidarbha, except Nagpur district, had resumed physical classes from November 23. Schools in Nagpur rural reopened on December 14 after collector Ravindra Thakre granted them permission. However, the municipal commissioner was reluctant to open schools in view of the feared second wave of Covid-19 and increase in cases after the Diwali festivities. The Nagpur Headmasters Charitable Association welcomed the NMC decision to reopen schools for higher classes. The association, however, clarified that they wouldn’t make it mandatory for students to attend the classes in view of the threat from the new strain of the novel coronavirus detected in UK. “The threat still looms large and even the weather is not conducive for children. So, we will leave it to the parents whether to send their wards to schools or not. Online classes won’t stop so that those who don’t want to take risk don’t miss out on studies. Both offline and online modes of learning would continue. It’s also important that we take all precautions like sanitizing the premises,” former joint secretary of the association Ashanarayan Tiwari told TOI. Terming the civic chief’s decision as much-needed one, the Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VIJUCTA) said students of Std X and XII would benefit from it. “Students who are supposed to appear for their board exams have suffered the most due to a highly contagious virus and lockdown. If schools reopen from January 4, they would get at least two to three months to attend physical classes. It will help them to make up for the lost time,” senior member Ashok Gavhankar told TOI. Gavhankar further said the NMC’s decision will especially benefit many poor students who couldn’t attend online classes for want of smartphones phones or faced connectivity issues. “The students of Std IX and XI can relax as their exams are held at school, college level and can be delayed, but board examinees must attend physical class as it has no replacement,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-in-city-to-reopen-from-jan-4-for-std-ix-xii/articleshow/79971021.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 27, 2020||Vadodara||Leopard ‘sighting’ keep forest officials on toes||VADODARA: The forest department may have caged two leopards in the Ghoghamba taluka of Panchmahal district, but there seems to be no end to the scare spread by the big cats in the area. The forest department was kept on its toes after reports of yet another leopard lurking in the area where attacks on humans were reported earlier. Six persons were attacked by a leopard and two children amongst them had died in about a week early this month. Some cattle were also killed by the leopards and the leopards also had managed to get out of cages set to trap them after killing the baits placed in them. Just when concerns were being expressed regarding the leopards foxing the cages, two leopards were trapped within hours on Monday night. The forest department is still to ascertain which of the two leopards is responsible for the attacks or if both of them are involved. Now, forest officials seem to be facing the issue of false alarms. Residents of the area on Saturday pointed out that a leopard was moving in the vicinity. They even claimed that there were pugmarks of the big cat there. Forest officials said that there were no kills of animals after the two leopards were rescued. “It is very unlikely that another leopard has entered the area,” said a forest official. The official added that cages and cameras in the area barring one location had been removed. “There is no evidence hinting at the presence of another leopard,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-sighting-keep-forest-officials-on-toes/articleshow/79971011.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Locals fined for dumping garbage into Buddha Nullah||Ludhiana: A total of 24 locals caught red-handed on Saturday while throwing garbage into Buddha Nullah and four repeat offenders were issued challans by a team—led by Swachh Bharat Mission project director Puran Singh and civic officials—that visited the area. A ‘Buddha Dariya Cleanliness Drive’ is scheduled to start from Monday, when cabinet minister and local MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu will together kick off the drive. The mission director, accompanied by the MC officials, visited the area early in the morning in foggy weather and inspected the colonies from Lifeline Bridge to Chander Nagar Bridge. They held meetings in small groups with the residents of these colonies and tried to convince them against throwing garbage in the drain. They also urged the residents to practise dry and wet waste segregation at source before giving it to the waste collectors. In Buddha Dariya Cleanliness Drive, NSS and NCC volunteers from seven main colleges of the city will participate. Project director Puran Singh is also visiting various colleges to make the volunteers aware of this drive and share with them solid waste management and segregation of waste rules. He met the volunteers from SCD Government College and informed them that the municipal commissioner has appointed 24 nodal officers and 63 marshals for keeping an eye on the violators at Buddha Nullah. In the first phase, seven colleges are joining this drive. There would be several teams, with each comprising three volunteers, who would conduct door to door awareness drive, he added. Notably, the Buddha Nullah Cleanliness Drive is part of a rejuvenation project, and before kicking off work at the site, the authorities have started the awareness drive, so as to curb the dumping of solid waste in the drain. The residents have been complaining against heaps of garbage being thrown into the drain since long, causing huge damage to the water body. The Swachh Bharat Mission project director is in the city since Wednesday and continuously visiting areas around the drain for awareness drive and those who are caught repeating the mistake are issued challans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/locals-fined-for-dumping-garbage-into-buddha-nullah/articleshow/79970868.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tension in Visakha East amid YSRC & TDP row||Visakhapatnam: Tension prevailed in Visakha East assembly constituency on Saturday when YSRC and TDP workers staged protests against each other over allegations and challenges made by Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy and TDP MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu over the past two days. As a precautionary measure, city police enforced prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC.. Responding to allegations by Vijayasai Reddy, the MLA had challenged the MP to prove his allegations by taking an oath at East Point Colony Shirdi Sai temple and said that he too would do the same. Though the MP did not respond, YSRC’s Visakha East convenor, Akkaramani Vijayanirmala and her cadres took out a bike rally to the temple and challenged the MLA to come and take oath. Vijayanirmala, who lost the poll in 2019 to Velagapudi, reached the temple accompanied by her followers where she said that if the MLA did not turn up, they would bring the deity’s photo his office for him to take an oath. Upon learning about this, the MLA along with his followers reached the office where he said that he had challenged MP Vijayasai and not Vijayanirmala as the former had made the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tension-in-visakha-east-amid-ysrc-tdp-row/articleshow/79970605.cms||Siva G
December 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Man held for murder of roommate in Guntur||VIJAYAWADA: Police on Saturday arrested a man for murdering his roommate over a drunken fight under Medikonduru police station limits in Guntur. Addressing a press conference, Guntur Urban SP RM Ammi Reddy said the incident took place on December 13. Police had initially found an unidentified body washed away in a canal in Medikonduru area. The deceased was identified as Sukunta Naik (34) and following autopsy, it was found that he had been murdered. Reddy said they traced Sukunta’s whereabouts to a rented house in Perecherla, outside which his roommate Krishna Chandra Naik (27) from a village in Odisha was last seen fighting in an inebriated state. Upon tracking him down, Chandra Naik confessed that after a few drinks on December 12, Sukunta Naik tried to enter the neighbouring house. Chandra tried to stop him and soon heated arguments ensued, prompting the landlord to order them to vacate the premises immediately. Infuriated, Sukunta threatened to kill Chandra and his family. In a fit of rage, Chandra Naik wraped a stone with a towel and used it to bash in Sukunta’s head. After noticing Sukunta was still alive, he used a charging cable to strangulate him before dumping his body in the canal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-held-for-murder-of-roommate-in-guntur/articleshow/79970583.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Mystery shrouds death of woman in Kondapalli||VIJAYAWADA: The highly decomposed body of a 63-year-old woman was found in her residence under mysterious circumstances in Kondapalli village under Ibrahimpatnam police station limits on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Pasupuleti Suryakumari. According to Ibrahimpatnam inspector K Sridhar Kumar, the body was highly decomposed and hence the cause of death could not be immediately ascertained. Cops said that Suryakumari had been living alone for the past five years since her husband passed away. “She has relatives living nearby her place but she isn’t on good terms with any of them and they barely interact with her,” Sridhar said. Preliminary inquiry revealed that she was last seen on Wednesday coming out of her house, after which she went back in and remained inside. Police said they found her body on the bed. Examining her medical records, cops said she had not been keeping well and was highly diabetic. It is suspected that it could be a case of natural death. The body was sent to Government General Hospital (GGH) for postmortem. “The FSL report will give us an idea if it is a case of natural death. We have registered a case under CrPC section 174 (suspicious death),” Sridhar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mystery-shrouds-death-of-woman-in-kondapalli/articleshow/79970597.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Rajkot||RMC prepares for mass vaccination dry run on December 29||RAJKOT: The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Saturday began preparation for a dry run as part of the mass vaccination programme to be conducted in the first phase in the state. Gujarat is among the four states where a dry run is to be conducted and Rajkot is among the two cities (second, being Gandhinagar) selected for the same in the state. The staff to be included in this program has been identified and a list of citizens to be given the vaccine in priority has been prepared. According to RMC, the theoretical training started from Friday and will continue till Monday. A dry run will be organized on December 29. Five places have been selected for the dry run namely Padmakunvarba Hospital, Sterling Hospital, Shyamnagar Health Center, Sheth High School and Municipal School 32. RMC has surveyed and prepared the data of over 1.80 lakh people who need to be vaccinated on priority. Those included in the priority list will be called to these five centres where three rooms each have been allotted. First will be a waiting room, the second observation room where a person’s documents will be verified and the third room where he or she will be administered the vaccine and kept under observation for 30 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-prepares-for-mass-vaccination-dry-run-on-dec-29/articleshow/79970372.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||‘Govt forcing helpless sr citizens to fight legal battles for pension’||The Employees’ Pension (EPS-95) Coordination Committee is fighting for the cause of over 68 lakh pensioners to increase their meagre pension. With over 25,000 direct members spread nationwide and lakhs of indirect ones, the organization had staged many protests in the national capital and across the country. However, despite repeated orders from the Supreme Court and various high courts, the central government’s Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has failed to increase their pension citing financial crunch. Despite writing several times to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top leaders in the BJP-led NDA government, there’s been no response at all. In an exclusive chat with TOI, EPS-95 committee’s national general secretary Prakash Pathak explains the plight of lakhs of senior citizens, who are struggling for survival, especially in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic. Excerpts...Q. What are the aims and objectives of your organization?A. It was founded in 2008 by a group of senior citizens like me to bring aggrieved pensioners from the entire country under one umbrella and fight for a pension hike which is their genuine right. Noted lawyer Prabhakar Marpakwar was our first president while Ratinath Mishra was the working president and I was appointed as national general secretary. Now, Prakash Yende is our head and Bhimrao Dongre is the working president. We’ve started a social movement to fight for the legitimate rights of over 68 lakh pensioners who are finding it hard to survive with their meagre pension which is calculated as per the old rules. Q. In what way did the pensioners’ condition deteriorate after the Covid-19 induced lockdown?A. Earlier, we used to survive with the help of our sons or daughters. However, the coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown have taken away their jobs and adversely affected their income and now they themselves are finding it difficult to survive. In such a situation, our children are finding it hard to take care of us. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman had announced packages for all sectors hit by the deadly virus, but ignored us completely. Our condition is really alarming. Q. What are your main demands?A. We want the government to implement Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s report on amending Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. This committee, set up by Parliament on the lines of the Swaminathan Commission, has recommended a hike in pension of all these 68 lakh retired employees and provision of dearness allowance (DA) like central government employees. We want the government to remove the ceiling of Rs15,000 per month of all retired employees who used to earn more when in service. In our times, salaries were very meagre. Now, they have jumped phenomenally over the years and pension should be calculated accordingly. At least the government should grant Rs9,000 pension to all along with DA. We should also be provided free health facilities through the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS). Q. Why didn’t you approach local leaders?A. In the beginning of our movement, we met Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who was then the BJP president. At that time we used to receive a paltry Rs400 as pension as salaries were very less. Gadkari helped us immensely by writing to the then labour minister Bandu Dattatray. We also met environment minister Prakash Javadekar who gave us assurances. The issue was raised in the Rajya Sabha by Javadekar after which the Koshyari committee was constituted in 2012. The then UPA government under former PM Manmohan Singh had raised the pension from Rs400 to Rs1,000. Before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, both Gadkari and Javadekar assured us that our pension would increase within 90 days if the BJP came to power. Q. When the SC and HC have passed orders in your favour then why is the government reluctant?A. The first order was delivered by the Kerala HC which ruled in favour of pensioners by asking the government to remove the ceiling to calculate the pension amount. Earlier, the ceiling was Rs5,000 which was then increased to Rs6,500 and later to Rs15,000 in 2014. It means that any employee with a Rs15,000 salary would receive a pension equivalent to the same amount. The HC went to the extent of directing the government to calculate the difference in amount from ex-employees. It fixed the criteria for providing DA while disbursing the pension. The order was upheld by the Supreme Court. For a few days, the EPFO started providing pension after the top court’s directives. Some like Praveen Kohli from Haryana received Rs32,000 as pension. However, the EPFO then filed a review plea in the apex court citing financial constraints. The matter is pending. It also discriminated between exempted and unexempted establishment employees through a circular (May 31, 2017). Q. Where is the process stuck?A. After EPFO moved the SC, a high level empowered committee was constituted to fix the pension. Its report was submitted in 2016, but the government is sitting on it since four years. Now, a new panel of 31 MPs has been constituted. It is yet to submit its report to Parliament. The EPFO had taken the difference in amount, around Rs5 lakh, to grant increased pension, but it was returned on May 19 last year after it filed a review petition in SC. The government is delaying it under some pretext or the other. It’s making the old and helpless senior citizens fight legal battles at the fag end of their lives. While many have passed away, the remaining ones likes us are waiting for justice to be delivered. Q. What’s your next step?A. Our Rashtriya coordination committee has now decided to request PM Modi to divert some amount from the Rs55,000 crore unclaimed deposits with EPFO for extending CGHS to all pensioners who are being deprived of their legitimate rights. We are also approaching all MPs to request them to support our demand for implementation of the Koshyari committee report and also to amend the EPF Act along with providing CGHS services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-forcing-helpless-sr-citizens-to-fight-legal-battles-for-pension/articleshow/79971930.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 27, 2020||Surat||Vasava, Owaisi ink pact to contest polls||SURAT: Tribal strongman Chhotu Vasava on Saturday announced his Bhartiya Tribal Party’s (BTP) alliance with Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) to contest all the forthcoming elections in Gujarat. Vasava said BTP-AIMIM combine will give a stiff competition to the Congress and BJP in the state and the country. Addressing reporters in Bharuch, Vasava said, “Owaisi will come to Gujarat for campaigning in the future elections. Our common agenda is to work for providing jobs to the unemployed youths, bring down inflation and control the price hike in petrol, diesel and other commodities.” Vasava added, “The Congress betrayed us in the district panchayat elections in Rajasthan. Their leaders were hands in glove with BJP to scuttle chances of our candidate becoming the panchayat president in Dungarpur district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vasava-owaisi-ink-pact-to-contest-polls/articleshow/79970603.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Kochi||‘Vestiges of casteism present deep in people’s mindset’||Kochi: ‘Honour’ killings are evidence that a sophisticated version of casteism and untouchability is active in today’s society, and it is favoured by the present socio-political system, say sociologists and psychiatrists. They add that such killings happen when socio-political elements stimulate the inborn criminal instincts in people. Senior psychiatrist Dr C J John says vestiges of casteism and communalism are present deep within the mindsets of people and they are constantly revived by socio-political events and discussions. He said Friday’s murder of the man in Palakkad should not be seen as an isolated event and it is latest example of the manifestation of communal and casteist thinking among people. “Despite the call for equality, our society witnesses heated debates over minority issues and rights and this has increased over the last decade. Certain segments of society, including educated people, are openly discussing communalism, making casteist remarks without hesitation, and are still considering others as marginalized. It is an advanced version of untouchability,” he said. Dr Philip John, senior psychiatrist, said that such murders are the result of both psychological and social reasons. Unlike olden times, the present generation dares to challenge casteist structures and the older generation reacts to it vehemently, often resulting in violence. “Honour killings are likely to decline in the coming decades as the new generation is least concerned about casteist or communal issues. If they continue to dare the system the resistance will diminish and casteism will end,” he said. Social critic and historian J Devika believes that marriage is casteism’s final boundary and the concept of dowry strengthens it. “Determining one’s caste based on dress, consumption patterns, economic outlook, etc, is impossible now and it weakens caste. But when it comes to marriage, caste remains strong,”she said. The experts say one solution is to propagate the philosophy that religion, caste and community are personal things which should not affect the process of people getting connected as human beings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vestiges-of-casteism-present-deep-in-peoples-mindset/articleshow/79970863.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
December 27, 2020||Madurai||Bowing to pressure from HC, cops, share autos restore original seating||MADURAI: With Madras high court taking a stern view of overloaded autorickshaws jeopardising the safety of people and city police conducting a meeting with the drivers, a section of autorickshaws have restored their original seating in accordance with the Motor Vehicle Act. A week ago, the city police traffic wing had sent a strong signal to these auto drivers against carrying passengers more than the permissible number. Most autorickshaws had modified the factory-fitted seating arrangement to carry passengers more than the specified number of three per vehicle. The violation is mostly seen in diesel autorickshaws, locally called share autos which carry up 10-12 passengers. The city police had arranged a meeting with the drivers after the Madras high court observed in a public interest litigation that carrying more passengers in autorickshaws poses threat to lives. Although the police and district administration had tried to implement the passenger norms a few times in the past, they did not succeed due to stiff opposition from the drivers. However, they are hopeful of better implementation this time since the court has talked tough on the matter. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Madurai city, T Sugumaran termed it encouraging to see a section of autorickshaw drivers complying with rules and restoring the original seating arrangement. “The meeting was organized in order to create sensitization. We will exert continuous pressure on the drivers. We have set ourselves two months deadline before cracking the whip on erring drivers,” he said. The police told the drivers that there will not be any more action like imposing fine, and that vehicles will be simply impounded if passenger norm is violated. However, strict implementation of the rule all of a sudden will only backfire considering the fact that drivers are only recovering from the economic impact of the Covid-19 lockdown. Hence, they will implement the rule slowly and steadily, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bowing-to-pressure-from-hc-cops-share-autos-restore-original-seating/articleshow/79972331.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nashik||5 held for stealing 2 motorcycles||Nashik: The crime branch unit 1 of the city police has nabbed a gang of five burglars from Malegaon for allegedly stealing motorcyles parked on the roadside in Nashik city. Police recovered two bikes —whose collective evaluation is around Rs 1.2 lakh — that were stolen by the suspects from the Bhadrakali area of the city and one bike worth Rs 55,000 which they used for committing the crime. Three cellphones have also been seized. A release by the crime branch unit 1 stated that an offence was registered with Bhadrakali police about the theft of a motorcycle.When the crime branch unit 1 was investigating the case, assistant inspector Mahesh Kulkarni got information that the suspects involved in the theft of the motorcycle were coming to Manmad junction in Malegaon to sell the bikes. Acting on the information, a team led by Kulkarni left for Malegaon under the guidance of inspector Ananda Wagh and arrested the five suspects from Manmad junction on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5-held-for-stealing-2-motorcycles/articleshow/79970322.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Madurai||Pongal gift: Token distribution begins||MADURAI: Distribution of tokens for receiving the Pongal gift announced by the government began on Saturday across the state. Though it was announced that the token would be supplied at the doorsteps, many came to the shops to receive it. The pongal hamper includes a cash gift of Rs 2,500, a kilogram each of raw rice and jaggery, 20 grams each of cashew nut and raisins, five grams of cardamom and a whole sugarcane. V Ganeswari of Anna Nagar in Madurai said she rushed to her ration shop at Vandiyur where youngsters handed over a token. “I did not buy this month’s rations, but the shopkeeper told me that it would be just tokens from today and ration would not be given this month,’’ she said. K Shanthi of Iyer Bungalow said though she had gone to collect token as early as 7 am on Saturday, she had received token to collect the gift only on January 11. Many people who had come to the shops were those who had changed their address recently and were concerned that shop workers would not be able to locate them and hand over tokens. Madurai has 8.9 lakh card holders and 1,500 regular shops. About 2 lakh cardholders got their tokens on Saturday. In Trichy, as many 3.2 lakh of the total 8 lakh tokens were distributed on the first day of distribution. A senior official from the cooperative department said they hoped to complete the process of issuing tokens in three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pongal-gift-token-distribution-begins/articleshow/79972333.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nashik||Alert citizens nab chain snatcher||Nashik: Alert citizens nabbed a man who was fleeing a shop after robbing a woman of her gold chain worth Rs 25,000 and handed him over to Panchavati police on Thursday night. The accused has been identified as Mohan Gavit (29). Ashok Bhagat, senior inspector at Panchavati police station, said Kalpana Raut (38) was closing her shop in the Panchavati area around 9:30pm on Thursday when Gavit approached her and asked for a sunscreen lotion. Just when Raut was about to put the cash in the cash box, Gavit snatched her gold chain an fled the scene. When Raut shouted for help, the people near her shop chased the suspect and nabbed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/alert-citizens-nab-chain-snatcher/articleshow/79970325.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||The curious case of dormitory-15 at IIM-Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The success or failure of dormitory Number 15, or Dorm-15, at the IIM-A was to decide the fate of all other student dormitories built by the legendary American architect, Louis Kahn. At least this was the view of those working on the conservation of the heritage of the country’s premier B-school. Dorm-15 was chosen as a prototype not because it was the best among the lot but because it was in the worst condition from the conservation perspective. So recently when the management of the IIM-A decided to knock down 14 dorms and re-use the land for building new structures for student residences, the move came as a surprise to many. If that is the plan, then all dorm buildings, which are currently facing demolition, can be restored by replicating the success story of D-15, say experts. “After much circumspection we have decided to restore Dorms 16 to 18. Along with the restored Dorm 15 as you would recollect they constitute the periphery of the built campus and are the first buildings that persons who enter the campus see and understand along with the LKP [Louis Kahn Plaza] and associated buildings as the grandeur associated with the work of Kahn,” said IIM-A director Errol D’Souza in a letter to the alumni dated December 23. The institute, in 2014, had announced a competition for the restoration and updating of all of Kahn’s buildings on campus. A Mumbai-based firm, Somaya and Kalappa (S&K) Consultants, with a record of restoration, won the challenge to preserve Kahn’s architecture while updating the functionality. The design of the IIM-A by Kahn is considered a masterpiece of modern architecture. In a webinar on November 28, Brinda Somaya who leads the firm said that Dormitory 15 was taken as the prototype because it was the most dilapidated. “We won the competition in 2014 and then began with a lot of analysis of the entire campus and the preparation of the master plan,” she said in the webinar. “So we began the analysis of the dormitories, library blocks, and the other buildings. And only one dormitory building was taken up, which was D-15.” Talking about D-15, she said that at one point the option of reconstructing certain walls was explored, instead of restoring the structure brick by brick. But this could have not gone well with the identity of the building as it could have compromised its architectural value. The renovation of the Vikram Sarabhai Library at IIM-A carried out by Somaya and her team received the award of distinction at Unesco Asia Pacific Award for Cultural Heritage and became the model for conservation projects. The existing Dorms (D 1 to 18) built from 1968 to 1978 have multiple problems such as leakages from the roof, dampness in walls, and leakages in toilet walls. Besides, the earthquake of 2001 caused major structural damages to these buildings. An expression of interest (EOI) floated by the institute in the first week of December seems contradictory to the IIM-A director’s letter as it states that restoring one dormitory building in 2017 was not successful. The bid document invited tenders for reconstructing all 18 dormitories. The plan was to increase occupancy from 500 to about 800 by way of the reconstruction of hostel buildings. A revised bid will be posted on the institute’s website for 14 dormitories, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/the-curious-case-of-dormitory-15-at-iim-a/articleshow/79971585.cms||Maulik Pathak
December 27, 2020||Madurai||Cops thwart robbery bid in Madurai, arrest 7||MADURAI: The city police arrested seven people, including a juvenile in conflict with law, while they were preparing to commit a number of robberies on Saturday. A police team led by SI Sivaprakasam from the Subramaniyapuram police station arrested the accused. Police said that the accused gathered at the railway track in Venkatachalapuram on Friday and were hatching plans to carry out a series of robberies. The police team on rounds reached the spot based on a tip-off and arrested them. Weapons in their possession were also seized. They were identified as M Hariharan, 21, S Ajay, 21, P Balakumaran, 21, M Ganesh Singh, 19, from Jaihindpuram, A Gurusuraj, 19, from Maninagram, T Rahul, 19, Vilangudi and a 16-year-old from Andalpuram. A case was registered with the Subramaniyapuram police station under sections of Arms Act. They were produced before a judicial magistrate and remanded in prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-thwart-robbery-bid-in-madurai-arrest-7/articleshow/79972337.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Madurai||TN’s high devpt indices due to last 10 years’ rule: Minister||MADURAI: AIADMK will seek votes highlighting welfare measures carried out by the government in the last 10 years, said cooperation minister Sellur K Raju. Speaking after inaugurating Amma mini clinics at Palanganatham and Keerathurai in Madurai city on Saturday, he said Tamil Nadu is ranked top in most development indices, thanks to the good work done by the government in the last 10 years. The government distributed financial aid worth Rs 6,159 crores to mothers under the Muthulakshmi Maternity Benefit Scheme, 16.9 lakh children issued Amma baby care kit at a cost of Rs 219 crore, equipment worth Rs 190 crore purchased for 10 cancer centres, medical insurance increased from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. Distribution of laptops for students, thalikku thangam scheme and successful kudimaramarthu are other achievements, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tns-high-devpt-indices-due-to-last-10-years-rule-minister/articleshow/79972336.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bareilly||2 minor girls rescued, 2 booked for kidnapping, other charges||BAREILLY: Two girls who were allegedly abducted in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur district have been recovered and one of the suspects was arrested on Saturday. The girls, aged 14 and 11, went missing from the Roza area on Friday afternoon and their families informed the police in the evening, superintendent of police (city) Sanjay Kumar said. An FIR under sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage), 354 (attempt to outrage the modesty of a woman) and the POCSO Act was registered. Police said that more sections might be added to the FIR after the medical examination and recording of the girls’ statement under section 164 of CrPC. The accused and another suspect, a minor, belong to the minority community. Some right-wing activists wanted the police to also press the new anti-conversion law against the accused, but police refused. A VHP functionary said, “The girls are neighbours and study in a primary school in Roza. They had gone missing on Friday and when we came to know that they were abducted, we decided to support the aggrieved families.” Roza SHO Rajendra Bahadur Singh said, “We have recovered the girls from an abandoned place with a 20-year-old youth who lives in the same area. The second accused is a minor and will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-minor-girls-rescued-2-booked-for-kidnapping-other-charges/articleshow/79970320.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Realtors get extension to submit AR||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Real Estate Regulatory Authority (GujRERA) has further extended the due date for submission of annual reports (AR) for the real estate projects registered with the authority. The state real estate regulator has extended the deadline from December 31, 2020 to January 31, 2020. Every promoter is required to submit the annual report on statement of accounts in Form-5 within six months after the end of a financial year for every registered project. “The extended date for the submission of Form-5 for financial year 2019-20, which is due on December 31, 2020, is further extended up to January 31, 2021,” the authority stated in its order dated December 24. “Promoters and chartered accountants are required to comply with the requirement of submission of Form 5 by the revised time period,” the authority added. Previously, the due date for submission of annual reports was extended to December 31 in the wake of real estate activities getting adversely affected due to Covid-19 lockdown and the country-wide lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/realtors-get-extension-to-submit-ar/articleshow/79971617.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jhotwara elevated road: Property owners refuse to move out||JAIPUR: Removing the 604 affected owners, which are posing a major hurdle to the construction of the Jhotwara elevated road project, remains a challenge for the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA). The shopkeepers have refused to shift to Niwaru Road area that has been identified by the civic body for relocation. They claim, there business will be seriously affected as the identified location is not developed. A JDA official said, “In the memorandum submitted to JDA, the shopkeepers have demanded to shift them to Gokulpura and Pratap Nagar Dairy scheme. However, the JDA has planned to shift them to Niwaru Road and lottery for the same was proposed to be drawn.” In the 2.2-km corridor, work is stalled as shopkeepers are not ready to shift. In the last two and half years, there has been only 45% progress of Jhotwara elevated road as JDA had failed to chalk out a plan to rehabilitate the 604 property owners falling on the route alignment. After receiving the consent last week, the authority was hopeful to complete the structure in 2021. But a new deadlock on the shifting remains. The Rs 108 crore project is aimed at easing traffic in one of the most congested areas of the city and provide relief to over six lakh residents. The project is crucial as the narrow flyover has become a major bottleneck. As no land is available on either side, the JDA is left with no option but to construct an elevated road. Sources said the constant delay in the project could have escalated the cost and more problems might crop up. “Now, notices to raze the structures cannot be issued as consent is not provided by affected house owners. The JDA is trying to resolve the issue peacefully,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jhotwara-elevated-road-property-owners-refuse-to-move-out/articleshow/79970892.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Economic activities steady in Gujarat’||AHMEDABAD: Post lockdown, while many state economies were struggling to get on their feet, Gujarat along with two other states were seeing a surge in non-farm economic activities. The latest RBI report on Covid-19 claims that between June and August, Gujarat had maintained a steady economic activity index (EAI) of 0.3 in June, 0.4 in July and 0.3 in August, the highest in the month among all major 14 states along with Karnataka (EAI of 0.3). The EAI was calculated using eight high-frequency monthly economic activity indicators — vehicle registrations, air traffic, Google mobility, electricity consumption, e-payments, unemployment rate, tax revenues and consumer price inflation. The report highlights that Gujarat’s economic activity index was -0.7 in May, but in June it jumped to 0.3 soon after the first major unlock. “The reopening of the economy during May-June saw industry normalizing faster than contact-intensive service sectors,” mentions the RBI report. Besides Tamil Nadu (EAI of 0.2), Assam, Chhattisgarh, Odisha saw an EAI of 0.1 each in August. Manoj Das, additional chief secretary in chief minister's office and in-charge ACS, industry & mines, said, “Economic activities began in the state in May-June itself during first Unlock. Our industrial consumption of power remained higher, almost at 11% and gas consumption remained stable at 25%. Our export also increased slightly compared to last year. We managed to bring back migrant labour. The CM took initiatives like the new industrial policy to boost sentiments. They helped in increasing economic activities. RBI report is a reflection of this.” Almost 14.6 lakh migrants had left the state during the lockdown according to the RBI report, and a Mahatma Gandhi Labour Institute study says 94% of these labourers had shown willingness to return. Almost 8.3 lakh migrants had left for UP. Only 6% chose not to return when the situation normalized. Surat accounted for 44% of total trains from the state. Another aspect that worked for Gujarat was the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) during lockdown. “Gujarat was among the top 10 states that led in per capita DBT. The highest being Goa, Puducherry and UP,” said a senior state finance official. (With inputs from Paul John)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/economic-activities-steady-in-guj/articleshow/79971628.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||BJP ally RLP backs farmers’ protest, pulls out of NDA||ALWAR/JAIPUR: The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) on Saturday withdrew its support to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in support of the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws. This was announced by Nagaur MP and convenor of the party Hanuman Beniwal while addressing protesters at the Shahjahanpur border in Alwar in Rajasthan. “Bye, bye NDA (NDA ko bye bye),” said Beniwal making the announcement. “We had informed the prime minister and Union home minister earlier that these are black, anti-farmer laws and they should repeal the laws. Nobody is above farmers in the country. We shall not stand with anyone who is against them,” said Beniwal, whose march towards Delhi in support of the farmers’ agitation, along with thousands of farmers, was stopped at the Shajahanpur border on Saturday. Beniwal said his party would not form an alliance with the BJP in Rajasthan. “I had opposed the laws earlier and will continue to do so. The course of action will be decided after farmer unions’ meeting with the Centre on December 29,” he added. RLP is the second BJP ally to withdraw its support to the NDA on the farmer issue after Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Earlier, Shiv Sena and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) had also withdrawn their support to the NDA. Beniwal had earlier resigned from three parliamentary committees in support of the farmers’ agitation. He was a member of parliamentary committees on industries, petroleum and natural gas and petitions. Beniwal had submitted his resignation to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. Commenting on this, state BJP president Satish Poonia said, “He has his own working style and is not bound by the BJP’s discipline. He is independent and must have taken the decision after finding it right.” On Friday, the Haryana police had sealed the highway at Shahjahanpur border for vehicles plying from both directions (Delhi-Jaipur), resulting in a huge traffic snarl on the national highway (NH-8).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-ally-rlp-backs-farmers-protest-pulls-out-of-nda/articleshow/79972340.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||Crane covers 4,000km from Mongolia to reach Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A demoiselle crane tagged in Mongolia’s Khurkh Valley has reached Khichan in Jodhpur after covering a distance of 4,032km in 151 days. Experts said it is so far the longest recorded flight of a demoiselle crane (identified as T-54), which was banded by researcher Tuvshintugs Sukhbaatar at Onon Balj Basin National Park bordering North Korea on July 25. Another researcher Nimbiar Batbayar confirmed that T-54 was one of the two chicks banded in Khurkh Valley. Ornithologist Dau Lal Bohra said, “The previous record by a demoiselle crane coming to Rajasthan was around 3,500 km. But T-54 has broken the record by covering 4,032km in approximately 151 days.” The band or tag tied to the bird’s leg has revealed that it crossed China, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Bihar and UP before reaching Rajasthan. To reach the state, the bird (smallest of the 15 species of cranes) flew at altitudes of up to 26,000 feet. The migration route is considered as one of the most difficult ones as it passes over the Himalayas. The bird was tagged under the 1,000-Crane Project, a multi-country initiative that extends over years, tracking multiple migrations and species and populations of cranes, following routes, resting sites, the impact of climate change and even social structures among birds. “The banding allows easy identification and helps establish connections between two distant sites the tagged bird visited. It provides information on the bird’s lifespan and the flight tendency,” said Veerbhan Singh, a bird watcher. Seva Ram Mali, who spotted the bird said, “Last year, a tagged bird died after consuming pesticides. We are extra cautious this year and educating farmers around Khichan not to use it.” Khichan village houses up to 40,000 cranes at a time in various batches and groups. The return journey of demoiselle cranes to their summer home in Mongolia will start sometime in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crane-covers-4000km-from-mongolia-to-reach-rajasthan/articleshow/79972349.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||178 Covid cases added in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The city on Saturday registered 178 fresh Covid positive cases and four deaths because of the virus. The number of deaths in the city has reached 2,179. The city as on Saturday morning had 2,468 active cases. On Saturday, 184 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals. Four families with 16 members were micro-contained in Block-C2 of Sagar Apartment in Jodhpur area. The AMC removed two societies — one each in Usmanpura and Vastrapur — from the micro-containment list. With the addition of the society in Jodhpur, the total number of societies that were micro-contained was 11. The west zone comprising Usmanpura, Paldi, Navrangpura, Naranpura, Ranip have the highest 431 active cases followed by 418 in south zone comprising areas of Maninagar, Khokhra, Behrampura and Danilimda. Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota, Ghatlodia in northwest zone and Bopal, Jodhpur, Vejalpur and Sarkhej in southwest zone had over 400 cases earlier this week but now these areas have seen a decline. The northwest and southwest zones have 399 and 387 active cases respectively. The Walled City areas, which had witnessed an increase in active cases, saw a decline too. The Walled City had 281 active cases on Friday which had come down to 262 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/178-covid-cases-added-in-city/articleshow/79971651.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||Congress workers fume over not being invited to meet in Kota||KOTA: The high-spirited Congress workers, former office bearers and public representatives of the party were left disheartened after they were not even allowed to enter the main gate of the venue of party’s divisional level interactive function on Saturday on Bundi road in Kota, where AICC general secretary and party’s state incharge Ajay Maken, accompanied by PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasara, UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal, minister Lalchand Kataria, Tikaram Jully and AICC secretary and state’s co-incharge Tarun Kumar held interaction with the party workers from Kota division. On being denied entry, the senior workers even termed party’s divisional level Samvad, a ‘drama’ claiming how the leadership could get feedback without the opinion of senior party office bearers and grassroots workers. "The representatives of party office bearers were not invited in the programme, it is unfortunate," said Mahaveer Meena, former Bundi zila pramukh, adding that monopoly of opinion should be avoided in the party. The leaders held separate interactions with the party office bearers and workers, that included district party president, state assembly and parliamentary candidates and PCC members and block presidents of the dissolved committees. The party workers were irked at exclusion of ex-zila pramukhs, ex-MLAs and DCC members from the interaction with Maken. An ex-MLA and senior party leader was first invited in the interaction but later was asked not to attend the function, said a party leader. Is it possible to get a fair feedback and common opinion on performance and political appointments without consultancy with party workers at large. How a handful of workers and office bearers can give genuine feedback and fair opinion?, asked another party worker terming the so-called divisional level interaction a drama. In countable few hours with handful of workers and public representatives, can leadership get fair feedback and common opinion, he further asked. Party workers from Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran districts in large numbers had reached the venue in Kota. However, enthusiastic party workers in large numbers greeted Maken and PCC chief Dotasra at several places on the way to Kota. Absence of state sports minister and Hindoli MLA Ashok Chandana from the divisional level interactive function has surprised many.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-workers-fume-over-not-being-invited-to-meet-in-kota/articleshow/79971658.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC employee loses life to virus||Ahmedabad: A junior clerk of LG Hospital Vinod Shenol died of Covid during treatment. At least 15 AMC staff including five teachers of AMC school board have died of Covid till now. According to officials, Shenol was first admitted to a private hospital in Nikol under AMC quota after he tested positive and later, when his situation deteriorated, he was shifted to Civil hospital where he died during treatment. AMC officials said that this was probably the first non-medical staff in AMC’s hospital to die of Covid. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-employee-loses-life-to-virus/articleshow/79971678.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Madurai||Will strive to make Raja minister in TN cabinet: K Annamalai||MADURAI: BJP state vice-president K Annamalai on Friday said that only peoplechosen by BJP would contest the four assembly seats in Sivaganga district and that the party would strive to make H Raja an MLA and make him a minister in the next Tamil Nadu cabinet. Addressing an election preparedness meeting of the BJP in Karaikudi in Sivaganga district, he said that the crowds that had gathered for the meet in Sivaganga was a sign of the gains BJP would make in the ensuing elections. `` Nothing is going to stop the party’s growth in the state. It was a mistake by the people of Sivaganga, that Raja could not become an MP, but now we should strive to make him a minister,’’ he said. He said that there was no possibility of the Central government would bring about changes in the farm acts. It was the Congress government which had destroyed the livelihood of lakhs of farmers for many decades, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/will-strive-to-make-raja-minister-in-tn-cabinet-annamalai/articleshow/79972351.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bareilly||Man posing as right-wing outfit member booked for ‘illegally’ collecting funds for Ayodhya’s Ram Mandir||BAREILLY: A man posing as president of a right-wing outfit was booked for forgery and under the Information Technology (IT) Act for allegedly collecting donations for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya through social media and door-to-door campaigns in Moradabad district on Saturday. Following a complaint lodged by BJP’s Moradabad district president Rajpal Singh Chauhan, an FIR was registered at Majhola police station. “As soon as I came to know a man who was collecting funds for the Ram Mandir by posing himself as the president of a new outfit, I immediately informed police and lodged an FIR against him. We want to alert the public that they shouldn’t donate money to anybody without verification. We demanded immediate arrest of the accused and his aides and strict action against them,” said Chauhan. Station house officer of Majhola police station Avdhesh Kumar said, “We have registered an FIR against Premveer Singh under section 419 (cheating by personation) of the Indian Penal Code and 66D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) of the IT Act." “We have also learnt from Premveer Singh’s social media posts and donors’ receipts that he belongs to Vishwa Hindu Mahashakti Sangh. He will be arrested soon,” said the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-posing-as-right-wing-outfit-member-booked-for-illegally-collecting-funds-for-ayodhyas-ram-mandir/articleshow/79969896.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||Cong MLAs unhappy over delay in political appointments||Jaipur: The ruling party legislators are getting impatient over the delay in ministerial reshuffle and political appointments.The erstwhile BSP legislators, who had merged with the Congress ensuring a comfortable majority, have been expecting some rewards in the form of ministries and political postings for a long time.Unhappy with the delay in political appointments, leader of the group Rajendra Singh Gudha, said, “Weddings are enjoyed when one is young, what is the point afterwards?”He was referring to the delay as the state government had already completed two years. He was speaking to reporters after meeting with party general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken on Saturday. He said whatever be the reason, things are getting delayed.The group of former six BSP legislators stood behind chief minister Ashok Gehlot during the political crisis triggered by the rebellion of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.Maken had earlier announced that the state Congress would reconstitute its party organisation by the end of this month and cabinet reshuffle would be held in January next year.There are about 10 vacancies in the state council of ministers and the AICC general secretary is holding consultation with the party leaders and workers. There were also several vacancies in various commissions and constitutional bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-mlas-unhappy-over-delay-in-political-appointments/articleshow/79971650.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bareilly||10-year-old girl goes missing, FIR lodged||PILIBHIT: An FIR has been registered against an unidentified man on Friday night for kidnapping a 10-year-old girl. She had gone missing while playing outside her home the same day. Father of the girl, a resident of Pilibhit, has linked his daughter’s kidnapping to the financial dispute he’s currently involved in with his elder brother. Sungarhi SHO Atar Singh said the FIR in the matter was lodged under IPC section 363 (kidnapping). “The police will interrogate all suspected persons. We are hopeful that the girl would be rescued soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-year-old-girl-goes-missing-fir-lodged/articleshow/79970344.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||Centre allows Raj to borrow Rs 2,731cr more||New Delhi: The finance ministry on Saturday said it has permitted Rajasthan to borrow an additional Rs 2,731 crore after the state successfully undertook ease of doing business reforms.Rajasthan has now joined the five other states namely, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, which have completed the reform facilitating ease of doing business to be eligible for additional borrowing. These six states have been granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 19,459 crore.“Thus, the state (Rajasthan) has become eligible to mobilise additional financial resources of Rs 2,731 crore through open market borrowings. Permission for the same was issued by the department of expenditure on December 24,” the ministry said in a statement.The ease of doing business is an important indicator of the investment friendly business climate in the country. The government had in May decided to link grant of additional borrowing permissions to states who undertake the reforms to facilitate ease of doing business.The reforms stipulated in this category include completion of first assessment of 'District Level Business Reform Action Plan', elimination of the requirements of renewal of registration certificates/approvals/licences obtained by businesses under various Acts.In view of the resource requirement to meet the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had in May enhanced the borrowing limit of the states by 2% of their GSDP. Half of this special dispensation was linked to the states undertaking citizen centric reforms, implementation of 'One Nation One Ration Card System', ease of doing business reform, urban local body/ utility reforms and power sector reforms.So far, 10 states have implemented the 'One Nation One Ration Card System', six states have done ease of doing business reforms, and two states have done local body reforms.Total additional borrowing permission issued so far to the states, which have done the reforms, is Rs 50,253 crore, the ministry added. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-allows-raj-to-borrow-rs-2731cr-more/articleshow/79971683.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ajmer||Cold wave revives in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: After continued rise in mercury, cold wave conditions revived in the state on Saturday when majority of the places witnessed a dip in the temperature. Pilani, Sriganganagar and Churu each in plains and Mount Abu in hills remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 4.1°C and 2°C, respectively, was recorded, the Met report said. Attributing the climatic change to the active northerly winds and vanishing of western disturbances, Jaipur Met office said that cold wave conditions will further aggravate in the state. “Mercury has started dipping and till January 7, it will continue to take a dip across the state. Many places are likely to get its minimum temperatures on or below 5°C. Till January 7, cold wave conditions will prevail in the state especially in the western and northern parts,” said the report. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 8.4°C was recorded. As mercury started dipping again roads were empty during early morning and late evening hours. Likewise, fog and mist also affected road and rail traffic. At least half-a-dozen early morning trains got delayed due to fog and mist. Also the traffic on the highways connecting Jaipur to Sikar, Jaipur to Churu and Jaipur to Jhunjhunu was chaotic while vehicles were seen moving in slow pace. At the districts, including Sriganganagar, Alwar, Bharatpur and Hanumangarh, fog and mist impacted the normal life especially during early morning and late evening onwards. Pilani, Churu, Sriganganagar and Mount Abu were followed by Sikar where a minimum temperature of 4.5°C was recorded, Udaipur 7°C, Kota 8.3°C, Jaipur 8.4°C, Ajmer 8.9°C, Jaisalmer 9.9°C, Bikaner 11.1°C, Jodhpur 12°C. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that cold wave conditions will further aggravate in the state especially in the western and northern Rajasthan. Minimum temperatures at places like Churu, Sikar, Sriganganagar and Bikaner would be around 5°C or below.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cold-wave-revives-in-state/articleshow/79973917.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Garbage left on Vastrapur roads||AHMEDABAD: With the strike of the sanitation workers in Ahmedabad Municipal corporation entering the third day with a city-wide effect, heaps of garbage were seen in various parts of the city. The agitating workers even emptied a truckload of garbage near Lad Society in Vastrapur area. On Saturday, residents of the Vastrapur area woke up to find garbage heaps right in the middle of the roads. Officials in AMC said that garbage collected by the contractor was offloaded on the roads as a mark of protest. The stink made it difficult for people to move around as plastic bags with decaying kitchen waste filled the road. Meanwhile, the Ahmedabad Municipal Servants’ Association seems to have taken a cue from the farmers agitation in Delhi and started their own community kitchen outside the North West Zone office in Bodakdev. The association has also formed a committee which on Saturday has decided to intensify their stir and stay off work even on Sunday. Secretary of the association, Kalpesh Makwana, said, “The workers are not willing to call off their strike and are adamant that the AMC should give their kin the right of compassionate jobs as in case of other employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/garbage-left-on-vastrapur-roads/articleshow/79971761.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||Cold wave revives in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: After continued rise in mercury, cold wave conditions revived in the state on Saturday when majority of the places witnessed a dip in the temperature. Pilani, Sriganganagar and Churu each in plains and Mount Abu in hills remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 4.1°C and 2°C, respectively, was recorded, the Met report said. Attributing the climatic change to the active northerly winds and vanishing of western disturbances, Jaipur Met office said that cold wave conditions will further aggravate in the state. “Mercury has started dipping and till January 7, it will continue to take a dip across the state. Many places are likely to get its minimum temperatures on or below 5°C. Till January 7, cold wave conditions will prevail in the state especially in the western and northern parts,” said the report. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 8.4°C was recorded. As mercury started dipping again roads were empty during early morning and late evening hours. Likewise, fog and mist also affected road and rail traffic. At least half-a-dozen early morning trains got delayed due to fog and mist. Also the traffic on the highways connecting Jaipur to Sikar, Jaipur to Churu and Jaipur to Jhunjhunu was chaotic while vehicles were seen moving in slow pace. At the districts, including Sriganganagar, Alwar, Bharatpur and Hanumangarh, fog and mist impacted the normal life especially during early morning and late evening onwards. Pilani, Churu, Sriganganagar and Mount Abu were followed by Sikar where a minimum temperature of 4.5°C was recorded, Udaipur 7°C, Kota 8.3°C, Jaipur 8.4°C, Ajmer 8.9°C, Jaisalmer 9.9°C, Bikaner 11.1°C, Jodhpur 12°C. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that cold wave conditions will further aggravate in the state especially in the western and northern Rajasthan. Minimum temperatures at places like Churu, Sikar, Sriganganagar and Bikaner would be around 5°C or below.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cold-wave-revives-in-state/articleshow/79970904.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Jodhpur||Cold wave revives in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: After continued rise in mercury, cold wave conditions revived in the state on Saturday when majority of the places witnessed a dip in the temperature. Pilani, Sriganganagar and Churu each in plains and Mount Abu in hills remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 4.1°C and 2°C, respectively, was recorded, the Met report said. Attributing the climatic change to the active northerly winds and vanishing of western disturbances, Jaipur Met office said that cold wave conditions will further aggravate in the state. “Mercury has started dipping and till January 7, it will continue to take a dip across the state. Many places are likely to get its minimum temperatures on or below 5°C. Till January 7, cold wave conditions will prevail in the state especially in the western and northern parts,” said the report. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 8.4°C was recorded. As mercury started dipping again roads were empty during early morning and late evening hours. Likewise, fog and mist also affected road and rail traffic. At least half-a-dozen early morning trains got delayed due to fog and mist. Also the traffic on the highways connecting Jaipur to Sikar, Jaipur to Churu and Jaipur to Jhunjhunu was chaotic while vehicles were seen moving in slow pace. At the districts, including Sriganganagar, Alwar, Bharatpur and Hanumangarh, fog and mist impacted the normal life especially during early morning and late evening onwards. Pilani, Churu, Sriganganagar and Mount Abu were followed by Sikar where a minimum temperature of 4.5°C was recorded, Udaipur 7°C, Kota 8.3°C, Jaipur 8.4°C, Ajmer 8.9°C, Jaisalmer 9.9°C, Bikaner 11.1°C, Jodhpur 12°C. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that cold wave conditions will further aggravate in the state especially in the western and northern Rajasthan. Minimum temperatures at places like Churu, Sikar, Sriganganagar and Bikaner would be around 5°C or below.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cold-wave-revives-in-state/articleshow/79973915.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Long weekend rush triggers traffic tangles on highways||PUNE: Heavy traffic congestion was reported on Friday and Saturday en route to several popular tourist spots as many people left the city for the long Christmas weekend. According to the state highway police, most people were headed to Lonavla, Mahabaleshwar, Kolhapur, Goa and Amboli ghat, among other destinations. Highway police officers said snarls were reported on the Pune-Satara (NH4), Pune-Ahmednagar, old Pune-Mumbai, Mumbai-Ahmednagar, Mumbai-Solapur, Mumbai-Gujarat and Konkan highways, as well as the highs-speed Pune-Mumbai expressway. “We had to enforce the golden hour restrictions, halting multi-axle vehicles and other heavy vehicles at certain spots for two or three hours to clear the way for small vehicles and those carrying essential goods,” highway police (Pune) SP Sanjay Jadhav told TOI. Jadhav said ghat areas and toll plazas were the worst affected, prompting the police to set up a counter lane to allow traffic coming from Mumbai to proceeed towards Pune. Additional personnel have been at frequently congested spots in the Pune division to avoid a repeat during the return rush. “From Sunday/Monday, we expect return traffic and so, congestion is likely to increase,” Jadhav said. Tourists said they were stuck on these routes for a minimum of half-hour. The blasting work on Pune-Mumbai highway made it worse, some said — traffic on both sides on this route was stuck around half an hour. “People en route and stuck at toll points have been calling us to report long queues. Personnel in toll plazas should work faster during such periods,” sub-inspector Kadam from the highway police control room, Mumbai, said. Girish Makhijani, who runs a travel agency in Pune, said he was stuck in traffic en route to Mahabaleshwar on Saturday. “I left Pune in the morning. Vehicles moved at a snail’s pace, especially at toll plazas. We had to wait for 30 minutes to get through the toll plaza on Pune-Satara highway,” Makhijani said. Rajendra Chandankar, owner of Delta Cars, said, “Two of my vehicles headed towards Mumbai were delayed by an hour or so on Friday due to the slow traffic movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/long-weekend-rush-triggers-traffic-tangles-on-highways/articleshow/79971686.cms||Neha Madaan
December 27, 2020||Udaipur||Cold wave revives in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: After continued rise in mercury, cold wave conditions revived in the state on Saturday when majority of the places witnessed a dip in the temperature. Pilani, Sriganganagar and Churu each in plains and Mount Abu in hills remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 4.1°C and 2°C, respectively, was recorded, the Met report said. Attributing the climatic change to the active northerly winds and vanishing of western disturbances, Jaipur Met office said that cold wave conditions will further aggravate in the state. “Mercury has started dipping and till January 7, it will continue to take a dip across the state. Many places are likely to get its minimum temperatures on or below 5°C. Till January 7, cold wave conditions will prevail in the state especially in the western and northern parts,” said the report. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 8.4°C was recorded. As mercury started dipping again roads were empty during early morning and late evening hours. Likewise, fog and mist also affected road and rail traffic. At least half-a-dozen early morning trains got delayed due to fog and mist. Also the traffic on the highways connecting Jaipur to Sikar, Jaipur to Churu and Jaipur to Jhunjhunu was chaotic while vehicles were seen moving in slow pace. At the districts, including Sriganganagar, Alwar, Bharatpur and Hanumangarh, fog and mist impacted the normal life especially during early morning and late evening onwards. Pilani, Churu, Sriganganagar and Mount Abu were followed by Sikar where a minimum temperature of 4.5°C was recorded, Udaipur 7°C, Kota 8.3°C, Jaipur 8.4°C, Ajmer 8.9°C, Jaisalmer 9.9°C, Bikaner 11.1°C, Jodhpur 12°C. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that cold wave conditions will further aggravate in the state especially in the western and northern Rajasthan. Minimum temperatures at places like Churu, Sikar, Sriganganagar and Bikaner would be around 5°C or below.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cold-wave-revives-in-state/articleshow/79973916.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nashik||Urban development dept stays work on bridge across Godavari||NASHIK: The urban development department (UDD) has stayed the construction of a bridge — the fifth one in the area — across the Godavari river in the Gangapur Road area of Nashik city. The orders, dated December 25, came after four citizens knocked on the doors of the Bombay high court. The court has asked the urban development minister to take a call on the matter before it comes up for hearing again in the court. “We have received a letter from the UDD asking us to stop work on the Rs 15-crore bridge near the pumping station in the Gangapur Road area till the matter is decided by urban development minister Eknath Shinde and then by the Bombay high court. The work orders of the bridge have been given, but the construction is yet to begin,” said Nashik city engineer Sanjay Ghuge. Ghuge said, “As per the orders of the UDD, the corporation will provide all details to the minister next week and will wait for the further orders.” The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had decided to construct the bridge connecting the Gangapur Road area with the Makhmalabad area, where a new township plan is being planned. However, residents of the area have opposed the construction of this new bridge claiming that there were already three existing bridges in the vicinity and the construction of a fourth bridge had also begun. They asked why a fifth bridge was required. “The construction of the fifth bridge would mean three bridges less than 500m away from each other. Also, the large number of bridge pillars in the riverbed will obstruct the flow of water. This may inundate the low-lying areas during monsoon,” said Prakash Dadasheb Patil, who is among the four citizens to file a writ petition in the court. The citizens had objected to the construction of the road on November 23 and had sent a memorandum to Eknath Shinde, requesting him to order a stay on the work. Meanwhile the Bombay high court bench of Justice S J Kathawala and Justice R I Chagla on December 17 requested the urban development minister to hear the matter and decide on the outcome before the court hears the case on February 9 again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/urban-development-dept-stays-work-on-bridge-across-godavari/articleshow/79970366.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 27, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer-Udaipur electrified route: 1st goods train runs||UDAIPUR: The North Western Railway (NWR) inaugurated the Ajmer-Udaipur electrified railway route with successful trip of a goods train between Madar and Rana Pratap Nagar station on Saturday. The locomotive with an electric engine started from Madar in Ajmer at 3.20am, reached Udaipur's station at 10.45am. Ajmer division DRM N K Parsuramka termed it as a historical moment for the division and said that people had been waiting for this day since years when an electric train would run on this route. “Very soon, a passenger train too would run on the route.” The Ajmer-Udaipur electrified rail route project covers a distance of 294.50 kilometres and cost around Rs 320.18 crore to the railways. The commissioner of railway safety approved the route after an inspection on December 18 and after the green signal from the officials, the first goods train was chugged off on the route on Saturday. The electrification work between Ajmer-Palanpur section too is under progress. The DRM said with the completion of the electrification project, Udaipur is connected with the electric track of Ajmer, Jaipur and Delhi and the journey time too would be reduced. “Increased train speed, elimination of pollution caused by the diesel engine, more loading capacity and chances of having more trains on this route are the benefits of this project,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-udaipur-electrified-route-1st-goods-train-runs/articleshow/79976638.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Udaipur||Ajmer-Udaipur electrified route: 1st goods train runs||UDAIPUR: The North Western Railway (NWR) inaugurated the Ajmer-Udaipur electrified railway route with successful trip of a goods train between Madar and Rana Pratap Nagar station on Saturday. The locomotive with an electric engine started from Madar in Ajmer at 3.20am, reached Udaipur's station at 10.45am. Ajmer division DRM N K Parsuramka termed it as a historical moment for the division and said that people had been waiting for this day since years when an electric train would run on this route. “Very soon, a passenger train too would run on the route.” The Ajmer-Udaipur electrified rail route project covers a distance of 294.50 kilometres and cost around Rs 320.18 crore to the railways. The commissioner of railway safety approved the route after an inspection on December 18 and after the green signal from the officials, the first goods train was chugged off on the route on Saturday. The electrification work between Ajmer-Palanpur section too is under progress. The DRM said with the completion of the electrification project, Udaipur is connected with the electric track of Ajmer, Jaipur and Delhi and the journey time too would be reduced. “Increased train speed, elimination of pollution caused by the diesel engine, more loading capacity and chances of having more trains on this route are the benefits of this project,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/ajmer-udaipur-electrified-route-1st-goods-train-runs/articleshow/79976637.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||Govt to send 25% staff of Covid hosps to original postings||Jaipur: With the graph of Covid-19 cases going down, the occupancy of the beds has also decreased. Taking it as an opportunity, the health department has decided to give some break and relief to its staff deployed at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.The health department will send 25% of the staff deployed at the dedicated Covid-19 hospital to their original posting places.The orders have been issued by secretary (health) Siddhartha Mahajan. A senior health department official said that 25% staff at the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals will be relieved on ‘first come first relieve’ basis.He said that the staff relieved from the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals will join their original postings.At the time when Covid-19 cases were declining and more patients getting hospitalised, the health department had deployed staff including doctors and nurses from different hospitals at the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.A senior health department official said that the government will retain the staff at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals who are willing to give their services for the Covid-19 patients.Besides, the Covid-19 toll rose to 2,664 with seven more persons died of the virus. Apart from that, 785 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Saturday taking its overall tally to 3,04,517. Districts which reported new cases Jaipur (139), Jodhpur (85), Kota (78), Bhilwara (57), Udaipur (49), Rajsamand (42), Nagaur (39), Jalore (27), Alwar (23), Baran (23), Ajmer (21), Jhalawar (19), Chittorgarh (19), Sriganganagar (17), Sikar (17), Pali (14), Banswara (13), Bharatpur (12), Jhunjhunu (12), Jaisalmer (12), Bundi (11), Sirohi (9), Bikaner (8), Churu (7), Sawai Madhopur (6), Tonk (6), Karauli (5), Dungarpur (5), Barmer (5), Dausa (4) and Hanumangarh (1).Jaipur reported its 496th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 284th, Ajmer 218th, Pali 109th, Barmer 48th, Banswara 33rd and Dausa reported its 24th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-send-25-staff-of-covid-hosps-to-original-postings/articleshow/79971722.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops form crack team to stop rampant parking, save Maidan||KOLKATA: Kolkata Police has formed a special team to ensure there is no parking in and around Maidan. An inspector has been assigned to lead the team of five sergeants and 10 constables, along with green police personnel, to keep tabs on offenders. An assistant commissioner has also been assigned to periodically assess the situation and take necessary measures. The deployment for keeping Maidan free of encroachment follows the Calcutta High Court observation on the matter. A division bench had ordered a PIL on the Maidan’s upkeep and encroachment. Police sources said two trucks have been requisitioned and barricades set up to keep cars off the area. “No-parking boards have been put up at regular intervals in the area. We have fined a number of vehicles, especially near Victoria, for violating parking rules. The worst offenders are two-wheelers. Several cabs and a few buses used to park here, claiming that the Esplanade bus terminus was full. We have stopped that practice,” said an officer. The no-parking zones in the area include Hospital Road, Queensway, Dufferin Road, Cathedral road, Casuarina Avenue, Mayo Road, Kidderpore Road, Red Road and Lovers Lane. Maximum deployment will be on Kidderpore Road, Hospital Road and Casuarina Avenue. “We are also instilling discipline among phaeton owners,” said an officer. On Christmas, bikers continued to violate the ban and entered Maidan from JL Nehru Road. Cops are now installing barricades to stop their intrusion into the greens. “Car owners are disembarking near Victoria for their morning walk. The drivers are expected to park either at the Tata Centre end or at Babughat. But taking advantage of the morning hours, when there are only a few traffic sergeants, drivers often park in the vicinity. We also found that several radio taxis and pool cars are parking in the area. Merely fining them is not serving the purpose. Hence, we have begun clamping vehicles. In the next step, we are going to tow the cars awaym” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-form-crack-team-to-stop-rampant-parking-save-maidan/articleshow/79970911.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 27, 2020||Pune||Govt should track Indian variants too: Specialists||PUNE: Public health experts have said that the government, besides focusing on the new UK strain of the new coronavirus, should also monitor indigenous variants. In a recent recommendation to the state, Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor on Covid-19 control, said, “The government should spend time and resources through the various virology institutes to analyse mutant variants that have been circulating in India.” Dr Salunke said genome sequencing of indigenous variants is already underway in India, but analyses of mutations will “improve our understanding of the spread”. Dr Shashank Joshi, state task force member, said, “ The government should include more institutes in the pan-India SARS-CoV-2 RNA Genome Sequencing Consortium.” A total of 17 institutes across the country are part of this consortium, including three from Pune. Dr Salunke said precautions must continue. “No variant of the virus can break through a three-layered mask. Masking is most important, followed by other Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-should-track-indian-variants-too-specialists/articleshow/79971723.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer-Udaipur electrified route: 1st goods train runs||UDAIPUR: The North Western Railway (NWR) inaugurated the Ajmer-Udaipur electrified railway route with successful trip of a goods train between Madar and Rana Pratap Nagar station on Saturday. The locomotive with an electric engine started from Madar in Ajmer at 3.20am, reached Udaipur's station at 10.45am. Ajmer division DRM N K Parsuramka termed it as a historical moment for the division and said that people had been waiting for this day since years when an electric train would run on this route. “Very soon, a passenger train too would run on the route.” The Ajmer-Udaipur electrified rail route project covers a distance of 294.50 kilometres and cost around Rs 320.18 crore to the railways. The commissioner of railway safety approved the route after an inspection on December 18 and after the green signal from the officials, the first goods train was chugged off on the route on Saturday. The electrification work between Ajmer-Palanpur section too is under progress. The DRM said with the completion of the electrification project, Udaipur is connected with the electric track of Ajmer, Jaipur and Delhi and the journey time too would be reduced. “Increased train speed, elimination of pollution caused by the diesel engine, more loading capacity and chances of having more trains on this route are the benefits of this project,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-udaipur-electrified-route-1st-goods-train-runs/articleshow/79971721.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Kolhapur||RBI cancels licence of Subhadra bank||KOLHAPUR: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has cancelled the banking licence of Kolhapur-based Subhadra Local Area Bank Ltd for violation of the Banking Regulations Act. However, considering the bank’s liquidity, the RBI has allowed it to return the deposits to customers. The order to cancel the banking license was issued late on Thursday as the bank failed to maintain minimum net worth for minimum two quarters in the previous financial year. The RBI order said that the decision to cancel the license was taken as bank’s condition for the existing and future customers was not satisfactory and many cause financial losses. “Consequent to the cancellation of the licence, the bank is prohibited from conducting the business of ‘banking’ as defined in section 5(b) or any additional business envisaged under section 6 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 with immediate effect. We will make an application for winding up before the High Court,” the RBI said in a statement. Subhadra Bank was started in Kolhapur in the year 2003 and was granted permission to open branches in Sangli, Satara and Belagavi. The bank had three branches in Kolhapur, but only one branch was operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rbi-cancels-licence-of-subhadra-bank/articleshow/79957877.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||3 held for attack on cops at police station in Jodhpur||Jodhpur: Police arrested three persons including a woman for attacking two cops at a police station in Jodhpur on Friday. The trio had barged into the police station to free a person who had been arrested and lodged in the police station cell. According to the police, the persons had a scuffle with the sentry and another official at the police station in an attempt to snatch the key of the cell. On failing in the bid, the trio fled from the spot with the sentry’s mobile and cap after injuring him. "We had arrested one Naresh Pairhar from Soorsagar area on Friday evening on the charges of disturbing peace and had put him in the police station cell," said a police official. Around 2am, three persons came to the police station in an SUV. They parked the vehicle in the porch of the station and three persons identified as Dinesh, brother of Naresh, Megharam and Harku Devi rushed into the police station and began an argument with sentry Arjun insisting him to release Naresh. "When he refused, they tried to overpower Arjun and snatch the keys of the cell. Wireless operator Rakesh also rushed to help Arjun," said the official. Unable to get the keys, all three fled from the police station in their vehicle after snatching the cap and mobile phone of the sentry who sustained minor injuries in the scuffle. Following this, police swung into action and launched a hunt for the SUV in the night in the entire city. Finally, the vehicle was intercepted in Nagauri Gate area along with the three persons. "We arrested the trio and seized the vehicle. A case has been registered against them under different sections of IPC for assault to deter a public servant from discharging his duty and loot, etc.," said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-held-for-attack-on-cops-at-police-station-in-jodhpur/articleshow/79971724.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||Man, son killed in accident||Jaipur: Two members of a family, a father and a son, succumbed to the injuries late on Friday night after they met with an accident at Vande Mataram Circle in Mansarovar. Three other members, including a woman and her three daughters, got injured.According to police, the accident took place while the family was returning from a function. The driver of the bike lost control over the wheels and it rammed into a water pipeline on the road. “The injured who succumbed to the injuries included Ghanshyam Dholi (32) and his son Jaideep (2), while three others including Asha, the wife of Ghanshyam and their three daughters got injured,” said a senior police officer on Saturday.Police was not informed about the accident as they come to know about it only after the two succumbed to their injuries at the hospital.Police claimed that none of the members of the family on the bike were wearing helmet. “It was also unsafe to carry six people on a bike,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-son-killed-in-accident/articleshow/79971710.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bareilly||UP Police takes down details of tractors, other vehicles of farmers moving towards Delhi border||PILIBHIT: With support for agitating farmers at Delhi border growing in western Uttar Pradesh and the PIlibhit-Shahjahanpur-Kheri region emerging as a major centre for convergence of farmers coming UP-Uttarakhand before their march towards Delhi, local police have been on their toes. Policemen are maintaining detailed records of all tractor-trolleys and other vehicles at the district borders besides keeping headcount of those marching towards Delhi at many places. However, no attempts are now being made to block their movement. “Since Christmas day, we have not been stopped at any police checkpoints while travelling towards the Ghazipur border with essential supplies for the agitating farmers,” said a farmer coming from Uttarakhand. Deputy inspector general, Bareilly, Rajesh Kumar Pandey had on Friday said that the police were “only preventing the mischievous elements from moving to the Delhi border which had mixed with the gathering of farmers”. “Otherwise, farmers are free to carry out their journey to the Delhi border even along with the essential services on their tractors and trolleys,” he had said. Meanwhile, the region saw a spurt in the number of farmers gathering here and marching towards Delhi. Kulvinder Singh, a farmer from Shahgarh village in Pilibhit, said that he along with over 300 farmers will move to the Ghazipur border with essential supplies on tractor-trolleys. An administrative official on the condition of anonymity said that the police officials have been told not to bother people on the street though they have been directed to go from door to door and convince farmers to not move towards the Delhi border. More than 2,500 farmers from Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh had gone past police barricades near the Uttarakhand-Rampur border on Friday. They were later joined by around 600 farmers from Tikunia, Nighasan, Palia and Bhira in Kheri district who were also on their way to the Delhi border via Pilibhit on Thursday. They reached NH24 near Gajraula in Amroha district on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-police-takes-down-details-of-tractors-other-vehicles-of-farmers-moving-towards-delhi-border/articleshow/79969904.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Last Pranab interview to go on air||KOLKATA: The last audio-visual interview of former President Pranab Mukherjee will be telecast by Doordarshan on Sunday evening. From politics and religion to deep personal thoughts and things that will now remain only a dream, he has spoken his heart out in this interview that was taken just before the country shut down for the pandemic. In this Bengali chat, Mukherjee has explained his role in the Indo-Bangla relations right from the nebular state. He had just become an MP and was yet to join the Congress when he had suggested in Parliament that India should recognise Bangladesh as a new nation. “He tells us in the interview that this was when he attracted the attention of Indira Gandhi,” said Pankaj Saha, the interviewer . Later, he had gone against the wishes of Gandhi and contested elections from Bolpur in 1980, which he lost by a big margin. “He was scolded by Indiraji but at the same time she had asked him to buy tickets to come to Delhi to join her cabinet,” the interviewer said. Mukherjee was the key person who had organised the 125th birth anniversary of Tagore nationally and in this chat he rued that despite having spent crores, nothing was done to set up a research centre around Tagore. “He considers it to be his personal failure that Tagore’s writings have not been included in the national school curriculum,” he added. Indira Gandhi would insist that Mukherjee accompanied her when she would visit Santiniketan. “Once there, she would throw away her garb of the PM and behave just like an alumnus,” the interviewer said. He has admitted that religion and spirituality were his pursuits and that he read a lot and even went across the length and breadth of the country on pilgrimage. “He had dreamt of completing the 12 Jyotirlinga circuit with his wife but lamented that though he had started out with her, she did not live long enough to complete it,” he said. “The interview will be telecast at 5:10pm on Sunday and there will be a repeat telecast on Tuesday. It is an exclusive interview and we are privileged to show it,” said Sudhangshu Ranjan, additional director general of Doordarshan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/last-pranab-interview-to-go-on-air/articleshow/79970929.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||TMC men gherao ‘deserter’ MP near BJP party office||Kolkata: A ruckus broke out in front of the new BJP party office at Hastings on Saturday with Trinamool supporters demonstrating against Trinamool-turned BJP leaders Suvendu Adhikari and Sunil Mandal. While the fracas took place when Adhikari was exiting the party office after the joining ceremony, Mandal was blocked when he was headed to the office to attend it. In both instances, police had to intervene to prevent the situation from turning violent. Both Adhikari and Mandal had joined BJP in presence of Union home minister Amit Shah in Midnapore on December 9. The Burdwan East MP’s SUV was blocked by Trinamool supporters. Some agitators lay down in front of Mandal’s vehicle, leading to a scuffle between Trinamool and BJP supporters. When Mandal alighted from his vehicle and tried to board another car, the agitators blocked it as well. Mandal later said: “Trinamool supporters who launched the protest were those who tried to dissuade me from joining BJP. A few ruffians joined them and tried to block my passage to the BJP office. It didn’t work.” Two weeks earlier, Trinamool protestors had shouted slogans and waved black flags at BJP president J P Nadda when he came to inaugurate the BJP Hastings office. Trinamool MP Saugata Roy said there was no direction from the party to stage a protest in front of the BJP office. “It was a spontaneous demonstration against Mandal who became MP for two terms on a Trinamool ticket. The party will invoke the anti-defection law against Mandal,” Roy said. Speaking at the joining ceremony, Adhikari said: “The party I left has become a company. For over two decades, I worked for a party that had slipped into CPM’s shoes establishing a ‘for the party, of the party and by the party’ regime. We want governments in Kolkata and Delhi under the same party to pull the state out of the economic morass,” Adhikari said. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, while welcoming the newcomers, announced the “make my booth strong” programme for the coming three days. “BJP activists have to reach each booth and tell people what PM Modi has done over the last six years and what the Trinamool government couldn’t do,” said Ghosh. BJP national secretary Mukul Roy, BJP Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and other leaders were present at the programme. BJP leaders have already divided the 294 seats in four categories. The first category includes those 130 assembly seats where BJP had a lead in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The second category has 65-odd seats where the party came a close second. The third includes those seats where the BJP was a distant second and the fourth where the party had fared badly. Along with this, the RSS has identified 100 assembly seats of which 45 are along the India-Bangladesh border. BJP leaders have planned to campaign for the CAA in these 100 seats along or close to the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-men-gherao-deserter-mp-near-bjp-party-office/articleshow/79970914.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||ICMR’s third serosurvey to check health staffers for Covid traces||PUNE: Besides the general population, the third Covid-19 serosurvey by the Indian Council of Medical Research is also set to assess the infection’s spread among health workers in the country. The survey, which began on Thursday, will conclude by January-end. It will test 29,000 people and health staff across 70 districts — same locations as the second survey. Head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR, Dr Samiran Panda, said results from the survey should be out before the priority vaccination begins for health workers. Dr Panda said, “We have the findings of the two previous serosurveys — from the start and the middle of the year. This third survey at the end of 2020 will give us enough data to show how Covid-19 has spread in urban and rural settings.” A new feature with the third survey is the focus on health workers. The second serosurvey had studied infection trends in children above 10. Covid's trends among medical staff could help authorities finalise target areas for the priority shots. Dr Manoj Murhekar, director of the Chennai-based National Institute of Epidemiology, which is executing the third survey, said it will look at a different populations from the same sample areas as the second study. But he said the objective is to understand infection prevalence and immunity levels of a representative population.  Researchers who had carried out the second serosurvey had shown that over 7% of the country’s adult population may have been exposed to the coronavirus by the end of August. The study was carried out from August 17 to September 22. The findings are a fair jump from the estimated 0.73% exposure recorded by the first survey in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icmrs-third-serosurvey-to-check-health-staffers-for-covid-traces/articleshow/79971747.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||5 UK returnees to Rajasthan test positive||JAIPUR: Five persons, who returned to Rajasthan from the UK in December, have been tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples have been taken and sent to National Institute of Virology for examining their genome sequencing or spike gene sequencing to test for the new more contagious strain of Covid-19 found in the UK. A health department official said, “More than 300 persons who have returned from the UK in November and December were tested for Covid-19. Out of those, five have tested positive for Covid-19. Three are in Udaipur and one each in Ajmer and Jalore.” All the five persons, who had flown in from the UK to the state, have been quarantined. “We have taken their samples and completing the process of sending them to National Insitute of Virology, Pune to find out the strain of Covid-19 which infected them,” the official said. In Ajmer, a 20-year-old girl was found infected with Covid-19. “She came here on December 14 from the UK. Her sample has been collected and sent to Pune for finding the new strain of virus,” said Dr K K Soni, chief medical health officer (CMHO), Ajmer. However, in Jalore, one person was found infected with the virus. “He reached here on December 7 after landing at Delhi from the UK,” said Dr Gajendra Singh Deval, CMHO, Jalore. In Jaipur, samples of 76 persons returned from the UK in November and December were tested for Covid-19. “Out of 76 samples, we have received report of 37 persons and all of them have tested negative for Covid-19,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, CMHO, Jaipur. A lot of reports of samples tested for Covid-19 are still awaited and expected to arrive on Sunday. The health department is closely monitoring the health of the people who have returned from the UK in November and December. The teams of the health department are tracking them. In Jaipur, 30 persons who have returned from the UK have not been found. The health authorities in Jaipur have informed the health directorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-uk-returnees-to-raj-test-positive/articleshow/79971753.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||Aide of gangster Papla arrested in Jhunjhunu||Jaipur: The Special Operations Group (SOG) arrested a close aide of gangster Papla Gujjar from Jhunjhunu on Friday. The accused Balvir Gujjar, who was produced before a local court in Alwar on Saturday, had a reward of Rs 10,000 by Alwar police. He played a key role in the escape of Papla Gujjar in 2019 from Behror police station. “He was among the prime accused who hatched the conspiracy of Papla’s escape and opened fire on police. Since the incident, he was on the run,” said Alwar police. The SOG received a tip-off that he is hiding at his in-laws residence in Jhunjhunu. “The SOG, after confirming his presence, left for Jhunjhunu to nab him. Once they reached the residence, they didn’t find anyone in the rooms. He was caught from the bathroom by police personnel,” said SOG SSP Sidhant Sharma. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aide-of-gangster-papla-arrested-in-jhunjhunu/articleshow/79971778.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||5 held in 6 ATM loot cases||\Jaipur: Almost a year ago, five men who were unemployed inclined towards breaking ATM machines to steal money and became successful six times.This was revealed by the Jaipur police (West) on Saturday while they busted a gang of ATM burglars.According to police, following a case in which unknown assailants barged into an ATM counter under Harmada police station area on the intervening nights of December 17 and 18, senior police officer constituted a team and took technical surveillance and inputs from informers.“In this case unknown assailants cut open an ATM machine and decamped with Rs 8.29 lakh. Thus various teams on different jobs were constituted. It was found that arrested accused used to first recce of ATMs. Thereafter, they used to choose their target and then with masks they used to enter into ATM and cut the cash box. Also they were in a habit of tampering with the CCTV camera installed inside the ATM,” said Pradeep Mohan Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (West).“Almost a year ago, they started planning of looting an ATM and stealing the money after damaging and cutting the machine. They were arrested and we have found their involvement in at least six ATM thefts so far,” Sharma added.The arrested accused are Govindram Meena (23), Gyarsi Lal Saini (30), Kanaram Saini (22), Rakesh Bagda (21) and Pawan Saini (19). “All of them would be interrogated to know if they are involved in similar other cases of ATM thefts and loot,” he added.Police said that after ATM theft they were into evenly distributing money among themselves. “It was found in the investigation that they were inclined towards crime to earn easy money without any hardship,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-held-in-6-atm-loot-cases/articleshow/79971762.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Task force calls for caution amid mutated strain fears||PUNE: Members of the state Covid-19 task force have asked citizens not to organise or attend potential super-spreader events such as weddings or large gatherings. The caution comes amid mounting unease about the new UK strain, which could already be in the country. Critical indicators have been largely stable in the state. On Saturday, it had a total of 58,091 active cases, with just 2,854 new patients — the lowest daily count in about a month. Covid’s doubling rate too has increased — to nearly 446 days in Pune district and 366 days in Mumbai. Recovery rate is at 94% and the case fatality rate is at 2.5%. However, task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said given the threat from a new strain, precautions are the only way forward. He said, “We are not sure if the UK strain is here. No surges have been reported anywhere. But we need to be extremely vigilant for the next two to three weeks. Preliminary data on positive samples of all UK returnees is set to come out in January.” Dr Joshi said large gatherings could trigger big spikes. “Nearly 80% of new cases have come from such events. The administration's focus is now on preventing such potential super-spreader events,” he said. The state task force also called for ‘glocal surveillance’, which includes genomic surveys that can detect dominant strains. “So far, we have had over 25 virus mutations within the country. But none of them have had an impact on clinical outcomes,” Dr Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/task-force-calls-for-caution-amid-mutated-strain-fears/articleshow/79971757.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||Have no fear, ready for all kinds of probe: Shekhawat||Jaisalmer: Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and his wife were recently served notice by HC in the Sanjeevani Credit Cooperative case. Shekhawat expressed full faith in the judiciary and assured to file legal reply soon. He said that he was ready for all kinds of investigation. "The person is scared if he has done something wrong. But, when he has not done any crime, there is no fear. After Vaibhav Gehlot lost before him in Lok Sabha elections, chief minister Gehlot has targeted him many times and was still targeting him," Shekhawat said in Jaisalmer on Friday while talking to media after kisan chaupal in Brahmsar village. He said that many fake charges have been levelled against him and many fake cases were lodged. The Union minister said that truth cannot be defeated. He said that CM Gehlot can get investigation done by any investigation agency of the country and he is ready for it. On the law and order situation in the state, he said that journalists, women or youth no one is safe here and criminals are released easily from the police stations. He said that CM Gehlot, who is also the home minister, is keeping silent and tries to hides his failures. He added that those who were defeated by public mandate are provoking the farmers to fulfil their political ambitions. Some anti-national elements are supporting this agitation and in this five-star agitation, all facilities are being extended. The same anti-national elements who were seen at the time of Shaheen Bagh agitation or protesting abrogation of Article 370 are also behind the farmer agitation which clearly shows that this is sponsored and politically inspired. He said that the government has held discussions with the farmers 11-12 times and doors are always open. The matter will be resolved in a democratic way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/have-no-fear-ready-for-all-kinds-of-probe-shekhawat/articleshow/79971742.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 27, 2020||Nashik||Soon, free left turn on smart road||Nashik: Motorists coming from Saharanpur Road and heading towards district collectorate will soon get direct access to the smart road without having to wait for the signal. The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Limited (NMSCDCL) has decided to give a free-left for the motorists willing to join the smart road at the Central Bus Stand (CBS) chowk. The road was designed and constructed as per the Indian Road Congress. “The signal is causing congestion at the junction and hence, we have decided to provide a free left turn on this road,” said Prakash Thavil, chief executive officer and executive director of NMSCDCL. Thavil said they had received a representation from the police seeking measures to decongest the traffic at CBS Chowk. This has prompted the NMSCDCL to make changes. Rahul Sharma, a businessman, questioned why the NMSCDCL did not think of this problem in the beginning and who would foot the bill for the construction needed for the free turn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/soon-free-left-turn-on-smart-road/articleshow/79970378.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jawan with severed finger airlifted||Jaisalmer: A jawan, whose finger was accidentally severed in a mishap at the military station here, was airlifted to Jodhpur on Friday evening. A green corridor was created in Jodhpur for the soldier to reach AIIMS on time where doctors attached his index finger of his right hand successfully. According to official sources, Sajjan Singh Parihar of 16 Guard got his finger cut and there was no facility in Jaisalmer to attach the finger. Without losing the crucial time, the army officers decided to send the jawan by helicopter to Jodhpur. The officers informed Jodhpur police and asked them to create a green corridor for the injured soldier. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jawan-with-severed-finger-airlifted/articleshow/79971755.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 27, 2020||Madurai||Former Union min Kadambur R Janarthanan passes away||MADURAI: Former Union minister and senior AIADMK leader Kadambur R Janarthanan, 89, passed away at a private hospital in Tuticorin on Saturday due to age-related problems. He was minister of state for personnel, public grievances and pensions with additional charge of finance in the A B Vajpayee cabinet from 1998 to 1999. He was elected to the Lok Sabha four times in 1984, 1989, 1991 and 1998. The funeral would be held at his home town Kadambur near Kovilpatti on Sunday. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam have condoled the death of Janarthanan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/former-union-min-kadambur-r-janarthanan-passes-away/articleshow/79972367.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||Recoveries outnumber new Covid cases in Pune metropolitan region; nine succumb||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region continued to report a higher number recoveries from Covid-19, with 751 people discharged on Saturday. In the same 24-hour window, 421 people tested positive, push the overall toll past 3.6 lakh. The total number of recoveries in the region stands at 3.44 lakh. Pune Municipal Corporation limits accounted for 412 recoveries, while rural areas (176) and Pimpri Chinchwad (163) made up the rest. A report released by the district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that nine patients succumbed to the contagion on Saturday — seven deaths were reported in PMC limits and two in rural areas. This took the region’s death toll to 8,763. PMC with 4,775, had the highest fatalities, while the rural areas reported 2,243 casualties so far. The active caseload in the region dropped to 7,395 — as many as 5,338 patients were under home quarantine, while 2,057 were being treated at various hospitals —private and government-run. Mayor’s appeal Mayor Murlidhar Mohol on Saturday made an appeal to passengers, who arrived in Pune from the United Kingdom and other European Countries after November 25, to take the RT-PCR test. Mohol asked travellers who have not yet been contacted by PMC to step forward and get tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-outnumber-new-cases-in-pmr-nine-succumb/articleshow/79971789.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||10 kids suffering from rare disease seek govt help||Jaipur: Ten children suffering from gaucher disease, one of the rare diseases, are running from pillar to post to get the treatment for their survival. The treatment for GD which is a lysosomal storage disorder is available, but it is quite expensive. In the state, 17 gaucher disease cases have been identified and out of those seven are getting the expensive treatment under charitage access programme which rest of the 10 children are looking for support from the government or private players for their survival. “Gaucher disease is a multi-organ ailment affecting bone marrow, liver, spleen, lungs, and other organs contributes to pancytopenia and massive hepatosplenomegaly. We have 17 children having gaucher disease and out of those, seven are getting the treatment. We have to do enzyme replacement therapy and it is quite expensive. For a 10-kg child, the per year cost of treatment is Rs 40-45 lakh and they need to continue the treatment lifelong,” said Dr Ashok Gupta, in-charge of rare disease clinic, JK Lon Hospital, the biggest children speciality hospital run by the state government. The state government had set up an expert committee on rare diseases which had been entrusted with the responsibility to assess the disease and provide treatment to children suffering from rare disease in the state. The Centre has drafted a policy on rare diseases, but it has not been implemented. Patients suffering from rare diseases could be provided treatment at JK Lon Hospital, a dedicated Centre of Excellence for Rare Diseases in Rajasthan or AIIMS Jodhpur, but they need financial support for getting the expensive treatment. If left untreated, irreversible disability and early mortality are the rule of this disease. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. At conception, each sibling of an affected individual has a 25% chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of being unaffected, said the experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-kids-suffering-from-rare-disease-seek-govt-help/articleshow/79971795.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||38 teachers +ve in 2 days in Pune's Purandar||PUNE: A total of 38 teachers tested positive for Covid-19 in the Purandar tehsil in the last two days, triggering panic among many students and parents across the tehsil. The Purandar tehsil administration’s health department has carried out RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests of around 270 primary and high schoolteachers, so far. Ujwala Jadhav, the tehsil’s health officer, said, “All teachers are asymptomatic and they are admitted in Covid Care Centres in Saswad and Jejuri.” These teachers are mainly residents of Saswad town, Jadhav said. “Around 350 more teachers in the tehsil are going to undergo Covid-19 tests in the coming days,” she added. The tehsil’s block education officer Mohan Gaikwad claimed that these teachers had not been in direct contact with the students in the last few days. “They have mostly conducted online lectures. So, parents and students do not need to panic. With the health department’s help, we will take stringent measures across all schools in the tehsil,” he added. Amar Mane, the block development officer of Purandar, said, “We have chalked out a comprehensive plan of mass testing of teachers and their close contacts. We have adequate health facilities in the Saswad and Jejuri towns.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/38-teachers-ve-in-2-days-in-purandar/articleshow/79971802.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Mini-trucks banned from ferrying passengers||Kolkata: Two more persons, who were injured in Thursday's AJC Bose Road flyover accident, died on Saturday, taking the toll to three. Following the deaths, police have decided to ban mini-trucks from ferrying people. Also, trucks will not be allowed on flyovers. A mini-truck had overturned on the flyover on Thursday, injuring 29 people travelling in it. Four persons were critically injured. Of them, Ranajit Roy had died on Friday. On Saturday, two more — Bulbuli Khora and Santu Dey Roy — died of trauma injuries. Police are on the lookout for the driver who fled the accident spot. "The mini-truck is registered in the name of a person who had sold the truck some time ago. The current owner was driving the truck," said an investigating officer. Initially, it was felt that the truck had hit the median divider and carted. But the forensic team has noticed marks on the left wall that could indicate that the truck first hit the wall before veering to hit the divider and then overturned. Following the accident, traffic guards have been asked to ensure that only light goods vehicles that are carrying goods and not people are allowed on flyovers. Also, people will not be allowed to travel on the deck of mini-trucks. Challans have already been issued against some trucks carrying people near Victoria Memorial Hall. Meanwhile, in a special drive, cops challaned several trucks that were found carrying extra load near Vidyasagar Setu toll plaza. The cops also tested if the drivers were drink-driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mini-trucks-banned-from-ferrying-passengers/articleshow/79970930.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 27, 2020||Dehradun||2 die, 2 injured as car falls into gorge in Champawat||Rudrapur: Two persons died and two others sustained injuries as the car they were travelling in fell into a deep gorge on Saturday evening on Banlekh Lalupavani road near Chantola village in Champawat district. According to Champawat police, Krishna Nand Joshi (24), an Army man and a resident of Chantola, had come home for the holidays. He went to the market along with three others from his village in his car. On their way back, the vehicle crashed down a 100m-deep gorge. Local villagers rushed to the rescue and alerted police. Sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Anil Garbyal and circle officer (CO) Dhyan Singh reached the spot to take stock of the situation. While Govind Ballabh Bhatt (45) and Devi Dutt Joshi (55) died on the spot, Joshi and Chanchal Joshi (30) sustained grievous injuries and were rushed to the district hospital. They have been referred to a higher centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-die-2-injured-as-car-falls-into-gorge-in-champawat/articleshow/79970395.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 27, 2020||Madurai||MKU offers free UPSC coaching classes||MADURAI: The Anna Centenary Civil Service Coaching Academy, School of Youth Empowerment at the Madurai Kamaraj University is offering full-time free coaching classes for aspirants who are looking to appear for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) Prelims exam to be held on June 27. The candidates for the free coaching will be selected through an entrance test and interview. An objective type entrance test will be held on January 31 and the test will contain 100 questions on various subjects including history of India and Indian national movement, Indian and world geography, Indian polity and governance, economic and social development, general science, current affairs etc. Final selection of eligible candidates will be done after following the reservation norms of the state government. The candidate must hold a degree of any recognized university and should have completed the same in 10+2+3 pattern of education and must have completed 21 years of age as on August 1, 2021. The upper age limit is 32 years and is relaxable for 3 years for BC, 5 years for SC/ST and 10 years for those with physical disabilities. Selected candidates will be given free coaching with free accommodation and a monthly stipend of Rs 3,000 towards food for eligible candidates (outside Madurai district). Those who have already undergone coaching previously in the academy are not eligible to apply. The application can be downloaded from the university website www.mkuniversity.co.in or directly from the department of youth welfare studies. Applications should be superscribed as “Application for Admission to Coaching for Civil Services Prelims: 2021” along with two Rs 5 self-addressed envelopes and mailed to “The Course Director, Anna Centenary Civil Service Coaching Academy, School of Youth Empowerment, Madurai Kamaraj University”, attached with photo copies of certificates on or before January 20. For further details, contact: 0452-2458231(Extn: 291)/9865655180.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-offers-free-upsc-coaching-classes/articleshow/79972373.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nashik||UK-returnee from Nashik tests positive for Covid-19||NASHIK: A 25-year-old resident of Nashik city, who had tested negative at the Mumbai airport after returning from the United Kingdom on December 13, has now tested positive for Covid-19. Avesh Palod, the nodal officer of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), said: “The RT-PCR test result of the UK returnee came back positive on Saturday. However, it is not clear whether he was infected before his return to India or after, as the test conducted at the Mumbai airport was negative.” The man has been under home quarantine as per the standard protocol. On Wednesday, his mother was tested for Covid-19 as she was feeling uneasy and the report on Friday found her Covid-19 positive. The woman was admitted to a private hospital and the Covid-19 test of the UK returnee was also conducted again as he fell in the high-risk category (HRC). His test reports came on Saturday. “I have asked the private hospital concerned to ensure separate wards for both the mother and the son. Their swab samples have been sent to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) for further tests,” said Palod. NIV-Pune will figure out if the infection has traces of the new strain of the virus that has been reported in the UK. “It is not clear as to who was infected first — the mother or the son. The tests could throw some light on the same. It is possible that the mother got the infected first and passed it on to the son or the vice-versa,” the officer said. After the reports from NIV-Pune are received, changes in treatment, if required, will be implemented, the officer added. The officer said that both the patients were mildly symptomatic and are currently stable. Recently, an Aurangabad resident, who had returned from England, had tested Covid-19 positive. Officials said a total of 44 people have returned to Aurangabad from the UK. The authorities are still tracing 13 of these flyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/uk-returnee-from-nashik-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79970396.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 27, 2020||Jaipur||400 relics traced from excavation at Kalibangan||JAIPUR: Archaeological Survey of India’s (ASI) latest excavation on the outskirts of Kalibangan site related to Harappan civilization in Hanumangarh can redefine the territorial limit of the ancient site. The excavation, which started in November 2019, had to be cut short much before its year-long licence due to the pandemic. It has collected over 400 relics which date back to 1700 BC to 2500 BC. The aim of the latest excavation was to unearth the possibility of the existence of civilization beyond the limits of the fortified urban town Kalibangan. The relics can be categorised into kilns, the structure of mud bricks, beads of semi-precious stones, etched carnelian beads, terracotta bangles, fragment of seal, figurine and pottery. “The main objective for this exercise was to know the earliest culture at Kalibangan which could precede Harappan culture. We also tried to understand the origin of the culture how it evolved in due course of history,” Manoj Kurmi, project incharge, deputy superintendent, ASI Nagpur Circle. This is for the first time that excavation was done vertically on this site. The new technology-driven format has allowed the team to dig deeper without harming any damage to potentially existed relics or structures. The relics were found 8-10 metres deep from the surface from the spread in the vast area. Sources said the ASI team has collected several samples of sand from these sites which can shed light on various aspects of society. Sharing information about the relics, he said that some relics might shed light on areas which were not fully discovered yet. “All I can say is that the recent excavation can go beyond the period of Harappan Civilization. The relics are being dated to find out its real age and period in Delhi,” said Kurmi. The excavation is yet not complete by the team and due to the pandemic they had to suspend the work in midst. The licence granted for excavation lapsed on September 30, 2020. Earlier, excavations were limited to the well-defined limits of the city. This is for the first time that existence of settlement was found outside the city which was considered as the capital of the Indus Valley Civilization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/400-relics-traced-from-excavation-at-kalibangan/articleshow/79971811.cms||Shoeb Khan
December 27, 2020||Nashik||20 who came back from UK test negative||NASHIK: The Ahmednagar district has received a list of 25 people who have returned from the United Kingdom after November 23 along with the RT-PCR test reports of 20 people, who have tested negative. The reports of the five people are awaited. “The test of all these 25 people have been conducted but only the reports of 20 people have been received,” said Rajendra Bhosale, the district collector of Ahmednagar. Bhosale said of the 25 people, 19 have come to Ahmednagar city and six have come to various parts of the district. Some of the people were quarantined in Mumbai and their tests were also conducted there. The health department has surveyed the homes of all the UK returnee to ascertain their health conditions and conduct the tests. “They have not shown any symptoms so far and hence there is nothing to worry about even as the health department is keeping a close watch on the development in these families,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/20-who-came-back-from-uk-test-negative/articleshow/79970409.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Police arrest 3 men, seize four pistols||PUNE: In separate actions, the city’s crime branch and the Chandannagar police arrested three persons, including two criminals on record, and recovered four country-made pistols and six bullets, collectively valued at Rs1,84,000. In the first case, the crime branch arrested Rohit Mane (29) near Ekbote colony in Ghorpade Peth and recovered two pistols and four cartridges from him on Friday. Inspector Sunil Takawale from crime branch (Unit 1) said in a statement, “We were patrolling when we received reliable information that Mane was loitering near Ekbote colony. We rushed to the spot and took him into custody. A frisking led to the recovery of firearms and rounds. Mane has nine cases registered against him.” In the second case, a police team led by assistant inspector Gajanan Jadhav from the Chandannagar police laid a trap near a hotel on Kharadi Road. The team arrested Ghulam Hussain Gias Mohammed Khan (21) and his accomplice, Sunil Dighe (23), both from Kothrud, and recovered two pistols and two rounds from their possession FIRs have been registered with the Khadak and the Chandannagar police stations, respectively. In September, the Hadapsar police had arrested six people, all with criminal records, and recovered 18 country-made pistols and 27 live cartridges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-arrest-3-men-seize-four-pistols/articleshow/79971840.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||Pune ZP to screen about 46,000 discharged people||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Parishad will screen around 46,000 people in the district who have recovered from Covid-19 infection as a part of a state-mandated exercise to monitor their health regularly and provide medical assistance wherever needed. ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad told TOI, “The medical screening will commence from the first week of January at the dedicated Covid healthcare centres (DCHCs) and rural hospitals. Each recovered person will be issued a health card. Over 500 doctors will undergo a two-day training before the exercise begins.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-zp-to-screen-about-46000-discharged-people/articleshow/79971825.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 27, 2020||Dehradun||9-yr-old leopard found dead, no foul play suspected||Pithoragarh: A nine-year-old female leopard was found dead in the district's Hudati village on Friday. The corpse of the big cat was first spotted by locals who then informed the forest department. Later, the forest officials sent the body for autopsy. “The leopard was seven feet long and had some injury marks on its body. However, no foul play is suspected. The leopard died of an illness. During the postmortem, we found six litres of water in its stomach. Her teeth were also in bad shape,” said Manoj Joshi, veterinary doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/9-yr-old-leopard-found-dead-no-foul-play-suspected/articleshow/79970405.cms||Prem Punetha
December 27, 2020||Madurai||South TN has 963 active cases, central region 767||MADURAI/TRICHY: Southern district reported 103 fresh Covid-19 cases and 963 active cases while central districts reported 92 new cases and 767 active cases on Saturday. No deaths were reported in both the regions. Covid-19 tally in south Tamil Nadu stands at 1,32,937 and 73,389 in the central region. Among southern districts, most cases were reported in Dindigul (20), followed by Madurai (18). All the other districts reported less than 15 cases. Madurai (207) remains the district with the most number of active cases in the southern region, followed by Dindigul (142), Kanyakumari (137) and Tirunelveli (127). All the remaining southern districts, Virudhunagar (83), Tuticorin (80), Theni (72), Sivaganga (49), Tenkasi (40), and Ramanathapuram (26) all have less than 100 active cases. While Kanyakumari was reporting around 20 new cases per day, on Saturday it fell below 10. Kanyakumari (8), Tuticorin (8), Tenkasi (3) and Ramanathapuram (2) reported new cases in single digits on Saturday. Sivaganga (13), Tirunelveli (11), Theni (10) and Virudhunagar (10) had also added new cases. With no new Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, the total deaths in the southern region remains at 2101 with a death rate of 1.58%. Among central districts, Thanjavur (30) and Trichy (27) reported the most number of fresh cases, followed by Nagapattinam (14). Perambalur (1) reported the lowest number of cases followed by Ariyalur (2), Karur (5), Tiruvarur (6) and Puduottai (7). Trichy (210) and Thanjavur (183) also have the most number of active cases, followed by Nagapattinam (112) and Tiruvarur (110). The trend is same in case of active cases as Perambalur has only two whiel Ariyalur has 10 cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-has-963-active-cases-central-region-767/articleshow/79972411.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Touts demand Rs 7,000-30,000 for KMC birth, death certificates||KOLKATA: A senior KMC official was shocked when told to pay Rs 7,000 for a birth certificate after a two-month wait. Anita Kar, a senior citizen from Dhakuria, has been trying to get her husband’s death certificate for three months. Touts have demanded Rs 15,000 from her. TimesViewThe KMC brass should probe the issue and take appropriate action. Citizens should not be harassed for essential services.These are two among scores of complaints of extortion over birth and death certificates, which are issued by the KMC free of cost. For every extra copy, it charges Rs 100. KMC health department sources conceded a racket had been in operation ever since the pandemic rules barred queues and applications were taken in drop boxes. The department is supposed to contact the applicant within seven working days and if all papers are valid, the certificate has to be issued in the next three days. But applicants have been waiting for weeks to hear from KMC. KMC Board of Administrators’ chairman Firhad Hakim admitted to complaints of delay and said he asked the civic commissioner to develop an app. The racket apparently thrives on those who are desperate to get the certificates. Touts approach the applicants with an offer “to fast-track the process” for money. The touts are allegedly connected to some employees in the birth or death certificate wing. If an applicant pays the extra sum, it is apparently delivered without hassle. “You don’t have to search for a tout. If you need a certificate and are willing to pay, they will spot you. One has to pay an advance and the rest is paid on receiving the certificate,” said a health department official. According to him, touts demanded Rs 10,000 to Rs 30,000 for birth and death certificates under special registration rules. “Under Special Registration Act, we take more time to issue birth or death certificates compared to a simple registration process as we need to check several documents,” the official said. Promising action, Atin Ghosh, member of BoA, said lack of manpower in the pandemic might have encouraged the touts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/touts-demand-rs-7k-30k-for-kmc-birth-death-certificates/articleshow/79971853.cms||Saikat Ray
December 27, 2020||India||Some try to give us lessons in democracy: PM Modi||JAMMU: PM Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated the people of Jammu & Kashmir and credited the leadership of LG Manoj Sinha for the conduct of violence-free, fair and free DDC polls despite biting cold conditions and the Covid threat, saying the people had voted for a better future with strengthened grassroots democracy. The PM even compared the successful conduct of DDC polls in J&K within one year of it having become a Union Territory with the failure of a “certain party” in Puducherry to hold municipal elections thereafter 2006. “While the three-tier polls were held peacefully in J&K and the people got to choose their local representatives, there are some quarters in Delhi who curse Modi day and night. They give us lessons in democracy. And the party which criticises me is in power in Puducherry,” Modi said in his address after launching Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) SEHAT scheme for the residents of J&K via video-conference. Union home minister Amit Shah joined the launch from Guwahati and J&K LG Manoj Sinha from Jammu. Though the PM did not take any name, his remarks appeared to be directed at Congress’ Rahul Gandhi who had recently, while commenting on the farmers’ agitation against three key farm laws, alleged that there is “no democracy” in India now. “The last municipal polls in Puducherry were held in 2006 and the term of the elected bodies ended in 2011. There is a difference between what the party (in power in Puducherry) preaches and practises. Despite Supreme Court order, it is not ready to hold local polls in Puducherry,” said Modi. Thanking the youth, women and the elderly in J&K for ushering in a new era of grassroot empowerment by queuing up at the polling stations despite extreme cold and Covid threat, the PM said their votes reflected their aspirations for development. SEHAT scheme for the residents of Jammu & Kashmir will have the same benefits as available under AB-PMJAY, with an annual health cover of Rs 5 lakh per family on a floater basis and shall cover all the families of the Union Territory irrespective of their socio-economic status. The benefits of the Jammu & Kashmir scheme will be portable across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-try-to-give-us-lessons-in-democracy-pm-modi/articleshow/79973000.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Divers pick up 600kg of trash in underwater clean-up drive||VISAKHAPATNAM: When the Port City was celebrating Christmas, a group of dozen scuba divers were busy taking out trash from under the sea at Rushikonda during a beach clean-up drive, going down to a depth of 25 feet under water. The scuba divers were also joined by local visitors along the beach. Together, they collected around 600 kilograms of plastic, discarded masks and other waste from under the sea and on the beach. Aiming to make Vizag a zero plastic zone and inculcating responsible tourism, the initiative, led by Livein Adventures and 3R ZeroWaste Environment Foundation, will be repeated every few weeks across various beaches and ecologically fragile areas of Visakhapatnam district. A total of around 60 people participated in Friday’s Christmas clean-up drive, with most of the members donning Santa Claus costumes. Visitors and tourists including children also volunteered to participate in the environmental clean-up drive, which was aimed at creating awareness about protection of the seas from the dangerous impact of plastic pollution. “It was found that face masks, waste clothes, plastic bottles, plastic wrappers and polythene covers were in abundance among the litter. All volunteers participated in the event with mandatory safety precautions in line with the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Rushikonda beach clean-up staff had also supported the removal of plastic waste from the beach shore,” said director of Livein Adventures and water sports expert Balaram Naidu. President of 3R ZeroWaste Foundation, PM Balaji said, “We have taken this up for making the beaches and seas clean and pollution-free. We plan to conduct more such events and take this to the next level involving school students to generate awareness and responsibility among future citizens towards conserving nature. It is the responsibility of every citizen to spend at least an hour in cleaning up the surroundings.” Ashis Katari, global youth ambassador from the foundation who participated in the clean-up drive,said, “It is essential to keep not just landmasses but also the seas clean and litter free. This will enable aquatic life to flourish with breathable air and clean water. The healthier, litter-free sands would beautify the city in turn and we hope to retain the sustainable change.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/divers-pick-up-600kg-of-trash-in-underwater-clean-up-drive/articleshow/79970413.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 27, 2020||Madurai||Madurai primary school engages students in gardening||MADURAI: As schools continue to remain closed across the state and children are left confined at home, teachers of a government-aided primary school in Madurai have engaged students in gardening. The students have been actively involved in a tree planting drive initiated by the school teachers to increase the green cover in their localities. Students of Dr T Thirugnanam Primary School have planted around 30 trees so far as part of the drive, ‘Dinam oru maram naduthal’ meaning ‘Plant one tree a day’ in various localities. “We have 285 students in our school and we are looking to ensure every one of them plant one tree near their residence and also continually nurture it over time. Teachers pooled in money to get saplings and distributed them among students,” said K Saravanan, headmaster of the school. He said that they began the initiative at the end of November and are looking to complete it in a year. While students were issued saplings of trees like neem earlier, now the teachers are looking to provide saplings of trees that bear fruits such as guava or gooseberry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-primary-school-engages-students-in-gardening/articleshow/79972418.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||Two-day theatre festival starts||Pune: City-based theatre group Theatron’s two-day ‘Year End Theatre Festival’ started at The Box theatre on Saturday. The festival includes a musical show, a magic show, an interaction with authors Pranav Sakhdeo and Rishikesh Gupta as well as an interaction with actor and screenwriter Girish Kulkarni about the present and future of theatre. Theatron is also conducting workshops focusing on the sense of theatre and arts and craft in children as well as ways to execute an idea in theatre and develop it through writing. “The night curfew has forced us to tweak our timings slightly. We are ending our performances by 10pm so that the audience can be home by 11pm. The shows are also being livestreamed for those unable to attend,” said Suraj Parasnis of the Theatron group. The festival is being headlined by four plays — two each in Hindi and Marathi — as well as online play ‘Tahkoob’, and a dramatic reading of the play ‘Don Special’. Theatron is producing the plays, written and directed by Parasnis and Virajas Kulkarni. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-day-theatre-festival-starts/articleshow/79971863.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Dehradun||DMC to install LED streetlights in 60 wards of Doon by mid-Jan||Dehradun: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) has decided to install LED streetlights in 60 wards of the district by January 15. The officials said that the tender process for the same has been completed and the wiring work has also been initiated. The DMC officials said that, till date, sodium streetlights were being used in the 40 new wards that were added in 2018. These will be replaced with new LED lights. The exercise will help in reducing electricity consumption significantly. Recently, the DMC officials also completed the process of procuring timers for operating these streetlights. The installation of these timers is also expected to begin in January 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-install-led-streetlights-in-60-wards-of-doon-by-mid-jan/articleshow/79970415.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Hidco plans high school||Kolkata: Hidco has floated an expression of interest for corporate bodies to bid for a two-acre plot in New Town to build a high school with the facility to study right up to Class XII. The 8,080-sqm plot at Action Area II D will be allotted on a lease hold for 99 years. The e-auction will take place on January 28. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hidco-plans-high-school/articleshow/79971895.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata police to probe harassment complaint against cop||KOLKATA: Police are probing a businessman’s complaint of road rage and misbehaviour by a cop on Christmas morning. Somnath Mukherjee, a biochemist, has emailed the police commissioner, alleging a cop in uniform misbehaved with him after the police vehicle hit his car in Bagbazar around 10.30am on Friday. He claimed the cop not only charged his driver with causing the accident but also dared him to file a complaint. Mukherjee clicked photos of the SUV and cop. Senior cops said they were probing the incident and would initiate a departmental inquiry. DC (north) Joyeeta Bose called Mukherjee the same evening and promised action. “She asked me to send the photos which I did,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-to-probe-harassment-complaint-against-cop/articleshow/79971918.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha sees more than 1,000 daily recoveries after 15 days||NAGPUR: For the first time after December 10, more than 1,000 patients recovered in a day in Vidarbha on Saturday. As against 665 new cases reported on Saturday, 1081 Covid-19 patients recovered from 11 districts in Vidarbha. New cases were less than recoveries for fourth day in a row. With more patients recovering, the recovery rate of the region is improving and has now reached 94.2%, which is almost equal to state’s 94.4% but still behind national average of 95.8%. More recoveries and less new cases have also reduced the number of under-treatment patients in Vidarbha. For the first time in December, the number came under 8,000 on Saturday. Now, 7,788 patients are under treatment. This is about 3% of the total cases reported till date. Out of these, 4,033 patients (55%) are in Nagpur district alone. Other districts account for 3,755 patients, and more than 60% of them are in home isolation. The region reported 13 deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday. While Nagpur reported six deaths, Bhandara, Wardha, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Akola, Amravati and Buldhana reported one death each. Vidarbha toll has reached 6,490. The case fatality rate dropped a bit and reached 2.6% which is still more than state’s 2.5% and national average which is 1.45% Days 665 new cases came from Nagpur (322), Amravati (95), Chandrapur (64), Buldhana (44), Gondia (29), Yavatmal (29), Bhandara (27), Akola (20), Wardha (15), Washim (14), and Gadchiroli (6), Recoveries in a day came from Nagpur (360), Akola (233), Amravati (88), Chandrapur (84), Buldhana (74), Bhandara (67), Gadchiroli (54), Wardha (51), Gondia (33), Yavatmal (22), Washim (15). Now, 2,34,503 out of 2,48,782 patients have recovered in Vidarbha so far. Washim: The district reported 14 new cases while 15 patients recovered on Saturday. Now, Washim has 6,608 cases, 6,189 recoveries and 148 deaths due to Covid-19 while 270 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: Buldhana district reported 44 new cases and 74 recoveries in the last 48 hours. More than 850 tests were done in last two days. A 75-year-old woman patient died during treatment on Saturday, taking the toll to 149. Of the 12,353 patients reported so far, 11,890 have recovered and 314 are under treatment. Akola: Record 233 patients recovered in a day on Saturday from Akola. On the other hand, 20 patients were found positive, taking the number of Covid-19 cases to 10,333. With 9,494 patients discharged so far, the recovery rate has reached 92%. An 80-year-old man from Mohite Plot, Akola city, died during treatment on Saturday, taking the toll to 316. Now, 523 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district recorded six new cases on Saturday, which is least count in last many weeks. A woman patient with hypertension and paralytic conditions died during treatment which took the toll to 101. The day also saw 54 patients getting discharge. Now, the district has 8,913 cases, including 8,605 recoveries and 207 patients under treatment. Recovery rate is more than 96.5%. Gondia: With 29 new cases detected in a day and 33 patients recovered, Gondia’s caseload reached 13,542 with 13,095 recoveries. No death was reported on Saturday, so the toll remained at 178. Now, 339 patients are under treatment, out of which 171 are in home isolation. Bhandara: After three days, Bhandara district reported a Covid-19 death on Saturday., taking the toll to 289. The district reported 27 new patients while 67 recovered in a day. Bhandara conducted 476 tests in the last 24 hours. Now, the district has 12,189 cases, 11,435 recoveries, and 465 patients under treatment. The recovery rate here is 94%. Yavatmal: Out of the 484 reports, 29 tested positive. Currently there are 345 active positive patients under treatment. Of 12,505 positive patients on record, 11,766, including 22 have recovered. The death toll remains at 397 so far. Wardha: A 79-year-old man died, taking the toll to 269. In all, 15 tested positive while 51 were discharged. Recoveries reached 8,337. The new cases were reported from Wardha (13), Arvi and Deoli (1 each). Amravati: A spike of 95 cases and one death took the caseload to 19,333 and toll to 395. A 73-year-old man from Sai nagar in Daryapur breathed his last during treatment. With 88 recoveries, the total reached 18,505 for A rate of 95.72. Chandrapur: Chandrapur registered 64 new cases, while 84 patients were discharged. Only one death was reported, taking the toll to 359. The Covid total has climbed to 22,135, whereas total recoveries amounted to 21,192. There are now 584 patients under treatment in district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-sees-more-than-1k-daily-recoveries-after-15-days/articleshow/79970999.cms||Balwant Dhage
December 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Soon, RTC app to integrate all online services||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is planning to bring all its online services onto one platform through an integrated ticketing solution. Services such as advance ticket booking, bus tracking and cargo booking which are now available separately will be integrated into a single application. Apart from this, the APSRTC is also planning to offer about 15 different services on this application. Officials estimate the cost of the project to be around Rs 70 crore. With an aim to improve occupancy ratio in buses, the state-run transport corporation is planning to introduce a feature in the app that will give passengers access to real time information on vacant seats after a bus has departed from its originating station. Further, if a passenger wants to book a ticket for Tirupati from Ongole in a bus that has originated from Eluru, they can now book a ticket in place of the seats that are either vacant or the seats that are going to become vacant at Ongole. Another feature that the APSRTC plans to add to the application will allow passengers to transfer their ticket to the next bus if they miss the bus for which they have booked the ticket. If a person fails to catch a bus to Hyderabad, he can transfer the ticket to the next bus to Hyderabad, depending upon vacant seats. Once the new app is operational, passengers can book tickets in any bus, including Palle Velugu and city services. Passengers can also track all buses and their estimated arrival. Presently, this service is available only in buses with online ticket booking facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/soon-rtc-app-to-integrate-all-online-services/articleshow/79970428.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 27, 2020||Agra||Not a single patient received free Covid-19 treatment under Ayushman Bharat in Agra||AGRA: Even though two private hospitals have been designated as Covid-19 treatment facilities in Agra district, no one has been treated for the severe infection under the Centre's flagship Ayushman Bharat healthcare scheme at these facilities so far, according to health department records. There are around 1.6 lakh families with Ayushman Bharat golden cards in Agra. And around 8.5 lakh people are eligible for free access to healthcare services. The first case of Covid-19 was detected in Agra district in the last week of February. In the past 10 months, over 10,000 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the district. Turns here However, the official health records suggest none of these patients received the scheme's benefits. The Central government scheme is aimed to provide affordable healthcare in the form of tertiary hospital treatment to the poor and the vulnerable through a health cover of Rs 5 lakh per family in a year. A 38-year-old Shahganj resident whose brother was tested Covid positive in Agra said, “My brother was having breathing difficulties. After reports of mismanagement at government centres and for better treatment, we had taken him to a private hospital located on MG road - a Covid-19 treatment facility designated by district administration." "But, when we showed Ayushman Bharat golden card, the hospital refused to admit the patient. Later, we had to admit the patient at the government hospital," the resident added. Meanwhile, IMA Agra district president Dr RM Pachori said, “The rates determined by the government for treatment of Covid-19 patients under the Ayushman Bharat scheme are not feasible." According to Dr Pachori, this is the main reason why private hospitals avoid providing treatment to such patients. Besides, poor people covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme prefer to go to government centres. On being quizzed why no Covid-19 patient benefited under the Central scheme, chief medical officer (CMO) of Agra district Dr RC Pandey said, “We have not received any formal complaint, so far, regarding any Covid-19 patients covered under the [Ayushman Bharat] scheme being turned away by a private hospital." A majority of the patients in Agra district have recovered from Covid-19 staying in home isolation, the CMO added. A senior pediatric surgeon thought otherwise. The Ayushman Bharat scheme didn't work due to negligence of the health department, Dr Sanjay Kulshrestha said. "Poor beneficiaries of the scheme are often turned away by the private hospitals. The health department has not developed any mechanism in each district, such as issuing a helpline number, to address patients' complaints," the senior pediatric surgeon added. "Besides, state authorities need to proactively monitor the implementation of the scheme and not allow its benefits to go to waste."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/not-a-single-patient-received-free-covid-19-treatment-under-ayushman-bharat-in-agra/articleshow/79970431.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||3 cops injured as bus hits van near Lalbazar||Kolkata: Three cops were injured in an accident near Lalbazar after a WBTC bus hit their van around 6.30am on Saturday. . Uttam Barman, Saikat Shil and Sk Atikurzaman were taken to SSKM. A bus passenger, Avijit Koley,was also injured. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-cops-injured-as-bus-hits-van-near-lalbazar/articleshow/79971935.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Alumni, architects point to legacy||AHMEDABAD: In July 2017, Ahmedabad became India’s first Unesco World Heritage City for its unique architecture and community living spaces in the inscribed area of Walled City. But the city also took pride in its built heritage on the other side of the river – where the modern masters like Le Corbusier and Louis Kahn contributed to the forward-looking modern city of Ahmedabad. In the eye of the storm over the decision to demolish the Louis Kahn-designed dormitories, IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) has received several suggestions, requests and even angry responses in the past two days. But city-based experts said that the issue should be seen in a larger context of the city’s place as a way forward for conserving the legacy. A city-based conservationist, who did not wish to be named, said that history has its own burden. “Even when we don’t go far, we have seen not one or two, but four attempts to sell off the iron-made Ellis Bridge. But the distinct arches are very much part of the city’s iconography. Several institutes – from Gujarat College to Cept University – have also been in the same spot and have responded to the issue differently,” said the architect. “One must look at the examples of the institutes much older to IIM-A and take a leaf or two from their books.” An open letter by Bengaluru-based architect Prem Chandavarkar also echoed the similar feelings. Taking the points from IIM-A director Prof Errol D’Souza’s letter, he wrote, ‘You state that three imperatives guided IIMA’s decision: (1) functional needs, (2) cultural heritage, and (3) available resources. But your letter throws no light on how you weighed these imperatives in your analysis, especially given the challenge of cultural heritage being the only one of the three whose value is almost wholly intangible.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/alumni-architects-point-to-legacy/articleshow/79971970.cms||Parth Shastri
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Almost 30% UG seats still vacant in some colleges||Kolkata: Close to 30% first-semester undergraduate seats were still vacant in many Calcutta University-affiliated colleges even after the last date of admission got over on December 16 and new classes began, sources in the higher education department said. Several of these very institutes, which are struggling this time despite several extensions of the admission deadline, had filled 90% of their seats last academic session. Even universities, such as Presidency and Jadavpur, had to publish multiple merit lists fill the vacancies. “Almost 70% of our undergraduate seats were taken by the time the admission process ended two weeks ago. So, around 70% seats are still vacant,” said Indrila Guha, principal of Basanti Devi College in south Kolkata. Admissions for UG and PG courses were conducted online this year to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus. UG admissions started in the second week of August and ended in mid-December after several extensions of the deadline. The higher education department had directed colleges to furnish a daily report on the status of undergraduate seats when admissions were underway. Some of the subjects that saw most vacancies are Sanskrit, philosophy, life science, botany and the general courses. Bethune College, one of the most sought-after girls’ colleges in the city, reported almost 15% vacancies even after the process got over. “Over 90% seats had filled up initially but many cancelled their admissions later,” said an official of the college. Authorities at Shyamaprasad College, Charuchandra College, Bangabasi, Surendranath, Behala College and many others also reported massive vacancies . “There were multiple reasons why so many colleges could not fill up substantial number of seats. Many students who come to Kolkata from different states in the eastern region and the Northeast did not take admission this time due to the pandemic. Also, many got very high marks in their board examinations and took admission in subjects, they did not want to pursue. They cancelled their admission in some of the other subjects they had got through initially,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, president of the Calcutta University chapter of All Bengal Principals’ Council. Another reason is that at some institutes, very few admissions have been registered in the reserved category this time. “This was an exceptional year and we allowed a special round of UG admissions. If seats are still available, it is mainly due to youngsters preferring to study in colleges near their homes. They refused to take the risk to travel to a new place in the pandemic. Many have also opted to study in professional courses. We need to rationalize seats because holding a central admission for UG programmes across Bengal is unlikely to happen any time soon,” said a senior higher education department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/almost-30-ug-seats-still-vacant-in-some-colleges/articleshow/79971962.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Gully Boy||Hyderabad: It’s past 1 pm but one could still find several cricketers between eight and 30 years at the Eidgah Maidan in First Lancer. It’s an ordinary ground with lots of dust and loose gravel. For several years, Mohammed Siraj was one of the cricketers running in hard with a tennis ball in hand and knocking down stumps of rival batsmen at this very ground. Of course, none of these boys had any idea that one of them would be the toast of town as Siraj is now after his debut against Australia in the Boxing Day Test match in Melbourne on Saturday. From the dust bowl that is Eidgah to the imposing MCG, 26-year-old Siraj has come a long way. The conditions at the ground, where he learnt the game, coupled with harsh realities of life have toughened Siraj into not giving up without a fight. The conditions in which Siraj was born and lived were poor but his passion for cricket helped him overcome all difficulties. The son of an auto-rickshaw driver playing for the country is nothing short of a fairy-tale. Siraj’s old rented house at Khaja Nagar is on a rock — and he couldn’t have asked for a better metaphor to his life. Siraj grabbed the attention of people with his ability to generate pace and grabbed every opportunity that came his way. It was Kaleem, a vegetable seller and a fellow cricketer, who asked Mohammed Mahboob Ahmed, secretary of Charminar Cricket Club, to have a look at Siraj. Mahboob was impressed with his pace and asked him to play for his club in the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) two-day league. Siraj tasted instant success and Mahboob told HCA secretary K John Manoj about Siraj. Thereafter, things moved swiftly and soon he was playing for Hyderabad in the 2016-17 domestic season. An impressive first season of domestic cricket landed him an IPL deal worth Rs 2.6 crore with Sunrisers Hyderabad but he soon moved to Royal Challengers Bangalore in 2018 and has been an integral part of that franchise ever since. Though Siraj has built a house for his family in Toli Chowki so that his parents could lead a decent life, he remains a First Lancer boy at heart. “Siraj still comes to the ground whenever he is in the city. Though he doesn’t play much on the ground as the surface could cause him injuries, he does his jogging and exercises with us,” a teammate said. Members of the First Lancer Cricket Club are overjoyed seeing Siraj scale new heights. Amjad Khan has known him for two decades. “One could always find Siraj at the ground. This was his first house. He was so passionate about the game that he would forget everything else. There was nothing more important for him than playing cricket,” Amjad said. Siraj is a natural, Amjad said. “It is god’s gift to Siraj. No one could bowl as fast as he could anywhere.” Has he changed as a person ever since he started playing IPL and for India? “Not at all. He is still the same Siraj whom we have known for several years. He comes to the ground often and we also go to his house. He is down-to-earth,” said Syed Irfan, his neighbour and a fellow cricketer at Lancer. Best friend Mohammed Shafi is ecstatic. “Siraj ate, drank, slept and breathed cricket. For him life was cricket and cricket was life. He used to go anywhere to play a match. In fact, we won a lot of tennis ball tournaments in those days. I am very happy for him,” said Shafi. Siraj owes his success to guidance from the likes of former cricketer Jyothi Prasad in his initial days and from Rahul Dravid after he graduated to play for India ‘A’. Sombre mood at the house Mohammed Siraj made a memorable Test debut on Saturday. He claimed two for 40 as India dismissed Australia for 195 in Melbourne. But there was no celebration at his home in Toli Chowki. Al-Hasnath Colony ,where the house is located, seemed oblivious. The family is still mourning Siraj’s father Mohammed Ghouse, who passed away last month. Siraj lives with his mother and elder brother’s family. “The family is in mourning and that’s why the mood is mellow. But, all of us got up in the morning and watched the match,” said Siraj’s cousin Mohammed Sameer. “We are very happy that Siraj made his Test debut today. It is a dream come true not only for Siraj but all of us, especially his late father. It would have been wonderful if he were alive to see Siraj’s feat. He was always excited about Siraj playing for the country,” said 19-year-old Sameer, who plays for Shalimar Cricket Club in the HCA one-day league.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gully-boy/articleshow/79971977.cms||Solomon S Kumar
December 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||6 robbers held, loot recovered||Visakhapatnam: Visakhapatnam rural police on Saturday arrested six robbers and recovered 5.5 tolas of gold jewellery, eight tolas of silver jewellery and Rs 70,000 in cash. According to Narispatnam ASP Tuhin Sinha, the six entered the home of one Kukkara Satyanarayana’s village at Chodapalli village, beat the residents with sticks and looted 10 tolas of gold, eight tolas of silver and Rs 80,000 cash. The accused arrested from Pittada village in Vizianagaram district were identified as Pala Lakshminarayana (52), Pala Naveen (21), Gorle Mose (21), Gorle Praksh (23), Gummadi Balaji (23) and Peruri Rambabu (55). All accused are reported to be habitual offenders. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/6-robbers-held-loot-recovered/articleshow/79970432.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Trial run on phase-1 extended line begins in Chennai||CHENNAI: A diesel locomotive was operated on the 9km phase-1 extension line from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar on Saturday as part of the trial runs on the stretch, which is expected to be commissioned by the end of January 2021. CMRL officials said the operation of the locomotive has paved way for conducting trials with the metro trains on the route in the coming days. The 9-km line will have eight stations, including two underground stations, to link a part of north Chennai with the core areas and transport hubs in the city such as Central and Egmore stations, the CMBT and the airport. In a release, CMRL said the locomotive was operated on both the upline and downline of the 9km stretch, completing the first trial run successfully. This, officials said, is done to check the alignment of the tracks after inspecting for any structural infringements along the route with the operation of a trolley carrying a frame of the train. Following this, officials said, they will begin operating a metro train on the line in manual mode. Once the manual operation is completed successfully and issues, if any identified, are fixed, testing of signalling systems will begin. To test the signals, the train may have to be operated in automatic mode where except for the switch on/off of a train and open/close of the train doors, all other functions are performed automatically. On a regular day, metro trains operated in automatic mode are monitored from the operations control centre where staff will take control of a train during emergencies. In phase-1 extension line, CMRL said installation of various systems such as ballastless tracks, overhead equipment (OHE), signals, tunnel ventilation, heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), platform screen doors, automatic fare collection (AFC) gates are underway for early commissioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/trial-run-on-phase-1-extended-line-begins/articleshow/79971024.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Agra||4 die as car crashes into brick mound due to dense fog in Kasganj||AGRA: Four members of a family died and two were critically injured when their car collided with a mound of bricks on the roadside due to poor visibility caused by dense fog. The accident took place on Kasganj-Bareilly highway near Mamo village in the early hours of Saturday. RK Tiwari, deputy superintendent of police, said six members of a family were on way home after attending a wedding at Soren town in Kasganj. Some of them were planning to alight in Agra. “The car was moving at a high speed and rammed straight into a mound of bricks as the driver was not able to see the danger on the roadside due to dense fog,” said Tiwari. Three of the occupants, including the driver, died on the spot, and another succumbed to injuries later, the DSP added. The deceased were identified as Asif (23) of Ghaziabad, Amaan (26) of Agra, Shahid (23) of Mainpuri and Ashir (26) of Agra. Asif was driving the car. While Asif, Amaan and Shahid died on the spot, Ashir died while undergoing treatment in hospital. The condition of Sameer and Arshad of Ghaziabad, who along with Ashir were shifted to Aligarh Medical College, is stated to be critical. Their families have been informed, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-die-as-car-crashes-into-brick-mound-due-to-dense-fog-in-kasganj/articleshow/79970441.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Agra||19 new Covid positive cases in Agra, district tally 10,159||AGRA: At least 19 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 10,159. The patients included a junior doctor of SN Medical College and a staffer of the district hospital. A total of 10 people were found positive during random testing conducted by the health department. Meanwhile, 32 Covid patients were discharged on Saturday. Out of the 10,159 cases reported in the district, 96.2% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid cases decreased from 227 on Friday, to 213 on Saturday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.4%. So far, 9,776 people have recovered."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/19-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-10159/articleshow/79970451.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Isro to use green fuel for human space flight||CHENNAI: Gaganyaan, India’s first human spaceflight mission that will carry three Indian astronauts to a low-earth orbit, will use eco-friendly fuel, Isro chairman K Sivan has said. Isro now uses unsymmetrical dimethylhydrazine as propellant and nitrogen tetroxide as oxidiser in its liquid fuel engines. The fuel and exhaust are toxic. “We are developing green propulsion for human space flight mission. We will use either hydrogen peroxide-based mono propulsion system or hydrogen peroxide along with ethanol as by-propellant. Both hydrogen peroxide and its by-propellant are green and not toxic. Even the exhaust is not toxic,” Sivan told TOI on Saturday. “In the future rockets, we will be using liquid oxygen (LOX) methane engines,” he added. Earlier, while delivering virtually the 16th convocation address of SRM Institute of Science and Technology in Chennai, the Isro chairman stressed the need to limit environmental damage. “Isro has done the technology transfer of its space-grade lithium-ion batteries to industry. This technology is useful for mass adoption of electrical vehicles without remaining perpetually dependent on foreign sources. In the future, all the propulsive stages of the rocket may adopt green propulsion,” he said. On space sector reforms announced by the government for greater participation of non-governmental entities, he said, “Our next PSLV launch will have satellites from start-up agencies as the first product of these reforms.” Calling on new graduates to take calculated risks, he said, “When you take calculated risks, you safeguard yourself from absolute failure. You may fail, but each failure will provide a valuable lesson. India’s space program has been built on spectacular failures. Each failure has resulted in improvements in our system.” SRMIST founder-chancellor T R Paarivendhar said the satellite launched by the students of SRM university is still working even after nine years, completing more than 40,000 orbits in space. “The satellite was sent to study water vapor and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.” SRMIST vice-chancellor Sandeep Sancheti presented the annual report. About 17,204 students including 129 PhD scholars received their degrees and 244 students received medals for securing ranks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/isro-to-use-green-fuel-for-human-space-flight/articleshow/79971044.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||One more UK returnee tests +ve, total suspected new strain’s patients rise to 4||NAGPUR: A 36-year-old man from Narendra Nagar, who returned from the United Kingdom recently, tested positive for Covid on Saturday. He had submitted his swab samples on Friday. This took the total number of suspected patients of the new variant of the coronavirus — believed to be from the UK — to four in city. Additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane and medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) told TOI that the man is asymptomatic and admitted in a special ward at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). “Three persons including the positive man, his brother and friend returned to city from UK on November 28,” they informed. The Bureau of Immigration on Wednesday had sent a list of 78 people who returned from Europe, Middle East and South Africa between November 25 and December 23. NMC found that 39 were residents of the city while the others had Nagpur addresses in their passport but are residing in other cities of state. Another 70 names have been sent by the bureau. As per an NMC official, the 36-year-old’s brother did not get tested as he said he was RT-PCR negative a few days after returning to the city. “The friend’s test was negative. We will ask the brother to give his samples again,” the official said. In the last two days, three flyers of UK tested positive. Among them are a man from Nandanwan and a mother-daughter duo from Trimurti Nagar. All three are admitted to the GMCH’s special ward. Their samples have been sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for genome sequencing on Friday and Saturday by the IGGMCH and GMCH, respectively. The sample of the 36-year-old too was sent on Saturday. On the insistence of NMC, the parents of the 36-year-old too got RT-PCR tested on Saturday and the results are expected on Sunday. Dr Chilkar said that 35 of the 39 passengers have tested negative. While the earlier three flyers tested positive within the incubation period of 14 days, the 36-year-old’s sample tested positive on the 27th day of arrival in city. According to Dr Chilkar, the government is considering 28 days as incubation period for the new variant of coronavirus. “Therefore, it is sending list of flyers who returned between November 25 and December 23,” he said. Dr Chilkar added the Bureau of Immigration has sent a second list of 120 flyers on Saturday. “We have started to check the names and contact them. There are around 70 new names. All will be tested soon,” he said. Sources from the GMCH and IGGMCH said results of swab samples of the first positive patient (Nandanwan youth) are expected in the next three days. “It takes around four days to receive results from NIV,” they said. The city has got only one new air passenger from Europe. A man returned from France on Thursday and was sent to an institutional quarantine centre. His samples will be tested in 5-7 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-uk-returnee-tests-ve-totalsuspected-new-strains-patients-rise-to-4/articleshow/79971036.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 27, 2020||Bareilly||Sikh farmer families ask younger ones to carry tricolour to protest, watch out for ‘anti-national’ elements||BAREILLY: On bikes, tractor, cars, young Sikh farmers from UP’s Terai are leaving for the protest in Delhi by the hundreds, with one piece of advice from their elders — always carry the tricolour and never allow separatist calls. "Our freedom fighters had come together under the tricolour. It stands for national unity," Gurmeet Singh, a 30-year-old farmer from Nighasan in Lakhimpur Kheri, told TOI. "Now, when we go out to protest against the farm laws which were forcefully imposed on us, our elders have told us we must do it with our tricolour. It is, for us, a symbol of strength in our struggle for rights." The Shahjahanpur-Lakhimpur Kheri-Pilibhit belt, with its lush paddy and wheat fields, is often referred to as ‘mini Punjab’. It has the highest Punjabi population outside Punjab, and is UP’s wheat bowl. When the protests in Delhi started gaining momentum, those here knew they had to pitch in. “During community meetings at the gurudwaras, we are told to send at least one person from each family to the protest,” a farmer who didn’t want to be identified told TOI. While they protest, their elders tell them before they leave, they must remember that their fight is against the farm laws, not the government or the country. "So, we have asked every young Sikh headed for the protest to not raise any political flag or banner." On their vehicles all along the 300-km road to Delhi, and in their hands when they get there, it’s the tricolour that must be hoisted. “We are being called ‘backstabbers’ and ‘Khalistanis’. We were worried if we didn’t join the movement, anti-social elements who have nothing to do with the protest could come in and defame our cause,” Balhar Singh, a 26-year-old farmer from Shahjahanpur, told TOI. “We keep the tricolour and a white flag with us at all times … My mother said, protest till your last breath but never let your country down.” At the protest site, the farmers have deputed teams to keep an eye out for “disrupters”. Papinder Singh, a 27-year-old farmer from Lohangapur village near the Shahjahanpur-Pilibhit district border, told TOI, “In Ghaziabad, a person who raised pro-Khalistan slogans was handed over to the police. We ensure that no one engages in anti-national activities which distract from our legitimate movement against the new farm laws.” A senior intelligence unit officer told TOI that those protesting are as worried about separatist calls as they are. “They are sharing information with us … When people raised anti-government slogans, they stopped them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sikh-farmer-families-ask-younger-ones-to-carry-tricolour-to-protest-watch-out-for-anti-national-elements/articleshow/79969955.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman held with gold worth Rs 96L at RGI||Hyderabad: Customs officials on Saturday caught a female passenger, who allegedly tried to smuggle 5 gold bars and ornaments worth Rs 96 lakh, at RGI Airport. The accused was booked under Customs Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-held-with-gold-worth-rs-96l-at-rgi/articleshow/79971980.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Physical classes unlikely in early-Jan||Schools in Bengal were unlikely to reopen for on-campus classes in the beginning of January, hinted education minister Partha Chatterjee on Saturday. The decision would be taken by Nabanna, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/physical-classes-unlikely-in-early-jan/articleshow/79971982.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Many engineering colleges in Telangana submit forged documents for accreditation: Faculty||HYDERABAD: Not just Malla Reddy College of Engineering, several technical colleges, including engineering colleges, in the city and in Telangana forge documents to get accreditations from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) and National Board of Accreditation (NBA), allege faculty members. Those working in engineering colleges in the state claimed that managements either manipulate or forge information submitted even to All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad (JNTUH) to get approvals and affiliation. “It is very common for colleges to manipulate data to get accreditations, approvals, and affiliation. They show the wrong placement figures. Likewise, many faculty are shown as PhD holders whereas, in reality, not even 20 per cent of them have secured their doctoral degree,” said V Balakrishna Reddy, president, Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association. Reddy said that one of the well-known colleges has submitted that 215 out of 240 of their students have secured placements. “Out of 240 students, several dropped out of the course, failed to clear examinations, and did not secured any job offers,” he added. A Santosh Kumar, president, Telangana School’s Technical Colleges Employees Association, said that there are colleges that have manipulated their pass percentage to get a better grade. “While the pass percentage was 60 per cent, an engineering college showed it as 90 per cent. Most of the projects done by students are fake. Even when it comes to publishing research work of faculty, they take published work and superimpose their faculty names,” said Kumar. A chairman of an engineering college in the city, who is also part of the management association, said that a thorough enquiry should be conducted against all colleges. “One of the college managements paid Rs 70 lakh and got ‘A’ grade accreditation from NAAC. Next year, they were forced to close due to zero admissions. Same is the case with most of the colleges,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-engg-colleges-submit-forged-documents-for-accreditation-faculty/articleshow/79971984.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Rs 30,000 aid made all the difference to 400 Anna University students||CHENNAI: An initiative by three corporates and Anna University has helped more than 400 students enrolled with the university and its constituent colleges and hailing from a poor background to tide over any pandemic-induced financial constraints. Students with CGPA more than 7 and from families with annual income of less than Rs 4 lakh have been selected. Renault Nissan Technology and Business Centre India Private Limited (RNTBCI), Temenos and Caterpillar together have offered scholarships worth of Rs 30,000 a year for each of the students as part of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) project. “I used the money to buy a laptop to attend the online classes,” said P Sivaranjani from Padukkapathu village in Tuticorin district. Sivaranjano is a final year manufacturing engineering at College of Engineering, Guindy, and has received the aid for the past three years. She hails from an agricultural family and will be a first generation graduate. J Subhash Hariharan, a final year mechanical engineering student from Madras Institute of Technology in Chromepet, is another recipient who pays his hostel and tuition fees with the scholarship money. Sandhiya T of Kodungaiyur, third year information technology student at MIT, says her father, an autorickshaw driver, had little or no income during the lockdown. “My tuition fees alone adds up to Rs 30,000 a year. I can pay it now without troubling my family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rs-30000-aid-made-all-the-difference-to-400-anna-univ-students/articleshow/79971048.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||317 fresh Covid-19 cases, two deaths recorded in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Friday recorded 317 cases and 2 deaths. With this, the total count of cases is now 2,84,391 and the death toll is 1,529. The number of active cases in the state has reduced to 6,618 and a total of 2,76,244 people have recovered from the coronavirus infection. Meanwhile, the bed occupany in the state has gone below 10% now, with barely 753 of the 8,559 beds allocated for Covid-19 in government hospitals being occupied and 1,330 out of 7,859 beds in private hospitals being occupied. The recovery rate in the state is currently 97.13%. On Friday, a total of 30,376 samples were tested. With this, the state has tested 66.9 lakh samples so far and has reached 1,79,644 sample testing per million population. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/317-fresh-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-recorded-in-t/articleshow/79971985.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||Upload docus for EWS quota seats by end of first round||PUNE: Candidates from Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) in the Economically Weak Section (EWS) category applying for the centralized admission process for various professional agricultural degrees have been asked to submit all relevant documents by the end of the first round. Inability to follow procedure may cost students their claim on the quota. A notification to this effect was issued by the Maharashtra CET Cell two days ago. Under all four agricultural universities in the state offering graduate courses, the admission process has been implemented online via State Common Entrance Examination Cell from December 9. Candidates from SEBC and Open Category, who do not have the certificate, should upload application receipt for EWS quota to be considered under the quota in first round. However, these candidates should submit EWS certificate to concerned college by the last date of reporting for online admission round. In case a student is unable to do so, the college will cancel allotment of admission and the candidate will be considered in Open Category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/upload-docus-for-ews-quota-seats-by-end-of-first-round/articleshow/79971992.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||JNTUH seeks explanation from Malla Reddy College of Engg||Hyderabad: A day after the Malla Reddy College of Engineering, Campus 1, was blacklisted by the NAAC, the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) officials said that they will seek an explanation from the college. Speaking to TOI, M Manzoor Hussain, registrar, JNTUH, said that they will be asking all colleges to be extra careful while submitting any documents. “We will make it clear that colleges will be held responsible if they are found submitting any forged or manipulated documents,” he said. Hussain said that even during the affiliation process, the fact-finding committee from the varsity notices many discrepancies every year in data submitted by colleges during the physical inspection, but added that action is taken immediately. Student organizations, meanwhile, demanded the state conduct a enquiry on all colleges under the Malla Reddy Group and cancel their affiliation. Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) vice president, J Rama Krishna demanded CBI probe on the all educational institutions run by Malla Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntuh-seeks-explanation-from-malla-reddy-college-of-engg/articleshow/79971993.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Rly parcel scam: 2 years on, porter confesses to role||CHENNAI: Two years after 11 parcels bound for Howrah went missing from Chennai Central station, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) made a crucial breakthrough. On December 23,its officers arrested a porter who confessed to moving the parcels out of the station. Veeramani said he moved out the parcels at the behest of six clerks in the commercial branch. Two independent RPF sources confirmed this development on Saturday. The incident pertains to 11 parcels containing vests going missing from the station in November 2018. Office bearers of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union (SRMU), the sole recognised employees union in Southern Railway, were accused of aiding this and were under the scanner but were exonerated a few months later. According to sources, Veeramani is a parcel porter who worked for the agent supposed to load and unload parcels for the company sending the consignment. “We were monitoring call records and arrested him. He has given a confession indicting the role of SRMU office bearers from the commercial wing, under whose direction he helped remove the parcels,” an RPF source said. Veeramani has also told RPF that initially, they requested the commercial supervisors to remove the parcels but the parcels were forcibly taken out as they refused. It is illegal as it is railway property. Sources also told TOI that the six will soon be arrested but have currently gone absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rly-parcel-scam-2-years-on-porter-confesses-to-role/articleshow/79971063.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
December 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Wish for fleeting thrill, macho image behind rowdy birthday bashes on roads||The chopper’s blade looked menacing in the dim street light on the night of December 6 in Bhosari. A youth gripped its handle. “Go on… cut, cut,” the friends of the “birthday boy” egged him on. The youth lifted the blade gingerly and chopped the delicious cake with as much finesse as a chopper could afford. “Hey, you have butchered it,” laughed the friends as he picked up a piece of the mutilated cake to celebrate his birthday. A video clip of the “macho” celebrations went viral. The laugher died the next morning when the Bhosari police came looking for the “birthday boy” and his friends. They were arrested under the Indian Arms Act for using chopper to cut the cake. Seven days on in Narayangaon, about 76km from the city, another birthday celebration on a road prompted the rural police look for a group of youths. They threw eggs at each other and created a mess. Birthday celebrations are going “macho”. Private and personal celebrations are spilling out of many homes onto roads. Public spectacles are overshadowing the practice of wearing new clothes, eating sweets and visiting temples in many cases. So, what prompts people use swords or choppers for an act that can be accomplished with a blunt plastic knife? A youth from Paud Road, recently celebrating his 20th birthday, told TOI, “We cannot afford celebrating birthdays in restaurants. So, my group of friends celebrate birthdays at a corner of Paud Road in Kothrud.” The youth, who did not wish to reveal his identity, said, “I did not use a chopper or a sword to cut the cake, but my friends smeared cake on my face after I cut it. In movies, we watch stars hurling cake at each other in parties. My friends and I cannot throw a party on our birthdays like in movies, but at least we can enjoy like the stars.” Retired assistant commissioner of police Rajendra Joshi said youths find it thrilling to celebrate birthdays on roads. “A boy who arranges everything for a ‘Bhai’s birthday’ today, celebrates his own birthday in the same way after a few years,” he said. Joshi said the police should take proactive action to curb such incidents. “It is not a difficult task. They only have to keep a watch on flex boards of ‘birthday boys’. On the D-Day, the police should summon the birthday boy to the police station and make him sit there for the day,” he said. He claimed that this way the birthday boy would not be able to celebrate on road and it would send a clear message among people that the police would not tolerate such acts. “People will then think twice before celebrating on roads,” Joshi said. Assistant inspector Dattatreya Gund, the Narayangaon police station in-charge, who recently acted against some youths for throwing eggs during the birthday celebrations on a road, said, “People mostly use weapons to cut the cake to prove their supremacy in the area, or sometimes just for thrill.” A few months ago, the Narayangaon police had registered an offence against a wrestler for using a sword to cut his birthday cake. “He did it just for fun and was not aware of its consequences,” Gund said. Additional commissioner of police (Pimpri Chinchwad) Ramnath Pokale told TOI, “Using weapons for cutting a cake is illegal. Bakeries provide plastic knives with cakes. They are more than enough.” Pokale said the police register offence under the Indian Arms Act against such people. “We have told our men to keep a watch on people manufacturing weapons like chopper so that we can keep track of purchasers. This will also help in reducing crimes like body offences,” he said, urging people to contact the police control room if they came across such rowdy celebrations. Psychologists feel there is more to these acts than just the thrill. Developmental psychologist Yajyoti Singh said, “There can be many reasons why youngsters are behaving in this way — the stress of the lockdown, lack of basic social interaction that they would have in schools or colleges and over-monitoring at home. They are finding passive aggressive ways to release this surge of pent-up energy. Doing something considered daring stems from altered social patterns, existential fears, insecurities and situation at home.” Singh said parents must be watchful of such behaviour. They should allow youths space to meet with their friends and celebrate at home under adult supervision and then there would be less chances of such pent-up outbursts, Singh added. Psychologist Sushmita Ganguly said, “People’s lives revolve around social media these days. Most youngsters are always online and need content to post. They are willing to take risks just to get some likes and comments. It leads them to participate in various ‘challenges’ on social media, even if they are dangerous. Antics such as using a chopper or a sword in a public place to cut cakes are just to get some attention on social media.” Youth counsellor Sandeep Kale said young people had impressionable minds and they tend to mimic what is perceived as “cool” in pop culture. “Recently, there have been many web and television series with abusive language and violence that revolve around goons and gangs. When young people watch these, they want to be like the characters or at least act like them sometimes. They don’t realise that cutting cakes with swords and opening fire are dangerous. They think it is cool because they have watched such stuff happen on these shows,” Kale added. Sayyad Makandar, a resident of Jalki Vasti slums off Paud Road, said, “Cutting cakes on roads is common in our colony. My son also wanted to celebrate his birthday on the road like his friends. But, I did not allow him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wish-for-fleeting-thrill-macho-image-behind-rowdy-bday-bashes-on-roads/articleshow/79971990.cms||Mihir Tanksale
December 27, 2020||Patna||Five more civic corporations, 103 nagar panchayats in Bihar||PATNA: The state government has taken a massive step to increase its urban population by creating five new municipal corporations, eight nagar parishads, 103 nagar panchayats and upgrading 32 nagar panchayats to nagar parishad as well as increasing the area of one municipal corporation and 11 nagar parishads. The state cabinet on Saturday approved the proposals. Sasaram, Motihari, Bettiah, Madhubani and Samastipur, which earlier were designated as nagar parishad, will now be municipal corporations. Besides, the area of Biharsharif municipal corporation has been increased. With that, the number of municipal corporations in the state has increased to 17. Similarly, of the now 103 nagar panchayats, eight each are in Nalanda, Purnia, Siwan and Darbhanga, seven in Muzaffarpur and five each in Gaya and Katihar districts. Cabinet secretariat department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar and urban development and housing secretary Anand Kishore said the state’s existing urban population as per the 2011 Census is 11.27% against the national average of 31.16%. The new step will help increase the state’s urban population to around 20% with suitable matching steps. The matching steps include implantation and extension of civic facilities, street lighting, drainage and cleanliness to be done using machines and equipment. The increased percentage of urban population will help the state in increasing its share in the central pool of taxes on the recommendations of the Finance Commission. Besides, the urban bodies will be able to raise their own resources by local taxation. Before taking the decision, the DMs concerned were asked to make a detailed review of the status of the potential towns and villages and submit their reports. The parameters for declaring any village, bazaar or town to the legitimate urban are the following: The population, population density, scope of increased revenue earning, percentage of non-agriculture population or the population dependent on activities other than agriculture practices, economic significance and other related conditions connected with urbanization and urban population. Govt amends Bihar Municipal Act, 2007Earlier, in view of the condition warranted by the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007, for any bazaar or town to have the privilege of being nominated for selection in any of the three urban bodies, it should have had 75% of its population as urban, or dependent on non-agricultural practices. It proved to be an obstacle to giving an urban body and extension of urban civic facilities to other towns in a planned manner. Accordingly, the 2007 Act has been amended to synchronize with the parameters as mentioned before, which has created the stage for the step to increase the state’s urban population as dependent on non-agricultural practices for living and survival. Besides, the amendment in the Act will also help in the planned development and growth of the newly identified urban local bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5-more-civic-corporations-103-nagar-panchayats-in-state/articleshow/79970746.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Pune||PCB plans to start new NHM centre||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has decided to open a new sub-centre of National Health Mission (NHM) to implement Union and state government health schemes. The centre would be set up in Ward 8 near MG Road. It will mainly cover congested localities like Bhimpura, New Modikhana and Modikhana. VD Gaikwad, resident medical officer of the PCB, said, “One dedicated doctor, health staff and 20 Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) will be attached to the centre for effective implementation of various schemes that governments have introduced for those in need.” The PCB already has one such centre at Ghorpadi village. Amit Kumar, PCB chief executive officer, said, “Our endeavour is to implement over 15 health schemes effectively in our limits and develop a rapport with the local population, which is critical in a situation like the Covid-19 pandemic.” The cantonment authorities had faced stiff resistance from a section of people while carrying out the Covid-19 survey and testing in Bhimpura in May and June, claimed Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-plans-to-start-new-nhm-centre/articleshow/79971994.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 27, 2020||Pune||Two held for robbing fuel station staffer in Pune||PUNE: Two online food delivery personnel were arrested on Wednesday, a day after they allegedly robbed Rs 14,000 from an employee of S K Auto Care petrol pump in Kondhwa Budruk around 12.35am on Tuesday. Kondhwa police recovered Rs9,500 from Sohail, alias Salim Mulla (19), and Kanifnath Vinod Mahapure (23). Assistant inspector Chetan More said on Saturday, “The suspects often passed the fuel station on Kondhwa-Saswad Road late at night and on Tuesday, they hatched a plan to target the pump employees. They switched off their cellphones and drove to the pump on a motorcycle. The pillion rider robbed the pump employee, Rahul Dolare (20), of Rs14,000 after threatening him with dire consequences and banging a sickle on the ground.” More said, “We established their identities through a known person because their images were caught on CCTV camera. We traced their location to Wai, following which they were taken into custody on Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-held-for-robbing-fuel-station-staffer/articleshow/79971995.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation assures action against 5,000 illegal buildings in Royapuram||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation has assured the Madras high court that appropriate actions will be taken against 5,674 identified unauthorised structures in Royapuram. The corporation further undertook to initiate similar actions in other zones and file a status report before the court. The submissions were made by corporation commissioner G Prakash during a virtual hearing. Recording the submissions, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha adjourned the next hearing to February 5, 2021. The issue pertains to a PIL moved by lawyer N Rukmangathan seeking action against the 5,674 unauthorized and deviated constructions that have sprung up in the city. While hearing the petition on November 24, the bench censured the civic body for failing to act against identified unauthorised constructions and directed that the commissioner appear before it to give an explanation for the inaction. “With as many encroachments in the city alone, there will be many more across the state, but the authorities are failing to act on them,” the court had said. Stating that the authorities have not learned any lessons from the 2015 floods, the court warned that it would be constrained to summon the state chief secretary if inaction continued. According to the petitioner, he obtained information about the unauthorised constructions through an RTI application. Alleging that the authorities are adopting a selective approach in acting upon such illegalities, the lawyer said, “There are 5,674 deviations that have been identified. But stop work notices were issued under the Town and Country Planning Act to only 1,191 violators.” If zone V (Royapuram) alone contains nearly 5,000 buildings in violation of rules, then there would be close to 75,000 to 1,00,000 such buildings collectively in the 15 zones under Greater Chennai Corporation, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-assures-action-against-5k-illegal-bldgs-in-royapuram/articleshow/79971089.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Demand for plasma donations rise as Covid cases near 3 lakh mark||HYDERABAD: With the total number of Covid-19 cases nearing the three-lakh mark in Telangana and the fear of the new strain of coronavirus fast spreading, the demand for plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 infection seems to be on the rise with more and more people appealing on social media and other messaging platforms. However, many say that after the initial surge in number of donations, lack of active volunteers to help coordinate the plasma requests is keeping prospective donors away. Families of Covid-19 infected patients looking for active plasma donors in the city said that it has become very difficult to find donors, despite several appeals on WhatsApp and other social media platforms. Shanti Reddy, a family member of a Covid-19 infected patient said, “We had to wait for almost a week to find a prospective donor for my cousin who was admitted a private hospital in the city. Earlier, there were several groups as well as individual volunteers who would actively respond to requests being posted online but now there is hardly anyone to help.” Doctors usually prescribe convalescent plasma therapy, commonly known as plasma therapy, for severely ill Covid-19 patients. According to medical experts, plasma is taken from a person who has recovered from a disease because it contains antibodies to fight the disease. It is then injected into a patient whose own immune system may not be producing antibodies to help boost the antibody response in the system. Agreeing that they are not actively participating in the coordination process from past few months, M Ravi Kiran, a volunteer said, “We had stopped coordinating after the number of donors reduced in the city. Initially there was a good response but after a couple of months, the number of donors reduced drastically. Another reason for not being very active is fake donors who were trying to con people by taking advantage of the situation.” Dhiraj Kaveri, blood coordinator, Arohi Blood Bank said, “There is a lot of demand for plasma donors even now, but people are not coming forward. Either it is plasma, blood or platelet donations, we need consistent campaigns to make people aware of the requirement and the importance of these donations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/demand-for-plasma-donations-rise-as-covid-cases-near-3l-mark/articleshow/79971997.cms||Moulika.KV
December 27, 2020||Patna||Property dealer shot dead in Patna City||PATNA: Unidentified bike-borne criminals shot dead a property dealer on Dargah road under Sultanganj police station area in Patna City on Saturday. The deceased, identified as Mohammad Ziya (30), was a resident of Gulbi Ghat locality. The killing took place around 4pm when he was going somewhere on his bike. Additional SP (Patna City) Amit Sharan said Ziya had a criminal background and was accused in criminal cases lodged with Sultanganj police station. He said Ziya was involved in property dealing and police suspect the murder was a fallout of some dispute with his rivals over a plot he was trying to purchase. “Police are trying to identify the killers through the CCTV camera footages of the area. Business establishments in the area downed their shutters after the murder. Police are trying to contact the shopowners for sharing their CCTV camera footages,” he said. Sultanganj police station SHO Sher Singh Yadav said Ziya was going on his bike alone when two assailants intercepted him on Dargah road. “One of them opened fire killing Ziya on the spot. He was shot multiple times. Some empty cartridges were recovered from the spot. Ziya was rushed to a hospital, but doctors declared him dead,” he said. Yadav said police were yet to get information from the family members if Ziya had received threat from any business rival. “At present we are trying to gather clue about the killers from the CCTV camera footages,” he said. The SHO said police were trying to gather details about Ziya’s property dealing business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/property-dealer-shot-dead-in-patna-city/articleshow/79970685.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: More suburban trains to be run from Monday||CHENNAI: Southern Railway will be operating more suburban train services starting Monday and will consider resuming short distance passenger trains within the state. As demand for suburban travel is increasing, railways will be increasing suburban services by 90 per day and will also ensure that all stations will have functioning ticket counters. Railways were operating 410 suburban trains per day on the three lines — Beach-Tambaram, Central-Tiruvallur and Central-Gummidipoondi. A few circular train services have also resumed. This has now been increased to 500 trains a day, which is 70% of the pre-Covid-19 frequency. The patronage is also good for peak hours and the numbers touch close to a lakh every day. Railway board chairman V K Yadav, said at a press conference in Delhi, that more number of suburban services were being operated and that steps were being taken to resume short distance passenger trains in consultation with the state government. A railway official said as of now there is no request from the state government to run unreserved specials or unreserved passenger trains.” Railways have a hesitation to resume the services as social distancing norms need to be enforced strictly. The state government, however, wants railways to operate suburban trains as per the normal schedule. “The number of trains have been increased and trains will also be operated on routes that had no services due to poor patronage, Pattabiram Military Siding is an example. There will be halts in all stations and ticket counters at all stations will also be operated,” said a railway official. The railway is not planning to open trains to all commuters but will do it gradually. Nevertheless, weekday pattern of trains is going to be operated on Sundays following demand from commuters that suburban trains are popular for travel on some sections. Weekday workmen special schedule will be operated on December 27, Sunday. Several commuters, especially those who work in private companies, suffered on Friday as fewer suburban trains based on Sunday pattern were operated due to public holiday for Christmas. R Baskar, a frequent commuter and former member of divisional rail users consultative committee, said many employees of private companies suffered due to this and those visiting relatives for Christmas were affected big time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-suburban-trains-to-be-run-from-monday/articleshow/79971093.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||279 UK returnees go under the radar in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana health officials tracking down the 1,216 UK returnees, who landed in Hyderabad on December 9, hit a roadblock on Saturday after 279 of them were untraceable. This, on a day when two more passengers, along with three contacts of the returnees, tested positive for Covid-19 taking the count to 21. Over the last two days, 16 flyers have tested positive for the virus. While 92 of the untraceable returnees, officials said, are from neighbouring states of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Karnataka, 184 are those who have furnished wrong phone numbers and addresses, making it difficult to locate them. “We have forwarded their details (of those from outside Telangana) to respective state governments so that they can help with tracing these returnees. Meanwhile, search is on to find the rest,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana. The three contacts, who tested positive on Saturday, are among the 79 contacts of these positive returnees who were identified and examined. “All the 21 have been kept in special wards in various hospitals. We have also sent samples of the 18 UK returnees for testing to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) to see if they are of the new variant of the virus (B.1.1.7). The results are expected in another two days, said Dr Rao. In case the new strain is detected in any of them, the same formula of tracing, testing and treatment will be followed to prevent the spread of the virus. “People with the new type of virus need not worry. They only need to be vigilant, use the mask properly, follow physical distancing and wash their hands regularly,” the official advised. While neighbouring AP, which reported 56 untraceable returnees, has turned to an IT-enabled tool — using mobile tower signals — to track the travel history of returnees, officials in Telangana say that it might not be feasible here. Reason: most of the untraceable travellers have provided false phone numbers. “We have already done mobile tower tracing wherever it was possible, but in the absence of correct contact numbers, it is of no use,” Dr Srinivas Rao said. AP has 1,214 returnees of which 1,158 were tested and six have been found to be Covid-19 positive. (with inputs from Umamaheswara Rao )||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/279-uk-returnees-go-under-the-radar-in-t/articleshow/79972002.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 27, 2020||Goa||In 2 cases in Pernem, drugs worth Rs 21 lakh seized||PANAJI: In two different cases in Pernem, anti narcotic cell (ANC) of Goa police seized narcotic substance worth over Rs 21 lakh and arrested two Nigerian nationals, on Christmas Day. In the first case, police said they received information that a person was to strike a narcotic deal at Arambol beach. Based on the information, a trap was laid and the accused was arrested on his arrival at the spot. On conducting a search, police found the Nigerian in possession of 10g of LSD liquid and 48.6g of cocaine, together worth around Rs 15 lakh. In the second case, police conducted a raid at Arambol after receiving a tip-off, and found the accused in possession of 31g of white powder suspected to be cocaine and 4.4g of brown liquid suspected to be LSD liquid, together worth around Rs 7.6 lakh. Stating that most of the Nigerians are active in the sale of chemical drugs in Goa’s coastal belt, police said their investigation revealed that the Nigerians mostly get the drugs to Goa from America via Africa. Police further said that most of the Nigerians, who come to Goa on tourist visas, target foreigners to sell their narcotic substance, but this year with hardly any foreigners around, they are targeting the domestic tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-2-cases-drugs-worth-rs-21-lakh-seized-2-nigerians-arrested/articleshow/79972011.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath lashes out at Congress for sitting on Swaminathan report||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath lashed out at Congress for now trying to mislead farmers over the new farm laws but sitting on the Swaminathan Committee report when it was in power. He was interacting with the state's farmers on the occasion of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee's birth anniversary during which PM Narendra Modi distributed funds to farmers under the Kisan Samman Nidhi. Several senior BJP leaders, including union minister Smriti Irani, panned out across UP on Friday to be present in their constituencies when PM Narendra Modi made his address. While NDA government is facing massive protests by farmers at Delhi’s borders against the new farm laws, the CM said that it would be appropriate to celebrate Good Governance Day which marks Vajpayee’s birth anniversary as Kisan Samman Diwas since Vajpayee was the first person after independence to take steps to strengthen farmers financially. In UP, Rs 4,260 crore was given to more than 2.13 crore farmers under the scheme which was launched ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In Mohanlalganj to address a programme to mark the event, the CM gave out tractors to five farmers, portable rice miller machines to three and one small oil extraction machine to another. “Vajpayee started initiatives to strengthen rural infrastructure, starting with rural roads, to international level highways and mobile technology. Vajpayee started these projects and Narendra Modi is taking them forward,” he said. He added that the current government is working for farmers, labourers, women, youth etc and has made seeds, fertilizers, power and irrigation easily accessible to farmers. It is purchasing produce directly from farmers at the minimum support price. The central government accepted the recommendations of the Swaminathan report and implemented an MSP which is 2.5 times more than the input cost, the CM said. “When our government came to power, it immediately took action for the welfare of farmers. The first step it took was to waive of loans of Rs 36,000 crore for 86 lakh farmers. We started work on irrigation projects that had been pending for years. The Ban Sagar project, pending since 1977, was completed in one year. Work is going on at a fast pace to complete the Arjun Sahayak, Saryu and Madhya Ganga irrigation projects. By March 2021, irrigation facilities will be available for over 20 lakh hectare land,” he announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-lashes-out-at-cong-for-sitting-on-swaminathan-report/articleshow/79972540.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Monkey business: Delhi govt, corporation pass the buck||NEW DELHI: With Delhi government’s wildlife department and South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) veterinary department continuing to fight over jurisdiction, the monkey menace in the city has shown no signs of abating. While the wildlife department claims that it is not responsible for catching the simians, the corporation has cited a letter from Union ministry of environment and forests that states that monkeys are not stray animals and catching, trapping or their population control can only be done by the forest department. The issue is also in court as Rhesus Macaques are protected under Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. “The mandate of catching, trapping and population control of such animals can only be done by the state forest department,” said an SDMC official. Moreover, very few monkey catchers are available despite being offered the highest rates in the country at Rs 2,400 per animal. Relocating the simians is also an uphill task. A veterinary department official said monkey catchers refuse to come to the city fearing animal cruelty cases being slapped on them by residents. While more than 1,000 simians were captured in 2013, 2014 and 2015, the figure has drastically dropped in the last few years. This year’s data (till October 31) shows that north corporation relocated only 71 monkeys, while SDMC relocated 182. The forest authorities in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh have also been asked to help the capital in its quest to tackle the monkey menace. Relocation of the captured monkeys to Bhatti Mines started in 2007 after a Delhi High Court order. So far, around 25,000 monkeys have been relocated to Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary, which is spread over 100 acres, and around Rs one crore is spent by the forest department on providing them food every year. Residents claim that the lack of a substantial barrier between Asola sanctuary and neighbouring residential areas of Tughlaqabad has resulted in the monkeys jumping out as there is no natural food source in the region. The problem is also rampant in Sangam Vihar, Jaunapur and Aya Nagar. Forest officials, however, denied that monkeys were escaping from Asola sanctuary. “The monkeys are being fed regularly by the department. Why will monkeys leave a safe location where there is a guarantee for food?” asked a forest official, adding that around Rs 8 lakh per month was being spent on monkey feed. A census to determine the population and hotspots for monkeys was to begin in April by Wildlife Institute of India along with forest and wildlife department, but it was delayed first by the lockdown and, subsequently, due to fund crunch. “Funds were used for essential activities and plantation was carried out after the lockdown as we have a small window for it. The census may start soon, but a fresh timeline will have to be drawn,” said a forest official. Along with the census, which was to be carried out over five years, the monkeys were also to be sterilised. The areas with high cases of bites or man-animal conflict were to be made the priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/monkey-biz-govt-corpn-pass-the-buck/articleshow/79972519.cms||Paras Singh
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||VP: Duty of parties to maintain ethics||Hyderabad: Political parties should introspect on the growing tendency to field candidates with criminal backgrounds and choose the politics of conviction over convenience, said vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday. Delivering the third Atal Bihari Vajpayee memorial lecture organised by the Think Tank India Foundation, the vice-president said, “Atal ji epitomized the politics of conviction and consensus. He was an embodiment of courage, caliber, capacity, conduct and character, worthy of emulation. It is the duty of all political parties to ensure that their members, including legislators, maintain ethical conduct at all times and at all places.” Further, referring to Vajpyee’s governance, he said the late PM fast tracked development in various sectors ranging from Gram Sadak Yojana to air connectivity to even political connectivity. “He got many parties together for the first time in India’s history and was able to provide able leadership and a stable government.” Urging political parties and governments to give priority to long-term development instead of populist policies, he said it is the duty of governments to help the weaker sections and give a helping hand to them. “Governments should show a little bias in favour of the poor, the unorganised, the rural people and women because they have been discriminated against,” he said. The vice-president termed the Vajpayee years as the golden era for the economy as it grew at a rate of 8% per year. Quoting the late Prime Minister, he said “Empowering the individual is empowering the nation. And empowerment is best through rapid economic growth with rapid social change.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vp-duty-of-parties-to-maintain-ethics/articleshow/79972006.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 27, 2020||Patna||West Champaran man plots son’s murder||BAGAHA/PATNA: An elderly man turned out to be the mastermind of his businessman son’s murder in West Champaran on December 2. Shafique Alam (45) was shot dead in a mango orchard near Karbala ground at Jokaha under Manuapul outpost of Mufassil police station area in Bettiah town. A police team led by Bettiah SDPO Mukul Parimal Pandey on Friday arrested Ranjan Singh (42), Shankar Singh (40) alias Saiyyuddin, Ali Husain alias Mukhiya (42), Sheikh Nizamuddin (45) and Ejaz Ahmad alias Riyajuddin (55). They were sent to jail on Saturday. Bettiah SP Upendranath Verma said kingpin Ejaz got Shafique killed at the behest of his father Anwarul Haque (65) of Bagahi- Sheikhpura village under Kateya police station area of Gopalganj. Anwarul had given Rs5 lakh as ‘supari’ for his son’s murder. Anwarul was arrested earlier this week. Police said Shafique was involved in cattle trading and owned a general store in Gopalganj. Manuapul police outpost incharge Nirbhay Kumar Rai said Anwarul was fed up with his son’s illegal activities and his addiction to drug and liquor. “Shafique had taken money from many people in the name of selling them land owned by his father. He used to thrash everyone at home in an inebriated state. So, his father decided to get him eliminated,” Rai said. Police sources three persons, including Ranjan and Saiyyudin, had brought Shafique to Bettiah from Gopalganj on a bike. Ranjan and Saiyyudin shot him. An empty 9mm cartridge was recovered from the spot. Ejaz is a native of Phulwaria in Gopalganj and had provided information to killers about Shafique’s whereabouts. Saiyyuddin belongs to Maharajganj in Uttar Pradesh while Ranjan is from Patkhauli in Bagaha-2 block. Ali Husain and Sheikh Nizamuddin are natives of Chanpatiya block in West Champaran. “Ejaz and his gang members are involved in several criminal cases in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh as well as in Nepal,” the SP said. Two pistols used in the killing of Shafique along with ammunition were recovered from Ranjan and Saiyyudin. A senior police officer said police came to know that Shafique had last talked to co-villager Krishna Yadav (30). “When interrogated, Krishna spilled the beans and was arrested on December 13. Police then arrested contract killers and later called Anwarul to Bettiah,” he said. Anwarul finally confessed to paying Rs70,000 in advance and later Rs5 lakh which he got by selling a plot of land. The officer said Saiyyudin and Ranjan also admitted their involvement in at least 17 loot cases in Bettiah, Bagaha, Motihari and Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gopalganj-man-plots-sons-murder/articleshow/79970705.cms||Tirthraj Kushwaha
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Buckingham Canal could be a usable waterway in 4 years||Chennai: The Buckingham Canal, which now is a large sewage drain for a large part of its course in the city, is expected to become in about four years the waterway it was envisaged to be. Its restoration will be part of the clean-up of water bodies Greater Chennai Corporation, PWD, Metrowater and the Chennai River Restoration Trust (CRRT) are taking up in the city. The CRRT has prepared the restoration plan of the canal and its drains that will be executed by the PWD and the corporation at an estimated Rs 1,280 crore. Metrowater will take up plugging the sewage inlets and set up modular plants to treat sewage at Rs 1,001 crore, said the official. Work is expected to begin in April 2021 and is scheduled to be completed in a phased manner over three years. A senior corporation official said about 16,000 families were found to have encroached upon the water body and its drains, affecting the flow of water and leading to the release of untreated sewage into them. Like it did in evicting and resettling squatters from along the Adyar and the Cooum river banks, the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) will extend a helping hand, said a senior TNSCB official. Already, about 95% of the 12,000 families of squatters from the Cooum river banks have been rehabilitated in TNSCB tenements at Perumbakkam, Navalur near Padappai and Athippattu near Ambattur, a senior PWD official said. While a similar exercise was undertaken on the banks of the Adyar river, about 5,000 families remain along the course and will soon be evacuated, he added. A senior bureaucrat pointed out that many had blamed the devastating December 2015 floods in Chennai on the delay in taking decisions by the authorities and said that but for the floods, the eviction of encroachers from the Cooum or Adyar rivers could not have been taken up more seriously. The same seriousness will be shown in clearing the Buckingham canal and restoring it to its past glory, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/buckingham-canal-could-be-a-usable-waterway-in-4yrs/articleshow/79971097.cms||P Oppili
December 27, 2020||Delhi||40-year-old Bangla fugitive on death row held in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Acting on a tip-off from Bangladesh, the Crime Branch of Delhi Police arrested a death-row fugitive who had escaped that country several years ago and crossed into India. Additional commissioner (Crime) Shibesh Singh confirmed the arrest and said the high commission of Bangladesh has been contacted for the further process of deporting Masoom, 40. However, Masoom may have committed another murder in India, according to a source. According to DCP (Crime) Bhisham Singh, a man named Sarbar helped Masoom reach India and sheltered him. But the former has been missing for years now. Police noted that Masoom was now married to Sarbar’s wife, had in his possession the missing man’s identity documents and had also been using Sarbar’s alias for some years. A special task force under ACP Pankaj Singh is now probing the suspect’s possible crimes in India. During interrogation, Masoom admitted to the murder during a robbery bid in 2005. He and his accomplice had kidnapped Jahidul Islam from his mobile shop in Madhya Nalbunia Bazar in Bangladesh. Islam’s stab and beheaded body was found days later. Bangladesh police arrested all the accused and brought to trial in the court of the additional sessions judge, Bagerhat. Masoom was found guilty and sentenced to death. DCP Singh said, “Masoom was sentenced to death in 2013 in a kidnapping-murder case in Bangladesh. There reportedly was a reward of Rs 1 lakh taka for information about his whereabouts.” The Crime Branch is trying to trace Masoom's wife, Nazma, who is learnt to be based in Bengaluru. The police are still verifying details, but it is learnt that Masoom managed parole on some pretext and then went underground. According to additional commissioner Shibesh Singh, once in India, Masoom went to Bengaluru and worked at a scrap godown with Sarbar. After a few months, Sarbar had to return to Bangladesh for some work but went missing thereafter. “Masoom and Nazma starting living like a married couple and he began his own scrap business in Sarbar’s name,” said the additional CP. Masoom often visited Delhi and was in touch with business acquaintances in Seemapuri and Sangam Vihar. He began buying and selling scrap in Delhi and other states. A few weeks ago, informers tipped ACP Singh about Masoom’s antecedents. Police put him under surveillance and monitored his activities. After Masoom’s identity was confirmed, a team arrested him from Khanpur A pistol and two cartridges were recovered from him and an FIR was registered under the Foreigners Act and the Arms Act. “STF has arrested many Bangladeshi criminals leading to a decline in movement of criminals from Bangladesh to India,” DCP Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/40-yr-old-bangla-fugitive-on-death-row-held-in-capital/articleshow/79972550.cms||Raj Shekhar
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Sand lorry crashes into auto, 5 killed||Hyderabad: Five farm workers, including three minors, who were seated inside a parked auto rickshaw, died after a sand-laden lorry rammed into the three-wheeler at Mominpet in Vikarabad district on Saturday morning. Five farm workers — Sani Bai, 55, Renuka, 30, Sona Bai, Nithin, both 17, and Sandhya,15, got into an auto at Ejrachetempally to pick cotton in fields at Mominpet, police said. Around 7 am, as they were heading towards Mominpet, auto driver V Hari en route stopped the vehicle near his residence to pick his lunch box, Mominpet sub-inspector Ravi Kumar said. “The auto driver parked the vehicle on the wrong side of the road. A lorry, which was coming from the opposite direction at high speed, hit the auto,’’ the SI added. The lorry driver reportedly turned the vehicle to the left to avoid hitting an RTC bus. Despite that, the lorry grazed the bus, hit the auto and fell on the left side. Finally, the lorry came to a halt after hitting a house, which suffered minor damage. The lorry was carrying sand from Mominpet to Tandur. Sani, Sona, Nithin, Sandhya died on the spot, police said. Renuka, who suffered bleeding injuries was shifted to Government Hospital, Sangareddy, and later to a private facility, succumbed while undergoing treatment. The auto driver had a lucky escape since he was inside his house at the time of the accident. Lorry diver Rafeeq too escaped with some injuries. Police said a case was registered under Section 304-A (negligence causing death) of the IPC against both drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sand-lorry-crashes-into-auto-5-killed/articleshow/79972008.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||No conviction of any MP and MLA in Telangana despite Supreme Court directive on speedy trials||HYDERABAD: Ever since the Supreme Court gave direction for the time-bound trial of criminal cases against elected MPs and MLAs, not even a single MP/MLA has been convicted to date in the state. A total of 172 cases are still pending in the special court. In an RTI response given to M Padmanabha Reddy, secretary, Forum for Good Governance (FGG), the chief administrative officer, Unit of Metropolitan Sessions Judge, revealed that while 245 cases were received between March 8, 2018, and December 7, 2020, only 73 were disposed of. Of the 73, there were zero convictions, 50 acquittals, 19 are discharged, and four were transferred. In 2017, the Supreme Court had directed all state governments to establish special courts for trial of criminal cases pending against sitting and ex-MLAs & MPs and further directed to dispose of the cases within one year. Subsequently, the Telangana government sanctioned the establishment of the special court and the court started functioning from March 8, 2018. While the RTI response revealed data about the criminal cases in the special court, the FGG said that a total of 509 cases have been filed in various courts against MLAs and MPs. “After examining the affidavits filed by the contesting candidates, we found out that 509 criminal cases are pending against sitting or ex-MLAs and MPs. Of these cases, only 245 cases were transferred to special court,” said Reddy adding that as against 30 sanctioned posts in the special court, only 16 are working. Talking about zero convictions in the past two years, he said, “Since the accused are MLAs and MPs, such zero conviction reflects badly on the efficiency of the police department and people will lose confidence in the administration.” The FGG pointed out that a regular public prosecutor (PP) is not posted in the special court, which in turn, is resulting in slow and improper disposal of cases. The forum also said that as cases are against MLAs and MPs, assistance from the government/ police department to the special court is also lacking. For conducting a speedy trial of these cases, the forum requested the state to immediately post regular PP and remaining staff in the special court. It also said that remaining cases from various courts should be transferred to the special court. Police should take interest in successful and speedy prosecution of cases, the forum added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-conviction-of-any-mp-and-mla-in-t-despite-sc-directive-on-speedy-trials/articleshow/79972010.cms||---
December 27, 2020||India||Telangana cops ask Google to block 158 instant loan apps||HYDERABAD: Google has been asked to block 158 instant financing apps on its Play Store by the Telangana police after the companies behind these were found harassing and shaming defaulters. Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials have begun gathering information from Telangana police about companies involved in the instant financing apps since the role of Chinese nationals have emerged. After arresting 14 persons for operating instant loan apps, Hyderabad police have sent a requisition to remove 42 financing apps. Their Cyberabad counterparts have sent a list of 116 which are on Google Play Store. Hyderabad joint commissioner of police Avinash Mohanty said, “We are awaiting response from Google.’’ The role of these 158 apps came to light following complaints lodged by victims, who were harassed by the representatives of these apps. So far, three people in the state have died by suicide after the loan app collection agents informed their contacts that they had defaulted on loans. From the initial inputs available with investigators, Cyberabad police said many of these instant financing companies have dedicated training teams, who train their tele-callers to gain different skill sets, including intimidation tactics and hurling abuses, while approaching defaulters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/telangana-cops-ask-google-to-block-158-instant-loan-apps/articleshow/79972998.cms||Srinath Vudali
December 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh gears up for Covid-19 vaccine dry run tomorrow||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has identified 25 test beneficiaries (healthcare workers) for each of the five vaccination sites chosen for the dry run of Covid-19 vaccine in Krishna district on December 28. The five sites confirmed for the dry run include the government general hospital in Vijayawada, Uppuluru PHC, Penamaluru PHC, Prakash Nagar eUPHC and Purna Heart Institute. The identified beneficiaries have been asked to be present at the location for session site simulation. The dry run would be video-recorded and the report will be submitted to the state task force panel, which will provide the feedback to the Union health ministry. The health department has also formed AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) as per the new guidelines, and prepared a list of AEFI treatment centres. The session sites would be inspected on Sunday to check e logistics planned for the exercise. K Bhaskar, commissioner of health & family welfare department, said the dry run is aimed at testing the planned operations and mechanisms before the roll-out of the vaccine. “It would provide insights into the vaccine administration and/or any gaps/bottlenecks in the due process, which can be addressed before the commencement of vaccine drive in the state,” said Bhaskar. He added the dry run will be used to test the vaccination processes such as planning and preparation prerequisites, session site creation and mapping, data uploading on Co-WIN, vaccinator deployment, vaccine and logistics mobilisation at session site, mock drill of beneficiary vaccination, and reporting. Andhra Pradesh is one of the four states chosen by the Union health ministry to carry out end-to-end dry run for Covid-19 vaccination. The national expert group on vaccine administration of Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended three prioritised population groups, including healthcare workers, frontline workers, and elderly people for first phase vaccine drive. As vaccines are temperature sensitive and need to be stored in specific temperatures, the cold chain system has been augmented in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-gears-up-for-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-tomorrow/articleshow/79970542.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 27, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh gears up for Covid-19 vaccine dry run tomorrow||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has identified 25 test beneficiaries (healthcare workers) for each of the five vaccination sites chosen for the dry run of Covid-19 vaccine in Krishna district on December 28. The five sites confirmed for the dry run include the government general hospital in Vijayawada, Uppuluru PHC, Penamaluru PHC, Prakash Nagar eUPHC and Purna Heart Institute. The identified beneficiaries have been asked to be present at the location for session site simulation. The dry run would be video-recorded and the report will be submitted to the state task force panel, which will provide the feedback to the Union health ministry. The health department has also formed AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) as per the new guidelines, and prepared a list of AEFI treatment centres. The session sites would be inspected on Sunday to check e logistics planned for the exercise. K Bhaskar, commissioner of health & family welfare department, said the dry run is aimed at testing the planned operations and mechanisms before the roll-out of the vaccine. “It would provide insights into the vaccine administration and/or any gaps/bottlenecks in the due process, which can be addressed before the commencement of vaccine drive in the state,” said Bhaskar. He added the dry run will be used to test the vaccination processes such as planning and preparation prerequisites, session site creation and mapping, data uploading on Co-WIN, vaccinator deployment, vaccine and logistics mobilisation at session site, mock drill of beneficiary vaccination, and reporting. Andhra Pradesh is one of the four states chosen by the Union health ministry to carry out end-to-end dry run for Covid-19 vaccination. The national expert group on vaccine administration of Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended three prioritised population groups, including healthcare workers, frontline workers, and elderly people for first phase vaccine drive. As vaccines are temperature sensitive and need to be stored in specific temperatures, the cold chain system has been augmented in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/state-gears-up-for-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-tomorrow/articleshow/79973736.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Cross desecrated in Aurangabad cantt area||Aurangabad: There was some tension in the Shantipura area of Nandanvan Colony, in the Cantonment area, on Saturday after a cross installed on Friday was found desecrated. The incident upset the religious sentiments and a large number of people gathered at the spot. Inspector Manoj Pagare told TOI, “There appears to be some issue between two groups. We also found that a holy cross had been installed at a public place without permission. We will be registering an offence.” Members of the community said that for past many years they have been installing the cross at Sunil Chowk on Christmas eve. The cross is removed on the second day of the new year. Police said they received a complaint from Rajesh Ranade demanding action against unidentified suspects who desecrated the cross and threw it on a garbage heap. The complaint said it was a deliberate attempt to provoke the Christian community. Members of the community warned of taking to the streets if action is not initiated against suspects. Assistant commissioner of police H S Bhapkar said some complainants are naming a person from their own community. “We will cross-check the details before initiating appropriate action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cross-desecrated-in-aurangabad-cantt-area/articleshow/79970545.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 27, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath OKs link e-way to connect Ballia, Ghazipur||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday gave his nod to the plan of 30-km Ballia Link Expressway, which would work as an extension of Purvanchal Expressway to finish the last leg of a seamless travel from Delhi till the Bihar border. UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi who was aggressively pursuing the project, confirmed to TOI that it has been cleared by the chief minister after a presentation before him at his official residence on Saturday. To be constructed at a cost of around Rs 1,500 crore, the Ballia Link Expressway will have four lanes, expandable to six, and would connect Ghazipur and Ballia and end just before Bihar border. While Purvanchal Expressway is connecting Lucknow and Ghazipur, Yamuna Expressway and Agra-Lucknow Expressway have already emerged as the most preferred road links between Delhi and Lucknow. UP now has five expressways coming up over next two years at a cost of approximately Rs 90,000 crore. While Purvanchal Expressway is all set to be open for traffic early next year, Bundelkhand Expressway, and Gorakhpur Link Expressways are in different stages of completion. Besides, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is recently called UP "a state of expressways”, will soon lay the foundation stone of Ganga Expressway between Meerut and Prayagraj. “The speedy approval of the Balia Link Expressway by the CM is an indication of his resolve for the development of Poorvanchal and making this region prosperous by linking it to the state capital and the national capital," Awasthi said. “Purvanchal's direct access to the NCR and Delhi will attract lots of investment to boost medical and educational infrastructure in the region," Awasthi said. The CM said at the meeting that the areas through which the expressway would pass would witness social and economic development, along with improvement in fields of agriculture, commerce, tourism, handicraft and local industries. The link expressway will also act as a catalyst for various kinds of sectors. The government is expecting a growth in sectors like food processing, warehousing, mandis, milk production etc with units from these sectors expected to come up along the expressway. It will also boost tourism in eastern UP. Facilities like Industrial Training Institute, and other educational and training institutes will be accessible from the expressway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-oks-link-e-way-to-connect-ballia-ghazipur/articleshow/79972559.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP reports lowest 1-day fatality count in over 6 mths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 282 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,80,712. This is the 30th day in a row that the state has reported less than 1,000 cases. The toll increased to 7,092 with one more patient succumbing to the pandemic in Kadapa district. This is the lowest single-day fatality count in over six months, after the state recorded two deaths on June 13. As many as 442 patients were declared cured. There are currently 3,700 active cases with 8,69,920 cumulative recoveries and 7,092 deaths. Guntur reported 56 new infections, followed by East Godavari (53). The remaining 11 districts recorded less than 50 cases. For the first time in months, Kurnool and Prakasam reported only one case each. The active case count is less than 200 in seven districts, while it has dropped to 62 in Vizianagaram and 86 in Kurnool. Four districts have so far achieved 99 per cent recovery rate, including the disease epicentre East Godavari. A total 42,911 samples were tested on Saturday to detect the 282 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.7%. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-lowest-1-day-fatality-count-in-over-6-mths/articleshow/79970552.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Grain scam: Agent gets pre-arrest bail||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has granted a conditional anticipatory bail to Shrinivas Damkondwar, a `Munim’-cum-agent of Ajay Baheti, a key accused in the Rs4 crore Krushnur grain scam that was unearthed by the Nanded police in July 2018. The bench of Justice Vibha Kankanwadi made some stern observations about the “inaction or the lack of swift action” on the part of the state CID in not arresting Damkondwar earlier when it claims to have had statements recorded by witnesses against him. Justice Kankanwadi said in a recent order, “If the statements against the applicant (Damkondwar) were available with the investigating officer (IO) _ after which the applicant even appeared before the IO on May 7, 2019 _ he was still not arrested. It is also surprising to note that in both the chargesheets, name of the present applicant is not appearing and no explanation is now coming forward from the IO in this respect. Merely by saying that the magnitude of the offence has now increased, it will not actually increase unless the IO acts in a swift manner without being influenced by anything.” The bench said, “It appears to be the inaction or in other words not taking swift action though the statements were on record since about one-and-a-half to two years. It allows this court to infer that the physical custody of the present applicant is not required for the purpose of investigation and therefore, his liberty need not be curtailed.” The bench ordered that in the event of his arrest, Damkondwar be released on a PR bond of Rs2 lakh with two sureties in the like amount and he shall report to the investigating officer as and when called for with a 48-hr prior notice. The bench also told Damkondwar to surrender his passport. (The Grain Scam) The scam refers alleged diversion of wheat and rice consignments, meant for public distribution scheme (PDS), from the Food Corporation of India’s (FCI) godown to the facility of India Mega Agro Anaj Limited, owned by Baheti at the Krushnur MIDC under the Kuntur police area in Nanded. The police then seized 10 trucks loaded with rice and wheat gunny bags bearing monograms of government of Punjab and the FCI. Baheti and 18 others, including 10 truck drivers, were arrested in the ensuing investigation by the state CID, which has, till date, filed two chargesheets _ first on August 6, 2019 and the second on March 19, 2020. Baheti was released after the HC granted him bail in May 2019. It is the CID’s case that Damkondwar’s name figured in the statements recorded by witnesses between July and November 2018 to the effect that the illegal diversion of food grain was being done at his instruction. The CID had even questioned him and recorded his statement. Senior counsel Rajendra Deshmukh, who appeared for Damkondwar, brought to the HC’s notice that his clients name did not figure in the two chargesheets filed so far and that, the investigating officer (IO) attached to the second chargesheet some of the statements, which were recorded prior to the filing of the first charge sheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-agent-of-key-accused-in-rs4-cr-pds-grain-scam-at-nanded/articleshow/79970550.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 27, 2020||Lucknow||Brijesh Pathak emerges as strong claimant of Atal’s legacy||LUCKNOW: By staging a big show in the state capital on the eve of the 95th birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the law and justice and rural engineering services minister Brijesh Pathak has not only emerged as a strong face in the politics of the state capital, but also a claimant of the leader who served the city as a five-time MP. Party sources said the family of late MP Lalji Tandon has always been a claimant of Vajpayee’s legacy, this time Pathak has emerged as a strong challenger. He not only constituted the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Manch, but also within a short span of time, organised a mega event—a Kavi Sammelan—in which Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and noted poet Kumar Vishwas were in attendance. In a bid to expand his reach among different sections of the state capital, Pathak has included in his Vajpayee Manch office-bearers of trade unions of the employees, unions of the state government, corporations, universities, colleges, rickshaw-pullers, taxi–auto drivers, Vyapar Mandal and even the pavement shopkeepers. The manch has representation of over two dozen unions and associations, including lawyers. “It’s really noteworthy that instead of the family which had a long association with Vajpayee, somebody who entered the party in just 2017 took initiative to form a forum to keep the memories of BJP stalwart alive,” says a political observer. After the death of Lalji Tandon, Pathak has certainly emerged a strong claimant of Vajpayee’s legacy, he adds. “There is no denying the fact that Pathak has emerged as a popular face in the city BJP after the death of Lalji Tandon,” said Atal Sharma, a senior functionary of the ruling BJP. One can see him accompanying Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, who is the city MP, or the CM whenever they are for inspection of any project in the state capital. Besides, recently the party also entrusted him with the job for a ‘confidence-building’ exercise among Brahmins. He has also been assigned by the government and the party to speak to the Brahmin MLAs and address their grievances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pathak-emerges-as-strong-claimant-of-atals-legacy/articleshow/79972568.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 27, 2020||Patna||JD(U) national council to discuss farmer issue, Bihar polls today||PATNA: JD(U) will discuss and clarify its stand on the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three new central farm laws at its national council meeting on Sunday. The party will also discuss defection of six of its seven MLAs to BJP in Arunachal Pradesh and decide on contesting assembly elections in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala and the Union Territory of J & K, either in alliance with a party or on its own, sources said after the first day of JD(U)’s two-day national executive committee meeting held in Patna on Saturday. As many as 60 delegates of the party from various states will participate in the national council meeting. Bihar CM and JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar was present during the first day’s deliberations. It involved the discussions at the level of the national office-bearers to set the agenda for the Sunday meeting. The other major issues that will be on the plate for discussion pertains to the poor (officially, ‘not so good’) performance of JD(U) in the Bihar assembly elections, when the party could win only 43 of the 243 assembly seats, no matter if Nitish became the CM in accordance with the pre-poll arrangement with BJP that secured 74 seats. The NDA’s lead rival from the grand alliance, RJD, emerged as the single largest party with 75 wins. However, the most contentious issue on which JD(U) will clarify its line is related to the ongoing agitation of the farmers mainly confined to the states around the national capital. JD(U) might be in a peculiar situation as the opposition parties, including in Bihar, have declared their open support to the farmers’ stir, sources said. The NDA government in Bihar led by Nitish was the first to annul the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act way back in 2006 that ended the ‘mandi’/bazaar samiti system in the state. Initially, in his speeches, PM Narendra Modi used to recall it to put across that the farmers in Bihar had accepted it, but the agitating farmers have been insisting that it has only exacerbated the problems of the farmers, including the middle, small and marginal farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-national-council-to-discuss-farmer-issue-state-polls-today/articleshow/79970726.cms||Abhay Singh
December 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Samajwadi Party holds meets at 132 locations to discuss farm laws||LUCKNOW: Lending support to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the new farm laws, Samajwadi Party on Friday held Kisan Chaupals at 132 locations across the state. In the meetings, senior party leaders informed farmers about farm laws and the ruling BJP’s move to implement it despite strong opposition from agriculturists. After SP national president Akhilesh Yadav mooted the idea of Kisan Chaupal, senior party veterans like leader of opposition in the state assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary, state president Naresh Uttam Patel, MPs Shafiqur Rehman Barq, ST Hasan, former MP Dharmendra Yadav and former minister Arvind Singh Gope, besides district presidents and spokespersons, were allotted specific villages where they had to address farmers meetings. The leaders also uploaded live video clips and pictures of their interactions with farmers on social media platforms. In most of the villages, interactions began in the afternoon and continued till late in the evening when farmers were seen sitting around bonfires listening to SP leaders. Party leaders spent time with farmers and their families and informed in detail about the grounds on which farmers were protesting against the new laws. “Farmers have been the victim of BJP’s anti-poor policies and have been subjected to atrocities. The government failed to double the income of farmers, as promised by the BJP before elections, but brought in three anti-farmer laws. It is a conspiracy to ruin the farmers and push them into the hands of corporates,” the SP president said. Speaking about Kisan Chaupal and Kisan Ghera (to sit with farmers around bonfires), Akhilesh said farmers need to be informed about what these farm laws are meant for, and therefore, he asked senior leaders to fan out to villages and personally talk to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-holds-meets-at-132-locations-to-discuss-farm-laws/articleshow/79972579.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
December 27, 2020||Ranchi||JD(U) falling apart, RJD to form govt in Bihar soon: Tej||Ranchi: RJD leader and Bihar MLA Tej Pratap Yadav on Saturday expressed concern over the health of his ailing father Lalu Prasad after meeting him at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) here. Talking to reporters after their meeting, Tej also criticised BJP and the JD(U)-led Nitish Kumar government in Bihar. He claimed, “BJP has a habit of swallowing up smaller parties and the JD(U) in Bihar is facing trouble.” His statement on BJP came while replying to a question from the media persons on Arunachal Pradesh where six JD(U) MLAs joined the saffron party. The party has now only one MLA in the north-eastern state. Tej said, “Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s party is breaking apart at different places. The RJD, which has the largest mandate, would form the government after the fall of his government in Bihar.” He added that the NDA is now trapped in the farmers’ agitation in different parts of the country. The Bihar MLA further said he came here to inquire about his health and take his blessings after his success in the recent assembly election. He said, “My father is not well as his kidney is functioning at only 25%.” Tej, who had arrived in Ranchi late on Friday evening, met his father for about two hours at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jdu-falling-apart-rjd-to-form-govt-in-bihar-soon-tej/articleshow/79972300.cms||Sanjay Sahay
December 27, 2020||Ranchi||2 Covid deaths, 192 new cases in state||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Saturday reported two Covid-19 deaths and 192 new cases. A total of 179 persons also recovered taking the overall recovery rate in the state to 97.71%. Of the two deaths, one was reported from Rims in Ranchi while the other was from Latehar. The toll has now touched 1,018. Ranchi with 75 resh cases remained on top of the 24 districts with the highest number of cases followed by East Singhbhum at 45. Dhanbad (15), Palamu (13) and Ramgarh (10) are the other districts with a high number of cases. Eight districts — Garhwa, Godda, Latehar, Pakur, Seraikela, Simdega and Sahebganj — reported zero cases and the remaining districts reported only in single digits. As of Saturday evening, the cumulative caseload in the state has reached 1,14,146 of which 1,11,530 have recovered and 1,598 are active. The seven-day growth rate remained at 0.14% while the seven-day doubling rate slightly deteriorated to 491.62 days as against 499.75 days estimated on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-covid-deaths-192-new-cases-in-state/articleshow/79972301.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 27, 2020||Ranchi||6 UK returnees put in home isolation||Jamshedpur: The East Singhbhum district administration on Saturday said it has put six persons, who returned to the Steel City from the United Kingdom, under home isolation for the next seven days. They have, however, tested negative for Covid-19. Additional chief medical officer Sahir Pall said all six persons, including one woman and from different age groups, arrived in India between December 11 and December 20 and came to Jamshedpur this week. “We have conducted RT-PCR test on them and their 28 family members. All of them tested negative,” Pall said, adding that they are residents of Rahargora (Pursudih), Mango, Sonari, Bistupur and Agrico. District health department sources said their officials swung into action soon after receiving information about the arrival of the six persons. A health official said, “The Union health ministry has made it mandatory to test all those who have returned from the UK and put them in isolation. We will keep them under surveillance for the mandatory period."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/6-uk-returnees-put-in-home-isolation/articleshow/79972296.cms||B Sridhar
December 27, 2020||Vadodara||Loan recovery agent thrashed by colleagues||VADODARA: People in the sales business push themselves and their colleagues hard to overachieve their targets. However, a manager of a loan recovery agency went a step further when an agent under him could not achieve his target. The recovery agency’s manager identified as Deepesh Singre and his two friends thrashed the collection agent named Jitendra Chhugani on Friday. Chhugani, a resident of Ajwa Road, was sent to collect an outstanding loan amount from a customer in Chhani. When Chhugani reached Chhani, the customer was not available so he called Singre to inform him about it. Chhugani was asked to wait in Chhani but he went to Fatehgunj and waited there. When Singre and three colleagues reached there, they started beating Chhugani as he could not recover money from the customer. Chhugani stated in his complaint that the trio beat him mercilessly for not achieving his target. They let off Chhugani leave after some locals intervened. Chhugani later went to Fatehgunj police station, where an offence of assault and criminal intimidation was registered based on his complaint. Police said that Singre was arrested on Saturday and he is being interrogated about the two other men with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/loan-recovery-agent-thrashed-by-colleagues/articleshow/79971017.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Surat||Chemical unit fined Rs 50 lakh, told to shut down||SURAT: The Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) on Saturday issued a closure notice and slapped a fine of Rs 50 lakh on chemical company Survival Technologies Pvt Ltd for illegally dumping toxic waste into the ground in Sarigam GIDC of Vapi in Valsad district. On December 19, GPCB team had unearthed three drums filled with toxic chemicals that were clandestinely buried in the factory’s premises. Following the discovery, the GPCB ordered scanning of all factory units in Sarigam GIDC to detect similar practices by unit owners. It is suspected that there might be other units who were dumping toxic waste illegally into the ground or in any other manner which is in violation of the Environment Protection Act. “We have issued closure notice to Survival Technologies Pvt Ltd for illegally dumping the hazardous waste in the ground. A fine of Rs 50 lakh also has been slapped on the company for violation of environment norms,” said B R Gajjar, regional officer, GPCB. Gajjar added, “The factory area is huge and we suspect more chemicals have been buried into the land. Modern technology will help in scanning the ground easily as it is not practical to dig the entire area.” “We will expose this hazardous modus operandi of dumping chemical waste in the ground and polluting groundwater as well as the environment. Action will be taken against the company as per the prescribed law,” said another GPCB official. For now, the environment watchdog is trying to assess the volume of chemical waste that has been buried underground besides scanning for more in the trench area around the factory to trace any pipeline that may be dumping chemical waste somewhere else, the official added. Sources said that the three drums appear old and seem to have been buried for quite some years now. GPCB officials said that the company had resorted to similar unscrupulous practice in Bharuch district too and illegally stored huge drums containing hazardous waste in its godown a few years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/chemical-unit-fined-rs-50l-told-to-shut-down/articleshow/79970619.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant to speak on tribal rights at Harvard||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren has accepted the invitation from Harvard University, US, to present the keynote address at the 18th Annual India Conference — a student-organised event in North America and one of the world’s leading forums for dialogue, debate and networking on issues pertaining to contemporary India. Tweeting the invitation letter sent to the chief minister, the official handle of the CM’s office confirmed his participation in the event scheduled for February 20, 2021. “The chief minister has accepted the invitation and thanked the organizers. He will speak on tribal rights, sustainable development and welfare policies in Jharkhand,” the tweet read. Talking to TOI on phone, senior fellow of Harvard Kennedy School, Suraj Yengde, said the India Conference attracts over 1,000 people involved in academics, industries, businesses, policy-making and governments. “The idea is to have a chief minister’s panel to discuss issues of governance, state-Centre relations, handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and identities impacting politics,” he said. Apart from Soren, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray is also likely to participate. The conference is being hosted on the virtual platform because of the pandemic. “During these difficult times, we decided to change the format and host it on the virtual platform, but this is going to ensure wide-scale participation from various parts of the world,” Yengde said. Soren was also invited to speak at the 17th edition in 2020 but due to certain pre-occupations, he had expressed his inability and had assured the organisers to attend the next conference. The organisers praised Soren for carrying his tribal identity and countering the “identity-based politics” which is gaining ground all over the country. “Your work has been of keen interest to most of us as you merged a proud tribal indigenous politics with a welfarist development agenda. Your acumen in handling the governance and politics by making it people aspirational is important for strengthening of democracy that is otherwise locked in caste and feudalistic nepotism,” the invitation letter read. Yengde said some of the leaders of the non-Brahminical and marginalized identity have been successful in reassuring themselves and taking along with them the marginalized classes. “The students, academia, business leaders and policymakers would be keen to listen to them and the debate is going to go a long way in strengthening the spirit of democracy,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-to-speak-on-tribal-rights-at-harvard/articleshow/79972310.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 27, 2020||India||J&K healthcare scheme shows govt resolve for welfare: Shah||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday welcomed the launch of PMJAY-SEHAT scheme and said it showed PM Modi’s resolve to ensure health security and welfare of the people of J&K. “J&K is witnessing a new era of people’s welfare and development. The launch of PMJAY-SEHAT scheme is yet another testament of PM Modi’s resolve towards the health security and welfare of every person of J&K who remained deprived of their rights for decades,” Shah tweeted. “PM Modi ji has started a golden chapter in the history of J&K by launching the revolutionary health insurance scheme. The Modi government is committed towards completing all pending development works and social initiatives in J&K,” Nadda said. The BJP chief said since independence, J&K has remained neglected and deprived of growth, progress and development. “Now J&K has started walking on the new path of development, growth and prosperity after the scrapping of Article 370 and 35A from the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-healthcare-scheme-shows-govt-resolve-for-welfare-shah/articleshow/79973021.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Vuyyuru garbage dump incident under scanner||Vijayawada: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is believed to have spoken to her state counterpart Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and enquired about Thursday’s incident at Vuyyuru, where a group of municipal workers dumped garbage outside the main entrance of some nationalised banks. Sitharaman tweeted that bank staff and customers faced inconvenience due to the garbage dumping act. Rajendranath assured the FM that the incident would be looked into and necessary action would be taken. Meanwhile, the municipal administration department has ordered an enquiry into the incident. Srinivasa Rao, the department’s regional director in Guntur, said assistant directors G Sekhar and D Venkata Ramiah have been named the enquiry officers. While bank associations have blamed the municipal commissioner and other senior officials, municipal authorities have dismissed the allegations. With the government taking a serious note of the issue, the sanitation workers who dumped the garbage outside the banks may face departmental action. “The sanitary workers cannot dare to dump garbage outside banks on their own. We want a thorough probe into this,” demanded Kodavalla Anand Kishore, a spokesperson of All India Bank Employees Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vuyyuru-garbage-dump-incident-under-scanner/articleshow/79970614.cms||Venu Lanka
December 27, 2020||Ghaziabad||Farmers block Delhi-Meerut Expressway again, give government 10 days on laws||GHAZIABAD/RUDRAPUR: Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), who have been protesting at UP Gate for nearly a month, blocked the whole of Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) for five hours from 11am on Saturday. The farmers gave a 10-day ultimatum to the Centre and threatened massive protest if the stalemate on the three agriculture laws continued. As a section of farmers blocked the expressway, many others joined the protesters from different districts of the state later in the day. In Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand, 1,500 farmers were booked for allegedly clashing with police on their way to UP Gate to join the agitation. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been leading the protest at UP Gate, on Saturday led a group of farmers from Rampur in 100 tractor trolleys. “We have been receiving numerous complaints about the police stopping other farmers from reaching the protest site. I went to Rampur myself and brought farmers to the protest site,” said Tikait. “We have also given 10 days to the Centre to come up with something concrete on the farm laws. If the government fails to do so, we will intensify our protest and gherao the houses of BJP MPs one by one,” he added. According to a rough estimate, more than 3,000 farmers are camping at UP Gate currently, but their numbers are expected to swell with many more joining the movement from other areas. Through Saturday, the police remained on high alert, anticipating chaos. “In view of the heightened activities at UP Gate, we have revisited our strategy to maintain law and order. The area has been divided into seven zones and 13 sectors. Senior police officers and the district magistrate himself have been camping at the site,” an official said. “On Saturday, we had to divert traffic at UP Gate as farmers had blocked the DME for about five hours from 11am. Commuters were stuck in snarls at various places,” he added. Meanwhile, a complaint was lodged at Kaushambi police station on Saturday after death threats were allegedly issued to Tikait. “Our leader, Rakesh Tikait, received death threats over phone. Accordingly, we informed the police,” said Shamsher Rana, the media in-charge of BKU. A police officer said, “We are taking the matter seriously and have formed a surveillance team to investigate the threats. A case has also been registered at Kaushambi police station.” In Udham Singh Nagar, an FIR was lodged against 1,500 farmers who allegedly clashed with the police during a protest march called “Delhi chalo” on Friday. Although security had been intensified at the border with UP, the farmers had taken interior routes on their way to Ghazipur. While Rudrapur city remained peaceful, clashes were reported between the police and farmers on the outskirts. A tractor ploughed through police barricades in Kashipur. The SHO of ITI police station, Vidya Dutt Joshi, who lay down in front of the vehicle was forced to retreat as was Sitarganj sub-inspector Sudhakar Joshi. In Nanakmatta, the police put up barricades and formed human chains to stop the farmers, who had blocked a national highway by sitting on a dharna. During the clash that had broken out, the farmers had torn the uniform of Nanakmatta SHO, Kamlesh Bhatt. The additional superintendent of police in Kashipur, Rajesh Bhatt, told TOI, “Available video footage will be scanned and names will subsequently be added to the FIR.” In a video conference chaired by inspector-general Ajay Rautela, it was decided that all those who had attacked the police teams would be booked. The cases have been filed at Bazpur police station under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/farmers-block-delhi-meerut-expressway-again-give-government-10-days-on-laws/articleshow/79971927.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Covid's decline in Mumbai not drastic, it has thick tail: Doctor||MUMBAI: The Covid-19 statistical graph in Maharashtra dipped further, with less than 3,000 cases registered on Saturday. Only 536 patients tested positive in the state's capital, Mumbai, once the worst hotspot in the country. With 2,854 new Covid-19 cases, the state's tally has climbed to 19.1 lakh, including 2.9 lakh in Mumbai. The mortality too continued to drop, with state authorities announcing 60 deaths - including 12 from Mumbai -- in the 24-hour period ending on Saturday. The state toll stands at 49,189, including 11,068 from Mumbai. The decline, despite opening up of most sectors in the city, said state government's task force member Dr Shashank Joshi, hints at the possibility of herd immunity. "The deaths and cases are down, beds are available in most hospitals. There are clearly signs of herd immunity in parts of the state, especially Mumbai. In fact, Mumbai could be the first place in the world to have herd immunity," said Dr Joshi. However, a senior doctor from a public hospital said there is still a cause for concern. "In most international cities, the decline from the highest to double or single digits took two months. But in Mumbai, the decline hasn't been drastic, with cases averaging between 500 and 800 for almost two months," he said. The 'tail' of the Covid curve is still thick and not tapering quick enough, he added. Dr Joshi added that on the flipside for Mumbai, Covid-19 vaccine trials were stuck in the city. "There aren't enough volunteers for ongoing trials, and there is a huge burden of post-Covid effect on Mumbai's patients," he said. Patients who had mild diabetes and/or hypertension before Covid now have worsened disease patterns and need higher medication. Meanwhile, according to the state records, the number of recoveries are reducing to below 1,600. On Saturday, 1,526 patients recovered, including 480 from Mumbai. While public health minister Rajesh Tope said the patient recovery rate in the state has reached 94.3%, the rate in Mumbai is still 93%. State home minister Anil Deshmukh applauded police personnel in Chimur in Chandrapur district for organising a blood donation camp considering the blood shortage amid the Covid pandemic and appealed to people to donate blood through such initiatives and save lives. The Kalyan-Dombivli belt on Saturday reported 100 new patients and one death, taking the total tally there to 57,066, with 1,096 deaths. In Thane city, 95 cases and two deaths were reported on Saturday. The tally of cases there is 54,878, and the toll is 1,241. In Navi Mumbai, 70 fresh cases and two deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the tally there to 50,677, with 1,044 deaths. PCMC areas reported 35 fresh cases. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Shrutika Sukhi, Vijay Singh and B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covids-decline-in-mumbai-not-drastic-it-has-thick-tail-doctor/articleshow/79973027.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 27, 2020||Goa||Peter Vaz: The man who saw football’s tomorrow||Peter Vaz did not like being reminded that Sporting Clube de Goa, despite having some of India’s most attractive football teams, never won a big national trophy. Sporting Clube came agonisingly close: At the National Football League (2004-05) when they quite unexpectedly lost the concluding league clash against Mahindra United (1-3), and the Federation Cup final against the same opponents at the same venue - Nehru Stadium, Fatorda - in 2005. After that twin debacle, Sporting Clube lost two more Federation Cup finals. “Why don’t you count our Super Cup triumph,” Vaz always reminded this reporter, pointing to that famous 3-0 victory over Dempo Sports Club at Kozhikode in Kerala. Less than a week earlier, Dempo had snatched the NFL title from right under Sporting’s nose for the first time. Yet, when the two teams came face-to-face for the Super Cup clash, it was a mismatch. Sporting seemed too hungry for that trophy, watched by their ‘patrao’ in the stands. The Super Cup was a traditional season-ending clash with a trophy and cash purse of Rs 10 lakh on offer for a one-off game between the league and Cup champions. It’s a trophy that remained closest to his heart, until his untimely death in Bengaluru late on Thursday. The 53-year-old’s death shocked Indian football. “Peter had the right football philosophy and spirit as his aim was to uplift, inspire, nurture and offer the youth an opportunity to excel through sustained coaching,” said Goa Football Association president Churchill Alemao, who owns a football club of his own. Vaz was a boss who did everything differently. While newcomers spent big money to build teams and make an instant impact, Vaz worked his way up with budget teams and smart signings, thanks to his amazing eye for talent. “He could smell talent from a mile away,” said Angelo Albuquerque, his childhood friend and manager at the club since inception in 1999. When Vaz took over Cidade de Goa’s football team – then in the first division – in 1999, everyone raised their eyebrows in surprise. Vaz was just 32, and while bigwigs normally chose company names for the teams they patronised, he chose a different path. He named his club Sporting Clube de Goa. While it’s only now that the Indian Super League (ISL) has been enamoured with the city-specific club concept and names, Vaz thought of this 20 years ago. When African players were the norm, he hired Spaniards, played tiki-taka when it was not even fashionable and started the concept of Sportainment, a generous mix of sports and entertainment to attract the crowd. “He had a fan club, anthem and club mascot 20 years ago. He had a great eye for talent and competed with teams with a much bigger budget. His death is a huge loss for Goan football,” said GFA executive committee member Jonathan De Sousa. Welvin Menezes, Sporting Clube’s CEO at the moment, will feel the loss even more. “It’s rare to find owners with his level of commitment. He did things which nobody could think of. His vision remains unmatched,” said Menezes. Having opted out of the top-tier league four years ago due to the All India Football Federation’s faulty roadmap that demoted I-League and put ISL at the top, Vaz was playing the waiting game. He never really remained cut-off from the game, as evident from his far stronger team in Goa. His dream though was to win India’s premier football league. He was waiting to strike, again. Until Covid-19 played spoilsport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/peter-vaz-the-man-who-saw-footballs-tomorrow/articleshow/79973029.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
December 27, 2020||Vijayawada||First state police duty meet in Tirupati from Jan 4 to 7||Tirupati: The first-ever state police duty meet will be held in Tirupati between January 4 and January 7 in the New Year. Speaking to the media on Saturday, Anantapur range DIG Kranthi Rana Tata said that the event will be organised at the AR Grounds and the PTC-Kalyani Dam near Tirupati. Police personnel, from constable rank to additional SP rank, will take part in various competitions in course of the four-day meet. Tirupati SP A Ramesh Reddy called upon residents to attend the four-day event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/first-state-police-duty-meet-in-tirupati-from-jan-4-to-7/articleshow/79970656.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Three Mumbaikars among 17 flyers from UK who tested +ve in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Three Mumbaikars are among the 17 passengers in the state who tested positive for Covid-19 after returning from the United Kingdom between November 25 and December 21, said state public health officials on Saturday. Their swab samples have already been sent or are in the process of being sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for gene sequencing to check for the new, highly contagious mutation sweeping through the UK. Four from the neighbouring Thane district are among the 17 cases. The others include four from Nagpur, two from Pune and one each from Nanded, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad and Raigad, said the state Covid-19 update on Saturday. Late in the evening, there were reports of a 25-year-old Nashik resident who tested positive 10 days after he got a negative report at the Mumbai airport on his return from the UK. The state, though, has not yet included his name in the list so far. These positive passengers are among the 4,600-odd names shared by airport authorities to the Maharashtra public health department on the Centre's directive to carry out a special surveillance of passengers from the UK who returned between November 25 and December 21. Of these, roughly 2,600 names have been sent to the BMC for tracing and testing, said BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. By Saturday evening, 1,122 passengers on the state list had been traced and tested for Covid-19, said Dr Pradeep Awate who heads the epidemiology department of the state public health department. On Friday, TOI reported the state had three positive patients -one each from Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. "The first Mumbai patient had returned on December 1 and tested negative for Covid-19 a couple of times since. In a test done on Friday, though, the passenger tested positive," said Kakani. While public health officials say the passenger has been back long enough to get infected by a local strain, they have decided to be doubly sure and send the sample to NIV. Two women passengers who tested positive are from the Kalyan-Dombivli belt. The first is a 29-year-old from Kalyan who, along with her husband, returned on December 18 and tested positive and he negative. The second patient is a 33-year-old from Dombivli. Both are asymptomatic and admitted to a local Covid centre. They are among the 76 identified as Kalyan-Dombivli residents; 40 have been traced and tested so far. Meanwhile, a 36-year-old from Nagpur's Narendra Nagar, who returned from the UK recently, tested positive on Saturday. He is asymptomatic. Three other flyers, a man and a mother-daughter duo, tested positive too. All are in a hospital. In Aurangabad, a woman tested positive. While 44 people came from the UK, authorities tested 11; nine were negative and one result is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-mumbaikars-among-17-flyers-from-uk-who-tested-ve-in-maharashtra/articleshow/79973031.cms||Pradeep Gupta
December 27, 2020||Noida||37-year-old man held for flashing on DND Flyway||NOIDA: A 37-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly flashing a woman seated in a car on the DND flyway on Thursday afternoon. The incident took place around noon when the woman, a resident of Noida, was returning to the city from Delhi. The accused has been identified as Noyal Wilson. The woman told cops that a man on a scooter allegedly turned towards her, disrobed himself and flashed at her when she was driving and was around a kilometre from the DND toll plaza. “The woman then stopped and noted down the registration number of the scooter and informed us,” a police officer said, adding that the accused, however, said he had stopped on the stretch to urinate. Rakesh Singh, station house officer of Sector 20, told TOI that an FIR has been lodged against the accused under Sections 354 b (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe) and 509 (whoever, intending to insult the modesty of any woman, utters any words, makes any sound or gesture, or exhibits any object, intending that such word or sound shall be heard, or that such gesture or object shall be seen, by such woman, or intrudes upon the privacy of such woman) of the IPC. “The accused works as an accountant in a company and has claimed that he was urinating and did not do it deliberately. However, the woman has complained that he intentionally did it,” he said, adding that the accused has been arrested and the woman has been called to the police station on Sunday to record her statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/scooterist-arrested-for-flashing-woman-on-dnd/articleshow/79972265.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||As 1,469 fly in from abroad, BMC puts 762 in quarantine||MUMBAI: On Saturday, the fifth day since the BMC began quarantining flyers arriving from Europe, West Asia and South Africa, the BMC sent 762 passengers into compulsory institutional quarantine. A total of 1,469 passengers arrived in 17 flights on Saturday and 700 were allowed to travel to other states. Seven passengers were exempted from quarantine. On Wednesday, 1,688 passengers had arrived in the city from Europe and West Asia. Of these, 745 passengers were sent for institutional quarantine for seven days while 602 were allowed to leave for their destinations outside the state. On Saturday, the BMC started RT-PCR testing for those placed in hotel quarantine on December 21. "We will get the results of these tests by Sunday afternoon," additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/as-1469-fly-in-from-abroad-bmc-puts-762-in-quarantine/articleshow/79973042.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Dadar adds zero patients as Dharavi finds one new Covid case||MUMBAI: A day after Dharavi reported zero new Covid-19 cases, Dadar achieved the same mark on Saturday. Both Dadar and Dharavi fall in the G-North ward. Dharavi reported only one new coronavirus infection on Boxing Day. On Christmas Day, Friday, the largest slum in Asia had for the first time reported no new case in a 24-hour span since the first case was detected there on April 1. Dadar had last reported zero new cases on April 30. The case tally in Dadar stood at 4,750, of which 102 cases were active and 2,275 patients had recovered. Dadar reported its first case on April 3, and after that it reported zero cases on several days that month. Cases began to rise there from June. Dharavi has reported a total of 3,789 cases so far, of which 13 were active while 3,464 persons havd recovered and received discharge from Covid-19 centres. So far, 312 people with Covid-19 have died in Dharavi. "While Dharavi has slum pockets, Dadar has many high-rises and apartment buildings. Here, the cases had spiked after the lockdown was lifted and people started stepping out of their houses. We had conducted door-to-door screening in buildings too and had set up free testing centres," assistant municipal commissioner, G-North, Kiran Dighavkar said. Dighavkar said there was a spike after June when parks and gardens opened, people gathered for Ganpati visarjan, and train travel started, leading to crowding outside Dadar station. "We have been testing restaurant staff, hawkers and delivery boys. There was focused testing instead of random testing," Dighavkar said. The BMC carried out mass testing drives at beauty parlours and salons after these opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dadar-adds-zero-patients-as-dharavi-finds-one-new-covid-case/articleshow/79973044.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's Mahim gets seven new Covid cases, G-North ward tally now 13,107||MUMBAI: Mahim, the area between Dadar and Dharavi in G-North ward, reported seven new cases on Saturday. The total cases in G-North so far reached 13,107, of which 324 were active. The number of recovered patients was 12,154. In Dharavi, one new case was recorded. On April 1, a 56-year-old man from Baliga Nagar in Dharavi had been the first to test positive in the area, giving rise to fears of rapid spread of the coronavirus in the slum-dominated part of G-North. BMC officials said that in Dadar they had acquired several community halls and schools to host patients and high-risk contacts. Hospitals were also taken. As new cases declined, these were returned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-mahim-gets-seven-new-covid-cases-g-north-ward-tally-now-13107/articleshow/79973057.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Surat businessman held for ruckus at hotel, manhandling cops||MUMBAI: A Surat businessman, who allegedly under the influence of alcohol created a ruckus at a three-star hotel at Marine Drive and harassed hotel staff and guests, was arrested by police on Friday night. When police arrived he allegedly refused to wear a mask, misbehaved, manhandled them, broke their wireless radio and abused them too. Marine Drive police booked Manish Mulchandani (34) for assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty, unlawful or negligent act, disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant and obstructing a public servant in discharge of public functions. He had gone to the hotel's bar and around 9pm his friend left. Around 9.30pm he went to the lobby with two bottles of alcohol and started drinking. "Hotel staff requested him not to drink in the lobby as other guests were getting disturbed. When Mulchandani argued with them and abused them, the management called the police control room,'' said inspector S Ahwad. When a patrol team tried to convince him to go home, he argued with them on whether they had a warrant. Police then asked him why he was not wearing a mask and gave him one, but he refused to wear it and abused them. Police then forcibly took him to their van as he was drunk. "In the van he argued with, manhandled policemen and kicked a wireless radio, which got damaged. He threatened them that they did not know who he was and he would ensure some of them would be transferred for arresting him. We then decided to book him instead of letting him off,'' said an official. Ahwad said he was produced before a local magistrate's court, which granted him bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/surat-businessman-held-for-ruckus-at-hotel-manhandling-cops/articleshow/79973067.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||2,707 Karnataka gram panchayats go to polls in second phase today||BENGALURU: Amid the fear of a second wave of Covid-19, the second phase of the gram panchayat elections will be held on Sunday. Polling will begin at 7am and end at 5pm. The counting will take place on December 30. According to the State Election Commission (SEC) officials, 2,707 gram panchayats across over 100 taluks will be covered. Half of the seats are reserved for women. Elections to 2,930 GPs across 117 taluks were held in the first phase on Tuesday which recorded 82 per cent polling and it crossed 90 per cent in some districts, including Bengaluru Rural which is much higher than the turnout for the assembly and Lok Sabha elections. Except for a few stray incidents, where polling was disrupted for some time, the elections were by and large peaceful. About 5,000 candidates were elected unopposed in GPs that went to polls in the first phase and another 5,000 were elected unopposed in GPs that are going to polls on Sunday. Following reports of alleged auctioning of seats in GPs in different districts, the SEC has asked the deputy commissioners to verify the process through which candidates are elected unopposed and countermand such polls if they find any illegality. Wearing masks and maintaining social distance are mandatory. Provisions have been made for those who have tested positive or the primary or secondary contacts to vote in the last hour of polling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2707-karnataka-gram-panchayats-go-to-polls-in-second-phase-today/articleshow/79973052.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Civic body may begin work on storage centre later this week||MUMBAI: Work on the municipal storage facility for the Covid-19 vaccine in Kanjurmarg "may begin next week", said officials on Saturday. A contractor will be decided by Tuesday. Tendering for work on the cold storage facility closed on December 23. There were six applicants, said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Kanjurmarg will be the central storage facility for the city, with a capacity of 15 lakh vials at the least. The BMC wants installation of walk-in coolers and freezers able to maintain a temperature between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. "The walls of the facility may need to be strengthened to ensure proper cooling," a municipal official said. The storage facility will come up on the first floor of a five-storey building owned by the BMC in the central suburb. "The vaccines approval process could take a few weeks more, giving us adequate time to prepare the facility," the official said. The present storage at the four BMC teaching hospitals, KEM, Sion, Nair and Cooper, would be adequate for the initial phase. The BMC plan is to vaccinate 1.25 lakh healthcare workers. Frontline workers such as police officials and people more than 50 years old with co-morbidities that make them vulnerable to Covid-19 will be the next in the line in the mass vaccination drive when the approval comes in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-civic-body-may-begin-work-on-storage-centre-later-this-week/articleshow/79973075.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Surat||Five children forced into begging rescued||SURAT: Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) rescued five children, including three girls, who were forced into begging, from near Star Bazaar crossroad in Adajan on Saturday. Of the five rescued all aged between 3 to 10 years, four were siblings forced into begging by their father and were given a target of collecting Rs 500 daily. They further informed police that if they failed to achieve the target, their father would thrash them. The children were sent to Children Home in Katargam and Rander since their parents were yet to be traced. The rescue operation by AHTU is part of the special drive ordered by city police commissioner Ajay Tomar. Parents of the children were booked under sections of Juvenile Justice Act at in Adajan police station. Police also booked Sunil Marathi, father of the four siblings, three girls and a boy, and Heena Kalu, mother of one of the girls. Following the instruction of senior police officials, a team of AHTU had kept watch on children begging at the crossroad. “The four siblings informed that their father forces them into begging and use to beat them up if they did not get enough money,” said A J Chaudhary, police inspector, AHTU. “Children can be seen begging on roads by risking their lives. We are trying to stop this. Other departments should also take actions to solve this problem,” said H R Muliyana, in-charge police commissioner, Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/five-children-forced-into-begging-rescued/articleshow/79970644.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
December 27, 2020||Vadodara||PhD student dies after accidentally falling off terrace||VADODARA: A PhD student living in Anand died after accidentally falling off the terrace of old Vikrambaug quarters on MS University (MSU) campus on Friday night. Hitesh Yadav (28), a native of Ahmedabad and studying in Anand was in Vadodara on Friday as his friend had called him over for birthday dinner. Around 11 pm, Yadav received a call on his mobile phone and he went on the terrace to talk. A few minutes later, his friend and his family members heard a loud thud on the ground floor. When they checked, Yadav was lying in a pool of blood. He had fallen on a parked scooter. The vehicle’s front body was also damaged due to the impact. Yadav was rushed to SSG Hospital for treatment where he succumbed on Saturday morning. “It seems that he fell off accidentally as the terrace’s walls are just two feet high. His parents have also not raised any suspicions, so as of now it seems to be an accidental death,” said inspector S G Solanki of Sayajigunj police station. He added that Yadav had done his BSc from MSU in the past. On Saturday, his body was handed over to his family members after post-mortem. A case of accidental death was registered at Sayajigunj police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/phd-student-dies-after-accidentally-falling-off-terrace/articleshow/79971031.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||More E-rickshaws than C-rickshaws||WHEELS OF CHANGE “Times were good till the Maxis (a brand of e-rickshaws) started plying on the roads five years ago,” says veteran Mohan Kewat as he struggled to mount a sack of chillies on his cycle rickshaw at Cotton Market. It was already overladen for his physique. Asked his age, Kewat points to a tree close by. “I had planted the sapling and look how big it is now. I am older. All these buildings were not there when I was young,” he says. Easily past his 70s, Kewat says what he earned pulling the cycle rickshaw all these years was just enough to keep him going and buying an e-rickshaw worth over a lakh was just out of question. One of his pet ideas, Union minister of surface transport Nitin Gadkari had pushed the e-rickshaws as a mean to improve cycle-rickshaw pullers’ lives. “It’s a crime against humanity that one man pulls another,” the MP had said while promoting the e-rickshaw. The minister said it could be bought by cycle-rickshaw pullers on easy terms. On the streets, cycle rickshaw pullers say the e-vehicle, which was meant to pull them out of drudgery, has left a number of them worse off. Not many even owned a cycle-rickshaw that costs Rs17,000 these days. With their paltry earnings, buying an e-rickshaw worth over a lakh was impossible, they said. Yet, many from other walks got an employment opportunity after buying an e-rickshaw. This threw cycle-rickshaws out of competition, said the rickshaw pullers TOI met. Rickshaw pullers have shifted to Maxi of other brands but a number of them have been marginalized by the new technology, they said. Many of the cycle rickshaw pullers are homeless and have no families. They sleep wherever they last parked after dropping off their last customer. Almost all of them were pulling rented rickshaws paying Rs30 a day. The daily earnings ranged from Rs50 to Rs200. Before the e-rickshaws came the income was double, they said. With passengers preferring e-rickshaws, the cycle-rickshaw pullers have largely taken to pulling load. The e-rickshaw drivers TOI met were from different backgrounds. They included a factory worker, embroidery craftsman, a vegetable seller, cycle mechanic and even a supplier of laboratory equipment in schools who purchased an e-rickshaw after business was hit during lockdown. A couple of them were former cycle-rickshaw pullers too. At Bajaj Nagar, Naresh Neware, still in his late 40s, said, “I am pulling a rickshaw since I was a boy. But I have not been able to save enough to buy an e-rickshaw. I built a house with the savings. There was a time when I even dropped people to the airport, but now getting a passenger for small distances is difficult,” he said. A disgruntled Krishna Makram says, “Leave alone an e-rickshaw I could barely earn to get married and support a family.” There were others like him too. The cycle rickshaws survived the onslaught of auto rickshaws and even six-seaters. But, e-rickshaws simply threw them out of competition, say Neware and Makram. Both also said that some of their relatives who were earlier rickshaw pullers, had bought electric vehicles and were doing well. Covid has also led to many giving up the trade, said Neware. “There used to be a garage here with rickshaws available for rent. The owner has nearly wound up the business,” he said. The road from Cotton Market to Mahal is full of e-rickshaws. Some cycle rickshaws can be spotted too, most laden with goods and with a couple of passengers. Kailash Dhamaye, who earlier pulled a cycle-rickshaw, has managed to buy an electric vehicle. “I managed to get Rs25,000 for the down payment. I have it since two years, it’s better than a cycle-rickshaw. I had to borrow Rs30,000 to replace the battery, he says. Nagpur Rickshaw Company, the over 70-year-old firm making cycle rickshaws, is now into e-rickshaw business since five years ago. It began as the first agency of Maxi and is now selling a different brand. There is no longer a demand for cycle rickshaws even though the product has a very long life. “E-rickshaws take you fast so hardly anyone hails a cycle rickshaw,” said Raj Kumar, a regular user. “The rickshaw pullers are completely unorganized. Over a decade ago there was a union leader who is no more,” said Jammu Anand, a trade unionist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-e-rickshaws-than-c-rickshaws/articleshow/79970328.cms||Shishir Arya
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Restaurants witness revival as Delhi rediscovers appetite for eating out||Hotel Hyatt Regency has a new west Asian restaurant Syrah; restaurateur Zorawar Kalra has introduced a new space, Bo Tai Switch, at Shangri-La’s Eros New Delhi while restaurateur Navneet Karla has started his new concept eatery Kakapo in Mehrauli. Taj hotels added The Connaught to its portfolio of hotels in the city and reopened the iconic Machan eatery at Taj Mahal on Man Singh Road while Roseate Hotels opened their cafe Roasted by Roseate in Vasant Kunj. Popular diners Dum Pukht and Bukhara at ITC Maurya are witnessing their usual busy days and running packed even on weekdays. Restaurateur Varun Puri added Mad - Music & Drinks at Rajouri Garden to his existing portfolio of Imly and Duty Free restaurants across NCR. For the capital’s restaurant industry, which was staring at multiple closures and a bleak future — various estimates suggested nearly 50% spaces were getting closed permanently since Covid-19 pandemic struck — 2020 is at least ending on a relatively bright note with new openings and better footfall. While most outlets in Rajouri Garden and Punjabi Bagh are clocking 70% of last year’s revenue, Deepak Tandon of Wok in the Clouds says those in Connaught Place and Khan Market have also started picking up steam and touching almost 50% sales of last year. While the recovery was expected to begin from Diwali, most restaurants in the city actually started witnessing a turnaround from December onwards. Eateries seeing a turnaround from DecRestaurants such as Café Turtle that shut are planning to reopen at a new venue while high energy diners such as Ophelia and Olive are again witnessing good turnout. Fab Cafe by the Lake at Sunder Nursery is the latest social media sensation while Colocal at Dhan Mill Complex has a waiting queue every weekend. And Padmanabham opened its second outlet in GK I. It has been a positive experience for even newer ventures such as Sloppy Sticks where founder Aprajita Dutt has observed a positive response to her Asian food delivery with newer orders everyday while restaurant Avantika Sinha is busy planning opening her new Singaporean cuisine outlet soon. Tandon has observed that most outlets have reopened or others that had closed have shifted to different locations due to better rentals. Tandon says pandemic has been just the 'market correction' that was needed as many places are available for cheaper and realistic rents. “Many places reduced their rents by almost half. This made it feasible for restaurants to stay open. Those who didn’t agree to waive of rents, lost their years old tenants, as most owners had better deals available and have started reopening at new locations,” says Tandon. While the recovery was expected to begin from Diwali, most markets in the city actually started witnessing a turnaround from December onwards. Varun Khera, Noida chapter head of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) who is also relaunching his own outlets Kaffiiaa and KA Eclairs at different locations says many like him had shut shop but are reopening at different locations as sentiments are definitely more positive and there are better rentals on offer. He observes there is a definite positive vibe in the market and outlets in the market and main malls such as Garden Galleria and DLF Mall of India have started doing decent business. “People are coming in decent numbers and dining out,” Khera says. From first few months in pandemic where hotels were shut, Madhav Sehgal, GM, Andaz Aerocity says the last four Sunday brunches at restaurants in his hotel have been sold out while room occupancy is touching 70%. Having started their new wing named Hyatt Delhi Residences, apartments at the hotel recently, Sehgal attributes positive response being driven by public sentiment. “People are stepping out for hotel stay and meals and following all protocols. Even though domestic Indian corporate travel has yet to start, the local city crowd’s response is making us optimistic,” he says. While sentiment is definitely better than any other month this year, Gurugram chapter head of NRAI and restaurateur Inderjeet Singh Banga says Gurgram will take some more time to show full recovery as most corporate offices are still shut. He has closed his popular outlet Prankster and says many like him will reopen it later at a different venue as there are multiple locations with better rentals available. "Most outlets have touched 50% of their sales and things will get even better as offices slowly start reopening and the workforce starts to return,” Banga explains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/restaurants-witness-revival-as-delhi-rediscovers-appetite-for-eating-out/articleshow/79973078.cms||Amin Ali
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: A one-time IIT aspirant, now a rickshaw puller||“Life is too complex to be fathomed,” quips Rajkumar Meher philosophically, resting on his cycle-rickshaw near the canal at Ramdaspeth. At one time planning to appear for IIT entrance exams, Meher, after doing several odd jobs, has been pulling a cycler rickshaw for two decades. “At my hometown Bolangir in Odisha, I was in class 12 in 1985 when I left home before the board exams. My subjects were physics, chemistry, mathematics, and statistics. Soon after the board exams, I was supposed to attend the IIT entrance exam. The centre was at Sambhalpur town but I just walked out before that, never to return,” he says. Time passed and the dreams were forgotten. He ended up pulling a cycle rickshaw to make a living. A chat with him and you come to know his academic background. “Theory of relativity was by Einstein, trigonometry helps you measuring unknown distances like the altitude of a mountain, or how far a celestial body is. I have studied about light, arithmetic, algebra and data analysis in statistics,” he goes on jotting down an algebraic formula on a paper. “I come from a middle-class family and was an average student but may have done well if things had been normal. My brother insisted that I take care of the family shop which left me frustrated,” claims Meher. Now 53, Meher says he left home while in his teens after spending some days at Raipur and Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh doing errand jobs, he landed at Nagpur. The rickshaw he has been pedalling was later bought some years ago. “Toiling as a rickshaw puller has not given me the chance to upgrade my knowledge. I did repent earlier but now my mind is in a state of tranquility just like nature and have no desire to chase,” he says. Due to falling earnings from the rickshaw, Meher also doubles as a security guard at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-one-time-iit-aspirant-now-a-rickshaw-puller/articleshow/79976230.cms||Shishir Arya
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||Is there a new virus strain in Vid? Docs digging deep||Nagpur: The health department has started random testing of previously positive samples of Covid-19 to trace if any new strain of the virus was or is active in Vidarbha. For this, positive samples from different parts of Vidarbha are being sent for genome sequencing tests at NIV Pune. By Saturday, 80 such samples have already been sent. More are on the way to Pune.Doctors from Indira Gandhi Government Medical College Hospital (IGGMCH), from where these samples are being sent to Pune, told TOI that samples from different localities of the district and from different phases of Covid-19 spread are being selected randomly.“Initially, 20 samples each from September, October, November and December have been sent for genome sequencing from Nagpur,” said Dr Ravindra Khadse from IGGMCH’s VRDL Laboratory. This is the oldest lab in Vidarbha which is conducting Covid-19 tests.District authorities from other labs have also confirmed that samples will be sent to NIV Pune for random tests. Especially, samples from Akola will be sent on priority as the district and surrounding region witnessed sudden spike in Covid-19 cases during May-June and July.Doctors told TOI that it’s a good move by the government. “It’s a good start for us. We should try to sequence more samples,” said Dr Nitin Shinde, an infectious disease specialist.“This novel coronavirus is less mutagenic than many other viruses. However, mutations are normal property of viruses. There will be always a few mutations. If we start sequencing, we will get to know about them,” said Dr Shinde. “However, the mutation rate of this virus is slow and it will take a lot of time for this virus to accumulate dangerous mutations,” he added.Epidemiologist from Akola Anand Thatte said different strains of the virus can be there in Vidarbha. “Doctors from Gujarat had claimed in April that a different strain of virus could have been infecting people there. But at that time, we were not very much aware of mutations and strains of this virus,” he said.“Currently, there is no evidence to suggest that the new strain found in the UK causes more severe symptoms. Still, it’s a good beginning for our scientists that we have started tests for mutations,” he said.Doctors also said that genome sequencing is a scientific process which is an integral part of research on any virus. There is no need to panic at this moment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/is-there-a-new-virus-strain-in-vid-docs-digging-deep/articleshow/79970349.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: New sectors to get piped water by April||GURUGRAM: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is planning to complete the laying down of water pipelines in new sectors by the end of March 2021, after missing several deadlines. This would mean that by April next year, all residential societies in new sectors would start getting canal water, after having relied on ground water and water tankers for years. The project includes laying down pipelines for a total distance of 130km at a cost of Rs 226.81 crore. According to GMDA officials, work is being carried out in three packages — package 1 covers sectors 58-67, package 2 covers sectors 68-80 and package 3 includes sectors 81-115. “Work on sectors 58-67 has been awarded to a private firm for Rs. 95.96 crore. Around 90% work is completed and the rest is likely to be completed by the end of March,” said a senior GMDA official. As far as sectors 68-80 are concerned, around 75% work has already been completed and the remaining is also likely to be completed by March-end. The official further said around 60% of the work has been completed in package 3, and the rest will be completed by the same date. Two water treatment plants will cater to the new sectors. While the capacity of the Chandu Budhera plant is being augmented, work for setting up a new water treatment plant in Sector 72 is also underway The supply of canal water in the news sectors was one of GMDA’s foremost projects; however, it has missed several deadlines. GMDA’s former chief had promised that the new sectors would receive canal water by March 2019. But the authority could not meet the deadline and it was eventually revised to March 2020. New sectors, however, are yet to receive piped water. There are at least 150 residential societies in sectors 58-115, with lakhs of residents currently living there. The lack of water supply from the government has made them dependent on groundwater and water tankers for meeting their daily water needs. Water supply, once commissioned, will not only help cut down on ground water exploitation but will also help residents cut down their expenses. GMDA had earlier set up a pipeline for distributing treated water in the new sectors. It is already being supplied in some areas. The treated water is being used for non-drinking purposes, such as horticulture, gardening, agriculture and industrial uses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/new-sectors-to-get-piped-water-by-april/articleshow/79972361.cms||Shubhra Pant
December 27, 2020||Chennai||After 10 months, Chennai civic body to begin repairing e-toilets||CHENNAI: After nearly 10 months, e-toilets in the city will be renovated. Greater Chennai Corporation has called for tenders to repair existing e-toilets in Royapuram, Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Valasaravakkam, Alandur and Adyar zones. Totally 152 e-toilet seats in 88 locations will be repaired at a cost of nearly Rs15 lakh. E-toilets are box-like structures which are located at important parts of the city like bus stands, parks and other public junctions. The idea behind such e-toilets was to dissuade people from urinating in the open. However, several e-toilets in the city are in a state of complete disrepair. In some places they are locked. Many etoilets in North Chennai have become a dumpster for plastic bottles and have not been cleaned for several months. This comes even as unclean toilets can emerge as a space where Covid-19 can spread, according to experts. In some places, fecal matter is found on the pot as there is no water to flush. In other places, women don’t want to use the e-toilets as the doors are not functional. Many slum dwellers have pointed out that public toilets, including e-toilets are useful for them as they don’t have access to such facilities. Such toilets are also used for bathing by them. But with Greater Chennai Corporation turning a blind eye to its maintenance through the pandemic, slum dwellers are facing a lot of hardships. E-toilets are also important for those visiting public parks, 650 of which are there in the city. In many parks, e-toilets are now kept locked. Many experts have suggested GCC to ensure local management groups are formed to oversee maintenance of the toilts. Experts also suggested these should have representatives from other bodies like Metrowater and an electricity board as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-10-months-chennai-civic-body-to-begin-repairing-e-toilets/articleshow/79973096.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Nagpur||Asst prof attempts suicide in Ytl college||Yavatmal: An associate professor of chemistry at Jagadamba Engineering College here attempted suicide at the institution’s laboratory on Saturday due to the alleged mental torture by the college administration and the management. The associate professor, Mohamed Wasim Abdul Qadar, is working in the college since the last eight years and teaches chemistry to first year engineering students. He attempted suicide in the laboratory with the help of a rope. Before attempting suicide, Wasim made a video in which he has alleged that he has been forced to take the extreme step due to the continuous mental torture by the college principal Dr Hemant Baradkar and secretary of the education society Dr Shital Wathile. Among his allegations, Wasim said he was not paid his full salary, got leaves and other benefits. On Friday, he left college claiming that he had informed the authorities concerned. On Saturday when he reached the college, the principal slapped a show cause notice to him. The professor then tried to hang himself. The other staffers rushed to save him. In the meantime, the video became viral and police too reached the college. When contacted, Dr Wathile categorically denied the allegations and said Wasim has confessed before him that he was under mental pressure. In a clarification issued later, Dr Wathile stated that for the last nine months, the college was closed due to lockdown. “We are paying regular salary to all our employees despite the total lockdown,” he said, adding that neither he nor the principal tortured him. “There is a cordial relationship between the staffers and the management,” Wathile added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/asst-prof-attempts-suicide-in-ytl-college/articleshow/79970361.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Decembrrr: Second highest number of cold wave days in Delhi in 28 years||NEW DELHI: Delhi has so far recorded the second-highest number of cold wave days in December in the last 28 years, India Meteorological Data (IMD) data shows. The city reported five “cold wave” days during the months so far while “cold wave conditions” were recorded on a few more days in parts of the capital. A “cold wave” day is recorded when the minimum temperature is under 10 degrees Celsius and is at least four notches below normal. “Cold wave conditions” are reported when only a few monitoring stations in the city meet the cold wave parameters. There may be more cold wave days in store with the met department forecasting a drop in minimum temperatures from December 29 to 31. Minimum temp to rise slightly todayMet officials said lack of cloud cover and chilly northwesterly winds sweeping in from the mountains, which received fresh snowfall, mostly led to cold wave days. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said the capital has recorded second highest cold wave days in December since 1992. Eight cold wave days were reported in December 2018, which is highest in 28 years. “A number of conditions came together, leading to cold wave days — clear skies, cold winds blowing in from snowcapped western Himalayan region and fewer number of western disturbances.” Another scientist at IMD said the absence of cloud cover makes the day warm while the heat quickly dissipates at night which causes fall in minimum temperature. According to IMD data, the third highest number of cold wave days in December was recorded in 2011 with four such days. In most December months in the last three decades — as many as 17 from 1992 to 2017 — not a single cold wave day was recorded, as per IMD records. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature dropped to 4.4 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, on Saturday. The maximum temperature recorded at city’s base Safadurjung observatory was 21.9 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal. The minimum temperature is predicted to rise marginally to 5 degrees Celsius on Sunday and Monday. A western disturbance is expected to affect mainly the western Himalayan region, with light snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir and light rain in northern parts of Punjab. Due to the western disturbance, the wind direction is predicted to change to easterly, causing a rise in temperatures in Delhi for two days. However, temperatures are likely to fall from December 29 when wind direction changes again to northwesterly. Watch Delhi records second highest number of cold wave days in 28 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/decembrrr-second-highest-number-of-cold-wave-days-in-delhi-in-28-years/articleshow/79973101.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Big conspiracy to freeze party symbol: Minister C Ve Shanmugam||CHENNAI: Minister and senior AIADMK leader C Ve Shanmugam on Saturday said there was a “big conspiracy” to freeze the party’s ‘two leaves’ symbol and that this election was a “do or die” battle for the party. “So, party functionaries should shed their differences and work hard to remain united and keep the movement alive,” said Shanmugam. On Sunday, the AIADMK has planned a public meeting in Royapettah YMCA Grounds in Chennai in which chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, deputy CM O Panneerselvam and a host of ministers, MLAs, MPs besides senior functionaries are expected to take part. “Many are claiming to be MGR’s heirs. But MGR’s true political heir is the ‘two leaves’ symbol. It now faces grave danger. More than winning the election, it is crucial to sustain the (AIADMK) movement and take it forward for the next 100 years to serve the people, just like Amma (J Jayalalithaa) wanted. For that, we should win this election,” said the minister while addressing the party cadres in Virudhachalam in Cuddalore district on Friday. He urged party functionaries to shed their differences and work to keep the party alive. “Who will become an MLA or minister is not important, but winning the election is important to continue to wear the (AIADMK’s) black-whitered-bordered dhoti,” said Shanmugam When contacted, Shanmugam denied he had mentioned “conspiracy”. “I was asking party workers to be cautious. Anything can happen. I want the party cadres to be prepared to face any situation and work hard for the party’s victory,” Shanmugam told TOI. But in the video where he is seen addressing party cadres, the minister talks about “a big conspiracy” against AIADMK. Asked if he suspected ally BJP, the minister said, “Political parties, including allies, will go to any extreme for political mileage. There are previous experiences and lessons. So, our foremost intention is to protect our party and safeguard its interests,” said Shanmugam. “There were several incidents and enough political lessons,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/big-conspiracy-to-freeze-party-symbol-minister-c-ve-shanmugam/articleshow/79973045.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Vadodara||Man sells off wife’s jewellery, cash to pay moneylenders||VADODARA: A woman living on Dabhoi Road on Friday accused her husband of physical assault and criminal intimidation after taking away her gold jewellery and money. The woman Hemlata Thumbadiya alleged that her husband Alpesh threw her and their six-year-old daughter out of the house. Hemlata told police that took away her gold jewellery, Rs 1.2 lakh cash from her and a similar amount from her father as he had to pay off his debts to moneylenders. Originally a resident of Palanpur, Alpesh kept changing his addresses in different cities as he had failed to repay money to lenders. Hemlata alleged that Alpesh lied about his profession. She learnt about his borrowing habits when lenders came knocking on their door. When Hemlata asked him to find a decent job instead of borrowing money, Alpesh allegedly thrashed her and made her leave the house in May 2018. Six months later, the couple settled the issues after their parents intervened and Alpesh assured that he will return the jewellery and cash. The couple then started living at Waghodiya-Dabhoi ring road. However, Alpesh, instead of finding a job continued borrowing money due to which loan sharks started threatening them. Again when Hemlata asked him to stop borrowing money, Alpesh pushed her out of the house in March last year and since then Hemlata and her daughter are living with her parents. Hemlata then approached the family court seeking maintenance amount from Alpesh. The accused then started threatening Hemlata to withdraw the court case. To pressurize her, Alpesh even sent fake cops at her home, she alleged. As Alpesh continued to pressurize her, Hemlata lodged a complaint against him at Mahila police station. yesterday Alspesh has been booked for cruelty, assault and criminal intimidation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-sells-off-wifes-jewellery-cash-to-pay-moneylenders/articleshow/79971039.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ranchi||8 TPC men held from Gumla, H’bag||Gumla/Hazaribag: Eight members of the Tritiya Prastuti Committee were held in Gumla and Hazaribag districts, police said on Saturday. In Gumla, five rebels, clad in camouflage uniforms were arrested from Helta village under Bishunpur police station. Gumla SP Hrudeep P Janardhanan said the rebels hailed from Latehar, Gumla and Lohardaga districts. “On November 25, officer in-charge of Bishunpur police station Sadanand Singh got information about movement of 9 extremists with rifles, gun and bombs in the region. They were here to extract levy. Police held them from the house of Suresh Oraon near Helta forest,” he said. Janardhanan said the rebels hurled bombs on the security forces upon spotting them and four of them managed to escape. On recoveries, he said, “One .315 rifle, a double barrel breach loading gun, a country-made pistol and an air gun was seized besides live cartridges and two sets of uniforms.” In Hazaribag, three TPC rebels were held including a sub-zonal commander, said SP Karthik S. “After registering cases in three different police stations against a few rebels for pasting posters and issuing threat messages for levy, police began a probe during which three were held following raids across several locations. We recovered a pistol, two phones and a few posters from their possession,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/8-tpc-men-held-from-gumla-hbag/articleshow/79970540.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Occupancy dips to 30%, West Bengal govt set to gradually reduce Covid beds||KOLKATA: The state government is set to restrict Covid treatment to two or three government facilities in Kolkata and gradually scale down the number of beds at its other designated hospitals, which now have an occupancy of just 30%. The Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General Hospital and KS Roy TB Hospital in Jad-avpur have been earmarked as the two hospitals that will shoulder the city’s Covid burden even as the rest of government facilities go for a phased withdrawal of Covid treatment. Sources said MR Bangur Hos-pital may also be retained as a Covid unit. Currently, nine hospitals in the city are designated as government Covid facilities, including three private units that the state government has acquired. Together, they have around 2,410 beds, of which 285 are in the three private hospitals. Close to 1,700 of these beds are now vacant. Bed occupancy at the nine government units had gone up to 71% in the third week of October from 52% in mid-September. The occupancy remained around 60% even in mid-November but is now down to 30%. “We have seen a significant dip in the number of Covid patients. If this trend persists, we will gradually scale down the number of Covid beds in the other government facilities and direct all city patients to ID&BG and KS Roy TB Hospital,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services. Accordingly, the government has scaled up the number of Covid beds in ID&BG, adding 100 beds to the existing pool. A 100 more are in the process of being added. The Beliaghata hospital, which was the first to be designated a government Covid unit after the pandemic began, currently has 215 operational beds. “The 100 newly added beds include 50 in the HDU. Half of the next lot will be added to the HDU as well,” said Asis Manna, medical superintendent and vice principal at ID&BG. The hospital has also been provided with new equipment like another CT scan machine and an LMO (liquid medical oxygen) tank. In November, the health department had converted KS Roy TB Hospital in Jadavpur into a full-fledged Covid facility with 130 beds. Currently, construction and electrical wiring are on the verge of completion and work on installing medical gas pipeline is in progress at the hospital which is adjacent to KPC Medical College. “If all goes well, the Covid beds at KS Roy TB Hospital will become operational in a week or two,” said Somnath Mukherjee, CMOH South 24 Parganas. Sources indicated the withdrawal of Covid beds will start with the three private hospitals — KPC, AMRI Salt Lake and Desun Hospital — where the number of government Covid beds is already down to 100 from 200. The next in line could be Medical College and Hospital and NRS Medical College, where physical classes for MBBS students have begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/occupancy-dips-to-30-govt-set-to-gradually-reduce-covid-beds/articleshow/79972585.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 27, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi to host int’l race walking championship in Feb for 2nd time in a row||Ranchi: Athletics Federation of India (AFI) on Saturday allotted the 8th national open and 4th international race walking championship to the state which is slated to be held in Ranchi on February next year. The event assumes importance as it will also be a qualifying event for the next Olympics. S K Pandey, chairman of media sub-committee of the state athletics unit, said they will be hosting it for the second time on the trot. “Over 200 Indian athletes and about 30 from foreign countries are expected to descend in Ranchi for the tournament. Earlier this year in February, when we hosted it for the first time, visitors and foreign delegates appreciated the weather conditions of Ranchi which prompted the apex athletics body to grant a second edition of the tournament here,” he said. Pandey said ground works for the tournament will begin soon and special attention will be given to arrangements in view of the pandemic. On the upcoming international meet, Pandey said it will be held in three categories — 50km male, 20km male and female (Olympic qualification sprint) and 10km under-20 male and female Asian championship qualification event). “For Indian athletes, this will be the last occasion for Olympic qualifications for the race walking event. During this year’s meet in February, only one athlete, Bhawana Jat, could manage a spot and three more slots are to be filled,” he said, adding that the same goes for international athletes. “Last year, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka had participated in the event,” informed Sashank Singh, co-treasurer of the state association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-to-host-intl-race-walking-championship-in-feb-for-2nd-time-in-a-row/articleshow/79970548.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 27, 2020||Surat||Man defames fiancée to break off engagement||SURAT: A 24-year-old air conditioner mechanic was arrested on Saturday for allegedly creating and sharing defamatory content on social media about his ex-fiancé to break off his engagement. The accused Jaydeep Tarsariya was booked following a complaint lodged by his 22-year-old ex-fiancé. Tarsariya had created two fake Instagram accounts and shared objectionable photos and text about her. He was traced through the IP address of the devices that he used to share the defamatory material. According to police, Tarsariya who had studied up to Class X, got engaged to the woman who is an art graduate under family pressure earlier this year. He wanted to end the relationship but couldn’t convince his parents, so he planned to defame her. He showed the screenshot of the dummy account to his and the girl’s family and called off the engagement in October 2020. “But the woman did not take the allegations kindly and to find out the truth, she lodged a police complaint on Friday,” said R M Vasaiya inspector, cybercrime police station. The woman’s father works at a textile embroidery unit, while Tarsariya’s father does tailoring work at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-defames-fiance-to-break-off-engagement/articleshow/79970684.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi hotels & clubs say no to New Year bash amid the pandemic||Ranchi: Citizens staying home for large part of 2020 will bid farewell to the year from home as most leading hotels and clubs in the capital have decided not to host any year-end events on New Year’s Eve (NYE) in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. While the state’s cumulative daily caseload has been on a downward trend since last couple of months, the situation in Ranchi remains grim with double-digit new cases on a daily basis. Most party spots have chosen to end the year on quiet note. Radisson Blu, a five-star hotel near Kadru, will only lay out a special dinner buffet for couple and families looking to dine out on NYE. Speaking to TOI, general manager Shantanu Guha Roy said, “Unlike in the past, we have decided to completely do away with the New Year bash. Although, almost all businesses have been now allowed to reopen, we do not want to take chances with the health of the people. The special dinner buffet is for those who wish to have a family time in solitude to end the year.” After a few weeks of rush due to the month-long marriage season, hotels have again begun reporting less occupancy levels. “The marriage season was good as it helped us make up for some of the losses we incurred during the lockdown, but reaching pre-Covid levels will take a few more months. Holiday season is on and corporate movement has stopped. Hotels are empty with negligible occupancy for the time being,” Roy said. Another premier hotel — Capitol Hill —has also planned an open buffet with live music for walk-in customers. “There won’t be any gala event. We have decided to provide our dining/party lounges to those who wish to avail it through bulk bookings for private party,” said Karanveer Bhatia, owner of the hotel. At BNR Chanakya, a Hyderabadi food festival kicked off on Friday and will be on till January 3. “After a long hiatus, we dared to host the festival to tickle the taste buds of food connoisseurs in Ranchi,” said an official. Clubs too will give New Year bash a miss this time. Ranchi Club, one of the top clubs of the city, known for its awe-inspiring theme-based celebrations, has announced it will not hold any event this time. Club secretary Manish Jalan said, “There will be no celebrations or party on NYE due to the prevailing pandemic.” However, a few restaurants and pubs have lined up DJ nights for the party crowd. Kasha Lounge at Radium Road has roped in DJ Yoshika and DJ Laks for NYE. Manik Datta, owner of the lounge, said couple entry is priced at Rs 3,999 while singles will have to pay Rs 2500. “The charges will be inclusive of unlimited food and drinks,” he said, adding that they will allow people in on first-come-first-serve basis to prevent over-crowding. “All Covid norms will be followed. We will install full-body sanitizing chamber at the entry point, and all visitors will scanned for fever. Considering our space, we will allow a maximum of 80 people,” he said. Meanwhile, Ranchi Police has appealed to party hoppers to refrain from violating safety norms. City SP Saurabh said, “We are identifying sensitive hot-spots where special deployment of police will be done on December 31 to prevent instances of drunk driving, speeding and violation of Covid norms. At hotels and pubs, it won’t be possible to physically inspect if rules are being followed, but we will act if we get complaints from any quarters.” Notably, the state government has only allowed a 10-minute window for bursting of crackers on December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-hotels-clubs-say-no-to-new-year-bash-amid-the-pandemic/articleshow/79970533.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||No idea of Bengal’s culture: TMC’s swipe at BJP brass||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress on Saturday hit out at the BJP brass “who have no idea of Bengal’s culture” while claiming that one of them sat on Rabindranath Tagore’s chair during his Santiniketan visit. “Some tourists from outside West Bengal who have no idea of Bengal’s culture are visiting places such as Visva-Bharati in Santiniketan. One such personality sat on Tagore’s chair where the Nobel Laureate’s articles had been preserved,” Trinamool MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said without naming Union home minister Amit Shah. She was speaking at a press conference held at Trinamool Bhawan here. The ghanta ghar (bell tower) on the Visva-Bharati campus was “pulled down” for VVIP security, the MP from Barasat alleged. Dastidar made the allegation in the run-up to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Bolpur rally on Tuesday. “These people have no respect for Bengal’s culture and history,” the MP said. Dastidar also took on BJP leaders from Delhi for levelling “false allegations” on security of women and human rights in Bengal when the state government was taking a proactive role.  “Women in Bengal feel secure unlike in some BJP-ruled states. The Mamata Banerjee government set a target of setting up 65 women police stations, of which 48 have already been established. Eight women’s police stations have come into operation in Kolkata. The state government has already set up 88 fast track courts, of which 45 are designated to hear women’s complaints and another 18 for human rights violation complaints,” she said. Dastidar, also a member of the parliamentary standing committee on home affairs, argued that the situation in Bengal in regard to arrests, production in court and conviction was much better than in other states. “Reports submitted to the standing committee point to lakhs of pending cases in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan. A Dalit from Uttar Pradesh was killed recently when he went to collect water from a tubewell. Such instances do not happen in Bengal,” the MP said. The Trinamool leader also mocked BJP seniors’ forecast on the outcome of Bengal assembly polls in 2021. “They are saying BJP will get more than 200 seats in Bengal in the assembly polls. The fact is their predictions on assembly polls in other states have been proved wrong,” she said. “On the contrary, BJP suffered a negative swing in Maharashtra, Haryana, Jharkhand, Delhi, Bihar and could get much less seats than they had expected in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh,” Dastidar added. She said there had been an overwhelming response to the Trinamool government’s unique ‘Duare Sarkar’ programme over the last few weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-idea-of-bengals-culture-tmcs-swipe-at-bjp-brass/articleshow/79972421.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||CBI fresh plea on pre-arrest bail to IPS Rajeev Kumar||Kolkata: More than a year after CBI moved the Supreme Court seeking cancellation of the Calcutta High Court’s anticipatory bail order on IPS officer Rajeev Kumar, the probe agency has filed a fresh plea in this case. In the fresh petition that ran into several hundred pages, CBI has tried to buttress its arguments further, citing statements made to Enforcement Directorate relating to 2011 assembly polls in Bengal. A CBI spokesperson did not confirm or deny the reports. The Supreme Court had on November 29, 2019 asked Kumar to respond to CBI’s bail cancellation plea. The HC had on October 1, 2019 granted anticipatory bail to Kumar but asked him to cooperate with the probe. The CBI had challenged this order in the apex court. According to Kumar’s lawyers in Delhi, they have not received any fresh petition or appeal in the case. “If a fresh petition has been made, we will be provided a copy. We have not got any,” a senior lawyer told TOI from Delhi. According to sources, CBI had filed its first appeal in this case on November 24, 2019. The case was heard by a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and justices B R Gavai and Surya Kant, who had asked Kumar to respond to the application. In December 2019, Kumar was made the Bengal IT secretary in an intra-state deputation. He was till then helming the state CID as its additional director-general. The HC in its October 1, 2019 order had said Kumar had cooperated with CBI and this wasn’t a fit case for custodial interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cbi-fresh-plea-on-pre-arrest-bail-to-ips-rajeev-kumar/articleshow/79972500.cms||---
December 27, 2020||India||Jail officials deny Saibaba woollen cap, family fumes||NAGPUR: Former Delhi University professor and alleged Maoist ideologue GN Saibaba has been denied a woollen full-face cap provided to him by his family by the Nagpur central jail authorities, his wife Sai Vasantha alleged on Saturday. He has also been denied napkins, handkerchiefs, towels or even a T-shirt. Vasantha said her husband has been facing “intended bias” and “prejudice” inside the jail. “Saibaba had been using the same cloth for the last one year. Hence, we had sent a replacement but it was refused. We are facing a set of rules different from that applied to other inmates,” he said. On Saturday, Saibaba’s lawyer Aakash Sorde reached the central jail to hand over 34 items to Saibaba through the prison authorities. He was “stunned” as only 13 of them were allowed. Several medicines, a physiotherapy equipment, blank A4 size paper, a news magazine and three books were also among the materials denied. Saibaba has been allowed to receive only two loincloth underwear and a lungi from his family. Sorde said the list of materials was initially approved by the jail officials before it was sent to Saibaba’s family. “The jail officials refused the very same materials which they had earlier agreed to allow. The materials, including medicines, were most essential for Saibaba,” he said. “I have now sent a notice to the jail superintendent stating he will be responsible if anything happens to Saibaba,” he added. Jail superintendent SP Anup Kumre said Saibaba has been given everything he requires as per the jail manual and norms. “We are ensuring that every rule is being followed to hand over Saibaba whatever he needs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jail-officials-deny-saibaba-woollen-cap-family-fumes/articleshow/79973141.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Tightening net: Telangana cops ask Google to block 158 instant finance apps||HYDERABAD: Police have asked Google to block 158 instant financing applications (apps) on its Play Store as the companies behind these were found harassing and shaming defaulters. In a related development, Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials have started gathering information from Telangana police about companies involved in the instant financing apps since the role of Chinese nationals have emerged. After arresting 14 persons for the operation of instant loan apps, Hyderabad police have sent a requisition to remove 42 financing apps, while their Cyberabad counterparts sent a list of 116 which are on Google Play Store since it was through these apps the accused had disbursed loans and later started harassing the defaulters by shaming them. When contacted, Hyderabad joint commissioner of police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty confirmed writing to Google to remove the apps from the Play Store. `”We are awaiting response from Google,’’ he said. The role of these 158 apps came to light based on complainants lodged by victims, who were harassed by the representatives of these apps. Officials suspect the callers’ telephone numbers, which are displayed on victims’ phone whenever the representatives called them, might be spoofed numbers. The callers were using voice over internet protocol (Vo-IP) calls to reach out to defaulters. With the initial inputs available with investigators, Cyberabad police said many of these instant financing companies have dedicated training teams, who train their tele-callers to gain different skill sets, including intimidation tactics and hurling abuses, while approaching defaulters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tightening-net-cops-ask-google-to-block-158-instant-finance-apps/articleshow/79973150.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana civic polls 2020: About 60% voting reported, elections held amid tight security||Polling for Panchkula, Ambala and Sonipat municipal corporations is under way. Stay with TOI for all the latest updates: * A voting percentage of nearly 60 was recorded as polling remained peaceful in the elections to municipal bodies in Haryana on Sunday, which were held amid tight security and adherence to the norms in place in view of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. * Panchkula reports 42.5 per cent voting. * Total votes: 18,57,08; Votes polled: 72,175; Voting percentage: 38.9% * Voting in Panchkula till 5.30 pm  Total votes: 18,57,08; Votes polled: 63,334; Voting percentage : 34.1% * Covid positive patients will cast their votes now till 5.30 pm. Wearing PPE kit is mandatory for them. * Till 4.30pm Panchkula received 61,850 votes with poll percentage at 33.3. * 33.2 per cent voting recorded in Panchkula. * Haryana state election commissioner Dr Dalip Mishra inspected 25 polling booths in Panchkula * Aam Aadmi Party Panchkula president Surinder Rathi after casting vote with family. * 25.7 per cent voting recorded in Panchkula * 15 per cent polling in Panchkula so far. * Poll percentage till 11.30am: Ambala 10, Panchkula 10.2, Sonipat 8.4, Rewari 14, Sampla 31.1, Dharuhera 18.6, Uklana 15.9 * Former Union minister and Haryana Janchetna party supremo Venod Sharma and his Mayoral candidate wife Shakti Rani Sharma cast their vote at a polling booth in Ambala city Read AlsoPolling under way in municipal body elections in HaryanaPolling is underway on Sunday in elections to municipal bodies in Haryana amid tight security and adherence to coronavirus norms.* Panchkula witnesses 4.5 per cent polling so far * BJP Mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal exercised his franchise at a polling booth in Sector-6 * Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta casted his vote with his wife at Sector-17, Panchkula * Congress mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia casts her vote at Fatehpur village in Panchkula *Former deputy CM Chander Mohan after casting his vote said, "I have given my vote for the happiness and development of Panchkula." * Voting under way for Panchkula, Ambala and Sonipat municipal corporations *As per the schedule, polling will be held from 8am to 5.30pm December 27, the results of which will be declared on December 30. *The voting will be held for the Ambala, Panchkula and Sonipat municipal corporations; Rewari municipal council and municipal committees of Sampla in Rohtak, Dharuhera in Rewari and Ukalana in Hisar districts. *The stage is set for a direct fight between the BJP-JJP combine and the Congress. Earlier this month, the Indian National Lok Dal had announced to boycott the municipal polls in protest against the 'atrocities' allegedly committed on farmers by the Centre and the state's BJP-JJP governments. *The general elections for posts of mayor and members of all the wards of Ambala, Panchkula and Sonipat municipal corporations, the president and members of municipal council of Rewari, and members of the municipal committee of Sampla (Rohtak), Dharuhera (Rewari) and Ukalana (Hisar) will be held today.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-civic-polls-2020-highlights/articleshow/79973105.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||5 die as sand lorry crashes into auto at Mominpet||HYDERABAD: Five farm workers, including three minors, who were seated inside a parked auto rickshaw, died after a sand-laden lorry rammed into the three-wheeler at Mominpet in Vikarabad district on Saturday morning. Five farm workers — Sani Bai, 55, Renuka, 30, Sona Bai, Nithin, both 17, and Sandhya,15, got into an auto at Ejrachetempally to pick cotton in fields at Mominpet, police said. Around 7 am, as they were heading towards Mominpet, auto driver V Hari en route stopped the vehicle near his residence to pick his lunch box, Mominpet sub-inspector Ravi Kumar said. Auto driver parked vehicle on wrong sideThe auto driver parked the vehicle on the wrong side of the road. A lorry, which was coming from the opposite direction at high speed, hit the auto,’’ the SI added. The lorry driver reportedly turned the vehicle to the left to avoid hitting an RTC bus. Despite that, the lorry grazed the bus, hit the auto and fell on the left side. Finally, the lorry came to a halt after hitting a house, which suffered minor damage. The lorry was carrying sand from Mominpet to Tandur. Sani, Sona, Nithin, Sandhya died on the spot, police said. Renuka, who suffered bleeding injuries was shifted to Government Hospital, Sangareddy, and later to a private facility. She succumbed while undergoing treatment. The auto driver had a lucky escape since he was inside his house at the time of the accident. Lorry diver Rafeeq too escaped with some injuries. Police said a case was registered under Section 304-A (negligence causing death) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against both the drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-die-as-sand-lorry-crashes-into-auto-at-mominpet/articleshow/79973179.cms||---
December 27, 2020||India||No roadblocks to free and fair assembly polls: J&K LG||JAMMU: Following the successful completion of District Development Council (DDC) polls in J&K, Lt Governor Manoj Sinha has said any attempt to interpret the results “for political reasons” is a mistake. He added that he saw no roadblocks to holding assembly elections. Speaking exclusively to  Bharti Jain in his first interview after the polls, Sinha dismissed speculation by some parties that the DDC outcome would delay assembly polls. “Delimitation process in J&K is under way and once delimitation is done, EC is the competent authority to decide on the conduct of assembly polls,” he said. The LG, who assumed office in August and has initiated several measures to connect with the people, said he has been talking to political leaders across party lines. “My priority remains the people of J&K, ensuring prosperity and peace, and boosting industry and agriculture here,” he said. On the long detention of leaders like Mehbooba Mufti and the Abdullahs, he said this was due to “special circumstances” and based on the assessment of security agencies at the time. He said while the leaders are now free to engage in political activity, anyone involved in anti-national activities shall be dealt with as per the law. Saying the UT is heading towards full normalcy, he assured that 4G services, which are currently functional in two districts, would gradually be restored everywhere. The DDC poll results have been received well across party lines. What is the message of the polls?It is after long that there have been violence-free, free and fair polls in J&K. This is also the general assessment. The enthusiasm with which youth and women participated in the poll exhibits their deep faith in democratic processes. I thank the State Election Commission, poll officials, J&K police and central armed forces for discharging their duties well despite the biting cold. The turnout was better than in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, in some difficult areas it saw a two-fold and even threefold increase. Those offering own political interpretations are making a mistake and messing with the people’s mandate. I think this is a victory for democracy. For long, the people of J&K were deprived of a three-tier democratic setup…Now the district development boards will look after development work in villages through directly elected representatives. How will the DDC boards contribute to grassroot development?In the last 3-4 months, Panchayati Raj institutions and urban local bodies have been given more financial and administrative powers in line with the 73rd and 74th amendments. We have made a provision in our budget for extending adequate funds to the boards for development work. Do you think the successful conduct of DDC poll will ease the path to assembly polls?I don’t foresee any roadblock to assembly polls. The PM had spoken of holding the polls in his Independence Day address. We all know that delimitation process is under way in J&K and a few northeastern states. Once delimitation is over, the Election Commission, which is the competent constitutional body, will decide on the conduct of polls. I can tell you that assembly polls will be held in a free and fair manner. NC leader Omar Abdullah suggested that DDC poll results may further delay assembly polls...Such misgivings have no basis. Home minister Amit Shah has spoken of holding assembly polls on the floor of Parliament. The PM’s Red Fort address is the last word. I have been meeting all leaders. Recently, Farooq Abdullah was with me in a programme to lay the foundation stone for a 100-bed ESIC hospital. I have been meeting MPs, ex-MPs and ex-MLAs across party-lines. My priority remains the people of J&K. I am here to address their problems. My focus is to ensure prosperity and peace, boost industry and promote agriculture and horticulture. Do you think DDCs will lead to diminution of J&K assembly and MLAs?In almost all states of the country, this system is functioning. I don’t think the powers of MPs and MLAs have been curtailed in those states. Nobody should have any objection to grassroot democracy and Panchayati Raj institutions. I think it will strengthen democracy. J&K administration is seen as chief patron of Apni Party?I can assure that there is no patronising from our side of any political party, whether NC, PDP, BJP, Congress or Apni Party. Your take on DDC results pointing to communal polarisation?I don’t see it as such. I feel the mainstream parties of the Valley have got more seats in Kashmir region as they were stronger there even earlier; similarly, parties which were traditionally stronger in Jammu have got more seats there. How do you assess the current security scenario?Security forces have an upper hand. Recent statistics show a steep decline in terror-related incidents, recruitment and infiltration. Coordination between J&K police, central forces and the Army is excellent. This helped foil a major terror bid with neutralisation of terrorists in Nagrota. In Poonch, an attempt by the forces in the neighbouring nation to disrupt DDC polls was nipped. Thanks to the alert forces, the situation is heading towards full normalcy. People are fed up of militancy. Do you think the long detention of political leaders like Mehbooba Mufti and the Abdullahs was necessary?The detentions were ordered under special circumstances. At the time, those handling security matters may have had some apprehensions. But now people are taking part in normal political activity, holding rallies and travelling freely. I would like to make it clear here that while there is complete freedom to indulge in political activity, anybody found engaging in anti-national activities will face strict action under the law. How long before 4G services are restored across J&K?4G services are already functional in two districts. The matter is in the Supreme Court and the government has assured that it will gradually restore 4G in other districts as well. How do you react to the charge of witch-hunting against political leaders through law enforcement agencies?NIA is mandated to probe terror-related cases and anybody allegedly involved in a terror act should face the agency. ED is competent to investigate anybody who has amassed assets disproportionate to his income. All these agencies have their ‘maryada’; I will not allow any probe driven by political motives. I would also like to assure common people of J&K that they need not fear anything, action will only be directed against the wrong-doers. In view of J&K government seeking review of Roshni Act verdict by the high court, do you think ‘naming and shaming’ of beneficiaries could have waited?We went to the court before the list of Roshni beneficiaries was made public. It had taken some time after the court’s decision to compile the list. There is no discrimination and the entire list is being made public as per the court’s direction. We went to the high court for two reasons: I feel the names being made public are just “a tip of the iceberg”. So we have requested the court for permission to set up an SIT. Secondly, we have requested for directions on a possible law to save the poor people who got land for genuine reasons. A CBI probe is on and after the probe, the government will be taking back land as directed by the HC. Common people may be asked to deposit the market value of the land. How do you intend to boost jobs in J&K?The number of government servants in J&K and Bihar are almost equal, despite the latter having a much bigger population. Employment in J&K has largely been driven by government jobs. We are working on many fronts. Vacancies in government are being filled up and we hope to offer 25,000 government jobs. A new industrial policy is aimed at boosting investment. DIPP has cleared it and cabinet approval may come soon. I foresee an investment of Rs 25,000-30,000 crore in times to come. Big business houses, including global players like Lulu Group, have shown interest. Industry needs a peaceful environment and land. We have made necessary changes in land laws to ensure that land rights of locals are protected. What do you have to say about Mehbooba Mufti’s charge that the land of Gujjars and Bakarwals would be taken away?In 2006, the Forest Act came into force across India,but not in J&K. After 2019, it came into effect in J&K as well. We now intend to extend benefits under the Act to communities like Gujjars and Bakarwals living in the hills and mountains. By January 15, the village committee will give its recommendations, the SDM-level committee will do the scrutiny by January 31 and by March 1 Gujjar, Bakarwal and adivasi forest-dwellers will be given land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-roadblocks-to-free-and-fair-assembly-polls-jk-lg/articleshow/79973066.cms||Bharti Jain
December 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Virtual midnight mass, mini-parties mark Christmas||LUCKNOW: Virtual prayer service, carols reverberating the praise of Jesus Christ, flamboyant attires and feasting on traditional meal with limited guests — this is how the city indulged in pared-down Christmas festivities on Friday under the shadow of Covid-19. For some, it was the perfect time for family bonhomie after months of Covid-induced travel restrictions. Ashiyana resident Saonyaa Shashan celebrated the day in her house with family and close relatives. Doubling up as Santa, Shashan distributed sweets among children and wished her sister in Delhi via video call. “With the world in the grip of Covid-19, the festive mood has been muted... Living in uncertain times, it’s important for us to acknowledge one another and be closer to our family. Since we couldn't go out due to fear of contracting the virus, we brought the celebrations home for the children and made it extra special for them,” said Shashan. After attending online church service, Rishabh Roy (20) attended an open house party with limited guests to maintain physical distance. “We danced, indulged in home-made food and hot chocolate, and played different games,” said the PGI resident. “Since time immemorial, the world has been celebrating the midnight mass in churches. For the first time, I participated in an online church service due to the pandemic,” said Juliet Massey, a resident of Alambagh. Another resident Roma Mahajan celebrated the day with her daughter Mishka by becoming a secret Santa for her and hiding gifts under the Christmas tree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-virtual-midnight-mass-mini-parties-mark-xmas/articleshow/79973137.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Three MLAs test positive in run-up to winter session||BHOPAL: Just two days ahead of the winter session of Madhya Pradesh assembly, three MLAs tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. “We have received Covid-19 test reports from 20 districts. As of Saturday evening, four MLAs (one earlier) and four employees of MP Vidhan Sabha secretariat have tested positive. Over 40 others diagnosed with the infection are from capital project authority (CPA), stationed at MLA guest house in Bhopal,” said principal secretary Awadhesh Pratap Singh. Everyone connected with the assembly or MLAs is being tested for Coronavirus as a precaution ahead of the winter session, which starts on Monday. A Covid-clear report, taken no earlier than 72 hours before the session, is mandatory for those who enter the Vidhan Sabha. The MLAs who tested positive on Saturday are Congress’s Yogendra Singh (Seoni), Suneeta Patel (Gadarwara) and Lakhan Singh (Bhitarwar). BJP MLA from Indore, Malani Gaur, was diagnosed with the infection four days ago. They can attend the session virtually. ‘300 employees tested for Covid so far’A Covid-testing camp is on. Around 300 employees have been tested so far. The remaining districts are expected to submit their test reports by Sunday,” said Singh. All those who tested positive are said to be under home isolation. CPA provides support staff in MLA guest house in Bhopal. About 29 of them had tested positive on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-three-mlas-test-positive-in-run-up-to-winter-session/articleshow/79973208.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Indore||Indorean back from London tests positive for Covid-19||INDORE: A second Indorean, who recently arrived from the United Kingdom, has tested positive for Covid-19. “He arrived from London on December 6. Since he is asymptomatic and has been back for over 15 days, he has been kept in home isolation,” district nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Amit Malakar told TOI. He is around 32 years old and is a resident of Rau on the outskirts of the city. He is alone at home as his wife and daughter are in Maharashtra. “We have sought guidance from health department officials. If they suggest or if it’s required, the patient will be shifted to a superspeciality hospital,” he said. On Friday, a 28-year-old who returned from Scotland on December 18 had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indorean-back-from-london-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79973214.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula civic polls: 1.85 lakh voters to seal fate of 90 candidates today||CHANDIGARH: Over 1.85 lakh voters will seal the fate of six candidates for the lone mayoral post and 84 candidates for the 20 councillor posts in the municipal corporation (MC) in the first direct elections for the top seat that will see the new incumbents joining their duty from the New Year after a long wait for two-and-a-half years. The seats of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor will be filled as per the earlier practice through indirect elections from elected members. A total of 275 polling booths will be set up. Returning officer Mohammad Imran Raza said the wards having over 1,000 voters have been divided and 99 additional polling booths formed to maintain social distancing. The maximum number of 19 polling booths are in ward number 3 having 12,929 voters. There are 18 polling booths each in ward numbers 7, 11and 12 having total voters of 10,982, 12,231 and 10,575. Ward numbers 6 and 15 have the lowest number of eight booths each, having 6,301 and 5,699 voters. The timings for the elections will be 8am–4.30 pm. There is a tough fight between BJP and Congress. The two parties have launched their special strategies and appointed all senior party workers and star campaigners leaving no stone unturned to win the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panchkula-civic-polls-1-85-lakh-voters-to-seal-fate-of-90-candidates-today/articleshow/79973199.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||House demolished in Ujjain after stones hurled at saffron rallyists||UJJAIN: A day after stones were pelted at saffron activists in Ujjain’s Begambagh area, the administration on Saturday razed a house and partly demolished another, where some of the accused lived. Two women are among six persons arrested for the brickbatting. The women lived in these two houses on rent, say officials. Authorities said the demolition was carried out to remove illegal structures after giving due notice to the house owners, Tikaram and Hameed. Friday evening’s attack was captured on CCTV cameras. Members of some Hindu outfits were on their way to attend a meeting when they came under attack. There’s footage of some people, including women, hurling bricks at men on motorbikes. Mahakal police used CCTV grabs to identify suspects. Over two dozen people were questioned before cases were registered against 40 persons – nine of whom were named in the report. Three of the suspects are yet to be arrested. ‘Had issued notices for illegal construction’Four of the accused were found to have criminal records. We are recommending action under National Security Act (NSA) against them,” Ujjain SP Satyendra Shukla told TOI. On Saturday, the demolition started with 100 cops and personnel of RAF and SAF keeping a watch. Six drones were used to keep an eye on every nook and corner of Begambagh. SP Shukla and collector Asheesh Singh were on the spot. “We had issued notices to the house owners regarding illegal constructions in the past. These structures were removed,” Ujjain Municipal Corporation (UMC) commissioner Kshitij Singhal said. UMC staff removed household goods and began the demolition from the second floor. One house was razed, and portions of the other were being demolished when work was halted for the day. A large crowd gathered at the demolition site. Shahar Qazi Khalik-ur-Rehman intervened and staged a sit-in with around 700 people. He urged the collector to stop the demolition, claiming “..otherwise things might go out of our hands.” Videos of the heated discussion between the Qazi and the collector made rounds during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/house-demolished-in-ujjain-after-stones-hurled-at-saffron-rallyists/articleshow/79973229.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Lucknow||Man held with weapon in luggage at Lucknow airport||LUCKNOW: A man was arrested at Lucknow airport for carrying a country-made weapon and cartridges in his luggage. Divyansh Tiwari, a resident of Ambedkar Nagar district, had a ticket for a Mumbai-bound Air India flight. He was pulled out of the queue at 10am by airport security staff following detection of the weapon in his luggage in the scanning system. According to CISF, four cartridges and a 32-bore country-made pistol were recovered, following which Tiwari was handed over to Sarojininagar police. CO Krishnanagar Harish Singh Bhadhauriya said, “The accused has been charged under Arms Act. On questioning, the man claimed that he wasn’t aware of the weapon, and the luggage belongs to his elder brother. We are investigating the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-held-with-weapon-in-luggage-at-lucknow-airport/articleshow/79973226.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Indore||College principal booked for molestation in Madhya Pradesh||INDORE: Police have booked a government college principal for allegedly molesting a woman employee after summoning her home for household chores in Shajapur district on Saturday. A group of student leaders, who took the woman to Lalghati police station in Shajapur, staged a protest and smashed window panes at the house of the principal, demanding police action. The alleged incident took place in the morning when the woman, a contractual fourthclass employee of the college, went to the house of the principal in Vijay Nagar area. She alleged that the principal made indecent advances, but she escaped his clutches. SDOP Shajapur Deepa Doria told reporters that a case was registered against the principal under Section 354 IPC on the basis of her complaint, and he was taken into custody. ‘Being falsely implicated’The principal said that the complainant was falsely implicating him to “exact revenge for assigning her work at the college”. “My wife was at home. It was she who summoned the woman employee to assist in household work. We don’t generally seek such help from college staff,” the principal said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/college-principal-booked-for-molestation-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/79973230.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Civic polls pushed back to February over Covid concerns||BHOPAL: Urban body elections that were likely to be announced anytime soon, are now postponed to February 2021 in view of the Covid-19 situation. The state election commission has asked the government to monitor the pandemic and inform “whenever the government feels the situation has improved”, adding that the commission is ready for elections. The tenure of majority of urban bodies ended in February this year, and elections have been on hold due to Covid-19. According to sources, state election commissioner Basant Pratap Singh said the commission assessed the circumstances, and felt it is not possible to hold free and fair elections due to a steady rise in the spread of Covid-19 infection. Public health needs to be protected, he said. “Proposed election of urban bodies in December 2020 and January-2021, except for Narwar Municipal Council in Shivpuri district (as per decision of high court), will be conducted after February 20, 2021,” the order said. Panchayat elections will also be conducted after February 2020, the commission said. Asked how the November bypolls were held despite the pandemic, deputy commissioner in SEC, Arun Parmar, said, “The commission had received inputs on a rise in cases and a new strain of Covid-19. This decision was taken with an eye on the circumstances. If the government considers that the Covid-19 situation is under control and informs us, the commission will consider it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-civic-polls-pushed-back-to-february-over-covid-concerns/articleshow/79973240.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Surat||162 graduate from P P Savani University||SURAT: The first convocation of P P Savani University was held virtually on Thursday. A total of 162 students of Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Interior Design and Bachelor of Business Administration were conferred degrees and seven students received gold medals. Dr Jacqueline Fletcher, regent professor emeritus, Oklahoma State University, US and Atik Desai, VP, L&T Hazira were chief guests at the convocation. Fletcher appealed to the graduating class to bring positivity and peace in the world by becoming confident, caring and compassionate. In his address, Desai emphasized on being creative and innovative in the area of expertise. He encouraged students to be passionate for a career and work hard to achieve dreams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/162-graduate-from-p-p-savani-university/articleshow/79970696.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Lucknow||LMC to develop Gulala Ghat as film shooting location||LUCKNOW: With chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s appeal to Bollywood to consider UP as a new hub for the industry, the Lucknow Municipal Corporation will develop Gulala Ghat as a movie shooting destination to attract the film fraternity to the state capital. According to LMC officials, the decision has been finalised by the executive committee and a budget of Rs 10 lakh for beautification work has been approved. Apart from ensuring green belt around the banks of Gomti river, the civic body will create a garden with a variety of flowers and plants. City mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said, “Gulala Ghat will be developed on the lines of ghats in Varanasi. Walls around the area will be painted with images of Hindu gods. The first instalment for the project will be released in January.” As per officials, the initiative has been taken to support Uttar Pradesh government’s decision of developing a mega film city in Noida to attract filmmakers to shoot in Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-to-develop-gulala-ghat-as-film-shooting-location/articleshow/79973268.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Pegs for this civic poll: Swachh vs discontent||A day before Ambala, Panchkula, and Sonipat elect their mayors and councillors, and Rewari, Uklana and Dharuhera their council and committee presidents, both the Congress and the BJP hope to make a clean sweep. The BJP banks on its smart city projects and Congress on anti-establishment wave, Congress president Kumari Selja and state BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar tell Manvir Saini The civic elections are a few hours away. How have you done? What do you expect?Dhankar: Like other elections, we fought this one as well quite good. We did our homework before the declaration of the dates, planned our campaign, and coordinated our meetings. From the booth-level workers to the state-level leaders, they all contributed. The BJP and alliance partner JJP fought like a team. Selja: We have done well and our rank and file has worked hard. Even though the BJP misused official machinery, we’ll make a clean sweep of three corporation elections and the top post of the Rewari council. In the rest of the contests, the Congress-supported candidates will do well. What are the issues on which your candidates seek a mandate?Dhankar: Urban planning is the main issue for us. For decades, the Congress ran the civic affairs, directly or indirectly, without any kind of vision. The facelift and cleanliness programmes are the BJP-led government’s contributions to the cities. The Smart City project developed spirit of competition among the residents and officers for best score. Selja: Corruption is the main issue, more so in the five civic bodies that have BJP mayors. Their roundabouts and bus queue shelters speak of urban neglect. Those bodies work with borrowed staff, from borrowed buildings, leading to contractual system and poor civic amenities. We feel an anti-BJP-JJP sentiment. They have pathological discomfort with the schemes named after Jawaharlal Nehru, so they renamed JNNURM as Smart City project. The Congress and the BJP have both alleged corruption and horse-trading in the civic bodies. What do you have to say?Dhankar: Direct elections for mayor and civic body president are a BJP initiative to end corruption, as was the first audit of the MC works. Clean governance won us five civic elections—Yamunanagar, Karnal, Panipat, Hisar, and Rohtak. The previous culture of horse-trading forced us to start all this. Selja: Corruption has increased manifold. Whoever says the BJP has delivered results should see the discontent among the employees, locals, and officials. Name any service and any of the five cities, the condition are not good. Will the farmers’ agitation impact the voting pattern, in Sonipat especially after its 30 days of protest?Dhankar: The civic polls are always contested on locals issues of ‘bijli, pani, sadak’ (electricity, water, road). Yes, our farmer brothers are on protest but the government has kept inviting them for a dialogue. Barring some opposition from the outsiders in Ambala, we don’t see any resistance in Sonipat or Panchkula, where even the CM has addressed election meetings. Selja: The issue concerns 135 crore Indians. Farmers are out in this biting cold to fight for repeal. When the entire nation is concerned, how can the cities be an exception? This could be one of their issues indeed. Will the election results be a referendum on the popularity of both parties, as was claimed in the Baroda and Jind by-polls?Dhankar: Elections are elections and the aftereffects are matter of perception. Political party or its workers, they have their own definitions. We don’t believe in this. We have contested polls and put up our best fight. Selja: For the first time, the Congress contested civic elections on its symbol. Despite just beginning, we are hopeful of a clean sweep. These elections have reactivated our workers, brought new leadership forward, and allowed us to explore the possibilities of expansion. You call the results referendum, we call it opportunity to prove ourselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pegs-for-this-civic-poll-swachh-vs-discontent/articleshow/79973249.cms||Manvir Saini
December 27, 2020||Goa||‘Peter Vaz was a father figure to all Sporting Clube players’||PANAJI: Angelo Albuquerque’s cell-phone hasn’t stopped ringing since news of Peter Vaz’s death spread across the world, late on Thursday night. The Sporting Clube de Goa owner lost his battle against Covid-19 and his death left many shattered. Among them were Sporting Clube’s players, all of whom knew the contribution that Vaz had made to their lives. “Even tears cannot stop the pain I am feeling right now, patrao. A father figure to me and many (players), he took care of us during our playing days. We will miss you. RIP boss. Sad day for Goan football,” former midfielder and now India U-16 coach Bibiano Fernandes posted on a social networking site. He wasn’t alone. “Thank you sir for helping me realise my dreams, thank you for providing a platform to many boys like me who will forever remain indebted to you. There will be an eternal void in Indian football. You will be missed,” said former India defender Denzil Franco. Nicholas Rodrigues, another former player, said Vaz will “always remain in my heart, the man who changed my life and made me who I am.” Albuquerque, Sporting Clube’s manager since inception in 1999, hasn’t really had time to answer all phone calls or respond to messages. “His relationship with players was not like a player and boss,” said Albuquerque. “It was more like a father and child. He helped all of them, looked after them and did more than what was expected of him. Peter always cared for them. No surprise that they stayed in touch with him, much after they had left the club or quit playing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/peter-vaz-was-a-father-figure-to-all-sporting-clube-players/articleshow/79973273.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
December 27, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Dilli Chalo-II’ rolls from Punjab, more farmers to set off today||BATHINDA/PATIALA/JIND: Initiating part two of the ‘Dilli Chalo’ campaign on completion of one month of the protest against Centre’s new agricultural laws at Delhi’s borders, thousands of farmers and farm workers began heading for Delhi on Saturday. After BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), the biggest farm organisation in Punjab, asked its activists to go to Delhi on December 26-27, farmers from Bathinda, Mansa, Barnala, Sangrur and Patiala left in tractor trolleys, buses and private cars. Farmers from Punjab make night halt at Jind villagesThe protesters passed through Khanauri border, whereas those from other districts were to move towards Tikri border from Dabwali, passing through Hisar on Sunday. Many other protesters from various farm groups also crossed the Shambhu border in Patiala district adjoining Ambala on way to Singhu border. BKU Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri claimed that around 14,000 farmers left for Delhi in 450 tractor-trolleys, 50 buses, 60 canters and 400 cars and more would leave the following day. Despite the biting cold, elderly men and women accompanied protesters heading towards Delhi border in covered trolleys. The farmers who crossed the inter-state border near Khanauri in Sangrur district were accorded a warm welcome by villagers and farmers of Haryana’s villages. A number of farmers of Ugrahan group gathered at Khanauri border before entering Haryana at around 1 pm and then staged a protest at Kharkhar Toll Plaza in Jind of Haryana along with the local farmers. A few kilometres away from the toll plaza, the farmers halted at Jhanj Kalan, Jhanj Khurd and Barodi villages. “We don’t feel that we have come to another state, but to our relatives' houses, where we are getting a warm welcome. Haryana was part of Punjab but the politicians divided us for their political benefits. We are thankful for the support extended by Haryana farmers and the villagers and we have no words to express our gratefulness. They have arranged accommodation for us in three government schools and provided beddings,” said Jagtar Singh, press secretary Sangrur BKU Ekta-Ugrahan. Suresh Kumar, a resident of Jhanj Kalan, said they on getting information that groups of farmers and labourers from Punjab will enter Haryana through Data Singhwala border on Saturday, we contacted them and asked them to stay at our villages. “We have opened the doors of our villages for our elder brothers, mothers, sisters and elderly people. The women from our villages came in large numbers to prepare food for the farmers, who are on way to Delhi,” he added. Roshni Devi, a resident of Barodi village, said she along with two dozen women from her village reached the school, where arrangements of food and stay were made for Punjab farmers. “We have a lot of love for Punjab farmers, who are leading this farm agitation against the Union government. I had asked three women from Tarn Taran to stay at my home for the night. The residents of our village have arranged food, warm milk, halwa, energy booster items, clothes and many other things. This agitation has brought Haryana and Punjab farmers closer,” she added. Hardeep Singh, a farmer from Gurdaspur, said he was overwhelmed by the hospitality of the Jind farmers. “ We have never seen such arrangements, and the faces of local residents show their affection. Few elderly people, who were waiting for us at Jhanj Kalan, told us to come back only after winning this battle against the government. There is no issue of SYL between us, and politicians from both the states are raising this issue for their benefits, and we (farmers) will solve this issue on our own,” he added. Harjit Singh, BKU leader from Bhawanigarh block of Sangrur said, “The villagers of Haryana have been making arrangements for our stay for us from last two days and we have been invited to stay in their houses like family members.” Karan Singh Pehalwan, member of organising committee in Jhanj Kalan village said, “Punjab farmers are our brothers and we feel pleasure in welcoming them and supporting them. Besides schools and houses in the three villages, tents have been put up for the stay of Punjab and Haryana farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dilli-chalo-ii-rolls-from-punjab-more-farmers-to-set-off-today/articleshow/79973290.cms||Neel Kamal
December 27, 2020||Amritsar||‘Dilli Chalo-II’ rolls from Punjab, more farmers to set off today||BATHINDA/PATIALA/JIND: Initiating part two of the ‘Dilli Chalo’ campaign on completion of one month of the protest against Centre’s new agricultural laws at Delhi’s borders, thousands of farmers and farm workers began heading for Delhi on Saturday. After BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), the biggest farm organisation in Punjab, asked its activists to go to Delhi on December 26-27, farmers from Bathinda, Mansa, Barnala, Sangrur and Patiala left in tractor trolleys, buses and private cars. Farmers from Punjab make night halt at Jind villagesThe protesters passed through Khanauri border, whereas those from other districts were to move towards Tikri border from Dabwali, passing through Hisar on Sunday. Many other protesters from various farm groups also crossed the Shambhu border in Patiala district adjoining Ambala on way to Singhu border. BKU Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri claimed that around 14,000 farmers left for Delhi in 450 tractor-trolleys, 50 buses, 60 canters and 400 cars and more would leave the following day. Despite the biting cold, elderly men and women accompanied protesters heading towards Delhi border in covered trolleys. The farmers who crossed the inter-state border near Khanauri in Sangrur district were accorded a warm welcome by villagers and farmers of Haryana’s villages. A number of farmers of Ugrahan group gathered at Khanauri border before entering Haryana at around 1 pm and then staged a protest at Kharkhar Toll Plaza in Jind of Haryana along with the local farmers. A few kilometres away from the toll plaza, the farmers halted at Jhanj Kalan, Jhanj Khurd and Barodi villages. “We don’t feel that we have come to another state, but to our relatives' houses, where we are getting a warm welcome. Haryana was part of Punjab but the politicians divided us for their political benefits. We are thankful for the support extended by Haryana farmers and the villagers and we have no words to express our gratefulness. They have arranged accommodation for us in three government schools and provided beddings,” said Jagtar Singh, press secretary Sangrur BKU Ekta-Ugrahan. Suresh Kumar, a resident of Jhanj Kalan, said they on getting information that groups of farmers and labourers from Punjab will enter Haryana through Data Singhwala border on Saturday, we contacted them and asked them to stay at our villages. “We have opened the doors of our villages for our elder brothers, mothers, sisters and elderly people. The women from our villages came in large numbers to prepare food for the farmers, who are on way to Delhi,” he added. Roshni Devi, a resident of Barodi village, said she along with two dozen women from her village reached the school, where arrangements of food and stay were made for Punjab farmers. “We have a lot of love for Punjab farmers, who are leading this farm agitation against the Union government. I had asked three women from Tarn Taran to stay at my home for the night. The residents of our village have arranged food, warm milk, halwa, energy booster items, clothes and many other things. This agitation has brought Haryana and Punjab farmers closer,” she added. Hardeep Singh, a farmer from Gurdaspur, said he was overwhelmed by the hospitality of the Jind farmers. “ We have never seen such arrangements, and the faces of local residents show their affection. Few elderly people, who were waiting for us at Jhanj Kalan, told us to come back only after winning this battle against the government. There is no issue of SYL between us, and politicians from both the states are raising this issue for their benefits, and we (farmers) will solve this issue on our own,” he added. Harjit Singh, BKU leader from Bhawanigarh block of Sangrur said, “The villagers of Haryana have been making arrangements for our stay for us from last two days and we have been invited to stay in their houses like family members.” Karan Singh Pehalwan, member of organising committee in Jhanj Kalan village said, “Punjab farmers are our brothers and we feel pleasure in welcoming them and supporting them. Besides schools and houses in the three villages, tents have been put up for the stay of Punjab and Haryana farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/dilli-chalo-ii-rolls-from-punjab-more-farmers-to-set-off-today/articleshow/79973286.cms||Neel Kamal
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Raja Bhoj’s mask goes ‘missing’ in a day||By: Abdul Moeed Faruqui BHOPAL: A day after the iconic Raja Bhoj statue along VIP road was spotted with a ‘facemask’, it was removed on Saturday. Social media posts of Raja Bhoj statue sporting the facemask went viral and the initiative was much appreciated. However, on Saturday, the BMC authorities said it was not a facemask. “It was not a facemask but only a cover added to the statue as it was being repainted,” said a senior Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) official. BMC and the district administration has found it tough to motivate people to wear a facemask during the Covid-19 pandemic. The removal of the mask from the statue, and the contradictions over what lead to the masking and unmasking are taking centre stage on social media now. On Friday, district collector Avinash Lavania, had said, “The district administration and the BMC have decided to put a mask on the statue to send across a message that wearing mask at a public place is a must and it should not be skipped or avoided at any cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-raja-bhojs-mask-goes-missing-in-a-day/articleshow/79973272.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ghaziabad||Sinking deep: Water table at Ghaziabad falls 12m in 4 years||GHAZIABAD: The groundwater level in Ghaziabad has depleted by almost12 metres in the past four years and experts have warned that the district would “stare at a water scarcity” if measures are not taken to replenish the waterbodies immediately. Data sourced from the UP government says that groundwater in the district has been depleting at the rate of around 3m every year since 2016. Four of five blocks in Ghaziabad have been put under the “notified” category, which means that water here has been extracted at a much higher rate than it has been recharged. The extraction rate of Ghaziabad city itself is more than 260%. “Till last year, the annual groundwater depletion rate hovered around1.5m. But it has almost doubled now. There are areas where the water table has plummeted to as low as 48m. If the slide continues at this rate, we would stare at a water scarcity in less than a decade,” said Gemini Rao, a citybased hydrologist. Data provided by the UP groundwater department showed the pre-monsoon level in the district to be 18.7m in 2016. In the next four year, it has gone down to 30.6m, a drop of 12m. Noornagar in Sihani area has seen the sharpest fall — from 29.4m in 2016, it has dropped to 48.3m this year, a drop of 19m. It is followed by Vijay Nagar, which has registered a depletion of 8.5m during the same period. Officials said the water level was recorded digitally at 39 places, of which 10 spots were categorised as “dry”. “A dry spot means either the apparatus used for recording groundwater level had malfunctioned or the water table is so low that the recorder cannot register the data. There are a dozen spots where the groundwater level has depleted by more than 5m,” said Rahul Dev Sharma, an engineer with the groundwater department. Asked how alarming the situation was in Ghaziabad, Rao referred to a composite water management index report released by Niti Aayog in 2019. The report said that “21 Indian cities, including Ghaziabad, may run out of groundwater in a couple of years, affecting a population of 100 million people”. “The latest data on groundwater is a pointer to this. Of five blocks here in Ghaziabad, four have exceeded the water extraction capacity. The use of groundwater has been 140.9% in Bhojpur, while it has been 132.9% in Loni. In Ghaziabad, it is an alarming 263.3%,” Rao said. Reasons for the sharp decline in water table range from vanishing waterbodies to rampant illegal extraction for commercial, construction and industrial purposes. Rapid urbanisation has also been blamed for the situation. Officials have, however, pinned their hopes on the Uttar Pradesh Ground Water (Management and Regulation) Act, 2019, which mandates a fine of up to Rs 20 lakh and a maximum imprisonment of seven years for illegal extraction of water. “Earlier, the groundwater policy was governed by the Central Ground Water Authority, but it lacked teeth. Under the new law, there are provisions to levy a penalty and punishment for overuse of groundwater. ,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/sinking-deep-water-table-at-ghaziabad-falls-12m-in-4-years/articleshow/79973302.cms||Abhijay Jha
December 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Ambala civic polls: Parties leave no stone unturned to woo voters||AMBALA: The political parties did not leave any stone unturned during their campaigning, which came to an end on Friday; the field is now set for the Ambala City municipal corporation (MC) election to be held on Sunday. The mayoral as well as councillor candidates held meetings with workers on Saturday and the day remained peaceful as the district administration made comprehensive security arrangements before the poll day. A total of six candidates are in the fray for the post of mayor, including Dr Vandana Sharma of BJP, Meena Aggarwal of Congress, Amisha Chawla of Haryana Democratic Front (HDF), Shakti Rani Sharma of Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP), Jolly of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Gurmeet Kaur an independent candidate of Ambala Vikas Manch (AVM). For the 20 ward councillors in the city, a total of 101 candidates are in the fray. Returning officer (RO) for Ambala City MC electioncum-sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Sachin Gupta said the total number of voters in the city is 1,87,134, of which, 97,738 are male and 89,396 are female voters. He said a total of 198 booths have been set-up at 71 locations. He said voting will begin from 8 am till 5.30 pm. District election officercum-deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said, “All preparations have been made. Police will be deployed at all the booths for security. Under the sensitive and highly sensitive booths, strong arrangements have been made. We appeal to the public to follow all the Covid-19 protocols when they come to the pollig booths.” All the outfits have sought votes on the local issues and promised to deliver better facilities for city residents, including door-to-door garbage collection, CCTV camera installation, employment to youths, sanitation and cleanliness, reducing property mutation fee and property tax, smooth drainage system, revamping streets and roads, streetlights, corruption-free MC functioning etc. Interestingly, Industrial Model Township (IMT) in Ambala has remained on priority for political parties during the campaigning. IMT Ambala had remained a dream project of HCJP’s Venod Sharma. Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar also promised to start acquiring land for the same. Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala claimed that the IMT would be set-up by Congress after forming government in Haryana. BKU (Charuni) campaign against BJPBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Charuni) started distributing pamphlets in Ambala City and appealed voters to not to choose BJP candidates. BKU alleged that the ruling Central government has introduced the three black agri-marketing laws to benefit capitalists and the laws are not only against farmers, but small traders and public as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ambala-civic-polls-parties-leave-no-stone-unturned-to-woo-voters/articleshow/79973304.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||BMC's New Year gift: Heritage tours of its iconic headquarters||Do you know where the BMC's head office was before the existing building was constructed in 1893? Can you spot the statue of the City of Bombay inside the BMC building? Do you know where the 'duck fountain' is in it? And, what lies underneath the building's dome? You will get answers to questions like these and many more when the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) in collaboration with the BMC begins heritage tours of the city's iconic municipal headquarters next month. Last week the MTDC appointed local tourism agency Khaki Tours to curate heritage tours of the BMC building. Each tour is expected to last around an hour and will include a detailed Q&A at the end. While the days when the tours will be conducted are yet to be fixed, they are expected to begin next month. "The magnificent dome that you see inside is not the one you see inside from the main staircase. The inside dome is far lower. There are two water tanks between the domes... (which were) concealed so that the building's beauty is not hit. These tanks are not used anymore," says Bharat Gothoskar, founder of Khaki Tours. Another interesting trivia is that in the early 1900s when top BMC officials wanted to watch a cricket match, they would go to the deck above the top dome and watch matches going on at the Bombay Gymkhana grounds across the road. Research on the mysteries of the BMC building was done by history enthusiast Siddhartha Fondekar, who will host the tours. "Most people miss noticing a statue on the gable in front of the dome. The statue actually represents the colonial city of Bombay. The BMC headquarters hides some architectural marvels too. Between the two wings of the building is a little-known 'duck fountain'. And the mayor's entrance has a floating staircase with no support from the ground," Gothoskar points out. Last week, tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, who initiated the BMC heritage walk plan, visited the building with officials from the BMC and MTDC, and Khaki Tours. Officials said only a nominal tour fee will be charged and there will be discounts for students. Booking and ticketing will be done by the MTDC. "The historic building will soon be open to everyone. There are many things to learn while touring this rich history," Thackeray tweeted. Gothoskar says that before construction, a competition was held for the building's design and the winner was architect Robert Chisholm. But his Indo-Saracenic design with domes and minarets like the Taj Mahal in Agra did not find favour, and the contract was awarded to Frederick William Stevens and his Gothic design was finally selected. Stevens also designed CSMT. For many decades, the mayor did not have an office in the BMC building, and only the municipal commissioner had the privilege. "The mayor operated from private chambers. It was only when then mayor Vitthalbhai Patel insisted that the mayor gets an office in the building that an extension for the office was built," Gothoskar says. "For most of us, history and civics are just two subjects in school. We mug them up for exams, and then forget everything the next day. We do not think they are relevant to our lives. Through this walk, our effort is to not only make them relevant, but make them come alive for the common citizen. And the BMC building is where both history and civics interact."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmcs-new-year-gift-heritage-tours-of-its-iconic-headquarters/articleshow/79973330.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
December 27, 2020||India||Renew vehicle papers by Dec 31 or face penalty||NEW DELHI: Vehicle owners should renew their driving licence (DL) and registration certificate (RC), fitness certificate and permit of vehicles by Dec 31 to avoid paying a high penalty. The government is yet to take a decision on whether to extend the relaxations which were given to avoid any punitive action for holding expired documents since February due to the Covid pandemic. However, sources said commercial vehicle owners have made a suggestion to the government to extend the relaxations for such vehicles considering the practical problems that they are facing when still a sizeable number of their vehicles are off the roads. “For example, our buses, which are attached to schools, are not running and we can’t operate them till schools are open. So, the government should look at all issues before taking any decision,” said the school bus operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/renew-vehicle-papers-by-dec-31-or-face-penalty/articleshow/79973292.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 27, 2020||Kozhikode||Eight from UK test positive for Covid in Kerala||KOZHIKODE: Health minister K K Shailaja said that eight persons who recently returned to the state from the UK have tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune for genetic sequencing to know if they were infected with the new strain of coronavirus discovered in the UK. "More tests are underway," said the minister. Speaking to reporters in Kannur on Saturday, the minister said that the health department and the state government were vigilant over the emergence of the new strain and that the state was screening all recent arrivals from the UK. The minister said that it has also been decided to monitor passengers who had returned to the state from European countries during the period. The main concern, the minister said, was that the new strain of the coronavirus is believed to cause a rapid spread of the infection and could lead to more deaths even though experts have said that the mortality rate of the strain has remained the same. Health department research shows slight strain variation The minister said that the research carried out under the initiative of the state health department earlier has found that there was a slight change in the strain of the virus in the state. "To confirm it, we are now conducting the research in all the districts of the state. The initial research was based in Kozhikode," Shailaja said. The study on the genetic epidemiology of SARS-CoV-2 in the state was carried under a collaborative effort of researchers from the Government Medical College, Kozhikode, CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi and Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research, Ghaziabad and the pre-print of the study had appeared in bio-Rxiv, an open-access preprint repository for biological sciences in September. In the study, a total of 200 samples from patients were sequenced. The study had uncovered a total of four novel genetic variants and 89 variants that were identified only in Kerala and not in the rest of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/eight-from-uk-test-positive-for-covid-in-kerala/articleshow/79973342.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula civic polls: BJP, Congress vouch for victory||With stage set for civic elections and candidates in the fray from Congress as well as BJP, in-charges of both the parties are confident of victory. While BJP’s Capt Abhimanyu calls clean administration and good governance during the BJP regime as reasons for its optimism, Cong’s Chander Mohan is banking upon the alleged anti-people policies and ‘failure’ of government in delivering services to win Panchkula. Manvir Saini finds out what else the two have to say With voting just a few hours away and you have been campaigning for last monthand-a-half months, what are your views now?Capt Abhimanyu: From the response that we got during the election campaign, we are confident that residents of Panchkula will vote BJP to power. They want the city to be identified as a new metro town of the country. We have governments at the Centre as well as in the state. So, people have realised this and they will vote accordingly. Chander Mohan: We are confident that Panchkula residents will vote for Congress as they want all round development of the city. For the past two years, development in the city has come to a standstill. People are eagerly waiting for development to take place in the city. What are the main demands of voters in this constituency?Capt Abhimanyu: Panchkula city is inhabited by educated people and they mainly believe in the best quality of life. Being part of the Tricity, residents deserve all the basic facilities. BJP’s mayoral candidates Kulbhushan Goyal is the best candidate with a clean image with a strong background. He is accessible for all. Our candidates have won the hearts of the residents. Chander Mohan: This is the city of intellectuals from all walks of life i.e. entrepreneurs, educationists, defense personnel and retired officers. Better Health, water and other issues on the lines of Mohali and Chandigarh are the main demands. Congress made Panchkula a district and the present time demands security of the elderly, job security for the youth and best professional colleges What do you think are the main issues that you will have to deal with?Capt Abhimanyu: We have focussed on development, good government and delivering services, which had never been important for our political rivals, especially Congress. For the past six years, we have changed the face of the city. Chander Mohan: We have prepared a 20-point programme. Everybody was aware about the wrongs, which the city saw in the last two years. We made this city a district and started development of the same. But within the last two years, the present government had stopped and withdrawn all those works which were approved by then mayor Upinder Ahluwalia. Now, she is re-contesting for the mayor’s post. We have promised to make Panchkula a better city than Mohali and Chandigarh. Has the farmers’ agitation been able to influence voters?Capt Abhimanyu: This will certainly not be an issue in Panchkula as this is a civic poll for the urban development. Chander Mohan: Everyone is equally concerned about farmers. Moreover, this is just a 43-year-old city, inhabited by those having roots in the rural areas. BOX: DC distributes EVMs to poll officers in PanchkulaThe election department distributed the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) to the presiding and election officers on Saturday at Government Girls College, Sector 14. While giving the EVMs, deputy commissioner (DC)-cum-district electoral officer M K Ahuja said before the start of the polling, all the parties will conduct a mock polling to ensure that everything is working fine. A supervisor in each ward has been appointed for the same. Besides this, special 12 duty magistrates will make sure that Covid-19 guidelines are being followed. The DC said besides five officers inside a booth, there will be two to three cops and homeguards to maintain law and order situation. The DC said all the polling stations have been sanitised and the staff has been given masks, gloves, face shield and PPE kits to contain the spread of the deadly of virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panchkula-civic-polls-bjp-congress-vouch-for-victory/articleshow/79973333.cms||Manvir Saini
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Congress fooled farmers, says Jyotiraditya Scindia||BHOPAL: BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia on Saturday said that a “decision on cabinet expansion will be taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, party national president J P Nadda and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Scindia, who participated in the training session of BJP district presidents in Sehore, said that Congress has fooled farmers over the years. Scindia was reacting to the proposed tractor protest by the opposition party on Monday The former MP said that PM Modi and BJP were working for the welfare of farmers and ensured they get the profit they deserve. “Congress stepped back on its promise in its 15-month rule in Madhya Pradesh and is now acting to be with farmers”, Scindia added. “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is running a good government and has made it clear that he would take tough action against anyone who breaks the law. The state can only move forward by his leadership”, Scindia said. “The training sessions help in moulding the party workers as per the identity of BJP. The entire world knows the saffron party for its unique working style. Due to its work culture, BJP is the biggest political party not just in India but in the entire world”, said chief minister Chouhan, while addressing the inaugural session of the twoday meet of party district presidents. “The party leaders must work to make their respective districts an ideal”, Chouhan said. He said workers are the face of the party. “Their working style and behaviour decide the face of the party. District presidents are the focus point. If the focus point is trained, other party workers would also be shaped in a better way”, he said. “If the district presidents move forward after proper training, the party will be able to attain its goals. We will take our training and work hard in our respective districts. We should pledge to make our organisation strong wherever it is weak”, Chouhan said. State BJP president V D Sharma was also present during the occasion along with MP BJP in-charge Muralidhar Rao, joint in-charges Pankaja Munde and Bishweswar Tudu, organisational general secretary Suhas Bhagat and other senior BJP leaders. Five sessions were held on the first day of the training..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-congress-fooled-farmers-says-jyotiraditya-scindia/articleshow/79973354.cms||Ankur Sirothia
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||No confusion over farm laws in MP, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that the state government has taken decisions so that the benefits of the newly-enacted farm laws are easily accessible to farmers across Madhya Pradesh. “Work is being done to get beneficial prices related to selling of produce to mills by farmers. The entire effort of the state government is that maximum farmers must get benefits. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intention to double the income of farmers will definitely be fulfilled. The farmers of MP are with the Prime Minister. There is absolutely no confusion among the farmers of the state regarding these laws”, Chouhan said on Saturday. Speaking in Sehore at the BJP district presidents meeting, Chouhan said that the form signed between the farmer and the crop purchasing company, trader or person, will be preserved as a document in the subdivisional magistrate’s revenue office so that the cultivator is not cheated in contract farming. He said that a proforma is being prepared for contract farming by the state government in which the farmer and representative of the crop purchasing company, trader or person have to sign and it will be kept safe in the magisterial office. Chouhan said that his government has decided that training will be held in all 313 janpad panchayats of the state to make farmers aware of the nuances of the new agricultural laws and to make the benefits of these laws available to the farmers. “Farmers will benefit by becoming aware of every aspect of the new agricultural laws”, he added. Chouhan said that the implementation of the farm laws has already started in MP as per the initiatives taken by the Central government in the interest of lakhs of farmers in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-confusion-over-farm-laws-in-mp-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan/articleshow/79973358.cms||---
December 27, 2020||India||After Bengal, Shah poll drive in Assam||GUWAHATI: A week after rocking Mamata Banerjee’s boat in poll-bound Bengal, home minister Amit Shah on Saturday flagged off BJP’s re-election bid in Assam with a paean to PM Narendra Modi for transforming the “troubled” eastern and northeastern regions into the “growth engine of the country”. “In 2013, Modi had said if Northeast is not developed, it is impossible to develop the nation. In 2014, the people made him the PM and he turned his words into reality,” Shah said in Amingaon. Shah said the only two problems that Assam still faced were illegal infiltration and floods. “Can Congress stop infiltration? Only BJP under PM Modi’s leadership can stop it.” Congress said Shah’s visit could trigger violence in the state, “just like in Bengal”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-bengal-shah-poll-drive-in-assam/articleshow/79973324.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Noida||Woman jumps off Noida flyover||NOIDA: Four persons in the city have allegedly committed suicide in separate incidents in the past 24 hours, the police said on Saturday. Two of the deceased were co-workers, they added. On Saturday, a 30-year-old woman attempted suicide by jumping off the loop of an elevated road opposite Prakash Hospital in Sector 33 of the city. The sector 24 SHO, Prabhat Dixit, said her co-workers have told the police that the incident happened at 2 pm when she had come out with them during lunch break.“They said she had tried to take the extreme step earlier as well. Her family said she was in a relationship with a man, who stays near her rented accommodation,” he said. Sources said the incident happened after she had a fight with her partner. She was first taken to Prakash hospital but then sent to the District Hospital. “She seems to have internal injuries as there was no bleeding. She had injuries on her waist and feet,” a doctor at district hospital said. However, she has been referred to Safdarjung hospital and is now said to be stable. In the first case of suicide, a 29-year-old Ashu, who worked in a private company, was found hanging in Kasna on Friday, the police said. His co-worker, 30-year-old Priyanka, also took her life in a similar manner in her rented accommodation. She is survived by a two-year-old child and a husband –who is a worker in the same factory. “So far, no complaint has been found. We are checking if the two deaths are related,” additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey told TOI. In the third such incident, a 25-year-old security supervisor, Arun, hanged himself to death in his rented accommodation in Noida’s Chhijarsi colony on late Friday, the police said. Arun from Kanpur had come to the city recently. He was working in Shipra society in Ghaziabad. Lastly, a 22-year-old barber, Danish, was found dead in Noida’s Sadarpur in Sector 45.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/woman-jumps-off-city-flyover/articleshow/79972026.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Visually impaired IAS officer’s posting: HC raps former Haryana chief secretary||CHANDIGARH: Reprimanding former Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora for her “attempt to play fraud to circumvent the judicial order passed by the apex court,” the Punjab and Haryana high court has issued notice to Arora asking her as to why contempt of court proceedings should not be initiated against her. During her tenure as the Haryana chief secretary, Arora had allegedly not complied with the order passed by the Supreme Court directing the state government to give field posting as deputy commissioner to Ravi Prakash Gupta, a visually impaired IAS officer of the Haryana cadre. He was initially posted as DC but not allowed to continue. “Though on the face of it the posting of petitioner as DC appears to be in compliance of the order of apex court, thereafter not allowing the petitioner to continue in the same post for minimum two years is deliberate attempt to outreach the order of the apex court ….We feel it appropriate to issue notice to the author of the order dated May 18, 2020, Keshni Anand Arora, the then chief secretary, Haryana, and to seek explanation why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against her for the aforesaid deliberate act,” the HC observed. Deliberately denied field work: IAS officer’s pleaArora has been told to file her response by January 6 on the issue. Division bench comprising Justice S N Satyanarayana and Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj passed the order while hearing a petition filed by Ravi Prakash Gupta, a visually impaired IAS officer, alleging that he has been deliberately denied field work by the state. His grievance is that all his juniors were assigned field work as DC of districts, which was not considered for him. The high court was informed that his petition for giving him field posting was earlier allowed by the high court on December 5, 2018. Even the state’s plea against the HC order was dismissed by the Supreme Court on August 6, 2019. According to the petitioner, it was after the long drawn battle against the mighty state, he was able to secure the posting as the DC Fatehabad on December 28, 2019. However, he could not continue in that office for minimum assured period of two years pursuant to the guidelines issued by the apex court in the matter of T S R Subramaniyam and others versus Union of India, where it was held that postings of IAS officers to any place should not be disturbed for a period of two years. The Haryana government transferred him from the post of deputy commissioner, Fatehabad on May 18, 2020. Aggrieved from this, he had approached the High Court. While issuing notice to Keshni Anand Arora, the then CS Haryana who had passed his transfer orders, the HC was also of the view that the transfer order dated May 18, 2020 is nothing but an outrageous attempt to contemptuously treat the order of the apex court. Officer's pleaRavi Prakash Gupta, a visually impaired IAS officer, had alleged in his petition that he has been deliberately denied field work by the state. His grievance is that all his juniors were assigned field work as DC of districts, which was not considered for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/visually-impaired-ias-officers-posting-hc-raps-former-haryana-chief-secretary/articleshow/79973363.cms||Ajay Sura
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Chilled-out countdown to New Year||BHOPAL: After a warm Christmas, layer up for a chilled out New Year’s week. On Saturday, the city’s day temperature dipped slightly, as nippy winds caused shivers. Once again, night temperature in Bhopal slipped below the 10 degree-mark. Denizens tucked themselves into blankets as Saturday night chilled at 8.9 degree Celsius. Expect slide in mercury for next few days, warn weathermen. Officials of the meteorological department, Bhopal circle said that the nights are likely to get colder from Monday as western disturbance has hit the northern parts and will likely to impact the state in next two days. Day temperature in Bhopal on Saturday was recorded at 26.8 degrees Celsius, a degree more than the normal mark, while night temperature in the city was recorded at 8.9 degrees Celsius, two degrees less than the normal mark. Wind direction in the city was north easterly while average wind speed was 10 kilometres per hour. At 3 degrees Celsius, Umaria was the coldest in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday. At least 25 places in the state recorded minimum temperature between 3 degrees Celsius and 10 degrees Celsius. The met department expects a clear sky and dry weather in city on Sunday. Day and night temperature would be respectively at 26 degrees Celsius and 9 degrees Celsius while average wind speed will be 12 kmph.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-chilled-out-countdown-to-new-year/articleshow/79973370.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||National SC Alliance to go on hunger strike over scholarship scam||Chandigarh: The National Scheduled Castes Alliance has announced that it will stage an indefinite hunger strike in Chandigarh on December 28 over the alleged postmatric scholarship scam. Paramjit Singh Kainth, president, National Scheduled Castes Alliance alleged, “The Postmatric Scholarship scam in Punjab and corruption in disbursal of funds in the scheme have been highlighted for the past few years but successive governments have ignored facts and shielded their officials and ministers from prosecution. The most recent case of Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Rs 63 crore corruption in the scheme is another addition to the rising cases of diversion of funds in the scheme.” Kainth demanded resignation of Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and a CBI inquiry into his role in the scam. He also demanded amendment in the Village Common Land Act to ensure that rights of people who get land through auction are not infringed upon and that no one is forced to step down from participating in the auctions. On December 23, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs approved changes to the postmatric scholarship scheme for students of scheduled castes, including a new funding pattern of 60-40 for the Centre and states. An investment of ₹59,048 crore, of which ₹35,534 crore would be the Centre’s share, was approved for the next five years. The National Scheduled Castes Alliance lauded the steps taken by the Central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/national-sc-alliance-to-go-on-hunger-strike-over-scholarship-scam/articleshow/79972119.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Shaheed Udham Singh Memorial project in limbo||Patiala: The project to construct Shaheed Udham Singh memorial in Sunam of Sangrur district, which was supposed to be completed by July this year, has come to a standstill. The contractor said he was not being paid and the officials claimed fund crunch. Today is the birth anniversary of Shaheed Udham Singh, who hailed from Sunam. The contractor has halted the work saying his bills for the construction of boundary wall, to the tune of Rs 35 lakh, were not cleared. Both the district administration officials and state culture and tourism officials alleged dearth of funds. “The work of around Rs 1.35 crore has been completed and the boundary wall has been completed. Now, the work has been halted only due to shortage of funds. The government is yet to clear my dues of Rs 35 lakh. I have been making rounds to get my dues cleared but in vain,” said contractor Balwinder Singh. Meanwhile, additional director of Punjab tourism and culture department, Lakhmir Singh said, “The dues of the contractor will be cleared soon, as the file has been sent to finance department”. The foundation stone for this memorial was laid by Punjab’s former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on December 26, 2016 ahead of assembly elections. However, the next year Congress came into power. On the 80th martyrdom day, Punjab Congress minister for tourism and cultural affairs, Charanjit Singh Channi inaugurated the work on July 31, 2019. Punjab CM Amarinder Singh had then missed the event but Channi who presided over as chief guest had laimed that the construction work of Shaheed Udham Singh memorial will be completed within a year.  The memorial in freedom fighter’s hometown was to be set up at Sunam-Bathinda highway at a cost of Rs 2.64 crore over four acres of land. Designed by Punjab’s Chief Architect, the memorial will include Shaheed Udham Singh’s statue made up of metal, open-air theatre, landscaping, park, parking area, cafeteria etc and other ultra-modern facilities.  In 1940, Shaheed Udham Singh assassinated Michael O’Dwyer, the former Lieutenant Governor of Punjab in British India, to avenge the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shaheed-udham-singh-memorial-project-in-limbo/articleshow/79972157.cms||Bharat Khanna
December 27, 2020||Noida||Rail minister seeks clarity on forest land rent from Uttar Pradesh chief minister||GREATER NOIDA: Does the public services department need to pay lease rent for using forest land in Uttar Pradesh, railways minister Piyush Goyal has asked UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath in a letter on December 19, said officials on Saturday. The matter pertains to about 12 hectares of forest land in Gulistanpur reserve forest area, which will be used by the ministry of railways to build its flagship programme — a dedicated freight corridor of 1.6 km . The letter was sent so that clarity is sought on the matter before inauguration of the corridor on December 29, said sources in the district administration. The agency executing the project, Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation. had asked the district forest officer to give them the land. After getting permission from forest department officials in Lucknow, the land was diverted to the corporation. A total of 3,750 trees were felled due to the project. The corporation has paid over Rs 40 crore for the land, which passes through the core area. However, the forest department asked the corporation to pay Rs 4.2 crore per annum as lease rent for using the land. “The lease rent has been levied as per the guidelines of the state government as well as provisions provided under the Forest Conservation Act. The state government has framed the policy and there is little that can be done from our end,” said the district forest officer PK Srivastava. Sources said the land has been handed over on a 99-year lease period to the corporation and 10% of the land cost has to be commanded as annual rent for the diversion. The corporation said lease rent cannot be levied since it is being given to one of the public service departments. Goyal said no other state in India has raised demand for lease rent for diversion of forest land for both western and eastern legs of the freight corridors. “We have asked UP government to consult with the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and review the decision of imposing lease rent like other states,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/rail-minister-seeks-clarity-on-forest-land-rent-from-uttar-pradesh-chief-minister/articleshow/79972112.cms||Shalabh
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Jind: Eight cops suspended for hiding poppy husk seized from drug peddlers||JIND: Eight policemen, including Jind crime investigation agency (CIA)-1 inspector Virender Singh Kharb, two CIA assistant sub-inspectors Praveen Kumar and Jaibir were suspended on Friday night for depositing less ‘ Doda chura’ (poppy husk) than the amount they seized from a drug peddler on December 18. Jind superintendent of police (SP) O P Narwal said eight policemen were suspended for their alleged role in the “Doda chura scam.” He said a special investigation team (SIT) had been formed to investigate the case. Two days ago, DSP, Haryana State Narcotics Control Bureau, Rajesh Kumar said they received a tip-off that a truck loaded with poppy husk was parked at Uchana police station and it was seized by Jind CIA and Uchana police on December 18. “We recovered 20 bags of doda chura and a huge amount of onions in the truck. A joint team of CIA and police recovered 414kg doda chura from Jagroop, a resident of Jind’s Palwan and recovered the truck. The next day, police arrested his accomplice Rakesh Kumar of Karnal in the drug smuggling case. Police deposited only 414kg contraband in the treasury and did not unload 398.150 kg contraband from the truck. Neither did they show it in the treasury,” he said. A senior official said CIA personnel planned to let off Rakesh Kumar for Rs 10 lakh. “ Police also promised Rakesh that they would return 398.150 kg contraband to him. We are probing the case,” he said. “This is a serious crime by the cops and drug peddlers. We have booked both assistant sub-inspectors posted at Jind CIA-1, both drug peddlers and a few unknown policemen under various sections of the NDPS Act. We have started investigations to ascertain the role of the other cops in the drug smuggling network. It is a matter of probe that the investigation officers did not deposit the entire contraband in the treasury and parked a truck with 398.150 kg Doda chura at Uchana police station. Prime facie, it appears that the cops and drug peddlers aimed to gain a huge amount from the remaining contraband,” DSP Rajesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/8-cops-suspended-for-hiding-poppy-husk-seized-from-drug-peddlers/articleshow/79972144.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Amritsar||Nagi bravehearts to be remembered on 49th anniversary||BATHINDA: The Indian Army’s Sudarshan Chakra division and the local populace have geared up to celebrate the 49th Nagi Day on December 27 and 28 with traditional fervor at Sriganganagar and Karanpur in Rajasthan. On December 25 and 26, 1971, Pakistan had occupied Indian territory at Nagi, a small village located in vicinity of the international boundary near Karanpur, after announcement of the ceasefire on December 16. Indian Army units 4 Parachute Regiment, 9 Parachute Field Regiment and 410 Field Company under 51 Parachute Brigade effectively supported by 18 Cavalry, evicted the enemy in a swift operation on December 28. The battle of Nagi epitomises the true ethos of Indian Army, wherein 21 bravehearts made the supreme sacrifice and defended the honour of the nation. The two days of Nagi Day celebrations by the Forever Victorious Brigade will include showcasing the battle by means of a light and sound show and cultural presentations as well as paying homage to martyrs at Sadhuwali military station and Nagi memorial. The event is planned to be attended by gallant veterans, serving personnel, civilians and families of army personnel, said a spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/nagi-bravehearts-to-be-remembered-on-49th-anniversary/articleshow/79972198.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Brace for severe cold in Punjab and Haryana, says Met department||CHANDIGARH: Cold to severe cold wave conditions will prevail in the region over the next three days. The meteorological department predicted unabated cold with dense to very dense fog on December 28 to 30 in different parts of Punjab and Haryana. Light rain and ground frost is also expected at isolated places. Minimum temperature was recorded at one to five degrees below normal in different places. In Kalpa, Manali and Sundernagar, it was below zero. According to Chandigarh meteorological department (IMD), Kalpa recorded the lowest temperature of -3 degrees Celsius, followed by Sundernagar (-0.6 degrees Celsius) and Manali (-0.2 degrees Celsius). In Punjab, Amritsar was coldest with minimum temperature of 4.2 degrees Celsius. It was colder than Shimla, where minimum temperature was 7 degrees Celsius. Ludhiana was the second coldest place in Punjab with a minimum temperature of 4.4 degree Celsius. In Haryana, Hisar and Karnal were also colder than Shimla with a minimum temperature of 2 and 4 degrees Celsius respectively. According to the meteorological department, air quality ranged between moderate to poor in different parts of the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/brace-up-for-severe-cold-says-weather-dept/articleshow/79972179.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||Teen molests six-year-old in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A 6-year-old minor girl was allegedly sexually abused by a 15-year-old minor boy at her house in Nishatpura locality. A case was registered against the minor on charges of rape and molestation under IPC and POCSO Act. Investigation is underway. Investigation officer SI Urmila Yadav said that the survivor’s father in his complaint stated that the accused minor boy resides in the same building. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/teen-molests-six-year-old-in-bhopal/articleshow/79973367.cms||---
December 27, 2020||India||NGO denies kids are missing, but NCPCR stands by its report||GUWAHATI/NEW DELHI: Markazul Ma’arif on Saturday refuted the report of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), which alleged that the NGO’s six childcare institutions in Assam and Manipur misused funds from various sources, including some from abroad, and has called for a probe into the status of 300-odd “missing” children. However, the chief of the apex national child rights body stood by the commission’s report and demanded to know if the children in these six homes were placed there as per orders of the child welfare committees (CWC). Assam MP Maulana Badruddin Ajmal has established these homes, one of which is alleged to have received funds from an international NGO linked to al-Qaida. Markazul Ma’arif secretary Khalilur Rahman Laskar told TOI, “The figure of 1,080 inmates in our five orphanages that commission has stated in its report is the enrolment figure of 2015. At present, we have 900 children with us and 180 of them have either passed out or have dropped out.” “On December 15, 16 and 17 a team from the commission paid us a sudden visit and has compiled this report. But we were not asked to give any explanation on the status of our children, who are no longer in our institutes,” he added. However, NCPCR chief Priyank Kanoongo said, “When the commission’s team went for inspection to these homes, three of them did not have any registration certificates to show. None of the homes showed any records to the inspection team related to the number of children placed there as per CWC orders. Under the Juvenile Justice Act, every child has to be placed in a children home only on the orders of the CWC.” NCPCR has called for probe into sources of funding and utilisation of funds. Kanoongo said, “I would like to ask Markazul Ma’arif, if the CWC was aware that any information about children to be covered by the project were being shared with a foreign funding organisation. We are worried about the safety of the children based on the deficiencies seen in the institutions during the inspections. It is such observations that have made us recommend FIRs under the JJ Act and a probe into funding related issues.” Laskar said, “We are registered as an NGO with the NCPCR as well as the state commission. We are also a registered NGO under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act 1976 and every penny that we receive from abroad are screened by government of India...” He added, “If some foreign funding agency has terror links, how are we supposed to know about them…it is the government which should caution us before we take funds from such agencies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ngo-denies-kids-are-missing-but-ncpcr-stands-by-its-report/articleshow/79973428.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||New farm laws: Kerala governor nod likely for special House session||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Governor Arif Mohammed Khan is likely to clear the recommendation of the state cabinet to convene a special session of the assembly to discuss the issue of new farm laws and farmer protests on December 31. According to sources in Raj Bhavan, clarifications sought by the governor on the recommendations were filed by the chief minister’s office on Saturday. A decision on the file is expected within two days. On Friday, agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar and law minister A K Balan met the governor to discuss the issue. It is learnt that the governor conveyed his displeasure over the dilution of rules in convening an emergency session and in keeping him in the dark about the proposed agenda of the session. The ministers told him about the growing sentiments in the state in support of farmers’ agitation and the need to discuss the issue by elected representatives. The governor sought some further clarifications which were given on Saturday. Last week, the governor denied permission to convene a special session on short notice .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/new-farm-laws-kerala-governor-nod-likely-for-special-house-session/articleshow/79973429.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||Man, family booked for dowry after wife hangs self in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A man and his family were booked on charges of dowry death case after his wife was found hanging at her house on December 13. No suicide note was recovered from the spot, but it came to light that a dispute took place between the family members after which she allegedly hanged herself. The woman’s uncle accused her husband and his family members of harassing her over money. SHO TT Nagar SI Manoj Dave said that deceased Durga Burman, wife of Naveen Burman, resided with her family in Gautam Nagar area. The duo got married around two and a half years ago. SI Dave said that Durga’s mother-in-law Chaya Burman informed police on December 13 that Durga allegedly hanged herself while she was outside with neighbours. At the time of the incident her husband, who works as a daily wager, had gone out for work. SI Dave said that a team of TT Nagar police reached the spot along with FSL and investigated the crime scene. No suicide note was recovered but when police recorded the statements of her family members, they accused Naveen and his family including mother Chhaya, his father Gokul Prasad, of harassing her over dowry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-family-booked-for-dowry-after-wife-hangs-self-in-bhopal/articleshow/79973418.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: LDF confident of winning mayoral election||KOCHI: With voting to elect Kochi mayor scheduled on Monday, LDF and UDF are gearing up for it. It is almost sure that M Anil Kumar of CPM will be elected mayor unless there is a sabotage. A clear picture on the deputy mayor candidate of LDF is yet to get as the difference of opinion between CPM and CPI over the issue is yet to be sorted out. Still, chances are high for K A Ansiya of CPI to be fielded as LDF’s deputy mayor candidate. “A final decision in this regard has not been taken so far,” a CPM leader said. However, there are reports that CPM may not lock horns with CPI as the margin of the LDF over UDF is very thin. At the same time, UDF leaders will meet in Kochi on Sunday to decide on mayor and deputy mayor candidates. “As chances for UDF candidates winning the mayoral election is less, fixing the opposition leader will be the major task for Congress,” one of the leaders of Congress in Kochi said. “The names of KPCC secretary Deepthi Mary Varghese, Mahila Congress district president V K Minimol, Antony Kureethra and Antony Painumthara ae doing the rounds. If a person is named as the candidate for mayor’s post, he or she may not be considered for the post of opposition leader. Similarly, those who don’t figure in the list of mayor’s and deputy mayor’s candidates may be considered for chairing standing committees. Given the fact that the LDF’s strength, including the independents is just 37, the opposition will be able to head two of the eight standing committees,” he said. “Most of the contenders for the key posts are I faction leaders. This may lead to rift in the I faction,” he said. In the council with a total strength of 74, UDF has 31 councillors while BJP has four councillors. Besides T K Asharaf, the IUML rebel who chose to support LDF, and a Congress rebel, there are two more independents. LDF is expected to give chairmanship of one of the standing committees to Asharaf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-ldf-confident-of-winning-mayoral-election/articleshow/79973447.cms||---
December 27, 2020||World||China sending high-level team to Nepal to prevent ruling party split||In a sign of growing unease in Beijing over the political crisis in Nepal, China is sending a high level delegation of the Chinese Communist Party to Kathmandu on Sunday to persuade the two warring factions of the Nepal Communist Party to stay together. Nepali media reported that a delegation under the leadership of vice-premier Guo Yezhuo would be in Kathmandu to speak to all the political factions and leaders in Nepal’s ruling party to help them bridge their differences. China’s move comes after Chinese ambassador to Nepal Hou Yanqi spent an hour with Nepalese President Bidya Bhandari trying to untangle the political mess precipitated by PM KP Oli’s step of dissolving the parliament. China’s move shows not only its desperation, but that it can risk being seen to overtly interfere in Nepal’s politics. Beijing has felt emboldened by the overtures made by Oli himself. This is despite Oli’s reported statement last month asking foreign countries to stay away from Nepal politics, which was seen as aimed at China, particularly its ambassador who has been openly taking part in Nepalese politics. Reports from Kathmandu say the Chinese are offering large amounts of money to Nepali politicians to patch up. India is watching the developments closely and with some apprehensions. New Delhi has stayed apart during the current political crisis but is surprised at China’s open involvement in Nepalese politics. “We will see how the process plays out, but it is an internal matter,” an official said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-sending-high-level-team-to-nepal-to-prevent-ruling-party-split/articleshow/79973440.cms||Indrani Bagchi
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Nine stations identified for high-speed rail corridor||BENGALURU: Nine stations have been identified for the high-speed rail corridor planned between Chennai and Mysuru via Bengaluru. The stations are likely to come up at Chennai, Poonamallee and Arakkonam in Tamil Nadu, Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh, Bangarpet, Bengaluru, Channapatna, Mandya and Mysuru in Karnataka. However, this is still a tentative list, officials said. The depot is likely to be near Poonamallee. The 435km Mysuru-Bengaluru-Chennai corridor is expected to reduce travel time between the three cities to one and a half hours. However, with the high-speed rail unlikely to reach the city limits due to land-acquisition issues, a multi-model transit hub linking the railways, Metro and buses is expected to be planned on the outskirts. National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited recently invited a tender for the preparatory survey work, which will be opened on January 13. But rail activists are unhappy with the proposals to have nine stoppages and standard-gauge tracks. “A train like Bengaluru-Mysuru-Chennai Shatabdi stops only at KSR Bengaluru City, Bengaluru Cantonment, Katpadi and MGR Chennai Central. Then why are there so many stoppages for a high-speed train? It should halt only at Mysuru, Bengaluru and Chennai,” said activist Sanjeev Dyamannavar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nine-stations-identified-for-high-speed-rail-corridor/articleshow/79971223.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Covid patient’s wife attacks health worker||MANGALURU: A health worker was allegedly assaulted by the wife of a Covid-19 positive person at Kutrupady village in Kadaba taluk, Mangaluru. Accredited Social Health Activist Rajeevi BS was assaulted with a broom by the wife of an infected person on December 21. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said a case has been registered at the jurisdictional police station. “Our ASHA worker had been to the house of the person to collect details related to primary contacts and to provide information about quarantine. The health worker found that the infected person was entertaining relatives in his house. When the worker advised the family not to allow visitors, his wife assaulted him with a broom. Such instances will demoralise health staff working in the department,” Dr Bairy said. Kadaba police said they will conduct further investigation once the person completes quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-patients-wife-attacks-health-worker/articleshow/79971166.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BMTC may cut AC bus fares to draw more commuters||BENGALURU: Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), which has the highest fleet of air-conditioned (AC) buses in the country, is planning a revamp of its operations. Starting January, the corporation is thinking of reducing fares of AC buses, rationalisation of routes and increasing its fleet. Currently, BMTC is operating only 70 of 860 AC buses. Of the 70, 54 are Vayu Vajra airport services. “A lion’s share of traffic revenue was from AC buses, but the pandemic severely hit those services,” said a senior BMTC official. The corporation is planning to reduce fares of only AC buses and also re-route tech corridors. “The buses plying on tech corridors will be re-routed to other areas. The number of AC buses will be increased from 70 to around 150. The idea is to attract non-AC passengers to AC buses, app-based cabs and autos, as well as rental scooters,” the official said. BMTC managing director C Shikha said: “Our AC services were mainly catering to the IT sector, but ridership has reduced due to the work-from-home model. We will come up with promotional activities for AC passengers. We have not yet finalised the rate of fare reduction. But promotional rates will be from January 1 as a New Year gift for Bengaluru. We are now reworking our routes.” “Before Covid, techies were regular passengers on AC buses, but now they are working remotely. There is no clarity on when offices will resume and we cannot keep our buses idle for more months. So, we planning initiatives to attract common passengers to AC services,” said an official. Officials said daily ridership is now around 20 lakh compared to 36 lakh earlier. “Another reason for drop in ridership is schools remaining closed,” said an official. Addressing concerns around travelling in AC buses, the official said they are periodically sanitising the vehicles. “In fact, Metro and Indian Railways are also operating AC coaches. There is no scientific evidence to prove AC buses or coaches spread Covid. We are also ensuring all passengers wear masks,” he added. In January 2018, BMTC reduced fares of AC buses between 5% and 37%, but the decision was reversed in July 2018 due to soaring operational costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bmtc-may-cut-ac-bus-fares-to-draw-more-commuters/articleshow/79971168.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Vishnuvardhan’s bust vandalised; fans protest||BENGALURU: Tension prevailed near Magadi Road toll gate on Saturday morning when hundreds of fans of late Kannada actor Vishnuvardhan protested against vandalisation of the actor’s bust near Prasanna Theatre. The crowd was mollified and dispersed after local politicians promised to replace the bust immediately. A complaint by the office-bearers of Vishnu Sena Samiti was lodged later at Vijayanagar police station. The incident came to light when a few autorickshaw drivers, who regularly park their vehicles near the bust, noticed it had been vandalised. Soon, the news reached the thespian’s fans and office-bearers of the Samiti, and hundreds of people gathered in no time. Traffic was disrupted on the ever-busy Magadi Road. Cops from Magadi Road, Basaveshwaranagar and Vijayanagar police stations also reached the spot and controlled the mob. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Sanjeev M Patil along with local politicians held talks with the protesters and assured them the bust would be replaced at the earliest. “This is not the first time that miscreants have targeted the bust. Last year, it was stolen at night and was replaced later,” the office-bearers said in the complaint. Police said they are collecting CCTV footage from surrounding areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vishnuvardhans-bust-vandalised-fans-protest/articleshow/79971155.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: KSRTC will switch to new number||BENGALURU: Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will have a new call centre number from January 1. In a release, KSRTC said it has decided to change the current call centre number (9449596666) to 080-26252625 from January 1, 2021. “For any suggestion/complaints and any other enquiry regarding corporation, passengers are requested to contact the same number,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ksrtc-will-switch-to-new-number/articleshow/79971189.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||SWR awaits Karnataka nod to remove level crossings||BENGALURU: South Western Railway (SWR)’s proposal in 2018 for the construction of 26 rail over bridges and rail under bridges (ROB/RUBs) to replace level crossing gates in Bengaluru still remains on the paper. The state government is yet to give the green signal, citing land acquisition hurdles. “There are 36 level crossings (LCs) qualifying for construction of ROB/RUB on a cost-sharing basis in the city limits. But the government has given nod for only nine. Of them, eight have already been sanctioned while the railway board’s approval is awaited for an ROB proposal,” said E Vijaya, chief public relations officer, SWR. For the remaining 26 LCs, SWR approached Infrastructure Development Department (IDD) for consent to take up the projects. “As per the 100-day action plan of the railway board, all manned LCs on golden quadrilateral and golden diagonals (GQ/GD) are to be eliminated by 2022 and for other routes by 2024 subject to availability of funds. But there is no GQ/GD route in SWR,” she added. ROB/RUB works involve factors including consent and availability of funds from the state and railways, shifting of utilities and land acquisition/building compensation. “The elimination of LCs is not part of the Bengaluru suburban rail project and it is planned by SWR,” said Vijaya.  At Kaggadasapura, 6,959sqm land is required for ROB approaches and the land proposal was submitted to BDA. “Work can be taken up after acquisition of required land by BDA. Road users also will be put into inconvenience by taking up work where approach land is not ready,” said an official. “Land is a major issue especially in BBMP limits. In some cases, individuals would approach court and get a stay. We’re working with railways to resolve these issues,” a government official said. Kapil Mohan, principal secretary, IDD, was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/swr-awaits-state-nod-to-remove-level-crossings/articleshow/79971177.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Man killed in clash between groups in Delhi's Trilokpuri||NEW DELHI: A man was killed and several others were injured after a clash broke out between two groups over an old rivalry, in east Delhi's Trilokpuri on Saturday. As per deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh, around 10pm Mayur Vihar police station received a call informing about the incident.  "Two men named Kasim and Shahid were on one side and Mannan and his companions were on the other side. Shahid died of a gunshot wound after Mannan open fire. Five other people are also injured and have been taken to a hospital for treatment," he said.  The DCP added that a case has been registered and an investigation is under way.  Police have detained some people in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-killed-in-clash-between-groups-in-delhis-trilokpuri/articleshow/79973486.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Why Gurugram needs to improve road and rail connectivity with Delhi||GURUGRAM: A plan designed to improve connectivity in and around Gurugram has said more than two-thirds of inter-city trips are with Delhi and the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) needs to establish both road and rail links with the capital in the coming years to ensure smooth movement of traffic. The mobility plan, which was prepared by the School of Planning and Architecture and recently approved by the Haryana chief minister, says that inter-city trips of commuters account for 43% of the total trips in and around Gurugram. Of the 43% inter-city trips, 67% are with Delhi. After Gurugram-Delhi, the most number of trips from the city are with Faridabad (14.8%), Noida (1.6%) and others at 17%. “This indicates that Gurugram-Delhi traffic interaction is huge and this pattern is likely to continue with even much higher numbers in the future. Therefore, Gurugram-Delhi connectivity will need to be significantly enhanced in the coming years in the form of road capacity and mass transit augmentation,” the mobility plan says. A survey done as part of the mobility plan has revealed that despite the rush of traffic with the capital, there are only two direct road links from the city. This, the report says, has a cascading effect on traffic in the city, where roads often get choked during rush hours. Commute between Gurugram and Delhi is crucial because most offices and industries are located in these cities and most of the travellers are office-goers. “Mass transit connectivity is also inadequate between Gurugram and Delhi/Faridabad,” the plan specifies. So, as part of suggestions to improve road connectivity, the plan has proposed a link between NH-48 (near Ambience Mall) and Mehrauli-Gurugram Road, which is an important part of the proposed Outer Ring road. But this proposed link needs a number of government approvals before the design is approved. “The link, as designed in the plan, will either go through the Biodiversity Park or around it. So, it would be advisable that the aspect of Environmental Impact Assessment is taken up while designing the road itself and necessary measures are adopted,” said a senior GMDA official. Apart from that, the Outer Ring road link between NPR and Old Delhi Road has been missing because the project is mired in land issues in Delhi. However, this connectivity can be solved by the road which links Shiv Chowk on NH-48 to Dwarka Expressway through Sector 25. The plan also talks about the link between Nelson Mandela Marg in Delhi and MG Road. The comprehensive mobility plan has taken more than a year to be developed and speaks about how the city’s traffic problems can be solved. It also serves as a supporting document to seek approval from the Centre for the Gurugram metro project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/why-gurgaon-needs-to-improve-road-and-rail-connectivity-with-delhi/articleshow/79971671.cms||Shubhra Pant
December 27, 2020||Faridabad||Why Gurugram needs to improve road and rail connectivity with Delhi||GURUGRAM: A plan designed to improve connectivity in and around Gurugram has said more than two-thirds of inter-city trips are with Delhi and the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) needs to establish both road and rail links with the capital in the coming years to ensure smooth movement of traffic. The mobility plan, which was prepared by the School of Planning and Architecture and recently approved by the Haryana chief minister, says that inter-city trips of commuters account for 43% of the total trips in and around Gurugram. Of the 43% inter-city trips, 67% are with Delhi. After Gurugram-Delhi, the most number of trips from the city are with Faridabad (14.8%), Noida (1.6%) and others at 17%. “This indicates that Gurugram-Delhi traffic interaction is huge and this pattern is likely to continue with even much higher numbers in the future. Therefore, Gurugram-Delhi connectivity will need to be significantly enhanced in the coming years in the form of road capacity and mass transit augmentation,” the mobility plan says. A survey done as part of the mobility plan has revealed that despite the rush of traffic with the capital, there are only two direct road links from the city. This, the report says, has a cascading effect on traffic in the city, where roads often get choked during rush hours. Commute between Gurugram and Delhi is crucial because most offices and industries are located in these cities and most of the travellers are office-goers. “Mass transit connectivity is also inadequate between Gurugram and Delhi/Faridabad,” the plan specifies. So, as part of suggestions to improve road connectivity, the plan has proposed a link between NH-48 (near Ambience Mall) and Mehrauli-Gurugram Road, which is an important part of the proposed Outer Ring road. But this proposed link needs a number of government approvals before the design is approved. “The link, as designed in the plan, will either go through the Biodiversity Park or around it. So, it would be advisable that the aspect of Environmental Impact Assessment is taken up while designing the road itself and necessary measures are adopted,” said a senior GMDA official. Apart from that, the Outer Ring road link between NPR and Old Delhi Road has been missing because the project is mired in land issues in Delhi. However, this connectivity can be solved by the road which links Shiv Chowk on NH-48 to Dwarka Expressway through Sector 25. The plan also talks about the link between Nelson Mandela Marg in Delhi and MG Road. The comprehensive mobility plan has taken more than a year to be developed and speaks about how the city’s traffic problems can be solved. It also serves as a supporting document to seek approval from the Centre for the Gurugram metro project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/why-gurgaon-needs-to-improve-road-and-rail-connectivity-with-delhi/articleshow/79973492.cms||Shubhra Pant
December 27, 2020||India||Indians’ return to Qatar likely on agenda during Jaishankar visit||NEW DELHI: Foreign minister S Jaishankar will travel to Doha for two days starting Sunday as India strengthens its ties with the Gulf states. He is scheduled to meet the Qatari leadership, including his counterpart Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani. India is one of the biggest source countries for labour and skilled personnel in Qatar. Jaishankar is expected to make the case for opening up for Indian workers to go back to the Gulf country for work. Earlier this month, both countries agreed to institutionalise measures to promote and protect the rights of workers during the Sixth Meeting of India-Qatar Joint Committee on Labour and Manpower Development, according to a statement by the MEA. “They welcomed the recent labour reform measures adopted by Qatar. Both sides agreed on institutionalising measures to promote and protect the rights of the workers, including settlement of labour issues and facilitate movement of people between the two countries, in a safe and secure manner,” the statement said. India and Qatar have also agreed to set up a high-level task force for energy investment. Qatar is India’s largest supplier of natural gas and LPG. India is seeking investment to build energy infratsrutucre in the country to help transition from coal to gas as the primary source of energy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indians-return-to-qatar-likely-on-agenda-during-jaishankar-visit/articleshow/79973471.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Lane on Delhi-Jaipur highway closed by cops, traffic crawls||REWARI: The farmers’ movement on Saturday intensified at Jaisinghpur Khera, the Haryana-Rajasthan border, with hundreds of farmers pouring in from different states at the protest site. To keep them from marching towards Delhi, the Haryana police closed the service lane on Delhi-Jaipur Highway at 2pm on Saturday. Due to the blockade, many people who were coming from Delhi got stuck in traffic. The border remained heavily congested between Gurgaon and Rewari and the movement of vehicles remained slow on the entire 86-km stretch, due to a five-layer police deployment at each traffic junction. Heavy police deployment was seen at Sirhaul, Bilaspur, Panchgaon, Dharuhera and Bawal. There were more than 1,500 police and armed forces personnel stationed at the Shahjahanpur border. Haryana police also blocked the NH-48 at Dharuhera, which led to a 7-km jam from Saturday morning till late in the evening. After spending more than six hours in traffic, people were forced to break a lane on the highway and return. Farmers have been protesting on the highway at Shahjahanpur border since December 12. However, till now only the lane from Jaipur-Delhi was closed. Many farmers have come from Alwar and announced their decision to march towards Delhi, following which the Haryana government also put up barriers on their side of the border. Due to the blockades, traffic was diverted to new routes connecting Jaipur and Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/lane-on-delhi-jaipur-highway-closed-by-cops-traffic-crawls/articleshow/79972358.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
December 27, 2020||Noida||Amrapali looks to complete course, brake time at Jaypee||A year of some brisk move for one, staggered progress for the other. The year panned out differently for two sets of homebuyers who had both pinned their hopes on the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) for a resolution of their pending flats. Amrapali, with more than 30,000 flats to deliver in its housing projects, appeared to have found a resolution with the intervention of the Supreme Court and the appointment of court receiver R Venkatramani. Following the court’s order, construction at its pending projects took off, though lack of liquidity led to some interim delays. Funds were infused to grease the wheel and buyers, too, started paying up their pending instalments. Delivery of flats started soon after and the National Buildings Construction Corporation Ltd (NBCC), which has been entrusted with the responsibility of completing Amrapali projects, claims it is now working to a timeline. This year, 600 flats were completed but a mammoth task lies ahead in 2022. On the other hand, the progress of Jaypee Wish Town has hit multiple roadblocks. This is despite the fact that Wish Town has to deliver around 17,700 flats, almost half that of Amrapali’s. After winning the bids at NCLT against Suraksha and the trust of Jaypee homebuyers, NBCC had the task of constructing the remaining flats. The PSU, however, went to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) to challenge some of the financial liabilities that were imposed on it. The hearings at NCLAT, which formed a monitoring committee to manage day-t-day affairs of Jaypee Ufratech Ltd, continued till a group of buyers moved the Supreme Court against the delay by NBCC to start construction. A decision on the future course of action is pending. While Amrapali buyers are hopeful of getting their flats by 2023, the completion timelines for Jaypee will only be decided once there is clarity on the legal tangles. The delays have once again caused some restlessness among Jaypee buyers. A group recently staged a protest at the Wish Town site in Sector 128. Apart from a delay in initiating the completion work, both Wish Town residents and buyers waiting for their flats have also expressed concern over the condition of the concrete structures, which have been lying exposed to the vagaries of weather for years. Experts say 2021 is likely to be a decisive year for Wish Town buyers, much like 2020 was for Amrapali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/amrapali-looks-to-complete-course-brake-time-at-jaypee/articleshow/79972443.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
December 27, 2020||Noida||Noida: Crack down on rogue dealers, says father of student killed by carjackers||“We have lost everything, the arrests are only a consolation,” says the grieving father of 24-year-old Amity University student Akshay Kalra, who died after an attack by a gang of five carjackers near his housing society in Noida on the night of September 2. A thalassemia patient, Akshay’s death shook the family and the city. Almost two months after the fatal attack, seven people were arrested, including five members of a Ghaziabad-based gang. The accused were traced through Akshay’s Creta, which was kept on a vacant plot in Ghaziabad’s Vaishali. Subsequent scanning of as many as 50 CCTV cameras and a bid to sell the vehicle led cops to the gang, which had been approaching some scrap dealers in Haryana and Meerut. “Nobody can make up for our loss but everybody from the family and friends has put in their best efforts,” Akshay’s father Gulshan said, of the difficult days the family had spent since he succumbed to his injuries in hospital. “The loss has damaged our family but police did put in efforts to nab the accused. We got to know that it was through the pressure exerted by police on scrap dealers that the accused got arrested as one of them who was contacted by the gang had refused to go ahead with the deal,” he added. Gulshan wondered why scrap dealers and markets for scrap, where deals for stolen cars are struck by criminals, are allowed to operate. “While it was through the scrap dealers that our son’s offenders got arrested, there must be many people whose vehicles had been looted and then sold in the scrap markets. Such scrap dealers who wilfully deal in such stolen vehicles should be taken to task. While police have named a wine smuggler from Haryana and another scrap dealer based in Bulandshahr for sealing a deal for the vehicle, they are yet to be arrested,” Gulshan said. The family is also concerned about the lack of functional CCTV cameras outside multiple societies. Cameras outside the Varun Apartments were not functioning, resulting in the attack on Akshay not getting captured on CCTV cameras. The family, which had started an online petition demanding justice for Akshay and CCTV installation across the city, has already received over 4,320 signatures in support. Gulshan also raised concern over the alarming increase in cases of loots and thefts, especially post-lockdown. “Criminals are looting cars worth Rs 7-8 lakh just for the sake of around Rs 1-2 lakh. In our case, the deal for our vehicle was set for Rs 1.25 lakh. It is alarming that the scrap dealers would have bought many such cars,” Gulshan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/crack-down-on-rogue-dealers-says-father-of-student-killed-by-carjackers/articleshow/79972801.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 27, 2020||Noida||Noida: In a pandemic year, crime leaves a bloody mark||Carjackings turned deadly, senior citizens were killed, and commuters were robbed at gunpoint by bike-borne men — the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown may have kept people indoors most of the year, but it failed to keep the criminals out of action for long, reports  Shikha Salaria A clear fall was seen in street crimes after the lockdown came into effect in March. But once the city began opening up June onwards, the graph crawled back to its usual elevations. Consider this: the number of calls to report robberies and snatchings received by Gautam Budh Nagar’s Dial 112 service plunged from 248 in March to 57 in April, but rose to 168 in June and 278 in July. As many as 357 such crimes were reported to police in November. Calls pertaining to murder too went up from three in April to seven in June and 10 in July. Police received calls for eight murders in November. Thefts went up substantially as well — while 431 thefts were reported to Dial 112 in May, the number had more than doubled to 1,082 by November.  Fatal attacks by carjackers Two attacks — one on a healthcare executive and the other on a college student — triggered outrage and brought immense pressure on police not only to catch the culprits but take measures to make Noida’s streets safer. 2020 began with the carjacking and murder of 39-year-old Gaurav Chandel, who was waylaid by gangster Ashu Jaat and his aides near Parthala Chowk on January 6. Jaat shot him and fled with his car. On the way home, Chandel had called up his wife and informed her that he was near the Parthala roundabout. Around five hours later, his family tracked his whereabouts using his cellphone’s GPS and found his body near the roundabout. While his car was found abandoned on January 14, Jaat was arrested in Mumbai after eight months. Several months after Chandel’s murder, a late-night drive on September 2 turned into a nightmare for Akshay Kalra, an Amity student. The 25-year-old was chased by a Ghaziabad-based gang of five men that wanted his Hyundai Creta. In his bid to escape, Akshay hit his head on the divider and was attacked with a brick by one of the carjackers. A thalassemia patient who had only recently undergone transfusion, Akshay succumbed to his injuries in hospital after two days. Attempts by the gang to sell the car to a scrap dealer landed them in the police net after two months. A few days after Kalra’s murder, a cab driver, Aftab Alam, was allegedly killed by three men who boarded his car as passengers. According to police, the trio tried to rob him and attacked him with the pointed end of a key. Alam was found injured and unconscious in the back seat of his taxi on the Dadri-Bulandshahr highway and later succumbed to his injuries.  Vulnerable seniors became victims Santosh Singh Nim (70) had called Rajesh (34), a painter, to her Sector 15 house for some work on July 27. When she caught him trying to steal money from her purse, he allegedly dragged her to the bathroom and strangled her with a curtain. Rajesh walked off with her gold chain, TV and Rs 1,500 in her purse. Police tracked him down with the help of footage from a CCTV camera near Nim’s house. Rajesh was arrested 10 days later.  Break-in bad: Too many robberies Narendra Bhati, the former block head of Dadri, was allegedly attacked by three assailants on November 19 and robbed of his car. Bhati was held captive inside his car as the gang looked to make a quick getaway. He was thrown out of the vehicle near Roopwas. While the police had initially claimed that the alleged crime was suspicious as the car was recovered a few hours later, officers later said they were continuing with the investigation. At least five major robberies were reported in Greater Noida in the first week of December alone, including an incident in which two bike-borne men robbed four residents of Omicron 1A at gunpoint. Several areas in Noida have also recently witnessed similar crimes. Despite having recovered CCTV footage, police haven’t tasted much success in solving these cases.  Gated societies fail to deter thieves Incidents of thefts in gated housing societies as well as plotted societies, places that offer better security, kept being reported. Several residents who parked their cars along boundary walls of their societies found the vehicles missing the next day or even within a few hours. In one case, a Vitara Brezza was stolen right in front of Gaur City’s Avenue 16. While police have filed FIRs, most cases have seen no arrests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/in-a-pandemic-year-crime-leaves-a-bloody-mark/articleshow/79972510.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Virtual court hearings here to stay, says judge||MUMBAI: "Electronic or e-courts are here to stay and I don't see how we are going to get rid of them," said Justice Gautam Patel while extolling the virtues of virtual proceedings on Saturday. Virtual hearing has been "a solitary benefit" of Covid-19 and its one "positive outcome" for the judiciary, he said as a chief speaker along with former HC judge, Justice R C Chavan, at an online conference titled 'A Vision for Virtual Courts'. It was moderated by Shailesh Gandhi and co-organised by Public Centre for Governance Trust (PCGT) and Forum for Fast Justice, a Mumbai-based voluntary body. Justice Chavan is also the vice-chairperson of the Supreme Court e-committee. He significantly said, "We are working on live streaming of court proceedings...It will boost confidence of litigants..." Julio Rebeiro, Mumbai's former police commissioner and chief of PCGT, said the state cannot be given an option to say it has no funds for necessary hardware to make courtrooms ready and equipped for video-conferencing hearings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-virtual-court-hearings-here-to-stay-says-judge/articleshow/79973581.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Ghaziabad||Gangs of Ghaziabad tormented police, residents all year||From donning police uniforms to conning job aspirants via ads, the past year saw criminal gangs improvise and become more brazen in Ghaziabad. Many of them changed their modus operandi after cops caught on. In some cases, policemen themselves were found to be involved. Arrests were aplenty but before you noticed, someone filled the void.  Avishek Kumar Dubey  takes a look at the crime scene this year in the NCR city, where police will have to work hard in 2021 to bring down the crime rate  Robbers who pretend to be cops Three youths — Sharad Khanna (24), Shourya Chopra (23) and Priyansh Gupta, all YouTubers and residents of Indirapuram — were shooting a short film on the Hindon elevated road on the morning of November 12. Four men on two bikes, dressed as cops, overtook and waved down the YouTubers’ car near Haj House before robbing them of their wallets, a gold chain and the car. In March, Afghan national Mohammad Abobaker Barak (27) was robbed of $2,200 in Vaishali by four men who claimed to be Ghaziabad cops. FIRs were filed in both cases, but no arrests have been made so far.  The railway jobs that weren’t A group of fraudsters based in the city cheated scores of youths, mainly from the southern part of the country, by offering them jobs in Indian Railways. The gang posted vacancies via pamphlets, newspaper ads and emails with a contact number for those interested. Applicants were told to transfer money to “agents”, who would secure the job. The gang has so far duped at least 300 people of around Rs 8 crore. The gang leader, Vikar, is from NCR and was arrested along with an accomplice in February, but the remaining gang members remain at large.  Dropbox cheque lifters On October 12, JP Agarwal, a lubricant distributor, asked his staffers to drop a cheque in the dropbox at Bank of Baroda’s Raj Nagar branch. When he didn’t receive the money, he contacted bank officials after two weeks, but was told they hadn’t received any such cheque. A police probe found out that the cheque allegedly got cleared in the name of ‘Jai Ram’. The gang had stolen the cheque from the dropbox and got the money deposited in another account. Four more cheques were also stolen from the same bank’s Raj Nagar and Gandhinagar branches in November. Police are probing the involvement of bank officials, though no arrests have been made.  When walking is risky This gang targeted people walking on roads. On October 22, Salochna Kumari, a 60-year-old resident of Kavi Nagar, was robbed of her gold ornaments, believed to be worth Rs 1 lakh at gunpoint by three masked men early morning when she was out for a stroll. Three men in a Hyundai i20 intercepted her, robbed her at gunpoint, and fled. The gang has targeted over 20 people in the last two months.  Smugglers ‘driven’ by a policeman This year, a policeman was found to be part of a gang smuggling liquor from Haryana and Punjab to west UP. The cop would drive trucks carrying illicit liquor and use take advantage of their uniform to cross UP borders. On April, 30, Rohit Basella, a UP Police constable, was arrested by the crime branch when he was driving a truck carrying illicit liquor from Punjab. A police investigation revealed he charged the gang Rs 5 lakh for every consignment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gangs-of-ghaziabad-tormented-police-residents-all-year/articleshow/79972562.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Conduct thorough probe while invoking IPC section 149: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: Whenever section 149 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) is invoked, an investigating agency should conduct a proper probe to ensure innocents are not implicated and there is no violation of citizens’ fundamental rights. The high court made this observation while dealing with a batch of appeals filed by five accused persons from Mangaluru taluk. Section 149 provides for vicarious liability of members of an unlawful assembly for the crime committed by any member in furtherance of the common object and makes them liable for the same punishment. “While invoking provisions of section 149, the investigating agency shall confirm whether such persons really committed the offence along with other co-accused. Otherwise, rival/jealous/motivated/interested parties will be eager to implicate innocent people, sometimes with the influence of local politicians as well,” a division bench headed by Justice B Veerappa observed. On April 24, 2015, a special court in Mangaluru had held the five accused guilty under section 149. Life sentence was also imposed on them under section 3(2))(v) of the SC & ST (POA) Act, holding that they murdered a person belonging to the SC category. Kumar, 18, was stabbed to death following a group clash on June 15, 2012. The five persons challenged the verdict, contending the complaint produced before the court was not the FIR and was a document prepared after due deliberations only after the youth’s death, in order to implicate them. They argued there was no unlawful assembly, and no identification parade was conducted to identify the accused. Considering these aspects and the evidence, the division bench acquitted all five of them under section 149 of IPC as well as under section 3(2))(v) of the SC & ST (POA) Act. Pointing out that the evidence shows a scuffle and accused no. 1 Santhu alias Santhosh Poojary suddenly stabbing Kumar with a knife, the bench held him guilty under section 304 part 2 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder). He was sentenced to nine years imprisonment and fined Rs 20,000. He has to pay an additional Rs 4,500 for offences relating to criminal intimidation, rioting, wrongful restraint, etc. The other accused, Gowrish alias Sujith, Harsharaj, Gautham and Akshay were directed to pay an enhanced fine of Rs 13,500 each for the same offences. The amount will be paid to the legal heirs of Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/conduct-thorough-probe-while-invoking-ipc-section-149-hc/articleshow/79971186.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||100 ducks to clean two sewage plants in Chikkaballapura||CHIKKABALLAPURA: As part of its austerity measures, the Chikkaballapura city municipal corporation has decided to go back to natural cleaning of sewage treatment plants. It has deployed about 100 ducks to clean two STPs, which will save the agency the expenses of hiring or purchasing equipment. Chikkaballapura, with a population of about 76,000 people, generates around 3MLD of sewage daily. Officials said processing and recycling it requires hi-tech machinery costing an estimated Rs 25 lakh. CMC has instead decided to use ducks, which are known to keep waterbodies clean, said an official. The decision was based on opinions of subject experts. D Lohith, commissioner, Chikkaballapura CMC, said there are six STPs in the district and the ducks will be used in two. “Ducks normally keep themselves busy by pedalling all the time, which pushes pollutants into the air. While flapping their wings, ducks also produce oxygen naturally, which gets into the water,” he said. Apart from this, ducks are also known to eat algae — also called duckweed because of the birds’ liking for it — which will prevent the need of machinery to clean tanks and lakes. Deputy commissioner R Latha, who visited one of these STPs last Saturday, said depending on the results, other civic bodies in the district would be encouraged to take up the project. Stating that these ducks are being reared by a family of pourakarmikas, officials said the agency is initially planning to send the eggs to a hatchery to increase the number of ducks to be used in the tanks. “Once the duck population reaches 500, the eggs would be sold and the proceeds would be utilised for maintenance of the tanks,” the official said, adding that CMC wouldn’t be spending much money on upkeep of the ducks as vegetable and meat market waste is being used as fodder for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/100-ducks-to-clean-2-sewage-plants-in-chikkaballapura/articleshow/79971154.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: JD(S) fears exodus of MLAs if confusion over merger continues||BENGALURU: The JD(S) leadership’s indecisiveness over the party’s merger with the BJP has perplexed the party MLAs and virtually divided them into two camps. According to insiders, some MLAs are in favour of such a move while others want the party to retain its identity. “This confusion might prove costly for the regional party as it is likely to trigger a mass exodus of MLAs much earlier than anticipated now,” said a senior MLA. The defection of a hoard of JD(S) MLAs has been on the cards as 15 of them, mainly from the Vokkaliga belt of Mandya and Tumakuru, had lined up to join the Congress last year following the collapse of the JD(S)-Congress government. The ascension of DK Shivakumar as state Congress president had only hastened the impending defection with the Vokkaliga MLAs of JD(S) tending to see a brighter future under his leadership. Some of the names doing rounds were GT Deve Gowda (Chamundeshwari) Suresh Gowda (Nagamangala), Ravindra Srikantaiah (Srirangapatna), SR Srinivas (Gubbi), Gowri Shankar (Tumakuru Rural), CS Puttaraju (Mandya) and Sa Ra Mahesh (KR Nagar). “Many JD(S) MLAs are in talks with us to join the party. We’re ready to welcome them keeping the larger interest of the party,” said KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed. Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy said: “Some of our MLAs have already set their foot outside the party and these are the ones who are spreading the rumours about the merger. I will not be disheartened by this campaign.” He has been hobnobbing with the BJP for some time now, not only to check the impending exodus of the legislators but also to send out a message to the leadership in Delhi that he’s ready for a merger provided, they offer him the CM’s post, sources said. The former CM had recently claimed that the BJP leadership had offered him the CM’s post if his party was ready for a tie-up ahead of the 2018 assembly polls. “Kumaraswamy was in the good books of the BJP high command till recently. He seems to have botched up the rapport after he got too close to chief minister BS Yediyurappa,” said a source in BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/jds-fears-exodus-of-mlas-if-confusion-over-merger-continues/articleshow/79971159.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: This December, collages displace class photos, annual days beamed at home||MUMBAI: Annual class photographs have been replaced by digital collages and makeshift auditoriums created in a nook of a bedroom or a corner of a building terrace. A school's December calendar in a regular year is packed with annual days, science fairs, farewells and sports days. But with the Covid-19 pandemic in play and physical classes suspended this year, these festivities have moved online. Recently, HVB Global Academy in Marine Drive hosted its annual day in an asynchronous format over YouTube. Students, teachers and parents recorded their bits in the comfort of their homes and the school's technical staff put it together as a two-hour long web show with sections hosted live. "When we moved to online learning, we wanted to make sure that students don't lose out on extracurricular activities as well, as these are equally important for a child's development. The enthusiasm was encouraging and more than 3,000 people have viewed the show in just a couple of days," said principal Chandrakanta Pathak. The school also hosted a sports day last month where students recorded age-appropriate activities in their homes which were screened for accuracy and timing by the sports teams. The annual class photo was replaced by a "family tree" in the digital magazine. "While we have replicated most of the activities in the digital format, we miss having children in school and the connection that would be built through interactions during such days," said Pathak. Similarly, Bombay Scottish School in Mahim held its annual talent hunt, Model United Nations (MUN), as well as Christmas celebrations online. "Everyone seems to be craving a little more for social interaction this year. We decided to use the internet to our advantage. For instance, this year, MUN had participants from across the world instead of just the city. For the talent hunt, we had performing arts where students competed live on a digital platform. The opportunity also gave students a chance to reinvent a lot of things. We would have breakout areas and dedicated classrooms for events during a festival. This time, it was online meeting rooms. We made sure to not compromise on group events either," said principal Sunita George. Some other schools decided to move to philanthropy in this difficult year. Rahul Deshpande, CEO, K-12 Schools, EuroKids Group, said, "This pandemic has caused major emotional and financial distress among large sections of our society. So, instead of celebrating, we wanted to sensitise our children towards the plight of the less fortunate amongst us and, at the same time, instill a belief that their small collective actions can lead to bigger impact." The school's students have raised Rs 35 lakh for an initiative which will be used for Covid-affected families' essential kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-this-december-collages-displace-class-photos-annual-days-beamed-at-home/articleshow/79973596.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
December 27, 2020||India||279 UK returnees in Telangana untraceable||At least 279 passengers recently returned from the UK to Telangana are untraceable, state health officials said on Saturday, while 59 new cases recorded taking the number of newly caught infections in passengers back from Britain rose to 119 nationwide since last Sunday. Samples taken from all the virus-positive passengers have been sent to labs for sequencing and by Monday it is likely to be known whether they are carrying the more transmissible variant currently ravaging the UK. There were three new cases in Telangana, taking the state’s UK infected number to 21. Goa reported 16 cases among passengers from the UK, while there were 14 new cases from Maharashtra (total 17). One more passenger tested positive in Nashik, but it was unclear if he had contracted the novel coronavirus in the UK because he had tested negative at Mumbai airport on returning on December 13. Kerala reported three new infected passengers, taking the total to eight, and Uttar Pradesh saw eight UK returnees test positive. One passenger from Mysuru in Karnataka was found to have the virus, while Andhra Pradesh reported six virus-positive cases. Telangana officials said 92 of the untraceable returnees are from the neighbouring states of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Karnataka, and 184 had given wrong phone numbers and addresses. “We have forwarded their details to their respective state governments so that they can help trace these returnees. A search is on to find the rest,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, Telangana’s director for public health. “People with the new type of virus need not worry. They only need be vigilant, use the mask properly, follow physical distancing and wash their hands regularly,” Dr Rao said. Of the 14 new cases in Maharashtra, three are from Mumbai, four from Thane, one from Nagpur, two from Pune and one each from Nanded, Ahmednagar, Raigad and Aurangabad. UP additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said the Central government had provided a list of 1,655 people who had returned from or via the UK to the state. “Of these, 1,087 have been tracked, while 609 have been tested and eight were found to be positive,” Prasad said on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/279-uk-returnees-in-telangana-untraceable/articleshow/79972789.cms||---
December 27, 2020||India||Farm unions agree to resume govt talks, but on 4 conditions||NEW DELHI/BATHINDA: Farm unions opposed to the new laws on Saturday agreed to resume talks with the Centre and proposed December 29 as a likely date, provided the agenda includes four specific points, including modalities to repeal the laws and a legal guarantee for higher minimum support price (MSP). Underlining these top two issues, a ‘conditional’ proposal was sent to the Centre from the group of 40 protesting unions, including 32 from Punjab, two days after they had received the agriculture ministry’s revised proposal that mentioned it was ready to discuss all issues, including MSP. Since the unions in their Saturday letter set out the outstanding issues according to the “sequence” proposed by them — repeal of laws and MSP guarantee are the first and second — officials in the ministry feel the formulation can complicate negotiations with even less prickly matters getting stuck with the deal-breakers. Though the agriculture ministry has agreed on a wide-ranging discussion, it has indicated its unwillingness to consider scrapping the laws it says benefit a large majority of farmers. The insistence of the agitating farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana and some from west UP, that the laws be rolled back has been the central hurdle since talks began on October 13. The other two points which the unions want to be added are keeping farmers outside the ambit of penalty provision on stubble burning in the new ordinance on air quality management in Delhi-NCR and changes in the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill to protect the interests of farmers. These are not a sticking point, as the agriculture ministry in its last letter to farm unions on December 24 agreed to discuss additional points and has also hinted that the demands can be met. “If you are sincere about respectfully listening to the farmers, as you say in your letter, the government must not indulge in misinformation about the previous meetings. The campaign launched by the entire state machinery to defame and malign the farmers' movement must stop forthwith,” said the letter, read by leader of Swaraj India and Jai Kisan Andolan Yogendra Yadav, at a joint press conference. The unions warned that if the next round of talks also end in a stalemate, they will hold a massive tractor trolley march on December 30. The groups urged farm activists from Punjab, Haryana and other states to reach Singhu border and then march to Tikri and then to Shahjahanpur on the KMP expressway. They urged Delhi residents to celebrate the New Year at protest sites on January 1. BKU Ekta Dakonda general secretary Jagmohan Singh said the government must end the blame game and BKU Rajewal president Balbir Singh Rajewal said "Now, we have sent our agenda clearly mentioning the four points on which we want to talk." This is the third letter written by the unions in response to as many from the Centre. They had written on December 16, stating unanimity among the group of 40 on whatever they conveyed to the government while rejecting its amendment proposals, and then another one on December 23 that added the "higher MSP" clause more specifically. Referring to the ministry’s previous letters, unions said they have consistently demanded the “the repeal of the three Central Farm Acts, whereas the government has distorted” their position as if they were asking for amendments to these Acts. The letter said since the government is willing to hold a meeting on “date, time and issues” of protesting unions' choice, they now make the proposal for talks on behalf of their umbrella body, Samyukt Kisan Morch, after due consultation with all organisations. “This is to reiterate that farmers' organisations are and have always been open to a sincere dialogue,” said the letter. The unions also gave a call to farmers to beat utensils in protest while the Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be delivering his monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-unions-agree-to-resume-govt-talks-but-on-4-conditions/articleshow/79972315.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 27, 2020||Thane||Thane youth who hit two bikers with his high-end sedan gets bail||THANE: The city police arrested the 26-year-old boy who hit two motorists with the speeding high-end sedan belonging on Friday at two different locations in Thane. The accused, Honey Patil, who is the resident of Kasarwadavali area, is said to be pursuing Radiology in Russia. A police officer said, “After the case was registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act, he was arrested and subsequently released on bail." The police said the condition of the injured person is stable, but he suffered a fracture on his left leg. The quick thinking by traffic cops helped cops net Patil who blocked various routes that the accused was driving on. Patil took his brother's car and started his joy ride from Ghodbunder Road, he hit a two-wheeler near Tatvagyan Vidyapeeth and the motorist sustained minor injuries. But, Patil panicked and decided to flee and in doing so he hit another disabled motorist in the Cidco area after which he was stopped by angry onlookers who bashed him and was detained by the cops. Interestingly, the incident occurred at around 1.30pm, the case was registered after eight hours and the accused was arrested at around 10.18 pm even though the accused was in the custody of the police since the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-youth-who-hit-two-bikers-with-his-high-end-sedan-gets-bail/articleshow/79973606.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ban use of crackers on December 31, says NGO||MUMBAI: Ahead of New Year celebrations, city environment NGO, Awaaz Foundation, has written to environment minister Aaditya Thackeray that use of crackers should not be permitted during celebrations on December 31. Sumaira Abdulali, convener of the foundation, said, "We tested the content of firecrackers in November and found all 28 varieties contained toxic chemicals. Even 12 varieties of 'green crackers' contained toxic chemicals including the banned barium nitrate, other nitrates and sulphates... They will worsen air quality on New Year."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ban-use-of-crackers-on-december-31-says-ngo/articleshow/79973622.cms||---
December 27, 2020||India||PM Modi to share his 'Mann Ki Baat' with nation||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday. This will be the 72nd edition of Prime Minister's monthly radio programme. It will also be the last Mann Ki Baat of the year 2020. The Prime Minister in a tweet on Saturday said that Akashvani will broadcast the programme in regional languages immediately after the Hindi broadcast on All India Radio, DD and Narendra Modi mobile app. "How would you sum up the year gone by? What do you look forward to the most in 2021? Share this, and more in the final Mann Ki Baat of 2020 on 27th December. Write on MyGov, NaMo App or record your message on 1800-11-7800," PM Modi tweeted on December 18. In the 71st edition of his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat', PM Modi had emphasised on strong, vibrant and active alumni network, and urged educational institutions to adopt innovative methods and develop creative platforms for engagement with alumni. The Prime Minister said that a strong vibrant and active alumni network is needed not only in big Colleges and Universities but also in schools of our villages. "Mann ki Baat" is the Prime Minister's monthly radio programme to the nation, which is broadcasted on the last Sunday of every month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-share-his-mann-ki-baat-with-nation/articleshow/79973648.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 10% fewer engineering seats this year as courses discontinued||MUMBAI: As total seats exceed engineering aspirants year after year, managements of private institutions have been shutting colleges and discontinuing unpopular courses. With the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) allowing colleges to start courses in emerging areas such as artificial intelligence, data sciences and blockchain technology, though, the scenario may change in the coming years. This year, the total number of seats available in the state's engineering colleges has reduced by almost 10%-from 1.4 lakh in 2019 to 1.3 lakh now. The intake capacity across technical courses, except pharmacy, has dropped in comparison. Seats in colleges offering BPharm, on the other hand, have seen a 10% rise from the previous year. For the 1.3 lakh seats in engineering colleges, close to 1.2 lakh candidates had registered with the state's CET cell till December 22. The registration dates were extended following the government resolution allowing eligible Maratha candidates to apply under the EWS (economically weaker section) category. Students can apply till December 30. Going by the past few years' record, though, applications are unlikely to exceed the total seats available. For ME and MTech too, there are around 8,200 applicants for 12,450 seats. On the contrary, the CET cell received over 83,000 applications for 27,000 seats in BPharm. The number of institutions in the state has almost doubled in the past five to six years. "There is higher demand for courses in pharmacy in Tier-II and Tier-III cities. Even the diploma courses are high in demand," said a professor from a pharmacy college. "There is a huge demand for pharmacy courses in the country as India is a hub for generic drugs and there is tremendous scope. On the other hand, as manufacturing sectors are hit, core branches like mechanical and production engineering suffer. Several colleges which are unable to sustain the costs are, therefore, shutting," said GT Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College. There is demand, though, for emerging areas and AICTE is promoting these courses, he said. At least 10 colleges in the city are offering the courses this year, he said. Meanwhile, there is a big debate on jobs. "We have more engineers and fewer jobs. Also, there is a perception our engineers are not employable. There has been a decline in the demand for engineering courses for some time. The number of applications is far lower than seats, forcing many colleges to shut. Some are shutting as they do not fulfil AICTE norms," said V K Patil, coordination committee member, Association of Managements of Unaided Engineering Colleges (Maharashtra). MBA, MMS and architecture courses have seen closure too. In the country, 180 technical institutes shut this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-10-fewer-engineering-seats-this-year-as-courses-discontinued/articleshow/79973650.cms||Yogita Rao
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Plot to kill matka queen, sister was over property too, says cops||MUMBAI: Police investigations into the murder conspiracy of matka queen Jaya Chedda and her sister Asha Bhatt by matka king, the late Suresh Bhagat's elder brother Vinod Bhagat, found another key motive. Sources said besides revenge and a bid to take over the business from Jaya, police found that rivalry between Vinod and Jaya was related to few properties, including a cowshed run by the Bhagat family trust in Rathadia, Kutch, in Gujarat. Jaya, who was convicted to life imprisonment for the murder of her estranged husband Suresh and six others in an orchestrated accident in 2008, was granted bail early this year. Jaya had gone to Ratadiya village and donated Rs 51 lakhs to Ratadia Panjapur Trust, started in 1947 by Vinod's father, Kalyanji Bhagat, who used to run Kalyanji matka. The trust runs a shed which has around 750 cows and Vinod is a trustee. Jaya put up a board that the donation was in the memory of Suresh. "This upset Vinod as she had killed Suresh and Vinod did not want her name to be associated with the family. Vinod had told her to put her surname Chedda, which led to a dispute and argument," police said. There are also property disputes pending in civil courts. Jaya got bail due to Covid and the period was extended, which enraged Vinod, so he hatched a plan with his friend Mammu Bashir Suleman Baigani in Manchester,'' said an official. Baigani and Vinod were arrested by Gujarat police for an attempt to kill another matka operator, Ghanshyam Tolani. Vinod gave the contract to Baigani, who engaged Maqsood Qureshi, a butcher and a noted criminal from UP. Maqsood got three others to execute the contract, said deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan. Police said the sisters would have been shot dead on December 6 at a marriage hall in Chembur at Asha's son's wedding reception but Maqsood did not turn up. Vinod had promised to pay Rs 30 lakh for each killing. Crime branch (unit IX) on Monday had arrested a gang of five, including Vinod, Mohammed Javed Ansari (41), Ramvir Sharma (39), Mohammed Shabbir Darji (31) and Maqsood Qureshi (35) and recovered two country-made revolvers and six cartridges along with Jaya's photograph.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-plot-to-kill-matka-queen-sister-was-over-property-too-says-cops/articleshow/79973653.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 27, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD devotees protest against ‘rude’ temple staff||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) chairman YV Subba Reddy on Saturday said the temple body will conduct an inquiry into the allegations of Srivani trust devotees that they were treated with highhandedness during darshan on Dwadasi day. He said based on the inquiry report, disciplinary action will be initiated against the temple staff concerned. Several devotees, who booked Srivani trust tickets by paying 11,000 per ticket for darshan of Lord Venkateswara on the auspicious Vaikunta Dwadasi, came out of the temple unhappy and vented their displeasure before the media on Saturday morning. Right from a young kid to an elderly woman, everyone echoed in their allegations that they were treated with utter disregard by the temple staff when they went inside for darshan. Sources said a group of devotees with Srivani darshan slots under the current booking quota entered into a heated brawl with temple staff demanding that they be allowed beyond the Jaya-Vijaya point. After the temple staff categorically told them that it was not possible as TTD was implementing Maha-Laghu darshan for all devotees, the devotees blocked the queue lines and continued their arguments with the temple staff. Inquiry to be ordered into ruckus at Tirumala templeLeft with no option, the temple staff had to forcibly move the devotees out with the help of the vigilance department. The devotees told reporters that the staff at Jaya-Vijaya point inside the sanctum sanctorum literally pushed them away from the main temple complex with utter disregard. “We paid Rs 11,000 to obtain Srivani trust-linked VIP break darshan ticket. It is really unfortunate that the TTD, which claimed during the launch of this scheme that it will facilitate quality darshan to devotees, has now compromised on the quality. There is no difference in the quality of darshan being provided to 300 special entry ticket holders and us. They just drove us out from the temple and didn’t even spare children and women. The TTD, which announced that it will strictly implement Covid-19 guidelines, is not implementing any safety protocols at all,” they alleged. Following the protests by devotees in front of the Tirumala temple, Tirumala II town police reached there and moved away the protesting devotees from the spot. When contacted, TTD chairman Subba Reddy said an inquiry will be ordered to verify the allegations levelled by the Srivani devotees and disciplinary action will be initiated against those found guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-devotees-protest-against-rude-temple-staff/articleshow/79973661.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 27, 2020||World||Europe begins vaccine rollout as new Covid variant spreads||Germany and Hungary began administering their first coronavirus vaccine shots on Saturday only hours after receiving their first shipments, upsetting the European Union’s plans for a coordinated rollout on Sunday across the bloc’s 27 nations. “Every day that we wait is one day too many,” said Tobias Krueger, the operator of a German nursing home where immunisations began. The first person at the home to be immunised with the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine was 101-year-old Edith Kwoizalla, dpa news agency reported. In Hungary, health workers were vaccinated at the Southern Pest Central Hospital in Budapest. Authorities in Slovakia also planned to begin administering their first doses on Saturday. European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen celebrated the vaccine rollout, calling it “a touching moment of unity”. The rollout marks a moment of hope for a region that includes some of the world’s earliest and worst-hit virus hotspots — Italy and Spain — and others like the Czech Republic, which were spared early on only to see their health systems near their breaking point in the fall. France, which got its first shipment of the two-dose Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine on Saturday, will start administering it on Sunday. The French government is hoping to get around one million people vaccinated in nursing homes during January and February, and then a further 14-15 million in the wider population between March and June. France reported over 20,000 new infections on Friday for the second day running, something not seen since November 20. In a concerning development, the health ministry said on Friday that a man who recently arrived from London had tested positive for a new variant of the virus that has been spreading rapidly in southern England. Japan, Spain, Switzerland and Sweden also found small numbers of infections involving the potentially more transmissible variant, most linked to travel from the UK. Denmark, Lebanon, Germany, Australia and the Netherlands are other countries that have so far reported cases of the new UK strain. In the UK, harsher Covid curbs now apply to millions more people. On Saturday, around six million people in east and south-east England have gone into tier four, highest Covid level. Lockdowns have also started in Scotland and Northern Ireland.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/europe-begins-vaccine-rollout-as-new-covid-variant-spreads/articleshow/79973632.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Arthur Road cop held for aiding gangster, threatening witness||MUMBAI: The anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on Friday arrested a police constable attached to the Arthur Road jail for allegedly mediating on behalf of a gangster, Harish Mandvikar, and threatening a key witness in an effort to make him turn hostile in a 2015 drug seizure case. The ATS Charkop unit arrested police constable Arjun Ghodake (45) and booked him under the relevant sections of the IPC for issuing threats and fabricating false evidence. Police inspector Gyaneshwar Wagh said Ghodake was the fifth person to be arrested in the case. The police said they were looking for Ghodake's mobile phone in which he had inserted a SIM card registered in a bogus name and used it to convey messages from Mandvikar to the complainant. The new case pertains to a drug seizure of 155kg of mephedrone, or MD, from a gang of seven from Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri in 2015 by the ATS. The main accused, a person called Electricwala, is booked under the NDPS Act and the trial is pending. Electricwala is lodged in the Mumbai Central Prison, Arthur Road, as an undertrial. He could not get bail in the case despite several attempts since his arrest in 2015. He allegedly conspired with Mandvikar inside the jail and started issuing threats to a witness in the case by sending chits to him. The police said the deposition of an important witness from Kandivli was in progress in the drug case when the proceedings were stopped as Covid-19 reared its head in March. When the trial proceedings of the case resumed, the remaining part of the deposition of the witness was scheduled to commence on November 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-arthur-road-cop-held-for-aiding-gangster-threatening-witness/articleshow/79973676.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Six UK returnees test positive for Covid in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has found six Covid-19 positive cases among the UK returnees as of Saturday. The patients are one each from East Godavari, Krishna, Anantapur and Nellore, and two from Guntur. The mother of the Nellore patient has also tested positive. All the patients and their suspected family members have been shifted to isolation wards. The health department has so far traced 1,158 people out of the identified 1,214 UK returnees in the last one month. “The remaining 56 people are being traced. Out of the 1,158 returnees, six tested positive in RT-PCR tests. Their samples have been sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune, and Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad for genomic analysis to determine whether the disease is caused by the new or existing strain. The reports are yet to be received. As many as 1,101 returnees are in quarantine,” said K Bhaskar, commissioner of health and family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/six-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/79973679.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Amaravati||Six UK returnees test positive for Covid in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has found six Covid-19 positive cases among the UK returnees as of Saturday. The patients are one each from East Godavari, Krishna, Anantapur and Nellore, and two from Guntur. The mother of the Nellore patient has also tested positive. All the patients and their suspected family members have been shifted to isolation wards. The health department has so far traced 1,158 people out of the identified 1,214 UK returnees in the last one month. “The remaining 56 people are being traced. Out of the 1,158 returnees, six tested positive in RT-PCR tests. Their samples have been sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune, and Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad for genomic analysis to determine whether the disease is caused by the new or existing strain. The reports are yet to be received. As many as 1,101 returnees are in quarantine,” said K Bhaskar, commissioner of health and family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/six-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/79973680.cms||---
December 27, 2020||World||Covid-19 pandemic will not be the last: WHO chief||GENEVA: The coronavirus crisis will not be the last pandemic, and attempts to improve human health are "doomed" without tackling climate change and animal welfare, the World Health Organization's chief said. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus also condemned the "dangerously short-sighted" cycle of throwing cash at outbreaks but doing nothing to prepare for the next one, in a video message marking Sunday's first International Day of Epidemic Preparedness. The WHO director-general said it was time to learn the lessons from the Covid-19 pandemic. "For too long, the world has operated on a cycle of panic and neglect," he said. "We throw money at an outbreak, and when it's over, we forget about it and do nothing to prevent the next one. This is dangerously short-sighted, and frankly difficult to understand." The Global Preparedness Monitoring Board's September 2019 first annual report on world readiness for health emergencies -- published a few months before the novel coronavirus broke out -- said the planet was woefully unprepared for potentially devastating pandemics. "History tells us that this will not be the last pandemic, and epidemics are a fact of life," said Tedros. "The pandemic has highlighted the intimate links between the health of humans, animals and planet," he added. "Any efforts to improve human health are doomed unless they address the critical interface between humans and animals, and the existential threat of climate change that's making our earth less habitable," he said. The novel coronavirus has killed at least 1.75 million people and nearly 80 million cases have been recorded since the outbreak emerged in China last December, according to a tally from official sources compiled by AFP. "In the past 12 months, our world has been turned upside-down. The impacts of the pandemic go far beyond the disease itself, with far-reaching consequences for societies and economies," said Tedros. But the Ethiopian former health minister said the coronavirus crisis should not have come as a surprise, given the repeated warnings. "We must all learn the lessons the pandemic is teaching us," he said. Tedros said all countries should invest in preparedness capacities to prevent, detect and mitigate emergencies of all kinds, and called for stronger primary health care provision. The UN health agency's chief said that with investments in public health, "we can ensure that our children and their children inherit a safer, more resilient and more sustainable world". The International Day of Epidemic Preparedness was called for by the United Nations General Assembly to promote the importance of prevention, preparedness and partnership in tackling epidemics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/covid-19-pandemic-will-not-be-the-last-who-chief/articleshow/79973673.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Revised cost estimates of Polavaram get Centre’s nod||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Union Jal Shakti ministry has approved the revised cost estimates of Polavaram project of Rs 55,548 crore, at 2017-18 price level. The decision to peg the project cost at 2017-18 price comes after chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s meeting with Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in New Delhi on December 16. During the meeting, Jagan sought the latter’s approval for the revised estimates, citing the increased costs involved in rehabilitation and resettlement. The chief minister explained the drastic increase in the number of families to be rehabilitated — from about 44,000 families in 2005-06 to about 1.06 lakh families in 2020. As per the annual 2019-20 report released by the Jal Sakti ministry, about 8,614 crore has been released for execution of the irrigation project from 2014 to 2020, including 1,850 crore released since January 2020. 17,327 crore has been incurred on the project works up to March 2020. In addition, 2,234 crore has been sanctioned for the project for 2020-21, which will be released by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development shortly. CM had requested PM to approve revised estimatesBefore meeting the Jal Shakti minister, Jagan visited the project area on December 14. After conducting a review meeting with officials, he announced that water would be released from the project for Kharif 2022. The rehabilitation and resettlement works are expected to be completed by March 2021. The state government has long been blaming the previous regime for allegedly agreeing to 2013-14 cost estimates. Jagan even wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November, requesting the latter to approve the revised estimates, stating that the cost of land acquisition, rehabilitation and resettlement alone would cost about 28,191 crore. The Union government is funding 100 per cent of the remaining cost of the project’s irrigation component.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/revised-cost-estimates-of-polavaram-get-centres-nod/articleshow/79973698.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After failed Christmas test, doctors advise caution for year-end||KOLKATA: The unrestrained merry-making by revellers and the huge crowds that swarmed city hot spots throwing social distancing norms for a toss on Christmas could lead to a spike in Covid cases, warned doctors and experts. Urging people to be cautious on New Year Eve and avoid congregations, they pointed out that it was still too early to let guards down since the pandemic is still raging. Number of cases may have plateaued in Bengal but Mumbai, Kerala and Delhi were still reeling under a second wave which could be triggered in Kolkata if people indulged in such reckless behaviour, they felt. It was shocking to see thousands of revellers jostling along Park Street on Christmas evening, said internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. “I was left rubbing my eyes in disbelief when I saw the images on TV. One could barely see the road with people on every inch of the thoroughfare, rubbing shoulders with one another. What was even more shocking is that few wore masks. Incredibly, these are the same people who had shown restraint during the Pujas and avoided crowding at pandals. It had helped to check the spiralling of numbers post-Puja,” said Jain. TimesViewThe city’s behaviour on Christmas Day was inappropriate for a pandemic season. Masks now seem to be largely off and physical distancing seems to have been forgotten. This can spell disaster. Hopefully, we will heed expert advice and behave better next week.Covid restrictions need to be maintained for several months more even if the numbers slide, said pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “The fear, it seems, has ebbed and people have started believing that social distancing can be ignored once in a while. This can be dangerous. While there hasn’t been a post-Puja spurt, thanks to the excellent compliance to norms, congregations like the ones we saw on Friday could trigger a spike,” said Dhar. He added that even if numbers drop further and the vaccine arrives, Covid restrictions need to be followed. “The virus will persist and we need to be cautious for an indefinite period. Social distancing needs to be a lifestyle practice for good,” said Dhar. Months of restricted living and the continuing fear may have sparked this sudden recklessness, felt Jain. “Fear ceases to have an effect after a point and I hope we haven’t reached that stage. The fact that a vaccine is arriving soon, too, has made people lower their guard. We need to realize that vaccination is a long process and everyone can’t get it at once. Staying indoors for nearly a year has made everyone craving for normalcy. But we must stick to the new normal that we have already accepted,” said Jain. Since a new strain has been detected in the UK, we need to be cautious now, said Fortis Hospital internal medicine consultant Joydeep Ghosh. “The way people flocked to entertainment parks, the Maidan and Park Street was scary. It was disheartening to see everyone breaking the norms after all the restraint that we saw during the Pujas. I fear that the crowds could be even bigger on New Year Eve and may persist till the first week of January. This will be disastrous and we need to stop this,” said Ghosh. He pointed out that the new strain on the prowl has a higher transmission rate. “Also, the weather is just perfect for the virus to survive and spread,” said Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-failed-christmas-test-docs-advise-caution-for-year-end/articleshow/79970743.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 27, 2020||Hubballi||Haveri: Construction under way, but search on for alternative site||HAVERI: Nearly a month-and-a-half after chief minister BS Yediyurappa flagged off work on the Government Medical College in Haveri by laying the foundation stone in a virtual ceremony on November 13, objections are being voiced over the location chosen for the institution. A 56-acre plot at Devagiriyallapur village on the outskirts of Haveri was chosen for the construction of the college, touted as a mega healthcare project by both the state and central governments. However, in the wake of public disapproval over its location, Haveri district minister Basavaraj Bommai has instructed the deputy commissioner to identify a more convenient place for the medical institution. “If we find a plot for the college that is more convenient, we will build the institution there,” said Bommai, adding that the government would see through its plan to build the medical college at Devagiriyallapur should the quest for an alternative location fail to yield the desired result. “The DC will submit a report on an alternative site for the college within a week. We will decide on the next course of action after the report is submitted,” he said. Haveri DC Sanjay Shettanavar confirmed that the district administration had been instructed to scout for a more convenient location for the proposed medical college. “We will take a decision on the issue shortly,” Shettanavar said. Assistant executive engineer in the health and family welfare department Shashidhar Wali, however, said that they were yet to receive any intimation from the district administration on the possible change in the location of the proposed college. “Work on the college building has already begun,” Wali said. President of Haveri Nagarikara Vedike MS Korishettar lashed out at the government for needlessly creating confusion over the location of the Government Medical College. “The CM has already laid the foundation stone for the institution at Devagiriyallapur. Work has already started at the site. The location of the site is convenient enough. Work on the college needs to continue,” Korishettar said. Health department officials say they have not been intimated on the possible change in location of the medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/haveri-construction-under-way-but-search-on-for-alternative-site/articleshow/79973710.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
December 27, 2020||Kolkata||IIM Cal faculty body writes to Centre over board’s regulations||Kolkata: The IIM Calcutta Faculty Association (IIMCFA) on Thursday wrote to Union education secretary Amit Khare, expressing concern over the regulations that had been drafted by the Board of Governors (BoG). The regulations will guide IIM’s functioning in light of the IIM Act that was passed in 2017. Terming the proposed regulations as “misappropriation of the Act by the BoG”, the association alleged that the draft regulations submitted to the ministry are contrary to the spirit of the IIM Act. “We have expressed three core concerns over the proposed first regulations which may have serious implications for the stature and future of IIM Calcutta. First, the regulations appear oblivious to the legacy of excellence at institutions like IIM Calcutta. Second, the regulations are detrimental to the IIM Calcutta’s autonomy. Third, the proposed regulations detract from the objectives stipulated in IIM Act,” said one of the professors who is also a member of the association. Another professor pointed out that the the BoG was trying to appropriate the executive powers through nine sub-committees that have been proposed in the regulation. These executive powers should be bestowed with the institute’s officials and academicians, he said, pointing out that IIM Ahmedabad and IIM Bangalore had only two or three sub-committees. “This over-centralisation of power into the hands of the BoG will lead to collapse in execution of day-to-day activities,” explained another professor. The faculty association fears that the regulations once framed will change the inherent nature of IIM and govern the institute in future. IIMCFA secretary Ashok Banerjee said, “We are hopeful that the ministry will look into our concern.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iim-cal-faculty-body-writes-to-centre-over-boards-regulations/articleshow/79970763.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Scrap vendor falls to death from 14th floor in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A 21-year-old scrap vendor fell from the 14th floor of an under-construction building in Malad (W) on Friday night and died. Police are scanning CCTV footage to establish the sequence of events before Raju Vishwakarma's death. No suicide note was found. Vishwakarma lived in the vicinity. Work had stopped at the building where he fell from. His body has been sent for an autopsy. A case of accidental death has been recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/scrap-vendor-falls-to-death-from-14th-floor-in-mumbai/articleshow/79973715.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Farmers get back Rs 7 crore after traders issue dud cheques||MUMBAI: Criminal proceedings were initiated against many traders who issued dud cheques to farmers after taking possession of their agriculture produce recently. Police said 1,239 complaints were received involving Rs 47 crore, and 192 criminal cases were registered, while there was a compromise in 223 cases, and 221 traders paid the amount to farmers. IPS officer Pratap Dighavkar said so far Rs 7 crore has been paid to farmers and it is expected that nearly Rs 6 crore will be returned within a week. Maximum complaints were from Nashik (1,202), followed by Nandurbar (14), Dhule (10), Ahmadnagar (9) and Jalgaon (4). Dighavkar said the farmers had sold grapes, bananas and onions to leading traders. Most of them took possession of the produce and issued cheques to them. After a week, the farmers found that most cheques bounced due to insufficient balance and in some accounts were closed long back. Many farmers who approached police stations were advised to approach civil courts. A month after Dighavkar took over Nashik range, when many farmers approached him, he felt it was a clear case of cheating and criminal breach of trust. "I told heads of police stations to initiate criminal proceedings against the erring traders. Our strategy worked, as many traders paid the farmers. We expect the dispute to be resolved,'' he said. This came as farmers are agitating against new legislations in New Delhi, Punjab and Haryana. "It appears that despite strong AMPC laws, the powerful traders' lobby took farmers for a ride. Traders agreed to pay the money only after police threatened criminal proceedings against them,'' a senior bureaucrat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-farmers-get-back-rs-7-crore-after-traders-issue-dud-cheques/articleshow/79973719.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Car crushed by two trucks; family escapes unhurt in TN's Tiruvallur district||CHENNAI: A car travelling between two sugarcane trucks was mangled after it was sandwiched between the two in an accident. Four members of a family who were traveling in the car escaped unhurt. On Saturday, two trucks carrying sugarcane bundles were travelling in the same direction one after anothe near Pallipattu in Tiruvallur district. A car managed to over take one of them. But due to a miscalculation in speed, the rear truck bumped into the car. In the impact, the rear portion of the car was damaged, and the car driver lost control and hit the sugarcane truck in front of it. This led to the damage on the car’s bumper. On being hit the sugarcane truck in the front jerked to a stop, resulting in a pile-on of the two vehicles behind it. The car that was caught in between had four passengers — Mani, 50, his wife Parameswari, 45, his son Sandeep, 23, and Parameswari's mother Susila, 65. All of them were unhurt. The accident took place when all of them were returning to their hometown after meeting with their relatives in Erumbi village. Police arrested Rajkumar, 30, a lorry driver from Kumara Rajupettai near Pallipattu, in connection with the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/car-crushed-by-two-trucks-family-escapes-unhurt/articleshow/79973637.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||‘Street runner’ hits a marathon century in 2020||BENGALURU: In a year which has seen people largely confined indoors, Siddesha Hanumanthappa, 61, has accomplished a laudable feat — the ex-serviceman has completed 100 marathons (42.2km each) between January 19 and December 18. Interestingly, he ran the last 50 marathons since October 2 and attributes the number to post-lockdown months. Siddesha, who worked for defence R&D as a project director before retiring about a year ago, makes it a point to use his running shoes despite his new work assignment. Apart from full marathons, he also does half-marathons and 10km runs. The self-proclaimed ‘ordinary street runner’ said running happens in his mind between 2.30am and 4am, during which time he also warms up his body with mobility/core strengthening exercises. After that, he hits the street. “I enjoy running in the wee hours as there is no traffic. With no one running alongside, I can keep my own pace. I focus on the distance and not time,” said Siddesha, adding that he completes a marathon in 4 hours and 20 minutes on average. His best timing is 3 hours and 23 minutes. What he cherishes the most is buying water, coffee, buns, chikkis and candies from vendors en route, who usually wait for him to begin their day. Siddesha starts and ends his runs at his home off Richmond Road after going around central business district. Later, he makes it a point to do stretching exercises in order to normalise the muscles and prepare for the next run. He also walks short distances of 2-3km for errands like shopping or bank work. Braving shoulder dislocationSiddesha has covered 10,900km so far. “I would have run more than 100 marathons and easily touched 11,000km had I not suffered shoulder dislocation (after a fall at home) on December 12,” he said, adding: “After being treated, I brisk-walked on December 14 and completed the 93rd marathon in 6 hours and 49 minutes.” When asked if he had aimed at hitting a century in marathons, Siddesha said: “It just happened. It’s a continuous process, so I will continue to run.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/street-runner-hits-a-marathon-century-in-2020/articleshow/79971185.cms||Charan Sadu
December 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Namma Metro’s driverless train may run in 2022||BENGALURU: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off the country’s first driverless Metro train in Delhi on Monday. The automated service may also become a reality in Bengaluru (Electronics City line) by 2022. The 19km elevated corridor (RV Road-Bommasandra)on Yellow Line was supposed to be ready by November 2021 but has now been postponed to March 2022 due to Covid-19. BMRCL said driverless trains will be introduced as part of Communication Based Train Control (CBTC) signalling system. The Centre has notified changes in Metro Railways General Rules, 2020 to allow driverless trains. The CBTC signalling system has already been implemented in new Metro networks like Kochi and Nagpur, but they are yet to commence driverless service. It’ll be the first time that CBTC, commonly called driverless technology, will be used in Namma Metro. It will help trains run automatically, while the operations will be monitored through control centres. Siemens recently got the contract to provide the CBTC technology for Yellow Line. In addition to Electronics City, newer standalone lines like IIMB (Kalena Agaraha (Gottigere) – Nagawara) and Outer Ring Road-Kempegowda International Airport have been designed for CBTC system from the beginning. BMRCL plans to upgrade signalling system of the existing Purple and Green lines after 10 years, once ridership reaches 40,000 passengers per hour per direction. CBTC system allows different Grades Of Automation (GOA) as defined in the International Electrotechnical Commission. CBTC-equipped automation systems on Yellow Line will meet GOA4 standards. At present, BMRCL operates at GOA2, in which trains run automatically from one station to another, but drivers are responsible for opening and closing doors, obstacle detection on tracks and operating trains in case of disruption. Metro lines in over 40 cities worldwide are running at advanced GOA4. “Unattended Train Operation at GOA4 helps trains run automatically between stations, halt at designated platforms, adjust speed, go to depots and turn round,” said a BMRCL official. In the CBTC signalling system, scope of human error is negligible and headways can be made shorter without compromising on safety. For instance, trains will maintain a distance with the help of sensors on tracks. Once the line switches to UTO, a train can accommodate more passengers as the driver’s cabin will be removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/namma-metros-driverless-train-may-run-in-2022/articleshow/79971184.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai-Hyderabad bullet train terminal could be at Navi Mumbai airport||MUMBAI: The terminal for the Mumbai-Hyderabad bullet train corridor may come up in Navi Mumbai, which will have an integration with the under-construction international airport, besides connectivity to the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link, work on which is going on. "Integration is also planned with the Navi Mumbai Metro," a senior railway official said. With the average speed of the proposed bullet train estimated at 320km per hour, the 711-km distance between Hyderabad and Mumbai can be traversed in less than three-and-a-half hours. This distance now takes over 15 hours by existing trains, that run at speeds between 80 km per hour and 120 km per hour, with many stops in between the two cities. A fast train between Mumbai and Hyderabad is Hussain Sagar Express that takes under 14 hours. This will be the third high-speed rail project involving Mumbai. At present, the implementing agency, National High Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRC) is tasked with the 508km Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail Link project. The other Mumbai project is the proposed 753Km Mumbai-Nashik-Nagpur corridor. NHSRC has proposed six corridors spanning 4,109 km, the remaining being Chennai-Bengaluru-Mysuru (435 km), Delhi-Varanasi (865), Delhi-Ahmedabad (886 km) and Delhi-Amritsar (459 km). A senior railway official said, "Space is a problem in Mumbai and hence we are looking at Navi Mumbai for the terminal station for the Mumbai-Hyderabad corridor. Even there land may not be a problem as we can plan an underground station on airport land. A final decision is yet to be taken." But a problem is that the state government has not shown any zeal in acquiring land for the section of the corridor which falls in Maharashtra. An official said, "What one needs to understand is that the Mumbai-Hyderabad project may not face much of a hurdle as it offers connectivity to important stations in Maharashtra like Lonavla, Pune, Pandharpur and even Solapur. The main grouse of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train corridor is that it offers connectivity between the major cities of Gujarat compared to Maharashtra." A major portion of the corridor, 349 km of the total 508 km, falls in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hyderabad-bullet-train-terminal-could-be-at-navi-mumbai-airport/articleshow/79973747.cms||Manthank Mehta
December 27, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Mumbai-Hyderabad bullet train terminal could be at Navi Mumbai airport||MUMBAI: The terminal for the Mumbai-Hyderabad bullet train corridor may come up in Navi Mumbai, which will have an integration with the under-construction international airport, besides connectivity to the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link, work on which is going on. "Integration is also planned with the Navi Mumbai Metro," a senior railway official said. With the average speed of the proposed bullet train estimated at 320km per hour, the 711-km distance between Hyderabad and Mumbai can be traversed in less than three-and-a-half hours. This distance now takes over 15 hours by existing trains, that run at speeds between 80 km per hour and 120 km per hour, with many stops in between the two cities. A fast train between Mumbai and Hyderabad is Hussain Sagar Express that takes under 14 hours. This will be the third high-speed rail project involving Mumbai. At present, the implementing agency, National High Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRC) is tasked with the 508km Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail Link project. The other Mumbai project is the proposed 753Km Mumbai-Nashik-Nagpur corridor. NHSRC has proposed six corridors spanning 4,109 km, the remaining being Chennai-Bengaluru-Mysuru (435 km), Delhi-Varanasi (865), Delhi-Ahmedabad (886 km) and Delhi-Amritsar (459 km). A senior railway official said, "Space is a problem in Mumbai and hence we are looking at Navi Mumbai for the terminal station for the Mumbai-Hyderabad corridor. Even there land may not be a problem as we can plan an underground station on airport land. A final decision is yet to be taken." But a problem is that the state government has not shown any zeal in acquiring land for the section of the corridor which falls in Maharashtra. An official said, "What one needs to understand is that the Mumbai-Hyderabad project may not face much of a hurdle as it offers connectivity to important stations in Maharashtra like Lonavla, Pune, Pandharpur and even Solapur. The main grouse of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train corridor is that it offers connectivity between the major cities of Gujarat compared to Maharashtra." A major portion of the corridor, 349 km of the total 508 km, falls in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbai-hyderabad-bullet-train-terminal-could-be-at-navi-mumbai-airport/articleshow/79973913.cms||Manthank Mehta
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||12 years' RI for couple over rape, trafficking of girl from Delhi||MUMBAI: Five years after a 16-year-old Delhi girl escaped from a city brothel, where she was brought on the pretext of being employed as a domestic help but raped and made to solicit customers, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court last week convicted and sentenced a "couple" to 12 years' rigorous imprisonment. While Mangal Ray (34) had raped the teenager and subsequently acted as her pimp, his 'wife' Sampa Roy (32) had trafficked her from Delhi. Ray was fined Rs15,000 and Roy Rs25,000. The court also said the child has to be awarded compensation by the District Legal Services Authority under an appropriate victim compensation scheme. Special public prosecutor Veena Shelar said the survivor was among witnesses who deposed. The girl told police she lived in Delhi with her mother and two siblings. She said few years before the incident, her father suffered a heart attack and died.  She had to drop out of school in Std VIII due to her family's financial constraints after her father's death. She said when she was looking for a job in March 2015, a family friend from the vicinity told her mother about an opportunity in Mumbai. The woman told her mother the girl could live with her sister and would earn Rs30,000 as a domestic help. She assured the mother the girl could continue her education but the mother turned her down. The woman then met the girl alone and convinced her to accept the offer. The girl said on May 23, 2015, she arrived in the city with Roy, a relative of the family friend. They resided in a house in the western suburbs. The survivor said that two days later, when she was asleep, Roy woke her up at midnight and forced her to be intimate with her husband. When she refused, both threatened her and Ray raped her. She was subsequently pushed into the flesh trade and had to cater to clients who frequented the house. The survivor said she saw Roy taking money from customers. On the afternoon of June 21, 2015, when all in the house including the accused were taking a nap, the survivor escaped. She said she met an elderly man and told him about her ordeal. The man contacted an NGO and a social worker arrived and took the child to the police station. An FIR was lodged and the accused were arrested. The accused denied marriage during bail plea hearings. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/12-years-ri-for-couple-over-rape-trafficking-of-girl-from-delhi/articleshow/79973765.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: It’s life and death for 48-year-old tree as neighbours quarrel||CHENNAI: Whether a 48-yearold rain tree in Poes Garden will live or die depends on its neighbours. Located on the boundary of Sathyanarayana Apartments and a private property, one of the two parties wants it to be chopped, while the other wants to save it. R J Mehta who stays on the fifth floor of the apartment complex has seen the sapling being planted and then walked under its shade for years. “The tree grew on its own between the two compounds. It provides us with a lot of shade andishometo many birds,” he said. A week ago, his neighbour who owns the bungalow where the major part of the trees roots are, decided to chop the tree and Mehta stopped him. He took up the matter with the city corporation, local NGOs and also got a letter signed from all neighbours to save the tree. However, his opponent is adamant on having the tree chopped, with some tree cutters weiding an axe on Saturday too before Mehta reached in time to stop them. Whether the future of the tree now depends on how the two neighbours resolve their dispute. “The tree provides a lot of shade and because of it in summer we don’t feel the heat as much. Why can’t the other party understand the importanceof thetree.Itis atthecorner of the property and may be options like chopping a few branches should be considered,” he said. TOI tried contacting the private property’s manager several times but he was unavailable for comment. On Saturday, he reached the spot with tree cutters at 6am but residents protested, they returned. The Greater Chennai Corporation officials said since the tree is on a private property, they don’t have a say. Shobha Menon, founder Nizhal, an NGO said there is no law or act to protect these trees. “On saturday, we got a similar calltosave a treeon a private property. When we reached the spot, we found it is a rarebaobabtree ad after much convincing the owner decided nottochop it.In the absenceof a law, several such trees are at mercy of people in charge and they will continue to get chopped. We are endlessly planting trees but aren't protecting the existing maturetreestowhich we are deeply indebted to for shade, biodiversity and oxygen.ATreeActistherein New Delhi, Maharashtra and Karnataka and there is a need for it here too. We are not saying trees shouldn’t be cut, but where they can be protected, they should be,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/its-life-and-death-for-48-year-old-tree-as-neighbours-quarrel/articleshow/79973615.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Labourer gets 3 years' rigorous imprisonment for sexually abusing school girl||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court on Wednesday convicted and sentenced to three years' rigorous imprisonment a 38-year-old labourer who sexually abused a 13-year-old girl on her way to school in 2019. The child complained to her teachers and parents after the incident on February 1, 2019. With the help of CCTV footage Nijam Khan was identified, traced and arrested. The court said the child had no reason to falsely implicate the accused, who claimed that he had dashed her by mistake. "Such kind of acts create fear in the mind of young children that they are not safe even in the day time. The victim must be compensated for mental injury she suffered due to the acts. Considering the factual aspect the following sentence will meet the ends of justice," the court said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-labourer-gets-3-years-rigorous-imprisonment-for-sexually-abusing-school-girl/articleshow/79973786.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Rajinikanth stable, decision on his discharge today||CHENNAI: Actor Rajinikanth, who was admitted to Apollo Hospital in Hyderabad on Friday, is stable. However, doctors are awaiting a few more reports to take a call on his discharge from the hospital, according to a hospital bulletin issued on Saturday evening. “Rajinikanth is stable. Reports of some of the investigations done today (Saturday) have come and there is nothing alarming. A few more reports are awaited. Based on the reports of remaining investigations and his blood pressure status overnight, a call will be taken tomorrow (Sunday) morning on his discharge from the hospital,” said the statement from Apollo. Earlier in the day, the hospital released a bulletin in which it said Rajinikanth’s health was “progressing well” but his blood pressure was still high, though under better control. “He has been advised complete rest in view of his labile blood pressure and visitors are not being allowed to meet him,” said the statement. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday spoke to Rajinikanth over phone and enquired about his health condition. The CM took to social media and posted a tweet about his telephonic conversation with the actor and said, “I have also informed him (Rajinikanth) that I will pray to God for his quick recovery.” Deputy CM O Panneerselvam also took to social media and wished the actor, whom he referred to as “beloved brother,” a speedy recovery. He also tagged the actor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajinikanth-stable-decision-on-his-discharge-today/articleshow/79973818.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Delhi||Thick layer of fog engulfs parts of Delhi||NEW DELHI: A thick layer of fog engulfed parts of the national capital on Sunday including Rajghat and Punjabi Bagh.  According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), under the influence of the approaching Western Disturbance Scattered to Fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad; isolated to scattered rainfall/snowfall over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and isolated rain/thundershowers over northern parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on 27th-28th December 2020. A thick layer of fog engulfs #Delhi ; visuals from near Rajghat and Punjabi Bagh#DelhiFog https://t.co/0SwhGbkxqb— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609035820000 Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely to re-establish over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh from 29th December, said IMD in its bulletin today.  It is likely to increase in spatial coverage during the subsequent two days. Northern parts of Saurashtra and Kutch and West Madhya Pradesh also likely to experience cold wave conditions on these days.  Cold day conditions are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, and Delhi on 28th and 29th December and over North Rajasthan 29th and 30th December 2020.  "Dense to very dense fog are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi in morning hours during on 28th to 30th December and Dense fog also likely over Uttar Pradesh in morning hours on 29th and 30th December 2020," said IMD. Watch Shallow fog engulfs national capital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/thick-layer-of-fog-engulfs-parts-of-delhi/articleshow/79973860.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Facing threats, dalit panchayat prez in Madras HC for police protection||CHENNAI: A dalit panchayat president moved the Madras high court seeking police protection, saying she faces threats to life from other panchayat office-bearers of dominant caste. Admitting the plea, Justice T Ravindran directed the TN government to respond to the plea in two weeks. V Amirtham, 60, was elected president of Athupakkam village panchayat in Gummidipoondi, Thiruvallur district. The petitioner said she faces threats from the panchayat secretary, husband of the vice president and the former president. “The very first day of (assuming) office, our village panchayat secretary Sasikumar called me ‘kezhavi’(old woman) and asked me to sign the registers as per his instructions,” Amirtham said. Though she was elected president, the day-to-day affairs of the panchayat were handled by former president Haridasss, the vice president’s husband Vijayakumar and Sasikumar, she added. “If I ask any question regarding the administration of the panchayat, I am faced with filthy language and mentions of my caste with bad taste. The public humiliation and insults continued, or rather intensified once I assumed office. I am called into the office only for my signature,” she said. The panchayat president said she considered being invited to hoist the flag at Aathuppakkam Panchayat School during Independence Day celebrations as a matter of pride and recognition after a lifetime of ordeals. However, at the last minute, the invite was rescinded, she said. Later, she said she learned that it was Haridass and Vijayakumar who stopped her from hoisting the flag. After the issue went viral, an FIR was registered against the three men based on her complaint, but subsequently, all the three were released on bail. Since being released, the men have constantly issued threats to her life, prompting Amirthram to move the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/facing-threats-dalit-panchayat-prez-in-madras-hc-for-police-protection/articleshow/79973792.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu adds 1,019 cases to Covid-19 tally||CHENNAI: The state on Saturday added 1,019 fresh infections to its Covid-19 tally, taking the total number of positive cases recorded to 8,13,161. With 11 new deaths, Tamil Nadu’s toll touched 12,059. The number of active cases as on date, including those in isolation, is 9,039. According to the official bulletin, 2,300 passengers travelled from the UK between 25th November and 21st December. Of the 2,300, 1,362 have been traced and tested, of which 9 tested positive and 1,035 negative. Results are awaited for 318 returnees. Chennai once again reported the most new cases and deaths on Saturday with 295 fresh infections and 5 fatalities. Neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur (55), Chengalpet (78), and Kancheepuram (40) together reported 173 cases and three deaths — all reported in Chengalpet district. As on date, the state captial has recorded 2,24,094 cases, which is 27.5 % of the total positive cases in the state. The city’s toll stood at 3,988 on Saturday. In the western region, Coimbatore accounted for 93 cases, followed by Tiruppur (43) and Salem (59) Coimbatore also reported 870 active cases, coming second to Chennai with 2,951. For the second consecutive day, the 10 southern districts recorded zero Covid-related deaths. South TN reported103 new cases, taking the total number of active cases to 963. Dindigul with 20 cases topped the new infections table, followed by Madurai (18). All other districts in south TN reported less than 15 new cases. However, Madurai still topped among southern districts when it came to active cases with 207 people still undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Madurai was followed by Dindigul (142), Kanyakumari (137) and Tirunelveli (127).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-adds-1019-cases-to-covid-19-tally/articleshow/79976015.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu adds 1,019 cases to Covid-19 tally||CHENNAI: The state on Saturday added 1,019 fresh infections to its Covid-19 tally, taking the total number of positive cases recorded to 8,13,161. With 11 new deaths, Tamil Nadu’s toll touched 12,059. The number of active cases as on date, including those in isolation, is 9,039. According to the official bulletin, 2,300 passengers travelled from the UK between 25th November and 21st December. Of the 2,300, 1,362 have been traced and tested, of which 9 tested positive and 1,035 negative. Results are awaited for 318 returnees. Chennai once again reported the most new cases and deaths on Saturday with 295 fresh infections and 5 fatalities. Neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur (55), Chengalpet (78), and Kancheepuram (40) together reported 173 cases and three deaths — all reported in Chengalpet district. As on date, the state captial has recorded 2,24,094 cases, which is 27.5 % of the total positive cases in the state. The city’s toll stood at 3,988 on Saturday. In the western region, Coimbatore accounted for 93 cases, followed by Tiruppur (43) and Salem (59) Coimbatore also reported 870 active cases, coming second to Chennai with 2,951. For the second consecutive day, the 10 southern districts recorded zero Covid-related deaths. South TN reported103 new cases, taking the total number of active cases to 963. Dindigul with 20 cases topped the new infections table, followed by Madurai (18). All other districts in south TN reported less than 15 new cases. However, Madurai still topped among southern districts when it came to active cases with 207 people still undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Madurai was followed by Dindigul (142), Kanyakumari (137) and Tirunelveli (127).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadu-adds-1019-cases-to-covid-19-tally/articleshow/79976014.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu adds 1,019 cases to Covid-19 tally||CHENNAI: The state on Saturday added 1,019 fresh infections to its Covid-19 tally, taking the total number of positive cases recorded to 8,13,161. With 11 new deaths, Tamil Nadu’s toll touched 12,059. The number of active cases as on date, including those in isolation, is 9,039. According to the official bulletin, 2,300 passengers travelled from the UK between 25th November and 21st December. Of the 2,300, 1,362 have been traced and tested, of which 9 tested positive and 1,035 negative. Results are awaited for 318 returnees. Chennai once again reported the most new cases and deaths on Saturday with 295 fresh infections and 5 fatalities. Neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur (55), Chengalpet (78), and Kancheepuram (40) together reported 173 cases and three deaths — all reported in Chengalpet district. As on date, the state captial has recorded 2,24,094 cases, which is 27.5 % of the total positive cases in the state. The city’s toll stood at 3,988 on Saturday. In the western region, Coimbatore accounted for 93 cases, followed by Tiruppur (43) and Salem (59) Coimbatore also reported 870 active cases, coming second to Chennai with 2,951. For the second consecutive day, the 10 southern districts recorded zero Covid-related deaths. South TN reported103 new cases, taking the total number of active cases to 963. Dindigul with 20 cases topped the new infections table, followed by Madurai (18). All other districts in south TN reported less than 15 new cases. However, Madurai still topped among southern districts when it came to active cases with 207 people still undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Madurai was followed by Dindigul (142), Kanyakumari (137) and Tirunelveli (127).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-adds-1019-cases-to-covid-19-tally/articleshow/79973784.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Fishermen to block ships at JNPT on January 21||NAVI MUMBAI: Taking the sea route, JNPT project-affected persons of the erstwhile Sheva village in Uran have decided to launch a "channel bandh" agitation on January 21 by blocking ship traffic. The villagers, who have been in a transit camp at Hanuman Koliwada for 40 years after their lands were acquired for the country's largest container port, have not received compensation, alleged Suresh Damodar Koli, head of the village reforms committee. The affected fishermen have written to the chief minister's office about their protest. The CMO cell at Konkan Bhavan has asked the JNPT chairman to address the issue. Environmental groups such as NatConnect Foundation and Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan have come out in support of the agitating fishing community. In all, 256 families were displaced from Sheva and have now grown to about 600 families, Koli said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-fishermen-to-block-ships-at-jnpt-on-january-21/articleshow/79973914.cms||Vijay Singh
December 27, 2020||World||Shooting at Illinois bowling alley leaves 3 dead, 3 injured||ROCKFORD: A gunman opened fire inside an Illinois bowling alley, killing three people and injuring three others Saturday night in what authorities believe was a random attack. A ``person of interest'' was taken into custody after the shooting at Don Carter Lanes, Rockford Police Chief Dan O'Shea said during a news conference. He said two of those who were shot were teenagers. O'Shea did not immediately release additional information about the victims or the person who was taken into custody. He described the scene as contained and said he did not think any officers fired their weapons while apprehending the person of interest. Rockford is about 80 miles (130 kilometers) northwest of Chicago. The Rockford Register Star reported that 2020 has been the city's deadliest year for homicides, according to records that date back to 1965. Thirty-five people have been killed in the city this year, breaking the previous record of 31 in 1996.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/shooting-at-illinois-bowling-alley-leaves-3-dead-3-injured/articleshow/79973956.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Bhopal||Gang ‘abducts’ 2 buffaloes for Rs 50,000 ransom in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Two buffaloes of a farmer in tribal Betul district were abducted and held to a ransom of Rs 50,000. Police have managed to rescue one. Around a week ago, farmer Amarchand Patel was transporting his cattle in his pick-up van, when accused Deepchand and his accomplices waylaid him near Pawel village and forcibly took away the cattle, Multai police station in-charge Suresh Solanki told TOI. A little later, the farmer received a ransom call of Rs 50,000. Scared, he rushed to the Prabhat Pattan police outpost. Cops filed a case and identified the suspects. “Deepchand was arrested on December 23. We recovered one of the two abducted buffaloes on information given by him. There are five other accused and one of the buffaloes is in their possession. We are looking for them and hope to rescue the other buffalo soon,” Solanki said. All the accused have been booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gang-abducts-2-buffaloes-for-rs-50000-ransom-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/79974029.cms||---
December 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Gully boy||It’s past 1 pm but one could still find several cricketers between eight and 30 years at the Eidgah Maidan in First Lancer. It’s an ordinary ground with lots of dust and loose gravel. For several years, Mohammed Siraj was one of the cricketers running in hard with a tennis ball in hand and knocking down stumps of rival batsmen at this very ground. Of course, none of these boys had any idea that one of them would be the toast of town as Siraj is now after his debut against Australia in the Boxing Day Test match in Melbourne on Saturday. From the dust bowl that is Eidgah to the imposing MCG, 26-year-old Siraj has come a long way. The conditions at the ground, where he learnt the game, coupled with harsh realities of life have toughened Siraj into not giving up without a fight. The conditions in which Siraj was born and lived were poor but his passion for cricket helped him overcome all difficulties. The son of an autorickshaw driver playing for the country is nothing short of a fairy-tale. Siraj’s old rented house at Khaja Nagar is on a rock — and he couldn’t have asked for a better metaphor to his life. Siraj grabbed the attention of people with his ability to generate pace and grabbed every opportunity that came his way. It was Kaleem, a vegetable seller and a fellow cricketer, who asked Mohammed Mahboob Ahmed, secretary of Charminar Cricket Club, to have a look at Siraj. Mahboob was impressed with his pace and asked him to play for his club in the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) two-day league. Siraj tasted instant success and Mahboob told HCA secretary K John Manoj about Siraj. Thereafter, things moved swiftly and soon he was playing for Hyderabad in the 2016-17 domestic season. An impressive first season of domestic cricket landed him an IPL deal worth 2.6 crore with Sunrisers Hyderabad but he soon moved to Royal Challengers Bangalore in 2018 and has been an integral part of that franchise ever since. Has he changed as a person ever since he started playing IPL and for India? “Not at all. He is still the same Siraj whom we have known for several years. He comes to the ground often and we also go to his house. He is down-to-earth,” said Syed Irfan, his neighbour and a fellow cricketer at Lancer. Best friend Mohammed Shafi is ecstatic. “Siraj ate, drank, slept and breathed cricket. For him life was cricket and cricket was life. He used to go anywhere to play a match. In fact, we won a lot of tennis ball tournaments in those days. I am very happy for him,” said Shafi. Siraj owes his success to guidance from the likes of former cricketer Jyothi Prasad in his initial days and from Rahul Dravid after he graduated to play for India ‘A’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gully-boy/articleshow/79974043.cms||Solomon S Kumar
December 27, 2020||Rajkot||Green warrior who ‘dug his grave’ dies in Ahmedabad||RAJKOT: In 2012, Premjibhai Patel left everyone surprised when he dug his own grave, literally! Patel, who is credited with planting over 10 million trees, told his family members that not a single piece of wood should be used in his cremation. On Friday, Premji Bapa (94) of Upleta taluka in Rajkot died in Ahmedabad. But the pandemic, the family could not complete his last wish — to be buried in the grave he dug for himself. He was 94. “Due to the prevailing Covid situation, we had to perform his last rites in Ahmedabad as per the protocol,” his industrialist son Rayji Patel, with whom he lived, told TOI. "I can't see the trees which I planted being chopped for my death. No wood should be used in my agni sanskar," he had said then, urging family members to cover the pit after burying him and start farming on it. Premjibhai was felicitated with the National Water Award -2008 by the union ministry of water resources for building nearly 1,700 check dams across Saurashtra. A successful businessman in Mumbai, Patel returned to his native 1967 with a sole aim to embark on a mission to turn arid Saurashtra green. He founded a non-governmental organization (NGO), which initiated a number of water harvesting and tree plantation projects in Rajkot district. He also wanted to make a forest area from Gir stretching right up to Dwarka. Premjibhai had started broadcasting seeds, the method of plantation by scattering the seeds, with the help of his volunteers. Later, his son-in-law designed and gifted him a blower machine to broadcast seeds as his work spread in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. “Impressed by the innovative blower machine, former President, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam had also met him during a function in Ahmedabad,” said Menshi Saraiya, an environment activist, who has been working with Premjibhai since 1997.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/green-warrior-who-dug-his-grave-dies/articleshow/79974051.cms||---
