December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru celebrates the colours of Pride at the Namma Pride March||On Sunday, rainbow-coloured hues took over Bengaluru's streets as activists and members of the LGBTQIA+ took part in the solidarity march celebrating the 13th Namma Pride March. The three-hour-long march saw participants walking from Freedom Park to Town Hall shouting slogans, holding banners and placards and dancing to loud dhol beats. Participants followed the COVID-19 standard protocols and wore masks while not letting the outbreak dim their spirit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-celebrates-the-colours-of-pride-at-the-namma-pride-march/articleshow/79979661.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Above-par turnout in rural areas amid pandemic fear surprises all||BENGALURU: The impressive turnout (81%) in the first and second phases of the gram panchayat polls – better than the assembly and Lok Sabha elections – came as a pleasant surprise for all parties. A comparatively muted campaigning, pandemic fears and social-distancing measures at polling stations had triggered fears of a poor show. “For democracy, this is heartening indeed. The spirit of rural citizens to make every vote count in the formation of their village government is indeed an example for voters in urban areas, who are generally regarded as laggards,’’ said a senior Congress functionary. Conducting polls amid the pandemic was a challenge for the State Election Commission (SEC) as about 2.9 crore voters — 5,762 GPs — were part of it. “We fared well with the support of the state machinery, police and poll personnel,” said SEC chief B Basavarajud. Covid-19 patients, wearing PPE, were allowed to cast their vote between 4pm and 5pm. The BJP, Congress and JD(S) were against the timing and wanted the polls postponed.  According to reports, seats were auctioned for anything between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 50 lakh, depending on the village size. A seat in Tumakuru reportedly went for Rs 1 crore. Several GPs boycotted polls in protest for not considering some of their long-pending demands. Residents of Himmavu village in Nanjangud taluk have been demanding jobs for farmer families who gave land for the Asian Paints project. Locals didn’t file nomination papers also. Raitha Sangha members held a protest in front of the polling booth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/above-par-turnout-in-rural-areasamid-pandemic-fear-surprises-all/articleshow/79981798.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
December 28, 2020||Goa||Francisco joins Sheikh Russel in Bangladesh||Panaji:Francisco Bruto Da Costa has joined Sheikh Russel KC as their assistant cum fitness coach for the Bangladesh Premier League. One of the youngest in India to have attained the AFC Pro License, Francisco is no stranger to Bangladesh as he returns for his second stint at the club. “The first stint was good, and the club treated me well. The Federation Cup has started and the standard of football in Bangladesh is the same as in India. The players are very hard working and eager to learn,” Francisco told TOI after his first training session with the team on Sunday. Sheikh Russel KC is coached by Saiful Bari Titu and the two get along well, having completed their AFC Pro License together. Francisco had earlier joined the coaching staff of Sheikh Russel KC in 2018 after assisting Portuguese Nelo Vingada with the Malaysian national team. He then moved to Kerala Blasters FC before signing for East Bengal at the start of the season. The arrival of the new investors and the Kolkata giants’ entry in the Indian Super League (ISL) meant Francisco was no longer a part of the coaching that travelled to Goa. The contract was later mutually terminated. “Each country has its own pros and cons. It is a different experience of culture, but it is good for me. The life of a coach is to adapt to a new culture,” said the 39-year-old from Margao. Travelling in times of the coronavirus was always going to be a challenge but getting back to football was a like breath of fresh air for Francisco. “The management has done their best in these tough times to get players according to their budget. It is tough on teams around the world. But the fact that football has started is a big thing. It is a big challenge,” said Francisco. Unlike Indian leagues, Bangladesh has allowed spectators for games which is a morale booster. Francisco’s agreement with the former Bangladesh champions is till the end of the season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/francisco-joins-sheikh-russel-in-bangladesh/articleshow/79981803.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 26 sweeping machines gather dust, yet BBMP floats tender for 25 more||BENGALURU: A five-year-old Bengaluru boy was bugging his aunt on why BBMP is not using mechanical sweepers to clean the city. This despite the civic body owning a fleet of 26 mechanical sweepers and floating a tender to buy another 25 at a cost of Rs 230 crore. Posting a picture of her nephew holding his Lego toy mechanical sweeper, civic activist Kavitha Reddy tweeted: “My nephew Kanishk Reddy is asking me why @BBMPSWMSplComm and @BBMPCOMM not using Mechanical Sweepers to clean Bengaluru Roads!” Kanishk told TOI that he is sad about not being able to see his Lego toy mechanical sweeper in real. “In Hyderabad, I can see my Lego toy coming to life. But in Bengaluru, I see none. It is a very good machine, which sucks dust and cleans roads,” explained Kanishk. Incidentally, BBMP’s 26 mechanical sweepers are gathering dust due to internal rift between departments. Notwithstanding their disuse, the Palike recently floated tenders to buy another 25 self-propelled mechanical sweeping machines at an estimated cost of Rs 230 crore, which includes their operation and maintenance for seven years. A senior official from BBMP’s road and infrastructure department said, “Internal politics does not allow our department to use the mechanical sweepers.” The solid waste management department has the purchasing power, while the road and infrastructure department is allowed to use the machines. “The tenders are rigged to favour only two manufacturers. The ones we demand are never purchased. How do we clean the city then?” the official said. Self-propelled mechanical sweepers are not meant for the city, and best used in industrial units or airports, where dust is less, say BBMP officials. “If the city needs to be cleaned, we require not only mechanical sweepers, but also hook loaders to transfer the waste collected on to a container, instead of the machine being driven to the end of the city to dispose of the waste,” the official explained. “The roads in Bengaluru have more silt and clay content, which cannot be easily cleaned,” said BS Prahalad, chief engineer, BBMP — road infrastructure. The existing mechanical sweepers can clean nearly 40km a day, but to cover the entire city, nearly 100 machines are required. As per the new tenders, BBMP will be spending Rs 42 crore to procure the 25 mechanical sweepers and Rs 185 crore towards their maintenance. “We have the money to purchase 100 machines, but we don’t do it due to political pressure. The officers use the council as an alibi to avoid trouble,” said another senior engineer from road and infrastructure department. “In the days to come, we will be using the jetting machines, which were brought to spray disinfectants in the city, to clean road surfaces,” added Prahalad. The project is likely to begin in January and will focus especially on the central business district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/26-sweeping-machines-gather-dust-yet-bbmp-floats-tender-for-25-more/articleshow/79981805.cms||Nithya Mandyam
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Thief wanted in 100 cases held in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 35-year-old thief, who was wanted in more than 100 cases in Bengaluru and had made his Honda City car his home, was arrested on Sunday. Santosh, a resident of Tavarekere, had been arrested several times in the past. But each time he came out on bail, he resumed stealing from locked houses and abstained from court hearings. There was a theft case reported at Suddaguntepalya police station in August where a TV set, fans, a geyser and other valuables were stolen. CCTV footage revealed Santosh’s involvement, but it took three months for police to trace him as he literally lived out of his car. Santosh spent his earnings to lead a lavish life. He would zero in on locked houses and break open doors using an iron rod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/thief-wanted-in-100-cases-held/articleshow/79981814.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Cousins drown in quarry while bathing puppy in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 21-year-old garment worker and his cousin bathing a puppy in a quarry drowned near Bettahalasur in Devanahalli, north Bengaluru, on Saturday evening. Prem Kumar was a resident of Bettahalasur while Jennifer alias Jenny from Chennai had come to the city with her mother to celebrate Christmas with Kumar and his family. They had picked up the puppy from a dog-breeding centre. Kumar, who is said to have discontinued his diploma course, had joined a garment factory near Devanahalli. Jennifer was a II PU student with a private college in Chennai. “Jennifer and her mother reached Kumar’s house on Thursday and were planning to travel back after January 2. Kumar and Jennifer visited the dog-breeding centre in Bettahalasur at 4pm. Jennifer picked one of the puppies and went to the lake, 200 metres from the centre, to bathe it. But she slipped and fell into the water. Kumar rushed to her rescue but he too drowned. Jennifer’s mother, who was watching them from the centre, raised an alarm, but it was too late, police said. Jennifer’s body was taken out at night while Kumar’s on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cousins-drown-in-quarry-while-bathing-puppy/articleshow/79981823.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||BJP should seek ST status for Kurubas: Siddaramaiah||Alleging that RSS is supporting the Kurubas’ campaign for scheduled tribe tag to divide the community, former chief minister Siddaramaiah on Sunday said the government should commission an ethnographic survey and send recommendations to the Centre. Siddaramaiah told reporters in Mysuru that during the Congress-JD(S) coalition government, then social welfare minister Priyank Kharge had conducted an ethnographic survey of Kurubas in the state, but it was incomplete. “Let the BJP government conduct a survey and recommend ST status for the community. BJP’s AH Vishwanath and KS Eshwarappa from the community should pressure the Centre for ST status. There is no need for any campaign or protests,’’ the ex-CM said.  BJP MLC AH Vishwanath said: “What’s wrong in RSS backing our campaign? They (RSS) have not been banned. In fact, we have sought support from various organisations and they have offered full support. There is no truth to the allegation that RSS is trying to divide the community or weaken Siddaramaiah’s leadership.” ‘I didn’t oppose Kharge for CM’s post’Siddaramaiah said JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda should name those Congress functionaries who opposed veteran Mallikarjuna M Kharge’s name for the CM’s post. On Saturday, Deve Gowda alleged he had recommended the name of Kharge, a dalit, for the CM’s post soon after JD(S) and Congress decided to form the government in 2018, but some functionaries opposed it. “I was never against Kharge’s selection. Let Deve Gowda reveal the names of Congressmen who expressed opposition,” Siddaramaiah, said while refusing to comment on Gowda’s another charge that he and some other functionaries wanted to demolish his regional party. “Aiyo papa (Oh, what a pity,” he said, adding that he has decided not to speak about Gowda henceforth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-should-seek-st-status-for-kurubas-siddaramaiah/articleshow/79981867.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bust vandalisation all about caste hegemony, vote banks, says expert||BENGALURU: The vandalisation of late actor Vishnuvardhan’s bust near Magadi Road tollgate on Saturday brought to the fore caste hegemony and vote-bank politics dogging assembly segments Govindraj Nagar and Vijayanagar for over a decade. These Vokkaliga strongholds have seen bitter rivalry between BJP minister V Somanna and Congress legislator M Krishnappa. The rivalry heightened with Vokkaliga Krishnappa’s son Priya Krishna defeating Somanna in 2009 and holding two terms, before the Lingayat regained his constituency in 2018. The battlelines have been drawn for the 2023 elections and Saturday’s incident is linked to poll preparations. The Magadi Road tollgate marks the border of Govindraj Nagar and Vijayanagar and houses Vokkaliga mutt Adi Chunchanagiri Mahasamsthana’s main centre. While the nearby circle has been named after late mutt pontiff Balagangadharanatha Swamy, some local politicians want to install his statue there, but saw the Vishnuvardhan bust installed a year ago as a stumbling block. “It’s all about caste politics. Somanna wants Vokkaliga voters know that he managed to get the bust changed while Krishnappa has the advantage of being a Vokkaliga,” said MB Adinarayana, a political observer who resides in Vijayanagar. What is bothering voters, according to Adinarayana, is that the replacement could have been done in a dignified manner. Sommanna said: “Locals want the swamiji’s statue. I planned to shift the Vishnuvardhan bust to a nearby location. The unfortunate incident took place in the wee hours of Saturday just when both sides had come to an agreement.” Somanna said he arranged a meeting between mutt pontiff Niramalananda Swamy and representatives of Vishnuvardhan’s fans association on Sunday. The groundbreaking ceremony to install the actor’s bust at the alternative place is planned on Monday. “We wanted this to end in a cordial manner and agreed to Somanna’s proposal,” said Vishnuvardhan’s son-in-law and actor Anirudha However, Krishnappa said: “His (Sommanna) supporters installed Vishnuvardhan’s bust knowing well there was a proposal to install the swamiji’s statue. Now, the same people have stolen Vishnuvardhan’s statue and Somanna is posing as the one fighting for swamiji’s statue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bust-vandalisation-all-about-caste-hegemony-vote-banks-says-expert/articleshow/79981922.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cab topples, 9 hurt in serial accident on KIA expressway||BENGALURU: Nine persons, including four women, sustained injuries in a serial accident involving three private cars and a cab on Kempegowda International Airport elevated expressway on Sunday morning. Five of the injured were treated as outpatients, while four have been admitted to a private hospital. The accident occurred at Kodigehalli bypass at 7.15am. “The driver, who was heading to the city, lost control of the cab. The vehicle jumped the median and toppled. Three cars, heading towards the airport, rammed each other while trying to avoid hitting the cab,” traffic police said. Traffic was disrupted for over 30 minutes as police had to shift the injured to hospital and then clear the mangled vehicles. A crane was used to lift and shift three of the cars, which were blocking the road. Occupants of the three cars, heading towards the airport, sustained injuries, while the cab driver is being treated for hairline fractures on his hand and legs. “The cab driver was driving at around 100kmph. He must have dozed off,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cab-topples-9-hurt-in-serial-accident-on-kia-expressway/articleshow/79981956.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Murder suspect arrested in Kerala, faces over 15 cases||BENGALURU: Cracking the murder case of a 65-year-old lone woman, Bommanahalli police on Saturday arrested a 35-year-old man from Kerala. According to police, Sahul Hammed alias Ansari bludgeoned Nirmala Mary to death at her residence in Muneshwara Layout in Begur on the morning of December 3 and fled with 48 grams of gold and some cash. As per police records, Ansari faces more than 15 criminal cases in different parts of Kerala. Mary lived alone and ran a grocery shop for livelihood. Her family lived in other parts of city. “Mary owned a three-storey building with her shop in the ground floor. She lived in the adjacent house and rented two above. One such house was vacant and Mary had put up a board looking for prospective tenants. Accused Ansari had noticed that Mary was alone,” said police.  “Ansari decided to rob Mary. On December 2, he met her, saying he wanted to occupy the empty house. Mary took him there and Ansari told her he would come the next day with the advance deposit. On December 3 morning, Ansari came and Mary took him inside her house to receive the advance money. There, Ansari bludgeoned her to death and fled with her gold chain and cash from the shop,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/murder-suspect-arrested-in-kerala-faces-over-15-cases/articleshow/79981965.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Wistron unit will resume operations soon, says minister||Labour minister Shivaram Hebbar said the Wistron iPhone manufacturing facility at Narasapur in Kolar district will resume operations soon. It had stopped functioning after workers went on the rampage on December 12. Speaking to mediapersons after holding discussions with the management and Kolar district administration on Sunday, the minister said he will convene a meeting of the compnay’s representatives, labour leaders and elected representatives to chalk out a permanent solution to labour problems in the facility. He said Wistron has already promised to take back all workers who were on contract except those who indulged in vandalism and were arrested . Nearly 97% of the contract labourers are likely to return to work once the unit starts functioning, hopefully in a fortnight, the minister added. Pointing out that there were certain lapses on the management’s part and that of labour contractors, he said none of the workers had brought to the district administration’s notice that their salaries weren’t being paid properly. Instead of resorting to violence, the labourers could have resorted to a dharna or some other form of protest, he felt. He said industry-friendly Karnataka will not allow labour unrest in any industrial unit. Referring to the labour unrest at Toyota’s Bidadi plant, the minister said the company has already started operations with one shift and hoped both shifts would start in a week’s time. As of Saturday, over 1,100 labourers attended work in one shift at the plant, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wistron-unit-will-resume-ops-soon-says-minister/articleshow/79981966.cms||---
December 28, 2020||India||HC junks FIR, unites UP interfaith couple||PRAYAGRAJ: Quashing an FIR accusing a Muslim youth from UP’s Etah of kidnapping and inducing a Hindu girl into marriage, the Allahabad high court has reunited the interfaith couple on the ground that a girl proven to have attained the age of majority and wanting to live with the person of her choice has the right to lead life on her terms. The order came in response to a habeas corpus writ petition filed by the husband, Salman alias Karan, saying his wife Shikha had been separated from him against her wishes and handed over to her parents by the Etah child welfare committee. On being produced before the division bench of Justices Pankaj Naqvi and Vivek Agarwal a few days earlier, the girl had submitted proof of her date of birth being October 4, 1999, and informed the court that she married Salman of her own accord. The court directed the Prayagraj SSP to ensure adequate protection to Shikha and her husband till they safely returned to their residence. The ruling also made a scathing observation of how the chief judicial magistrate of Etah displayed “lack of appreciation of legal provisions” while handing custody of Shikha to the child welfare committee on December 7. The committee, in turn, got the girl’s parents to take her back home against her wishes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-junks-fir-unites-up-interfaith-couple/articleshow/79983283.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 28, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Education department issuing TCs sans our consent, say private schools||MYSURU: The row between parents and school managements over the issue of unpaid fees went up a notch on Sunday with some private schools claiming education department officials are directly issuing transfer certificates to students without taking schools into confidence. The education department denied the allegation, but admitted it was “intervening” in a “few” cases, with the sole intention of doing what was in the best interests of students. The row has been simmering with private schools saying many parents did not pay fees since the last academic year ended without final exams being held. Santosh Kumar, Mysuru district representative of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools (KAMS) and D Shashi Kumar, KAMS’ state general secretary, alleged education department officials are illegally approving transfer requests made by schools, especially government institutions. They warned they will file complaints with the cyber police since the practice amounts to a cybercrime. Lingaraju M, head of Vagbharati School, Hosahundi, Mysuru, said eight students of his school secured transfer certificates without the headmaster’s approval. “A few days ago, a local government school teacher approached our school headmaster with a request to issue transfer certificates to eight students who wanted to join his school,” Lingaraju said. “We said we are ready to issue TCs, provided parents of these students come and talk to us. Our annual fee is very low, yet many parents did not pay last year’s fee. We wanted to know why.” Lingaraju said a few days later, they learnt TCs were issued to the eight students online. “They joined a government school. Education department officials have the right to issue TCs online, but who will indemnify our losses?” he said. However, Panduranga, deputy director of public instruction, denied the allegations, saying: “TCs are issued directly from one school headmaster to another online. If a parent approaches the department with a complaint, we intervene and issue directions. We cannot issue TCs without a school’s approval.” Santosh Kumar said gross injustice is being meted out to private schools. “Schools have already suffered huge losses. Allowing students to transfer out without paying arrears will add to our problems.” Shashi Kumar said the issue of issuing online TCs is rampant across the state. “This is unethical practice,” he said. “We are not against students moving from one school to another. Our concern is over unpaid fees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/edu-dept-issuing-tcs-on-its-own-allege-schools/articleshow/79983559.cms||Shrinivasa M
December 28, 2020||India||Instant loan apps: Chinese woman, 2 others held in Pune||HYDERABAD: Three persons, including a Chinese woman, have been arrested by Telangana police from a Pune call centre in connection with the instant loan case. “We have seized 101 laptops, 106 mobile phones and several documents, besides freezing Rs 1.42 crore parked in their company’s bank account,” an officer in the investigating team said. The arrested were Parshuram Lahu Takve, his wife Liang TianTian, a Chinese national, and the call centre HR manager Sk Aaqib. TianTian is the third Chinese national to be arrested in cases related to the digital lending fraud. On December 25, Cyberabad police arrested Chinese national Yi Bai alias Dennis, a native of Jiangxi in Shanghai from Delhi for illegally running 11 money lending apps and offering small loans to individuals between 20 and 40 years at extremely high interest rates. In October, a Chinese man was arrested from Delhi for illegally running betting apps and duping Indians of crores of rupees. He is presently lodged in a Hyderabad jail on remand. So far, Telangana police have arrested 18 persons from call centres across the country, after four victims, including an agriculture officer and a software engineer, committed suicide and scores of people said they were harassed and their pictures were shared on social media by the companies to shame them for defaulting loans. Police said the accused had an agreement with four financing companies based in Mumbai and Mysore for recovery of money from people who took loans from them through 16 instant loan apps owned and operated by them. The accused set up a call centre in Pune for the purpose. “They used to call up persons who took loans and defaulters for collecting money at the behest of the finance companies. The tele-callers used to abuse customers and also threaten them with dire consequences,” Rachakonda commissioner of police Mahesh Bhagawat said at a press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/instant-loan-apps-chinese-woman-2-others-held-in-pune/articleshow/79983507.cms||Srinath Vudali
December 28, 2020||India||PC, Chavan counter Sena bid to prop up Pawar as UPA leader||MUMBAI/DELHI: Veteran Congressmen have once again refuted Shiv Sena and NCP’s criticism of their party’s leadership and the demand to vest Sharad Pawar with an organisational role in mobilising the UPA. Maharashtra’s public works minister Ashok Chavan targeted Sena MP Sanjay Raut for comments on the “ineffective” role of Rahul Gandhi and the need to strengthen the opposition by mobilising allies under the stewardship of Pawar. Within the UPA, the leadership of Sonia Gandhi is undisputed, said Chavan. Former Union cabinet minister P Chidambaram said there was “no such thing” as the chairperson of the UPA and it was unlikely that Pawar would want such a position. “When these parties meet, the natural person to extend the invitation and preside over the meeting will be the leader of the largest party; we are not selecting a prime minister,” Chidambaram said, according to an ANI report. He said if Congress calls a meeting of the alliance, “it is natural that a Congress leader will preside over the meeting”. Chavan said, “Sonia Gandhi is instrumental in holding the constituents of the UPA together. As for the question of Pawar taking over the reins of UPA, none other than he himself has denied such reports.” Sena’s mouthpiece Saamna, which is edited by Raut, had said the absence of TMC, BSP, Akali Dal and YSR Congress from UPA has hobbled the opposition to BJP. Roping in Pawar would help to reinvigorate it, it said. “Raut’s comments on Gandhi and UPA are uncalled for, particularly when Shiv Sena is not part of the UPA,” said Chavan. He made it clear that the alliance with Sena was limited to Maharashtra and it would be wrong to say that the tie-up was at a national level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pc-chavan-counter-sena-bid-to-prop-up-pawar-as-upa-leader/articleshow/79983622.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
December 28, 2020||Business||Don’t fly in Chinese nationals, Centre informally tells airlines||NEW DELHI: In a strong retaliatory push, India has asked all airlines informally not to fly Chinese nationals into the country. This comes after China’s not-so-subtle move to stop Indians from flying into their country, something that has only tightened since November. While flights between India and China are currently suspended, Chinese nationals eligible to travel as per current norms for foreigners have been doing so by first flying to a third country with which India has a travel bubble. And from there, they fly to India. In addition, Chinese nationals living in air bubble countries have also been flying to India from there for work and business. Read AlsoChina temporarily bars Indians from entering country over Covid concernsChina has temporarily suspended entry of foreign nationals in India to the country due to the Covid pandemic. The decision comes after almost 20 passengers of an Air India (AI) Vande Bharat Mission Delhi-Wuhan flight of October 30 tested positive on arrival last week. AI had planned four flights toOver the past weekend, airlines — both Indian and foreign — have been specifically asked not to fly Chinese nationals to India. At the moment tourist visas to India remain suspended but foreigners are allowed to travel here on work and some other categories of non-tourist visas. Industry sources say a majority of Chinese nationals flying to India have been coming from air bubble countries in Europe. Some airlines, it is learned, asked the authorities to give them something in writing so that they can give reason for denying boarding to Chinese nationals booked on flights to India as per current norms. New Delhi's response comes when Indian seafarers are stranded in various Chinese ports because China is refusing to allow them on shore, or even to change crew. This has affected almost 1,500 Indians serving on international flag merchant vessels as they can’t even come back home. Though the target is Australia, whose coal is now banned by China, Indians seafarers have taken a big collateral hit and Beijing does not seem to be willing to organise immediate relief. Questioned this week, the Chinese foreign ministry lobbed the ball back in the courts of local authorities. But officials say there are no permissions forthcoming from any local authority. The Chinese government has given a list of steps to be followed, but, Indian officials say, they are designed to frustrate efforts. In early November, China had suspended the entry of foreign nationals holding valid Chinese visas or residence permits from some countries including India due to the pandemic. "The Chinese embassy/consulates in India will not stamp the health declaration forms for the holders of the above-mentioned categories of visa or residence permits," the Chinese embassy in India had said in a statement on its website on November 5, while exempting some categories of visa holders like diplomats. "The entry into China with visas issued after November 3, 2020 is not affected… suspension is a temporary measurement that China has to adopt to deal with the current pandemic. China will make further adjustment and announcement in accordance with the ongoing pandemic situation in a timely manner," the statement had said. China’s decision had come after almost 20 passengers of an Air India Vande Bharat Mission Delhi-Wuhan flight of October 30 had tested Covid positive and another 40 were found to have Covid antibodies on arrival. China’s special administrative region of Hong Kong suspends airlines for 14 days if five or more passengers on any single flight test positive on arrival. Hong Kong has so far barred AI four times and Vistara once during the pandemic for this reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dont-fly-in-chinese-nationals-centre-informally-tells-airlines/articleshow/79983499.cms||Saurabh Sinha
December 28, 2020||India||ED summons Sena MP Raut’s wife in Rs 55L co-op bank case||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate has issued summons to Varsha Raut, wife of high-profile Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, in connection with a Rs 55-lakh transaction at the Punjab Maharashtra Cooperative Bank between her and an associate. The move, coming on the back of similar action against BJP-turned-NCP leader Eknath Khadse, has sent shock waves in the ruling MVA coalition comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. The ED has asked Varsha to appear before it on December 29 with relevant papers pertaining to her accounts in the PMC Bank, which is under a moratorium. The agency has invoked provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act to summon Varsha Raut. The ED is investigating a Rs 4,355 crore scam involving PMC Bank and the Wadhawans of Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) who defaulted on loans. ED is believed to be probing a Rs 55 lakh transaction between Raut and Madhuri, wife of Praveen Raut, an associate of Sanjay Raut. Praveen was arrested in a case connected to property development, but was later granted bail. The Rs 55 lakh transaction was cited as a loan/advance in the affidavit filed by Sanjay Raut for his nomination to the Rajya Sabha in 2016. “Mrs Raut has not received the notice. Even if we receive it, we do not care at all,” Sanjay Raut said in a text message to TOI when asked for his reaction. After Eknath Khadse, Raut is the third such individual with political connections in the recent past to get an ED summons. Khadse was asked to be present before the ED on Wednesday. Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik and his two sons too are under the ED’s scrutiny. NCP spokesman and skill development minister Nawab Malik described the summons to Varsha Raut as “politically motivated” and driven by vendetta. “First it was Eknath Khadse and now Varsha Raut. Opposition leaders, who have taken a clear stand against PM Narendra Modi are being targeted by central agencies. This is gross abuse of power by the BJP,’’ Malik said. Within the MVA, Sanjay Raut has been among the most vocal critics of the NDA government. He is also seen to have played a key role in stitching together the Sena-Congress-NCP coalition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-summons-sena-mp-rauts-wife-in-rs-55l-co-op-bank-case/articleshow/79983695.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 28, 2020||India||Daily Covid cases fall to 25% of tally seen during Sept peak||NEW DELHI: Exactly three months after India recorded its highest daily count of Covid-19 cases, over 98,795 on September 17, the country’s average number of cases have fallen to less than one-fourth of that peak. The pandemic continues to recede with the latest weekly case count dropping by more than 11% from the previous week’s tally. Covid-related deaths in the current week (December 21-27) registered a steeper fall of close to 15%, with 2,087 fatalities recorded during the period at an average of less than 300 (298) per day. This is the lowest weekly death toll in the country since the first week of June — close to seven months ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily Covid cases in India currently stands at 21,794. That’s less than one-fourth of the peak on September 17, when the seven-day average was 93,735 (although 98,795 fresh cases were reported that day), as per TOI’s database collated from state government figures. Meanwhile, 1,52,455 new cases were recorded this week, the lowest week-on-week count since the June 29-July 5 week, when 1,48,845 fresh Covid-19 infections had been recorded. On an average, 21,779 new cases were reported every day during the current week. Fresh cases of the virus have been falling for seven straight weeks. Except for one week when cases registered a rise — November 2-8, the week before Diwali — coronavirus cases have been declining for the past 15 weeks since mid-September. The weekly trend of fatalities is similar. Deaths during the current week were nearly one-fourth (25.5%) of the highest weekly toll recorded on September 14-20. That week, as many as 8,175 fatalities were reported in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/daily-covid-cases-fall-to-25-of-tally-seen-during-sept-peak/articleshow/79983657.cms||---
December 28, 2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala only state where positivity rate still rising||NEW DELHI: Kerala is the only state in the country where the Covid-19 positivity rate is still rising, a matter of concern as it had shown some moderation early this month but has once again touched 10% in the 14-day period between December 13-26. This is up from 9.4% in the fortnight before (Nov 30-Dec 13). If the positivity rate, number of confirmed Covid cases per 100 tests, is above 5% measured over a 14-day period, the state is considered to be in the red zone. Besides Kerala, Goa at 6% is the only other state which has a positivity rate above the 5% level. But it has improved, bringing down the positivity compared to previous fortnight’s 6.4%. The all-India positivity rate has come down, too, from 3% (Nov 30-Dec 13) to 2.2% (Dec 13-26). Maharashtra, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan have brought their positivity rates below 5%, a major improvement from the previous fortnight when they were all in the red zone. Delhi at 1.4% is doing better than Gujarat (1.8%) and Tamil Nadu (1.5%). Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusA month-and-half ago (November 8-21), there were nine states that had positivity rates between 7% and 15%. Leading the pack was Himachal Pradesh at 15%, followed by Delhi-13%, Rajasthan-11%, Haryana-10%, Kerala-10%, Goa-9%, West Bengal-8%, Maharashtra-8% and Chhattisgarh-7%. Now, barring Kerala and Goa, all the other states have managed to restrict the pandemic to a manageable limit by increasing testing and tracing of the infected population. Read AlsoCovid-19: Oxford vaccine may get nod in a few daysIndia is likely to see the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine being approved for emergency use in next few days as the updated data submitted by Serum Institute of India (SII) appears “satisfactory”, top govt sources said. ​​Once evaluation of data is complete, the regulator may not wait for the vaccine toUttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Assam and Bihar are at the bottom of the ladder with their positivity rates below 1% level. Delhi continues to perform well after it had sh-own an unprecedented rise in the number of confirmed cases detected during October-November when its positivity rate had shot up to 13%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-kerala-only-state-where-positivity-rate-still-rising/articleshow/79983753.cms||Pradeep Thakur
December 28, 2020||Business||Govt may do away with cash payment of toll charges on NHs||NEW DELHI: Will the government bite the bullet to stop cash payment for toll charges on National Highways from January 1as it targets to go for 100% collection through FASTag. Sources said the government is weighing the options to mark the “hybrid lanes”, where cash is accepted, as “FASTag lane” as well. In that case, anyone paying toll charges in cash will have to pay double the amount of normal user fee. TOI has learnt that a decision on this will be taken next week. Recently, the road transport and highways ministry had asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) about its preparedness to go for 100% tolling through FASTag. “The end of hybrid lanes will pinch those who are paying the toll charge by cash and they would prefer to go for FASTags,” said an NHAI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-may-do-away-with-cash-payment-of-toll-charges-on-nhs/articleshow/79983785.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 28, 2020||Business||Freight corridor among key infra projects set to be inaugurated||NEW DELHI: The government has lined up a list of high-value and high-impact infrastructure projects for inauguration in the next one month starting Tuesday. While PM Modi will inaugurate a portion of the dedicated freight corridor on Tuesday, he will launch six light house construction technology projects in six cities on January 1. Sources said the other events would include laying the foundation stone of India’s longest bridge over water, Dhubri-Phulbari bridge on Brahmaputra, and a couple of greenfield roads, including Amritsar-Jamnagar and Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressways. The inauguration of commercial run of freight trains on Khurja-Bhaupur section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC) on Tuesday will reduce congestion by nearly 50% on the Khurja-Kanpur trunk rail route as freight trains will be diverted to the EDFC. This will enable railways to run more trains on the trunk route that connects large parts of north India with eastern parts. The PM is also scheduled to inaugurate the state-of-the-art Operation Control Centre at Prayagraj, which will act as the command centre for the entire route length of the EDFC. According to the urban affairs ministry, PM will lay the foundation stone of the light house projects in Agartala, Lucknow, Indore, Chennai, Rajkot and Ranchi, which have been selected through Global Housing Technology Challenge. The success of these projects will pave the way for reducing construction time and cost of buildings. Sources said the highways ministry has also prepared a list of mega projects for which foundation stones can be laid. The ministry has tendered out the work for Dhubri-Phulbari bridge (19 km) that will link Assam and Meghalaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/freight-corridor-among-key-infra-projects-set-to-be-inaugurated/articleshow/79983795.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 28, 2020||India||Kolkata filmmaker documents tales of changing psyche in pandemic world||KOLKATA: A documentary on the experiences of 16 urban Bengalis across the globe, including a doctor, a filmmaker, an actor, a musician, an author and a social worker — titled ‘Pandemic Perceptions’ — has thrown up interesting perspectives about the lockdown. While a psychologist talked about how Covid-19 had prompted her to join those who were rushing to lawyers’ chambers to draft wills, the actor spoke about his meeting with an out-of-work thief who had become an active member at a community kitchen initiative. Director Atanu Ghosh came up with the idea in June. “I thought it would be interesting to explore the psychological and social impact of Covid-19. So I sent text messages to various people asking them to record their thoughts on their mobile phone cameras,” he said. Most responded with eagerness. The general trend was to confirm or contradict the varied faces of human crisis and depict tales of endurance and struggles dealing with anxiety, pain and loss. Some shared tales of forging new bonds, others mentioned reviving lost connections. But if the tales of certainty of flux, exploitation of people, recession and solitary fights with death were overbearing, there was comic relief too. “Actor Joyraj Bhattacharjee talked about bumping into a ‘philosophical’ thief who rued how work from home had made him jobless. But what was worse was that he couldn’t even go behind bars, where his meals would be taken care of, because petty thieves were not being sent to prison due to the pandemic,” Ghosh said. Not just pandemic experiences, some made futuristic analysis of a Covid-free world. Artist Kunal Sen pointed out how the post-pandemic world will again see children growing up with the presence of both parents — working or just being at home — something that a few generations had missed. But not everything will change, said author Binod Ghoshal. “World War-II would never have happened if people took lessons from WW-I. There will be a lot of ‘masti’ the day the vaccine is out and then it will be back to square one,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kolkata-filmmaker-documents-tales-of-changing-psyche-in-pandemic-world/articleshow/79983797.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
December 28, 2020||Business||‘Shift to digital will speed up eco revival’||The pandemic and the subsequent lockdown has moved everything home — from office to school to entertainment. The increasing role of digital in our lives has seen a spurt in the demand for computers and printers, and Ketan Patel, MD of HP India, feels that the digital transformation will help hasten the revival of the economy… How far have you achieved normalcy? Any challenges? With most of the movement restrictions relaxed, all our consumer sales touchpoints like HP stores and online/e-commerce sales are functioning at pre-lockdown levels. We are, in fact, seeing robust demand for PC and home printers across various user segments and we have opened 30 new HP exclusive stores in the last few weeks. From our business customers, we are again experiencing great upside in demand for notebooks, displays and related accessories. We are now moving from one PC per family to “one PC per person” and a printer to go along with it. Our office printing business is witnessing some slowdown, as people are operating from home in most corporates. However, this situation is also improving gradually. Have costs increased? There have been some cost escalations, mostly due to increased international freight charges. We have been trying to offset these through other operational measures & business efficiencies. What can government do? The pandemic has highlighted the need for digital transformation for enterprises, SMEs and even core sectors like education and government services. The digital transformation of SMBs will fast-track their revival, which will help the economy to bounce back faster. Specific tax benefits and financing options to SMEs will provide a big boost to the economy. What are you doing to ensure work-life balance? We have taken multiple steps like reducing routine meetings and shortened critical ones. In August, we had one week of mandatory leave to let our employees enjoy time off with friends and families. Any learnings from Covid? The pandemic has reinforced our long-term narrative that the modern workplace will not be restricted to any corporate office or a boardroom. Business operations need to embrace digital with a sense of urgency and allow the workforce to be flexible to be able to adapt to this change and thrive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shift-to-digital-will-speed-up-eco-revival/articleshow/79974727.cms||Pankaj Doval
December 28, 2020||Business||‘Some tyre categories posted record sales’||Pankaj.Doval@timesgroup.com The Covid crisis has hit businesses and the economy, but Apollo Tyres chairman Onkar Kanwar feels the disruption gives India Inc an opportunity to re-invent and re-engineer operations. He says business has come back to pre-Covid days, and capacity utilisation has revived to healthy levels... How far has business returned to normal? What challenges do you still face? Our business has returned to pre-Covid levels and, in some categories, we have even registered highest-ever sales. With the increase in demand from all three market segments — replacement, OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) and exports — our manufacturing units are back to healthy utilisation levels. The challenge that we overcame was on the cost front. We took an early call of bifurcating our expenses into ‘good’ and ‘bad’. Investments in R&D, brand-building and on employees were classified as good costs and we continued with them. Unnecessary infrastructure, large-scale product launches and facility inaugurations and business travel were grouped into bad costs, and we avoided them as much as possible. How much cost increases are you grappling with? There have been cost implications for Covid-related safety precautions, but it has not added significantly to our operational cost. Has Covid hit remuneration, resulted in downsizing? While the senior leadership took pay cuts, there was no impact on the remuneration of other staff. Even during the lockdown, we have been investing in online training and up-skilling. Any further steps needed from the government? Any additional stimulus from the government, which results in increased public spending, would be a boost for us. From the auto and tyre industry perspective, an announcement related to the scrappage policy is awaited, which will give a much-needed fillip to the sector. What are you doing to ensure work-life balance? Like everyone, the pandemic did affect my routine. Frequent business travels have come to a standstill. At the same time, it has resulted in more family time. This has given me a good enough time to re-energise. Any learnings from the pandemic? My mantra is to be agile and flexible to adapt to changes, on a personal or business front. One should view the adversity as an opportunity, not only to re-invent oneself but also to re-engineer the business that one is involved in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/some-tyre-categories-posted-record-sales/articleshow/79974643.cms||Pankaj Doval
December 28, 2020||Business||Break-even year for bleeding PSU banks||NEW DELHI: The economy has shrunk 15.7% in the first half, jobs have been lost, incomes have contracted and uncertainty hangs over high-contact services with the survival of many in doubt. India has the second-highest ratio of net non-performing assets (NPAs) among the G-20 nations. And this is expected to go up when the Supreme Court stay on NPA classification gets lifted. Given this setting, it may seem highly incongruous to expect NPAs in Indian banks to bottom out in the fourth quarter of 2020-21. Yet, this is what is likely to happen. It now appears that not only have banks dodged an explosion of bad loans, but they also solved some historical problems. For instance, NBFCs were facing a huge credit crunch in March and there were fears that they might default. The targeted long-term repo operations and other schemes enabled them to refinance loans that were coming up for repayment in the current fiscal. While none of the RBI or government relief measures were available for companies that had defaulted, these bad loans have been addressed through provisions. “After six years of losses, FY2021-22 may be the break-even year for public sector banks. This year, there is a possibility that they will make a loss if the stress will materialise according to our estimates,” said Anil Gupta, Icra VP and sector head. According to him, private banks will bounce back next year (in FY22) to pre-Covid levels in terms of return on assets because they have already made the required provisions. “We expect that net NPAs will rise to 3.1% in March 2021 before coming down to 2.5% in March 2022,” Gupta added. Banks have already made significant provisions towards stressed loans this year and in the second half private banks are expected to set aside an additional Rs 60,000 crore, while public sector banks will need to keep an additional Rs 1 lakh crore, which will wipe out most of their earnings this year. Despite such heavy duty provisions, they should be able to bounce back in FY22. Thanks to buoyant capital markets, banks have raised close to Rs 70,000 crore of equity capital and this could go up to Rs 1 lakh crore. This capital is enough to provide for their stock of bad loans. Private banks have already set aside 2.4% of their advances in the form of provisions. As against the full-year provisioning requirement, estimated at 3% of their advances by ICRA, private banks have already got total provisions of 2.4% in the first half. The conventional response to an economic crisis in the past has been to give defaulters more time to repay. This time, the RBI’s response has been different. The central bank flooded lenders with liquidity, bringing down interest rates and provide borrowers with a moratorium to enable them to survive the lockdown. While the RBI did not directly lend money to NBFCs and corporates, it nudged them to do so by refinancing loans at very cheap rates. The government took on credit risk through various guarantee schemes. For now, the measures seem to be working.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/break-even-year-for-bleeding-psu-banks/articleshow/79983355.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 28, 2020||Allahabad||PM lauds Kaushambi prison inmates who make covers for cows||PRAYAGRAJ: The Kaushambi district jail authorities expressed happiness after Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat' on Sunday lauded Kaushambi district jail inmates stitching covers to protect cows from the harsh cold during the ongoing winter season. "Once the covers are ready, the lot is dispatched to the gaushalas across the state," he added. He also said that the inmates stitch covers for cows every week and we should encourage and promote such service by people in all walks of life. Jail superintendent of Kaushambi district jail, BS Mukund said, "We have got a new energy after the Prime Minister appreciated the efforts of inmates for stitching covers for cows in his Maan Ki Baat programme." He further added that it's a moment of pride for all, including inmates and jail authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pm-lauds-kaushambi-prison-inmates-who-make-covers-for-cows/articleshow/79980972.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur’s Hunar Haat a platform for artisans from 27 states to showcase local skills, culture||Rampur: Hunar Haat in UP's Rampur turned out to be a successful platform for several of the country's skilled artisans who enjoyed a business of around Rs 16 crore in the past 10 days, according to an official on Sunday.Artisans from 27 states have been showcasing some of their exquisite indigenous handmade products at the event.The introduction of electronic trading platforms opened up the event to global buyers.Rampur's district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh told TOI, "Hunar Haat has been hugely successful after receiving a tremendous boost from global buyers. The event helped our traditional artisans and craftsmen get a wider platform and audience. Till now, both through online [e-platform] and offline, there has been a business of Rs 16 crore."Hunar Haat management committee member, Armeen Afaq, said, "Through e-platform, people purchased UP sarees, handmade woollen wear from Ladakh, Manipuri toys, tea leaves baskets of Nagaland, Rajasthani paintings, Karnataka's famous wooden toys, and of course Rampur's handmade knifes."Satnam Kaur from Punjab and Syed Muzaffar from J&K praised the efforts of the local authorities for providing them an ideal platform to display their traditional artworks and sell them, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampurs-hunar-haat-a-platform-for-artisans-from-27-states-to-showcase-local-skills-culture/articleshow/79980184.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: At 11.2°C, temperature dips to season’s lowest||KOLKATA: The city shivered as the December chill got sharper with the mercury plunging to 11.2°C on Sun-day – the season’s lowest so far. With the northwesterly wind getting stronger, the chill could continue on Monday, said the Met office. However, it added that the minimum temperature could climb by a degree. The maximum temperature on Sunday was 24.5°C But the mercury is set to slide again on December 30 and 31, bringing the temperature below 12°C again. On December 21, the city had recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4°C. The city is in the middle of a chilly spell that could continue till the year ends, said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. “With the northwesterly wind picking up pace, the mercury has dropped. While it could slow down a bit over the next 24 hours, we expect a fresh spurt from Wednesday when snowfall is expected in the northwestern Himalayas. It could pull the mercury down significantly across north India and an impact could be felt in Kolkata,” said Das. Kolkatans soaked in the chill on Sunday as the Christmas weekend drew to a close. All the usual hot spots remained crowded and revellers wrapped themselves in woollens to stave off the piercing wind that got chillier as the day progressed. Kolkata has seen huge crowds at places like Maidan, Park Street, Eco Park, Alipore zoo and Nicco Park since Christmas. The weather has induced more people to venture out of their homes, though doctors have warned that ignoring social distancing norms could be dangerous. Sunday turned out to be one of the coldest December days in recent years as well, though Kolkata had been cooler at 11.1°C on December 28, 2019. “It is still too early to predict if the temperature drop will lead to a corresponding spurt in the pace of the northwesterly wind. But the possibility is not ruled out. The mercury will hover around the 12°C-13°C mark for three-four days,” said Das. With regular snowfall occurring across Himalayas and northwest India remaining very cold, the northwesterly wind is flowing into the city at the right time for the mercury to take a plunge. On Sunday, it gained strength, which not only pulled the minimum temperature down but also kept the maximum a degree below normal. “Since there is no system above Bay of Bengal that can come in the way, the northwesterly wind will continue to bring in the chill,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-11-2c-temp-dips-to-seasons-lowest/articleshow/79981333.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: Schools to call board examinees to campus for project submission||KOLKATA: All schools are relieved that the board exams have been deferred and they do not need to worry about the laboratory sessions immediately. However, schools said though the state might not give a green signal to re-opening of campuses, they expect it to allow practical classes to start with a handful of board examinees after the vacation ends in January. Both ICSE/ISC and CBSE schools have decided to call students in small numbers to the campuses for submission of project work and files after the winter break. While in case of CISCE, only the ISC science examinees are tested for lab work, both class X and class XII board examinees in CBSE have practicals as part of their syllabi in science and other subjects. Project work is, however, mandatory for both class X and XII examinees in both boards and completed files need to be submitted to the school. Loreto House had started calling in Class XII board examinees to the campus for lab work even before the school closed for winter. Loreto Bowbazar had conducted a few on-campus practical classes when students had come in to submit their project files. These schools have the consent of the parents to conduct practicals on campus. Other schools have also decided to take parental consent by the time they re-open and then wait for the state’s decision. “We are getting requests from parents of students of classes XI and XII for on-campus practicals. We are just waiting for the state to give a direction on this,” said Sujoy Biswas, chief of Rammohan Mission School. St James School has decided to call in teachers after it reopens on January 12. “We will ask our teachers to do the experiments in the laboratories and students can follow these. This system is always better than falling back on the ready-made online laboratories because here you see your own teachers and can ask questions and clear your doubts,” said principal T H Ireland. The school is also framing a timetable so that students come in staggered numbers to submit their files in January. “We will have lab demonstrations that will be interactive,” said Indrani Chattopadhyay, vice-principal of DPS Ruby Park. The school, however, wants to be careful with the submission of files. It has given out dates but has asked parents to come in instead. Parents of Class X students will come in between January 6 and 8 while parents of Class XII students will come in on January 20. Heritage School also plans to bring in students in a staggered manner for submission of project files.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-to-call-board-examinees-to-campus-for-project-submission/articleshow/79981363.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar to get Digital India Awards for steps taken during lockdown||PATNA: The innovative initiatives taken by the state government during Covid-induced lockdown to reach out to the people and provide them different kinds of assistance have now been recognised by the Centre as Bihar has been declared winner of Digital India Awards-2020. The state’s chief minister’s office, disaster management department (DMD) and the NIC have jointly been selected as winners in ‘innovation in pandemic’ category. Digital India Awards is given by the Centre for innovative digital solutions and services to the citizens. “A team of officers led by senior IAS officer Chanchal Kumar, the principal secretary to the CM, Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary of the DMD, M Ramchandrudu, additional secretary, DMD and the NIC officers Shailesh Kumar Shrivastiava and Niraj Kumar Tiwary will receive the award to be conferred by President Ramnath Kovind in the presence of Union minister Ravishankar Prasad at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi on December 30,” an official of the information and public relations department said on Sunday. The innovative initiatives taken by the state government included providing financial assistance to stranded workers outside Bihar through ‘Bihar Corona Sahayata Mobile App’. The financial assistance of Rs 1,000 per person was provided to more than 21 lakh people. In addition, 1.64 crore ration card-holding households were provided ration of three months in advance and a financial assistance of Rs 1,000 each. Moreover, the stranded workers, who returned to the state through various means, were reimbursed for fare and also quarantined in more than 10,000 centres across Bihar. The skill mapping of workers was done on completion of the quarantine period. These workers were provided suitable job options through creation of a database of jobs available with different agencies working with the Bihar government. “Altogether 190 entries under six categories from various central and state government departments were received for the award. The 24x7 support for the stranded workers were provided from call centres which were operational at the CM Secretariat, the DMD office in Patna, the Bihar Bhawan in New Delhi and the Bihar Foundation in Mumbai. The entire operation was closely monitored by chief minister Nitish Kumar,” a state government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-wins-digital-india-awards-for-steps-taken-during-lockdown/articleshow/79980989.cms||Madan Kumar
December 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Murdered’ girl and woman return home||PATNA: Two separate incidents have raised a question mark on police investigation as the ‘murdered’ persons returned home alive in Naugachia and Saran districts. In both the incidents, parents had identified unknown bodies as that of their daughters. However, no DNA sample was collected for matching or preserving it for future reference. One Santosh Mandal (20) is still languishing in jail for around six months on the charges of killing 15-year-old Neha Kumari (name changed), who returned home under Rangra police outpost in Naugachia police district on Saturday. In Saran, the woman who had been ‘killed’ for dowry about one and a half years ago, returned home four days back and appeared before a court deposing that she is alive. The parents of Sweety Kumari (31) had identified a body near the national highway connecting Chhapra and Muzaffarpur under Bheldi police station area as the one of their daughter. Her husband’s elder brother’s wife Poonam Devi and one Santosh Kumar Singh were arrested and even a chargesheet had been submitted against them for ‘killing’ Sweety. Rangra police outpost incharge Mohammad Mahtab Khan told TOI over phone on Sunday that Neha’s father had lodged an FIR against Santosh on July 11 this year for kidnapping his daughter. “Within four days, the girl’s parents and sister identified a decapitated body as that of Neha. After postmortem and other legal formalities, the body was cremated by her parents,” Khan said, adding that they received information on Saturday that the girl has returned home. “A police team was sent there and the girl was found alive. She was brought to the police station but was unable to tell anything. She seems to be mentally unstable,” he said. The SHO said she was sent with her mother to Bhagalpur for medical examination on Sunday. He said the police would have to investigate whose headless body was actually recovered and cremated by Neha’s family. In Saran, Marhaura SDPO Indrajeet Baitha said the woman along with her five-year-old son had gone missing from her husband’s residence at Kakarhat under Derni police station area of the district on May 16 last year. He said she was married in 2008. “A woman’s body was recovered next day in Bheldi, which was identified by her parents to be that of Sweety on the basis of anklets and other ornaments,” he said and added that Poonam and Santosh were arrested in Sweety ‘murder’ case. The SDPO said the woman returned home with her son. As neither her son had been traced nor even his body found, a supervision report was submitted that the body required proper identification even after it was claimed to be of Sweety, who had fled to Mumbai. “We will now move the court to take back the chargesheet and launch a fresh investigation into the case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/murdered-girl-and-woman-return-home/articleshow/79981205.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 28, 2020||Varanasi||Gujarat firm to add sweetness into lives of 300 Maharajganj farmers||GORAKHPUR: The destiny of 300 Maharajganj farmers, mostly from Vantangia community, is set to change as a Gujarat-based company has signed an MoU with a farmer organisation to buy 400 tons of golden sweet potatoes at 25% higher rate than the market price. The MoU has been signed between the Maharajganj Vantangiya’s FPO ‘Maharajganj Vegetable Producing Company’ and ‘Tuber Foods Private Limited’ of Ahmedabad. According to the deal, the Gujarat company will buy their produce from the FPO at Rs 25 per kg. About 200 tonnes of golden sweet potato will be delivered by February 2022 and 200 tons by June 2022. Ram Gulab, director, Maharajganj Vegetable Producing Company, said, “The contract is for selling the produce and not for the land... Contractual farming is a blessing for small farmers like us.” “The prevailing market rate of golden sweet potato is Rs 15-20 per kg. However, the company is purchasing from us at Rs 25 a kg, which is unbelievable. The company will bear the transportation cost too,” he said. Gulab said: “I’m glad that small farmers like us won’t be exploited by mediators, who purchase our produce at very low cost.” On Saturday, Gulab was overjoyed when he received words of appreciation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who told him that he would bring about a revolution in Maharajganj. In a virtual interaction with farmers during ‘Samwad’ programme while releasing over Rs 18,000 crore to more than nine crore farmers’ families across the country under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Scheme, the PM appreciated Gulab for forming an FPO (farmer producer organisation) with 100 farmers and subsequently taking the number to 300. Gulab along with team leader Vinod Tiwari and scientist of prosperity rural development foundation Dr RC Chouwdhary and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation managed to make ready more than 100 farmers who grow golden sweet potatoes on 80-acre land. Now, 300 farmers are associated with the FPO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/guj-firm-to-add-sweetness-into-lives-of-300-maharajganj-farmers/articleshow/79981107.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 28, 2020||Vadodara||Scolded teen flees to Goa, splurges in clubs||VADODARA: He may be all of 14 years, but this teen had nurtured dreams of a lavish living early on. The desire was only spurred by the backlash he received at the hands of his parents for not studying and armed with Rs1.5 lakh he took away from home, the 14-year-old resident of Rajmahal Road left for his dreamland, Goa, on December 19, with star and sand bedazzling his vision. However, it was cut short, albeit at a high cost, after cops caught him from Pune when he almost ran out of cash. Cops said he splurged it all recklessly in clubs there and was buying a sim card for more luxurious life in the coming days. The self-indulgent Class X student was hauled home from Pune on Saturday. “His parents had scolded him for not focussing on studies and whiling away. His grandfather too scolded him that day, so he was quite angered that everyone in the house was targeting him and he left the house,” said inspector M V Bhagora of Navapura police station. According to police, the boy was determined to go to Goa. So, at the given opportunity, he packed up and went straight to the railway station in an auto-rickshaw to catch any train to the popular tourist destination. When he was asked for an Aadhaar Card, which he did not have, for ticket at the railway station, he went straight to Amitnagar circle and boarded a bus to Pune. From Pune, he took another bus to Goa. Meanwhile, his parents approached the police after they could not find him. A case of abduction was registered at Navapura police station since he is a minor. The next day, they realized that he had also taken away Rs 1.5 lakh cash with him. Police said that he enjoyed to the fullest in clubs in Goa and spent around Rs 1 lakh there. A s he realized that his money was depleting, he returned to Pune and bought a sim card. He went to a travels office since he was planning to return to Gujarat, but not home. As he inserted the new sim card and switched on his phone, Vadodara police immediately found his location. Cops contacted the travel office to ensure that the boy would not leave. A team of cops was immediately sent to bring him back. Pune police were later contacted to take the boy under their custody as cops from Vadodara were still a few hours away. On December 25 night, Navapura police took the boy’s custody and brought him back on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/scolded-teen-flees-to-goa-splurges-in-clubs/articleshow/79980857.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Business||AAR: Input tax credit can be claimed for 'distributable' promo merchandise||MUMBAI: The issue of GST on promotional expenses and claiming of input tax credit has always been contentious in the realm of goods and services tax (GST). Recently, the Karnataka bench of the Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR) classified promotion items as distributable (which typically include items carrying the company logo such as promotional T shirts, pens, mugs, calendars and carry bags) and non-distributable (which usually include posters put up on walls of the retail outlets, promotional display boards or containers displayed in retail outlets). It then went on to distinguish between supply of such promotional items to ‘related parties’ such as a franchisee and non-related parties such as retailers who stocked all brands. “As supply of promotional items to related parties, even if it is made without a consideration, is a ‘taxable supply’, which attracts GST levy, the AAR ruled that input tax credit (ITC) would be available in such cases. However, whether franchisees would qualify as related parties or not is a vexed issue in itself. On the other hand, supply of promotional items to retailers is not treated as a taxable supply, hence in such instances, ITC was denied,” explains Abhishek Jain, indirect tax partner at EY India. As regards, non-distributable goods, ITC would be permitted, ruled the AAR. While rulings of the AAR do not set a precedent, they do have a persuasive impact in assessment of similar cases. In this case, Bengaluru-based Page Industries, known for its brands such as ‘Jockey’ and ‘Speedo’, had sought a ruling on whether promotional items would be considered as ‘inputs’. Secondly, it sought to know whether it can claim ITC when these goods were distributed to sales outlets, as GST had been paid by it on procurement of such promotional items. The company was selling its products through its own outlets (franchisees) and also through retailers. It procured promotional goods such as display boards, posters, carry bags, uniforms for sales personnel, gifts such as calendars, diaries and pens. It contended that its outlets and retailers had the obligation to promote the brand through use of such promotional items. These were not in the nature of gifts and were not meant for personal use. Thus, as GST had been paid on procurement of such items, ITC should also be permitted. However, in case of distributable promotional items, the AAR held the company would be eligible for ITC only where the items were distributed to related parties – franchisee outlets. In this context, Jain adds “The cost of promotional items supplied free of cost to either franchisees or other retailers is factored in the cost of the overall business on which GST is paid by the tax payer. Hence, ideally no GST should be applicable on these free supplies and ITC on purchase of these should be allowed. The GST law should be appropriately amended to facilitate manufacturers who engage in such promotional activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aar-input-tax-credit-can-be-claimed-for-distributable-promo-merchandise/articleshow/79983405.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Allahabad||Organic farming along Ganga banks soon||PRAYAGRAJ: Under the Namami Gange scheme, the agriculture department would be promoting organic farming in 112 gram sabhas along the banks of the Ganges. This concept of organic farming would be made by forming clusters of 50 acres and for this, the farmers would be given a grant of Rs 14500 per hectare. Besides, the agriculture department will provide different inputs free of cost apart from organic farming equipment, cow dung fertilizer, seeds etc to the farmers. “This is a three year programme of the government under Namami Gange scheme wherein we have identified 112 villages that lies besides the banks of river Ganga. In order to discourage usage of chemical and pesticides, we would be providing green manure to the farmers like phosphorus rich organic materials (PROM), Jivamitra (cow urine, jaggery, gram flour), Ghanamitra, Nimashatra (made from neem leaf) etc”, said district agriculture officer, Dr Ashwani Kumar. Along with this, these farmers would be trained to use these inputs and make the same for themselves in future, added the official. More than one lakh farmers would be directly associated with the ambitious programme of the agriculture department of the district. Farmers, along the banks of the Ganga, grows wheat, paddy, potato, oilseeds, pulses and vegetable. Presently, farmers of this belt are using chemicals in crops extensively to increase the yield and in a way poisning the soil and the produce too. Due to excessive use of chemicals in the villages along the banks of the Ganga, the chances of Ganga water becoming polluted has also increased. “With the aim that the incessant and serene stream of the Ganges continues to flow, department of Agriculture has taken up the task of conducting organic farming in the village along the banks of the Ganga. There are 123 Gaushalas in the district and cow dung fertilizer will be provided from all these Gaushalas to the farmers”, said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/organic-farming-along-ganga-banks-soon/articleshow/79980996.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Jamui man arrested for killing nephew||PATNA: A man in Jamui killed his own 7-year-old nephew on a tantrik’s advice to get his 3-month-old ailing daughter cured. Police on Saturday arrested main accused Toofani Yadav (35), his cousin Karu Yadav (22) and tantric Janardan Giri (50) ad sent them to jail. Toofani’s mother Kunti Devi (60) and wife Sindhu Devi (31) were earlier arrested in the case. The ‘human sacrifice’ took place at Kohila under Sono police station area on December 22. The boy was identified as Saurabh Kumar. Toofani and Karu lived near the village while Janardan hailed from Kathara Tand under Chakai police station area in district. Jamui SP Pramod Kumar Mandal told TOI over phone on Sunday that altogether five persons were arrested in the case. “Saurabh was Toofani’s elder brother Kewal Yadav’s son. Both brothers lived separately. He performed Saurabh’s sacrifice in order to cure his sick daughter on Giri’s direction. The sword used in the crime was also recovered from Karu’s residence,” Mandal said. SHO Pankaj Kumar Paswan said Saurabh was returning home after purchasing biscuit from a nearby shop when Toofani came with a sword and decapitated him in one stroke. Several villagers were present around and witnessed the gruesome killing,” he said. Paswan said Toofani had performed ‘rituals’ inside his residence with Karu and the tantric after consuming toddy before committing the crime. He said Toofani had a son, who died within two months of birth last year after suffering from the same ailment. “On his wife instigation, Toofani contacted Giri through Karu. Giri told him that it was Saurabh who was causing all the problems and he should be sacrificed,” he said. The SHO said Toofani and Karu fled after the killing. “Giri also left the spot,” Paswan said, adding all the accused were nabbed from the jungle, except the tantric who was arrested from Giridih border in Jharkhand. Paswan said Toofani’s wife, mother and father knew about the plot and were accused in the case. “We are trying to file chargesheet in the case as soon as possible and will put it for speedy trial,” he said. He said only Toofani’s father Phuleshwar Yadav is evading arrest. He said both brothers earned livelihood by farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jamui-man-arrested-for-killing-nephew/articleshow/79981208.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 28, 2020||Patna||62 cartons of liquor seized from ‘anganwadi’ centre in Bihar||PATNA: A state excise department team seized Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) from an anganwadi centre at Mutulpur village under Hattha police outpost in Muzaffarpur district on Saturday. The two-storey government building, supposed to supply nutritious diet to pregnant and lactating women, was being used to store and supply illicit liquor, much to the surprise of the excise officials. Acting on specific inputs, the excise department team led by inspector Abhinav Kumar raided the anganwadi centre only to discover a 10-foot-deep and equally wide specially designed ‘tahkhana’ to stock the consignment. Altogether 62 cartons of liquor were recovered from the hidden ‘tahkhna’. The supervisor and the ‘sevika’ of the centre were summoned by the excise officials for interrogation. Muzaffarpur excise superintendent Sanjay Rai said a detailed report would be sent to the district magistrate on the misuse of the government building. The house of the anganwadi ‘sevika’ in question is located nearby the centre. “Stern disciplinary action will be initiated against those found involved in bootlegging,” the excise superintendent said. He, however, refused to disclose the names of the anganwadi sevika and the supervisor on the plea that it would affect the investigation. “Their role in the illegal trade is being ascertained,” he added. Meanwhile, the excise superintendent said 320 cartons of liquor were seized in separate raids in Motipur, Bochaha and Bandra blocks in the district on Saturday. Five vehicles were also seized, he added. The arrested bootleggers were identified as Manoj Rai (Gaighat), Ranjit Kumar (Jayadih), Rishi Raj (Bochaha), Sajiv Kumar (Kanti), Pratyush Kumar (Minapur) and Ritesh Kumar (Ahiyapur). The seized consignment was smuggled from Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/62-cartons-of-liquor-seized-from-anganwadi-centre/articleshow/79981311.cms||Ramashankar
December 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: When pandemic failed to put brakes on railway projects||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic, which still continues to affect normal lives of people across the country, had virtually brought wheels of rail economy in Bihar to a halt following imposition of the lockdown in March this year. Stung by the pandemic, railways was forced to cancel as many as 663 passenger trains originating from different places falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR). ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the railways suffered losses in crores due to the Covid-induced lockdown. However, amid adverse situation, the railways did not lag behind in shouldering its responsibility as it brought back about 25 lakh migrants, who were stranded in other states during lockdown, to Bihar by running 1362 shramik special trains from May 1 to June 15. The railways also engaged more than two lakh migrant workers in its various projects to provide them livelihood, the CPRO said. “Driven by the pandemic, railways in Bihar had converted about 268 coaches into isolation beds and placed Covid isolation coaches at 29 major stations. It also prepared PPE kits, masks and sanitizer bottles in bulk to fulfil the needs of doctors and paramedical staff across the state. The Danapur divisional railway hospital was made a dedicated Covid-19 hospital,” said Danapur divisional railway manager Sunil Kumar. Despite heavy constrains due to the pandemic, the railways carried out various infrastructure development projects in the state. It was a milestone occasion for the railways in Bihar when PM Narendra Modi dedicated Kosi rail mega bridge to the nation. About 775km new lines were built and electrification work was completed on the Samastipur-Darbhanga, Samastipur-Khagaria and Katihar-New Jalpaiguri routes, the CPRO said, adding new Kiul rail bridge was another major work that was completed year in the state this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/when-pandemic-failed-to-put-brakes-on-rly-projects/articleshow/79981235.cms||Kumod Verma
December 28, 2020||Patna||RCP Singh asked to sail sinking boat: RJD||PATNA: Opposition RJD on Sunday took a potshot at CM Nitish Kumar for relinquishing the JD(U) national president’s post and making his close confidante R C P Singh his party’s boss. In a statement, RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said Nitish preferred Singh to replace him as the JD(U) chief as he can’t think beyond his caste and the native district Nalanda. Describing JD(U) as a sinking boat, Gagan said Nitish decided to relinquish the post of the party's national president after realizing that the Arunachal Pradesh story was likely to be repeated in Bihar. “He can’t sail the sinking boat. So, he preferred Singh to as the national president,” Gagan said, adding that he had never seen the national chief of any political party so helpless like Nitish. He said Nitish was in such a helpless condition that he couldn’t even express the feelings of the party at any public forum. “It’s his (Nitish's) sheer lust for the CM chair that he is ready to budge before the BJP,” he alleged. The RJD leader said Nitish has now limited options to remain as CM. Former RJD MLA Shakti Singh Yadav also echoed similar views on Singh’s elevation as the JD(U) chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rcp-asked-to-sail-sinking-boat-rjd/articleshow/79981227.cms||Ramashankar
December 28, 2020||Patna||Patna: Junior doctors’ stir enters Day 5, no solution in sight||PATNA: Junior doctors of all nine government medical college and hospitals held candle march even as their strike demanding hike in stipend entered the fifth day on Sunday. Health services continued to remain paralysed due to the junior doctors’ strike. Patients were seen running from pillar to post for treatment at the hospitals. The OPD and emergency services in different wards of government hospitals were hit. PMCH Junior Doctors’ Association (JDA) president Ramchandra Kumar said, “The hospital administration has threatened the PG students that if they refuse to resume work, legal action would be taken against them. However, we will not call off the strike until the government hikes our stipend.” Footfall of patients at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) was also low. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said he has sought a list of the striking PG students. “So far, only the paediatric department has provided the list. Of 24 PG students in paediatric department, 14 had not joined the protest. A junior doctor, on the other hand, returned to work on Sunday. Those who are still protesting will face action. The health department has already decided to deduct the stipend of junior doctors on the principles of no work no pay,” he said. Dr Singh said talks with the hospital’s JDA representatives have remained inconclusive. “It is unfortunate that they are boycotting work in times of pandemic. The state government has already given one-month salary in advance to the health workers,” he added. Meanwhile, Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Darbhanga members on Sunday extended their support to the protesting junior doctors. IMA-Darbhanga member Dr Hari Damodar Singh said several junior doctors are associated with IMA and they support their demand. “The state government should fulfil its promise of increasing the stipend of PG students every three years. The government should talk to the junior doctors and try to resolve the impasse,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/junior-doctors-stir-enters-day-5-no-solution-in-sight/articleshow/79981005.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar truckers’ strike against mining policy today||PATNA: Supply of essential commodities and household items would be hit as the Bihar Truck Owners’ Association has decided to hold a daylong statewide strike on December 28 to protest the new mining policy of the Nitish government. Under the new policy, the state government has banned transportation of sand and stone chips on 14 or more wheels (dumpers/ trucks) to prevent overloading by freight vehicles. The height of the heavy cargo vehicles has also been determined. Only 12 and 10-wheel trucks are allowed to carry sand and stone chips. Association president Bhanu Pratap Singh said the truckers would block highways across the state to press their 20-point charter of demands. The members of the association would gather at Gardanibagh here early on Monday to stage demonstration. Singh said transport business was badly affected due to the ban on movement of sand and stone chips on 14 or more wheels. “Thousands of people have become unemployed due to this anti-labour policy. The monthly turnover of truck owners has been affected. In Bihar, over 5 lakh people are involved in this business,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/truckers-strike-against-mining-policy-today/articleshow/79981027.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||WB government's text message assures doctors of free Covid vaccine when it is rolled out||KOLKATA: The state has been sending out bulk messages to many of its doctors, stating that all of them would get the Covid-19 vaccination once it is rolled out. Though doctors have appreciated the message, they said the government should be proactive in giving financial assistance it had promised to the families of healthcare workers who had died of Covid. “As a Covid warrior, you have been there for the patients, taking care of them. Honouring this contribution, the West Bengal government ensures that the Covid vaccines will reach you on time and free of cost. Wish you and your family well. Stay healthy,” says the message, loosely translated from Bengali. Doctors, mostly working in the district government health set ups, started receiving the messages two days before Christmas. However, a majority of doctors working in government-run hospitals said they have not received the message yet. “The fraternity must welcome this initiative of recognizing the frontline warriors. This will definitely boost their morale. The government should also ensure that private practitioners receive the Covid vaccine,” said public health specialist Anirban Dalui who is also a treasurer with Protect the Warriors, an organization that has doctors from both public and private healthcare sectors. Since doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers are to be vaccinated in the first-tier after the roll-out, the state health department had, in the last week of October, asked all medical colleges, hospitals and health units to prepare a list of healthcare workers in their respective units so the government could have the Covid-19 vaccination data ready. All hospitals have done that. “This is a positive gesture from the government, assuring that it is with doctors and other healthcare workers,” said a professor at Burdwan Medical College who received the message. “The message could boost the morale of healthcare workers who have been at the frontline fighting the virus. We have lost many from the medical fraternity to Covid and a large number have been infected. The government should ensure adequate protection and also financial assistance to the families of the Covid martyrs and those who got infected while working for the patients,” said Manas Gumta, general secretary of Association of Health Service Doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govts-text-message-assures-doctors-of-free-covid-vaccine-when-it-is-rolled-out/articleshow/79981356.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 28, 2020||Business||Tech keeps ‘hot job’ tag, leads in payouts||NEW DELHI: If you are proficient in programming languages like Golang and C# (C-Sharp) or specialise in Hadoop and machine learning, you will be among the top earners taking home Rs 24-35 lakh. There has been a 25-30% average increase in salaries being paid between 2019 and 2020 for these profiles, which are used to build high-performance network services, cloud apps, and process big data. And these salary trends are expected to continue in the first quarter of 2021. According to a study by Randstad, a leading firm in the HR services industry, shared exclusively with TOI, Bengaluru is the highest paying city in salary pay scales across the junior-, mid- and senior-levels with an average salary 16-20% higher than other monitored cities. Executives in the financial hub, Mumbai, earn 16% less than their counterparts in Bengaluru on an average at the junior level and 13% lesser at mid-level. Mumbai, however, is attractive for senior-level managers, helping them earn an average CTC of nearly Rs 32 lakh, which is only 6% less than what a senior executive would earn in Bengaluru. Industry-wise, while IT takes the lead in junior-level pay scales, internet & e-commerce figures in the top 5 for junior-, mid- and senior-levels. For a junior-level IT professional, an average salary of Rs 6.1 lakh is 23% higher compared to Rs 5 lakh in 2019. ITeS pays the highest with an average CTC of Rs 39 lakh at senior levels. At the senior level, ITeS professionals, who can apply their IT strengths across different verticals such as insurance, finance, banking, and telecommunication, attract the highest salaries. At the mid-level, internet & e-commerce professionals earn the second-highest, with a variance of 11% as compared to the top-paying professional services industry, while at the senior level, they experience a variance of 18% with the top-paying industry, ITeS. The study is based on Randstad’s internal data on recruitment, covering 8 cities, 8 industries and over 1 lakh jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tech-keeps-hot-job-tag-leads-in-payouts/articleshow/79983210.cms||Namrata Singh
December 28, 2020||Patna||Chennai’s Ramki wins national crossword trophy||PATNA: Ramki Krishnan, an IT professional from Chennai, on Sunday lifted the national crossword champion trophy at the grand finale of the eighth edition of Indian Crossword League, IXL 2020. He has won the contest for the 5th time since its beginning in 2013, including a hat-trick between 2014 and 2016 editions. Shashwat Sinai Salgaocar, an IIM-Ahmedabad student, won the runner-up trophy. Devraj S, a tech startup mentor from Bengaluru, clinched the third position. “The winners received their trophies and certificates from chief guest Arvind Jadhav, former chief secretary of Karnataka and CMD of Air India. Also present on the occasion was Vivek Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, Government of Bihar, and also the chief mentor of IXL 2020,” Amitabh Ranjan, chief operating officer of the Extra-C, a Patna-based organization which organizes the IXL, told TOI on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion, Jadhav linked the mind game to pattern identification and artificial intelligence. He congratulated the chief mentor for this unique initiative towards popularizing an intellectual pastime through a competitive platform and putting it on the world map. The annual IXL souvenir, Annotations 2020, was also released on the occasion. “Thirty-eight participants had qualified for the grand finale after nine online weekly rounds hosted on www.crypticsingh.com between August and November this year. They included the top 30 on the basis of the cumulative score of the nine rounds and the eight wildcard entries,” Ranjan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chennais-ramki-wins-national-crossword-trophy/articleshow/79981058.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Business||Year of Healing after pain of the past||If 2020 was about Covid-related suffering and disruption, the theme for 2021 will be about vaccines and improved therapies to combat the virus. Additionally, like a lot of other industries, going digital will be paramount for the pharma sector, and this will be fast-tracked through key functions of manufacturing, supply chain and even sales in the coming year. The pace of this change will accelerate through 2021 as e-pharmacies, telemedicine, video consult and virtual care will witness huge growth, bringing in savings and convenience for consumers. For the government, vaccine companies and hospitals, the focus will be to get a safe and efficacious vaccine out, and thereafter a successful mass immunisation. “The pandemic has brought into sharp focus that a robust healthcare infrastructure is an overriding need. It has reinforced the need to create an ecosystem that nurtures innovation and provides an impetus for research. In 2021 and beyond, we can hope to see innovation paving the way for better diagnostic tools, novel vaccines and medicines. Technology will also be an enabler as we look at faster processes to bring products from the lab to the market,” says Zydus Group chairman Pankaj Patel. The regulatory pressure on drug prices, diagnostics and hospitals is expected to spill over to the new year, which should cap treatment costs for patients. There were also substantial savings on medicine purchases, with more consumers tapping e-pharmacies during the year than ever before. Nine million households, an increase of over 60% from the pre-Covid level in FY20, purchased medicines from e-pharmacies during the lockdown, according to the Ficci e-pharmacy report. This is expected to reach around 70 million households by FY25, that is, 1.4x the pre-Covid-19 estimates. “Government initiatives to promote self-reliance or ‘Atmanirbhar’ in the pharma industry, particularly for active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs - key raw materials), should also come to fruition in 2021,” says Sujay Shetty, partner and pharma leader at PwC India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/year-of-healing-after-pain-of-the-past/articleshow/79983337.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
December 28, 2020||Business||Top 20 models drive over 74% of India’s car sales||CHENNAI: Two consecutive years of low sales, first due to an economic slowdown and then the pandemic, has created a ‘winner takes it all’ situation in the car and SUV market. The top 20 models sold between April and November comprise 74.1% of all passenger vehicle sales in India, up from 70% in 2015-16 and 69% in 2016-17. In 2017-18, the top 20 passenger vehicles commanded 69.4% of the market, which increased to 72% in 2018-19 and hit 73% in 2019-20. “When consumption is under pressure, customers tend to experiment less and go with established brands and models, which explains this phenomenon,” said Maruti Suzuki executive director Shashank Srivastava. Hyundai Motor India director (sales, marketing & service) Tarun Garg said: “Last couple of years have been very challenging and during uncertain times customers’ affinity is more towards tried, tested and strong brands as they give confidence to customers.” Interestingly, the contribution of the top 10 models has not varied much, remaining between 48-49%. It was 49% in 2019-20 and dipped to 48.7% in the April-November period this year. Maruti Suzuki’s Swift, which ousted stablemate Alto 800 to become India’s largest selling passenger vehicle in 2019-20 has continued to hold its position even as due to market contraction actual volumes of this model too has come down from a peak of 2.2 lakh units in 2018-19 to 1.9 lakh units last year and 95,500 units in April-November 2020. Swift’s contribution to the total industry sales has gone up from 5.7% in 2016-17 to 5.8% in 2017-18, 6.6% in 2018-19, 6.8% in 2019 and 6.6% in April-November 2020. The Swift’s race to the top of the pile has been powered by first-time car owners, who now comprise 46% of its buyers, up from 36% five years ago. But Alto 800 still commands more first-timers with 58%. Auto consultants say the winner-takes-all trend has been visible in many consumer sectors as well. “Over the last decade, there has been a proliferation in variants and brands but a deep understanding of consumer preferences, buyer attributes and ability to consistently develop relevant product value propositions have benefited larger brands. A more recent phenomenon is for consumers to go back to trusted products which is true across other industries like consumer goods too,” said Vinay Raghunath, head (auto sector), EY.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/top-20-models-drive-over-74-of-indias-car-sales/articleshow/79982101.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
December 28, 2020||Patna||Patna reports more than half of new Covid cases||PATNA: Bihar reported 545 new Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 2,50,995 on Sunday. However, Bihar’s recovery rate was 97.49% on Sunday. Officially, four more deaths due to coronavirus pushed the toll to 1,383 in the state in the past 24 hours. As per the state health department bulletin, one death each was reported in Patna, Bhagalpur, Buxar and Nalanda districts. Patna had the maximum 275 new cases, taking its tally to 48,195. With 45,786 recoveries, there were 2,035 active cases in the district. Other districts with fresh Covid cases included Muzaffarpur (30), Saran (27), Nalanda (21), Begusarai, Jehanabad and Vaishali (13 each) and Gaya (12). As many as 1,14,214 new samples were tested at health facilities and laboratories in the state. The AIIMS-Patna registered five more deaths, including a 34-year-old woman from Shastri Nagar in Patna. The other deceased included a 56-year-old man from Jakkanpur and 79-year-old man from Bazaar Samiti in Patna. One 54-year-old man from Kanakpura in Madhubani and a 60-year-old man from Baluganj in Katihar also succumbed to the infection. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said two patients were admitted in the past 24 hours while 11 got discharged on Sunday. At NMCH, no new Covid casualty was reported. However, three new Covid patients were admitted and two discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-reports-more-than-half-of-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79981051.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 15 more check posts soon to curb liquor smuggling||PATNA: The state excise department has tightened noose around interstate liquor smugglers ahead of New Year celebrations by deciding to double the existing number of check posts in the state’s 12 border districts to check the smuggling of the banned commodity. There are only five integrated check posts and 10 additional check posts at Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Nepal borders to check the vehicles entering the state’s limit. “We have now decided to increase the number of check posts from 15 to 30,” joint commissioner of state excise department Krishna Paswan said. He said the liquor suppliers become active ahead of New Year when the demand increases. “They usually stock the consignment for the New Year,” he said. Paswan said checking of vehicles entering the state from outside has been intensified at the borders, leading to seizure of huge consignment of the Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL). “Over 70,000 litres of IMFL have been seized in three weeks of December alone,” he added. The department has also recovered more than 48,000 litres of country liquor and compounded over 150 vehicles, including 70 trucks. “The anti-liquor task force has been strengthened and the officers from the headquarters conduct raids on specific inputs,” Paswan told this newspaper over phone on Friday. According to sources, 87 liquor traders, who were provided licences before the enforcement of prohibition in the state, were on the radar of the excise department. An excise department said on the condition of anonymity that the liquor smugglers have started transporting the consignment in small-size vehicles through remote roads and also on country boats. “Based on intelligence inputs, raids have been conducted in the riverine belt as well,” the officer said. Sources said the number of check posts in Gopalganj, Buxar, Kaimur, Saran, Siwan, Purnia, Katihar, Kishanganj, Banka, Jamui, Bhagalpur and Bhojpur districts would be increased. On Thursday, a huge consignment of IMFL was seized in Gopalganj, Samastipur and Patna districts during vehicle checking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/15-more-check-posts-soon-to-curb-liquor-smuggling/articleshow/79981257.cms||Ramashankar
December 28, 2020||Allahabad||Attack on Jal Sansthan GM: Corporator, 4 others held||Prayagraj: Khuldabad police has arrested five persons including a corporator in connection with the assault on Jal Sansthan General Manager Harishchandra Valmiki who was attacked in the night on December 25. It is alleged that the corporator Vinod Sonkar who is also a history sheeter barged inside the house of the official with his accomplices and attacked him. SHO Khuldabad inspector Vinit Singh said that corporator Vinod Sonkar, Anoop Srivastava, Tufail Ahmad, Guddu Vishwakarma and Ajay Hela were arrested late Saturday night. One Dilip Bhartiya who is a suspended employee of water works conspired the assault with Vinod Sonkar who has around 20 cases lodged against him. The accused are all suspended employees and were angry with the official while a dispute over some contract was also one of the reasons behind the attack. The arrested accused had sneaked inside the official’s residence at Khusrubagh office from behind. One of them caught the servant while others assaulted Valmiki with sticks on his legs causing serious injuries to him. Valmiki was assaulted earlier as well in 2019 by Anoop Srivastava. Anoop’s father was an employee at water works and he has confessed to have attacked the official as he had pulled up his father over some issue. Meanwhile, Valmiki was again admitted to a private hospital after he experienced pain in his legs. The staff has urged police officials to ensure their security. Mayor Abhilasha Gupta Nandi has said that instructions have been issued to provide security to the officials and staff of Jal Sansthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/attack-on-jal-sansthan-gm-corporator-4-others-held/articleshow/79980976.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Business||Oaktree hints at legal action in DHFL race||Mumbai: The bidding for DHFL has turned into a full-scale corporate battle between US private equity fund manager Oaktree Capital and Piramal Group with each claiming that their bid is superior. Oaktree has written to lenders and the RBI hinting at legal action if its revised bid is not considered. A Piramal spokesperson responded to the letter stating that the “threatening committee of creditors with consequences” will not alter facts. Oaktree has said in its letter that the net present value of its bid for DHFL is Rs 36,418 crore, which is Rs 1,452 crore higher than the second-highest bid of Rs 34,966 crore. “If Oaktree’s bid were to be evaluated on the basis of incorrect information or an erroneous presentation of the financial proposal, such evaluation would almost certainly be subject to judicial, administrative and investigative review,” Oaktree said in its letter. “Oaktree’s bid is short on upfront cash, short on NPV, short on the overall score, unimplementable due to insurance-related complications, and leaves lenders with weak debt paper due to the sub-debt structure offered by Oaktree to themselves,” a Piramal spokesperson said. The bidding for DHFL, against which the RBI initiated the bankruptcy process in December 2019, has turned chaotic with lenders decided to look at late bids on the grounds of value maximisation. This resulted in the two key contestants — Oaktree Capital and Piramal Group — trying to outbid each other’s counter-bids. Financial creditors, who are owed Rs 87,082 crore from the bankrupt firm, will now have to conduct a techno-economic valuation of the bids and agree on the bids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oaktree-hints-at-legal-action-in-dhfl-race/articleshow/79983424.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Patna||850 boycott BPSC test in Bihar's Aurangabad, allege paper leak||PATNA: At least 850 candidates boycotted the 66th Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) preliminary test at an examination centre in Aurangabad on Sunday, alleging paper leak. The aspirants refused to take the exam at B L Indo Anglian Public School, alleging that the seal of the question papers was already broken before they reached the exam hall. Aashish Kumar, an examinee, said as per the protocol, the question paper should have been opened in front of the candidates. “However, the the seal was already broken and even the OMR sheets were not in order,” he alleged. The examinees raised slogans against the state government and demanded cancellation of the exam. The centre coordinator, however, refused the allegation of paper leak. As the examinees continued to create ruckus, Aurangabad DM Saurabh Jorawal and other senior district officials reached the exam centre. The DM said, “In BPSC exam, each question booklet is sealed individually. We tried to explain this to the examinees. However, they did not listen to us. I even told them that they will get additional time to write papers, but to no avail. The district administration did not use any force on the candidates. They were allowed to leave the centre at 2pm.” BPSC’s controller of examinations Amrendra Kumar said, “We have come to know that the candidates were demanding conduct of the BPSC exams on the pattern of SSC exams. In SSC exams, the seal of booklet is opened inside the exam hall. It was not possible as we have our own pattern. We are waiting for the detailed report from the district administration.” Kumar said the exams passed off peacefully at all other centres in the state. “Around 60% candidates appear for the exams in the state. In Patna, 70% aspirants wrote papers,” he said. Altogether 4.50 lakh candidates had registered for the BPSC-Prelims test in the state. The exams were held at 888 centres across the state (except Sheohar, Arwal and Sheikhpura districts).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/850-boycott-bpsc-test-in-aurangabad-allege-paper-leak/articleshow/79981046.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 28, 2020||Goa||Parking violations in Panaji to cost eight times more||Panaji: The Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP) has decided to increase the fine for four-wheelers in ‘No Parking’ zones to Rs 800 and Rs 500 for two-wheelers in Panaji. A tender will be floated by the corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) in a few days to appoint a contractor to enforce these fines. “The fine for parking violations in Goa currently is very minimal – Rs 100. We cannot tamper with the Goa Motor Vehicle Act but we have the power to charge a service fee on the vehicles. For instance, we are going to impose the Rs 700 fine like a service charge and Rs 100 as the fine. This is for a four-wheeler violator,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. For two-wheelers, the fine will be increased to Rs 500, he said. Clamping of four-wheelers in no-parking zones and towing of two-wheelers will be done by the contractor, the mayor said. Since two-wheelers will be towed the contractor will need a truck and hire staff. Currently the CCP staff and traffic cell execute the task themselves during a daily night patrol. Clamping of vehicles will be done by the contractor’s personnel who will be accompanied by the traffic police. “We will be floating this tender within four days. It will be a 17 days tender notice,” Madkaikar said. This would mean that the new rates for wrong parking will not come into force till January end. It is not clear how much CCP will earn from it. From the new rates, Rs 100 will go to traffic cell for the penalty and of the remaining amount, some fees will be retained by CCP and some fees by the contractor. The decision of CCP may need government approval, an official said. The crackdown on illegally parked vehicles which was supposed to end on December 31 will now be a continuous drive that will be carried out by a designated contractor, a tender for which is also being floated. CCP has been cracking down on traffic violations in Panaji since a few weeks by clamping four wheelers and detaining two wheelers for haphazard and illegal parking – especially on the roads near the off-shore casinos on Mandovi river. The traffic crackdown started in November days soon after casino operations resumed after being suspended during the lockdown. Several residents in the vicinity complained of blocked gates, footpaths and lanes getting congested due to the irresponsible parking by the motorists – majority of which were casino staff and visitors to the casinos. TOI had reported that vehicles were being picked up by the traffic cell and CCP from the Patto-Fontainhas stretch at Joao Castro road near Down the Road restaurant, from either side of the Adil Shah Palace and near Mhamai Kamat house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parking-violations-in-panaji-to-cost-eight-times-more/articleshow/79983023.cms||Nida Sayed
December 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Pols survive natural, not manmade, shocks||AHMEDABAD: Life in the pols of Ahmedabad is marked by community living — people stand together through thick and thin. Multiple studies on pol houses underline the same point: the houses are dependent on each other with unique architectural practice that distributes load of the buildings. Also, interconnectivity mitigates the shocks of an earthquake. A recent project by Saatvika Pancholi as part of a Cept University studio — exhibited in the Winter Exhibition 2020 — again highlighted the earthquake resilience of pol houses. The project emphasized factors such as wooden elements of the buildings, cross walls, orthogonal connections and height regularity. But experts also pointed at the need to understand this strength as a weakness for these structures as well. A city-based conservation architect said that annually the city’s Walled City area is losing more than two-three dozen structures that go back centuries. “Interconnectivity becomes a bane when one of the structures is razed or is renovated without concern for the overall block,” said the architect. But given the city’s Unesco World Heritage tag, the practices and people’s participation can be a model for other cities, experts said. The conservation frameworks studio by Ashna Patel, Sabrina Khan and Zeus Pithawalla for the master’s students also saw projects such as petroglyph conservation in Konkan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pols-survive-natural-not-manmade-shocks/articleshow/79981550.cms||Parth Shastri
December 28, 2020||Varanasi||Khirkiya Ghat being renovated with state-of-the-art facilities||VARANASI: One of the 84 ghats of Varanasi, Khirkiya Ghat, is being renovated using modern techniques, and it will soon have all the advanced facilities that the other existing ghats do not have. According to the officials, the renovated ghat will be eco-friendly, and unlike other ghats, it will have parking facility for 120 four-wheelers and 250 two-wheelers. “The structure of the ghat will be based on GABION. Tt will retain its appearance just like the other heritage ghats. Being built in 11.5 acres of land, it will cost about Rs 35.83 crore. The renovated Khirkiya Ghat is expected to open for visitors by July next year,” said general manager of National Building Construction Corporation, Anil Yadav. According to divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal, the renovated ghat will be laced with facilities like, water adventure sports, jetty, food court, park, morning walk stretch, library, CNG station, etc. The area of the ghat will also widen in order to manage the crowd better during festivals like Dev Deepawali. “Ghats like Assi and Dashaswamedh attract most number of tourists, but it is very difficult for them to reach these ghats with their vehicles. Keeping this in mind, the renovated ghat will have a drive-in and parking facility. The construction is being done as per the ‘Make in India’ vision. The visitors will also have the option to book tickets for visiting the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. The ghat will also have a multi-purpose platform where helicopters could also land,” said Agarwal. In addition to this, Khirkiya Ghat will have outlets for local handicrafts, fresh drinking water units, a place for cultural programmes, etc. “Boat rides and a gallery for viewing the famous Ganga Arti will add to the tourist attractions. In the near future, we will also provide options for combo-tickets (to other tourist destinations) and railway ticket booking,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/khirkiya-ghat-being-renovated-with-state-of-the-art-facilities/articleshow/79981206.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Goa||Legal loophole: Netravali has two working sarpanchs||Poinguinim: A legal loophole has left Netravali village panchayat in Sanguem with two sarpanchs, leaving officials in a quandary. Presently, sarpanch Archana Gaonkar has lodged a complaint with the Goa Commission for Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes against panchayat secretary Manjula Naik, stating that Naik has stopped her from signing documents like residence and income certificates. It so happened that following the 2017 panchayat elections, Rajani Gaonkar was elected sarpanch in the seven-member Netravali panchayat. Over an issue of littering at the two waterfalls in the village, it was decided that the panchayat will collect a tax from visitors to the falls. After intimating the director of panchayats, Netravali panchayat started collecting the tax. But a resident named Rakhi Naik objected to the tax collection and reported the matter to the director of panchayats. The directorate ordered the panchayat to stop collecting the tax and, without seeking any clarification from the panchayat, disqualified sarpanch Rajani and her deputy Abhijit Desai. Both filed cases before the local court, but the complainant Rakhi took the matter to the high court. In the meantime, an administrator appointed at Netravali panchayat held an election for the post of sarpanch and deputy sarpanch. During this process, Archana Gaonkar was elected the new sarpanch and Abhijit retained his post. Now after more than one-and-half year, when Archana Gaonkar continues to be sarpanch, Netravali panchayat secretary has received a memorandum from the directorate of panchayats that Rajani Gaonkar can continue as sarpanch. The secretary has now sought a clarification from BDO Sanguem and also from directorate over the memorandum. However, she is yet to receive any written clarification. Interestingly, both Rajani Gaonkar and Archana Gaonkar are functioning as sarpanchs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/legal-loophole-netravali-has-two-working-sarpanchs/articleshow/79982654.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Goa||Infected by husbands, HIV victims battle home and life for survival||PANAJI: In a first, several women living with HIV came together on a common platform at Goa Medical College’s (GMC) ART centre, where the two women narrated their stories. The common factor among the gathered women was that 99% of them had got the infection from their husbands and in a few cases from the men they had a relationship with. A 54-year-old woman said that when her supposedly healthy husband started falling sick and subsequent tests confirmed his HIV status, he was anguished by the fact that his wife did not have the infection. So, he ensured that she also got HIV by forcefully having sex with her till the time she was also infected. But why didn’t she quit on him? “I had no one to fall back on. I had left my home in Karnataka at a young age to marry him. We came to Goa. After he started doing well in business, he started seeing other women,” she said. It was not the question of her survival alone, but she had two children to take care off. With some help from NGOs, she managed to fight the virus as well as society that discriminated at every step. Her husband died long ago. “My children are my pillar of hope. They do not have HIV,” she said. The ART centre doctor said the women living with HIV need to fight on multiple levels to survive after the death of their husband due to AIDS. “Their struggle begins at home. In most cases, they have to bear the brunt of their in-laws who blame them for the demise of their son. They are least concerned that it was because of their son that their daughter-in-law’s life has been destroyed,” the doctor said. Another victim, a hospital employee who works as cleaning staff, said she got the infection while in the line of duty. “Luckily, her family, husband and children are supportive. They all tested negative,” the doctor. The doctor said that for the first time the women kept their illness aside to speak about their life as we provided them a platform. “We also had games and entertainment programmes for them,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/infected-by-husbands-hiv-victims-battle-home-and-life-for-survival/articleshow/79983124.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 28, 2020||Rajkot||Siblings locked up in room see daylight after decade in Rajkot||RAJKOT: After the 70-day-long Covid-induced lockdown ended in June, people felt liberated after living among the four walls for over two months. But imagine, the condition of someone living in one room for around a decade, not even allowing sunlight to enter. Startling as it may seem, this was how three siblings, two brothers and their sister, lived after completely withdrawing themselves from the society for 10 years. When members of Saathi Seva Group, a non-government organization (NGO), broke open their room in Rajkot’s Kisanpara area on Sunday, they were appalled at the sight. The room was reeking of human faeces, newspapers were scattered all around, stale food with bowls of uneaten dal and rotting chappatis. The brothers had grown long locks of hair touching their knees and beards covering their chests. Without a single piece of cloth on their bodies, they were reduced to a skeleton and lying on the floor, oblivious to the presence of volunteers in the room. More astounding was each one’s academic record revealed by their 80-year-old father Navin Mehta. The eldest one, 42, was a practising lawyer with BA LLB degrees, the younger one is a BA (economics) and their 39-year-old sister has an MA in psychology. The younger was too feeble to even get up as there was nothing more than bones left in his body. “He was also a promising cricketer and played in local tournaments,” their father said. Megha’s hair too had grown beyond her thighs. Mehta, a retired government employee, lived in the same house. Earning a monthly pension of Rs 35,000, he used to provide them food which he left outside their room. “My both sons have locked themselves up in the room after their mother died around 10 years ago. No amount of convincing has worked,” said Mehta, who alleged that some of their relatives had performed black magic on his children. Even as the NGO founder Jalpa Patel tried to calm her down, she continuously pleaded that she was fine but kept asking for food and that she had to take care of her brothers. Patel said that her NGO had received a call from neighbours informing that the family members of Mehta had not stepped out for years. When Patel and her colleagues reached Kisanpara, the elderly man was locked out as he had gone out to get tiffin for all. Despite fervent knocking, they did not open the door for a long time. The volunteers then jumped into the house and broke open the door. “The three siblings are not mentally challenged as they were able to comprehend what we were asking them. They must have suffered severe trauma from their mother’s death,” Patel said. Patel called a barber and got their head tonsured following which they were bathed and given fresh clothes. Father to decide about kids in a weekNavin Mehta told Saathi Seva’s volunteers that he will decide about his kids’ future in a week after deliberating with relatives. If he will not be able to care for them, the NGO will put them under an organization’s care. The civic body was also informed about them. On Monday the municipal corporation will clean and sanitize the entire house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/siblings-locked-up-in-room-see-daylight-after-decade-in-rajkot/articleshow/79980926.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||111 draft, final TP schemes cleared in 2020||Gandhinagar: The state government has cleared 111 draft and final town planning (TP) schemes in 2020, an official release said on Sunday. Chief minister Vijay Rupani, who heads the urban development department, cleared 108 draft TP, 85 preliminary, and 107 final TP schemes from 2018 to 2020, the release added. As many as 44 TP and draft TP schemes have been cleared over the past 18 days alone. A special emphasis has been laid on housing for economically weaker sections while ensuring that all amenities are also provided while finalizing urban infrastructure. Earlier this month, the state government introduced the online development permission system (ODPS) 2.0 and development plans of 11 cities have been sanctioned. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/111-draft-final-tp-schemes-cleared-in-2020/articleshow/79981579.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Five years on, AMC promises still languish on paper||AHMEDABAD: In its first budget five years ago, the elected wing of the AMC — whose term recently expired — had promised a Clean, Green, and Blue Ahmedabad. The BJP-ruled wing had also vowed to create a slum-free city and a better public transport system. But five years on, several promises remain only on paper. In its 2020-21 budget, its last, the wing has reiterated old pledges: slum-free city with improved public transport. It has again envisioned a reduction in pollution. The 2016-17 budget had floated the concept of ‘Amdavadi app’ to help citizens learn what works were being done in their areas. The app was never launched; the AMC website gives out details of the projects taken up in individual areas. The BJP-ruled wing had conceptualized smart roads on both sides of the Sabarmati on which drivers will be unimpeded by stop signals. That is still a mere proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-years-on-amc-promises-still-languish-on-paper/articleshow/79981592.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 28, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Toll plaza staff adopt new born calf which fell from vehicle||KANPUR: The staff of the Bara toll plaza adopted a newborn calf which had fallen at the toll plaza after being delivered by a cow in a moving loader. The incident happened on Saturday when a loader coming from Kanpur side was passing through the Bara toll plaza in Akbarpur area of Kanpur Dehat district. The members of the toll plaza said that as soon as they witnessed a calf falling from a moving loader, they rushed to its rescue and ran behind the vehicle and tried to alert its driver, but in vain. The driver, unaware of the situation, did not respond to their shouts and sped away with the vehicle. On investigation with the help of CCTV footage, the toll plaza staff located the trace of the loader driver to Etawah. "The driver, though accepted that the vehicle, loaded with a pregnant cow, was heading towards Etawah, but when asked to come and take back the calf, he refused, and instead asked the toll plaza staff to adopt it," said general manager of the plaza Manoj Sharma. "We are taking full care of the calf," Sharma further said and added, "I love animals, and I feel like I am being given a chance by God and now I am doing my bit." Praising the toll plaza staff locals of the area said that they had done a great thing by adopting the calf and giving it a safe environment to live in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/toll-plaza-staff-adopt-new-born-calf-which-fell-from-vehicle/articleshow/79981245.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 28, 2020||Kanpur||Gang involved in wedding thefts busted, two arrested||KANPUR: The city police, on Sunday, arrested two members, including one juvenile, of a gang that used to commit thefts at weddings in the city. The gang used to involve juveniles to steal at wedding ceremonies, the police said, adding that the gang members belonged to Gulkhedi pocket in Rajgarh district of Madhya Pradesh. The police, on the basis of information provided by them, have launched a search to nab four other members of the gang. The police have identified the arrested member as Nikhil of Gulkhedi in Rajgarh district of Madhya Pradesh. During the wedding season, a spurt in cases of thefts at wedding venues was reported in Barra, Bithoor and Chakeri areas of the city, the police said. One member of the gang was arrested while one juvenile was apprehended on Sunday when they were leaving the city for their village in Madhya Pradesh, they said. The gang members hail from a small village named Gulkheri in Rajgarh district of the state. Police said a probe was initiated after several incidents were reported about a specific gang committing thefts at wedding venues. Subsequently, the police formed a team which scanned all the available video footage of the wedding ceremonies where thefts had taken place and also deployed informers at prominent banquet halls, guest houses and other venues to gather intelligence about the suspects. “We have recovered cash and valuables from their possession,” said Ashok Kumar, CO Kalyanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gang-involved-in-wedding-thefts-busted-two-arrested/articleshow/79981234.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Goa||SC raps Goa for failure to protect ‘valuable land’||PANAJI: Coming down heavily on the state government for filing the petition as a ‘mere formality’ after a delay of 462 days to claim ownership over a valuable government land in possession of a company, the Supreme Court imposed costs of Rs 15,000 on deputy conservator of forests for ‘wastage of judicial time’. “This is one more case which we have categorised as ‘certificate cases’ filed before this court to complete a mere formality and save the skin of the officers who have been throughout negligent in defending a litigation,” the bench comprising of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari, Hrishikesh Roy said. Timblo Irmaos Ltd had filed a suit in 1977 before the additional sessions judge, South Goa, at Margao against the deputy conservator of forests claiming ownership rights to the property known as “Aforamento Perpeto” situated at Verlem in Sanguem, South Goa, and seeking a permanent injunction against the deputy conservator of forests. The suit filed by the company was contested by the deputy conservator and the written statement was filed in 1980. The suit was ultimately decreed by the additional district judge in 2003. The government filed a first appeal against the judgement which was admitted by the high court of Bombay at Goa in 2003. On August 07, 2014, the petitioner was unrepresented by the counsel. Thus, the matter was adjourned. Ultimately, the appeal was dismissed for non-prosecution on September 3, 2014. In 2016, an application was filed before the high court by the government seeking condonation of delay on account of lapse on the part of the lawyer. However, on February 7, 2019, the high court dismissed the application and held that there is no justifiable reason for condoning the delay. Thereafter, the special leave petition was filed before the Supreme Court. “We have repeatedly deprecated such attempts of the state governments to approach this court only to complete a mere formality. Counsel for the petitioner strenuously contends that there is valuable land involved. In our view, if it was so, then the concerned officers responsible for the manner in defending this petition must be made to pay for it,” the Supreme Court held. The court directed that the costs be “recovered from the officers responsible for the delay and deposited within one month with the Supreme Court Employees Welfare Fund.” The court also dismissed the special leave petition filed by the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-raps-goa-for-failure-to-protect-valuable-land/articleshow/79982707.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four held for multiple thefts||Ahmedabad: The city crime branch on Sunday nabbed four men who were allegedly involved in at least six cases committed within a week of theft and robbery of autorickshaw passengers. The accused have been identified as Pradeep Patni, 36, Prakash Patni, 39, both residents of Meghaninagar, Jitendra Pardasani, 45, and Pappu Rai, 27 — who are residents of Sardarnagar. They had four days ago committed robbery and theft in a moving autorickshaw in Nana Chiloda, Memco, Saijpur, Nikol and Vastral areas. They were also involved in stealing money from an autorickshaw passenger between Vastral Panjrapol Crossroads and Naroda. Pradeep and Prakash Patni used to drive the autorickshaw and Pardasani and Rai used to travel as passengers.  After a person boarded their autorickshaw, Pardasani and Rai used to steal money by hoodwinking .TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-held-for-multiple-thefts/articleshow/79981597.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kanpur||Number of Covid-19 cases fall, 35 more test positive||KANPUR: For the third consecutive day on Sunday, the number of new coronavirus infection cases detected remained below 50. Also for the second consecutive day, the number of samples collected for conducting Covid-19 tests has also witnessed a fall. The highest number of samples collected was 4,835 samples on December 9 and the new cases recorded were 91. While new Covid-19 positive cases identified were 35, samples collected on Sunday were only 2,532. Similarly, new cases identified on Saturday were 30 and the number of samples for Covid-19 tests collected were 3,776. On Friday, 34 new cases were detected in the district and the number of samples collected were only 2,439. On Thursday (December 24), new cases recorded were 50 and samples collected were 3,365. On December 23, new Covid-19 positive cases recorded were 58 and samples collected were 3,608. On December 22 (Tuesday), fresh cases recorded were 56 and samples collected for conducting tests were over 4,000 (4,069). And on Monday (December 21) the number of fresh cases detected were 56 and samples collected were 3,438. On December 17, fresh cases recorded by the district health department were 67 and samples taken were 4,148. On December 16, fresh cases were 47 and samples collected were 4,222. In December the number of samples collected for Covid test never went above 5000 so far while in November, sample collection numbers were much higher. On November 25, 5,368 samples were collected for conducting Covid tests while on November 23, 5,425 samples were collected by the health department teams. Meanwhile, new cases on Sunday were identified from various localities in the city including- Lajpat Nagar, Barra, Panki, Kidwai Nagar, Indira Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Ratanlal Nagar, Pandu Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Nawabganj. Fortunately, there was no death recorded due to Covid infection on Sunday. Active cases on Sunday were 583.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/number-of-covid-19-cases-fall-35-more-test-positive/articleshow/79981266.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
December 28, 2020||Kanpur||Two groups resort to stone pelting, firing over land dispute||Kanpur: A dispute over ownership of a piece of land took a violent turn in Bidhnoo's Ramaipur area in the district on Sunday afternoon. Police have detained few people of one of the groups. The situation got tense in Ramaipur when people from the two groups in the presence of police personnel from local police out-post, resorted to stone pelting and firing. On being alerted, a heavy police force was rushed to the spot to bring the situation under control. According to sources, it all began on Sunday afternoon when one group, led by Vikas Agarwal, clashed with another group led by Rajesh Chauhan over ownership of a land in Ramaipur area. The argument swelled into a brawl and soon the two groups came at loggerheads with each other resulting in heavy stone pelting and indiscriminate firing. "The two groups clashed over a dispute regarding ownership of a land in Ramaipur. One group arrived at the spot and allegedly damaged the property and other goods. Thereafter, few people from other group resorted to stone-pelting followed by firing. Several people of one group have been taken into custody and their interrogation is underway”, said circle officer Ghatampur Ravi Kumar Singh. Meanwhile, separate police teams have been formed, and raids are underway to nab the people belonging to other group. Further investigations are continuing in this regard, the CO further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-groups-resort-to-stone-pelting-firing-over-land-dispute/articleshow/79981231.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Goa||Truck accident at Priol stalls traffic for hrs||Ponda: Traffic on the Mardol-Priol road came to a standstill for over four hours after a sand-laden truck overturned at Apevhal on Sunday. The road was cleared later by lifting the truck with the help of a heavy duty crane at 9.30am. Truck driver Benny Desa, 54, a resident of Margao, was injured and is undergoing treatment at the Goa Medical College and Hospital. Locals said several sand-laden trucks travel in the early hours to avoid being intercepted. “If the business is legalised, there would no hurry or any attempt to avoid policemen,” Ramesh Naik, a villager said. Ponda PI Mohan Gaude said the driver has been booked for rash and negligent driving, theft of sand and also under Mines and Minerals (Regulations and Development) Act. He was not arrested as he is under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/truck-accident-at-priol-stalls-traffic-for-hrs/articleshow/79982759.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kanpur||Covid reports of 88 passengers from UK is -ve||Kanpur: Covid-19 test report of all 88 persons who had returned to city from UK recently, has confirmed to be negative. The report came out on late Saturday night. Swab and nasal samples of these 88 people were sent for conducting Covid-19 test at GSVM Medical College’s Covid lab. The district health authorities will also send the samples of these 88 people to Pune’s National Virology Institute where Genome Sequencing Test would be conducted. These people had been kept in home isolation after their arrival. Also people who had come in their contact were quarantined. Chief medical officer, Dr Anil Mishra confirmed that the lab reports of the samples of 88 people returning from UK has been confirmed as negative. The CMO said that a list of 122 people who had returned from UK had been provided to them by the state government of which 88 persons have been contacted and their tests were conducted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-reports-of-88-passengers-from-uk-is-ve/articleshow/79981225.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Dehradun||Lockdown’s wild gains & a few green concerns||Dehradun: Due to months-long lockdown caused by the pandemic, wildlife made positive gains and sprang pleasant surprises globally. In Uttarakhand too, poachers were off jungles and the Ganga water at Haridwar became drinkable for the first time in decades (as nearly two dozen drains which dump sewage into the river were closed). The second half was a downer though. The forest department denotified the state’s only elephant reserve, Shivalik, and allowed a bus service through the core area of Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR). The forest department’s long-pending plan of translocating tigers from CTR to neighbouring Rajaji Tiger Reserve finally reached fruition this year. The project, in the pipeline for eight years, was important to even out the tiger population in the two reserves, as CTR has an at least 1% excess tiger population and RTR has a deficiency (western Rajaji had only 2 tigresses up until recently, when a third tigress was transferred from CTR). Tiger population in the state continued to thrive this year. A total of five tiger deaths were recorded this year, which is the lowest since 2008, when three tigers died. The fourth annual tiger estimation revealed that the tiger population at Corbett reserve had registered a steep rise – from 231 last year to 252 this year. CTR now has the world’s highest tiger density, with 18.4 tigers per 100 sq km. The state also has 2026 elephants, according to a count done this year. In another pleasant surprise, the musk deer, Uttarakhand's state animal, was sighted in December for the first time in years. After the animal, categorised as “endangered” and part of the IUCN’s red list, was captured at Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary by the DFO at an altitude of around 11,000 ft, the state decided to set afoot a plan to conserve it, starting with a survey. Uttarakhand also started the census of another species in the IUCN red list, the snow leopard, this year. The first-of-its-kind venture is being done jointly by Doon-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP). Meanwhile, "Ophiocordyceps sinensis", the world's costliest fungus that grows in higher reaches of the state, also known as 'keeda jadi' or 'Himalayan viagra', entered the 'vulnerable' category in the IUCN list this year due to its over-exploitation. Encouraging news came in October, with the Asan Conservation Reserve (ACR) in Dehradun being declared a site of national importance under the Ramsar Convention, becoming the state’s first entry into the coveted list. However, most gains of the first half were lost in the second. On December 1, a report by the Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board (UPCB) on the state of Ganga in Haridwar revealed that the water is now in category B, not fit for drinking anymore and suitable only for bathing. With 60 deaths and 251 brutal injuries, human-wildlife conflict has not abated in Uttarakhand. Last year, 58 people were killed in attacks by wild animals and 150 had been injured. The state re-introduced fish angling this year, within two years of becoming the first state to ban the practice, citing cruelty to wildlife. Officials said it was needed to give tourism a boost. Even as Uttarakhand continues to battle deforestation, which, according to experts, is causing animals like leopards and elephants to wander into villages, the state moved ahead with the plan to fell 10,000 full-grown trees for a new terminal of the Jolly Grant airport. The decision triggered widespread, repeated Chipko-like protests across the state. Also, the Delhi-Dehradun expressway, which received the Centre's in-principal approval this year and promises to cut travel time between the two cities in half, will lead to the loss of 2,500 British-era saal trees. The state said it will plant trees to compensate for the loss. As of now, afforestation on 6,000 hectares of land is pending in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdowns-wild-gains-a-few-green-concerns/articleshow/79980934.cms||Shivani Azad
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||In 10 years, Karnataka converted just 10% investment proposals into projects||BENGALURU: Karnataka emerged as the top state in attracting fresh investment proposals in 2020, but it lags many big states in converting proposals into projects, scoring a measly 10% strike rate as against 53% nationally, a TOI analysis of 2011-2020 data shows. Karnataka dislodged Gujarat from the perch for the current year, and both states have been running neck and neck in eliciting interest from investors in the past decade. The western state has an enviable 160% conversion rate because of one bumper year – 2019 – that saw 400% more investments than the value of proposals. Among big states, only Tamil Nadu marginally trails Karnataka. Maharashtra has a conversion rate of 49%, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh 29% and 28%, respectively. In the decadal analysis, India saw Rs 52 lakh crore worth of investment proposals and Rs 27 lakh crore actual investments, according to data from the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) under the Union ministry of commerce and industry. ‘K’taka’s big investment proposals came in five-six yrs, yet to fructify’Of this, 8.4 lakh crore – or 16% of the proposals – was in Karnataka, while Rs 87,728 crore of the actual investments – only 3% – were from the state. While proposals are interest shown by investors each year, actual investments include those inherited from previous proposals. Karnataka industries secretary Gaurav Gupta said: “Karnataka is still among the most preferred states and we’ve been approving many projects. Some projects have not taken off owing to overall economic conditions and promoters backing out in the past decade. This makes the conversion rate look bad.” Stating that a 25% conversion rate is considered good, the officer said performance in the past decade may appear lacklustre because a few big projects in mining and other capitalintensive sectors like iron and steel have not taken off. “It’s difficult to point to one or two reasons (for the poor rate) unless we make a projectwise analysis. This is, however, no reflection on the state’s ability in attracting investment, we’ll see more projects coming in,” he said. Revanna Gowda, managing director, Karnataka Udyoga Mitra, a nodal agency for investments in the government, said: “All big investment proposals came in the past 5-6 years. This means plans need 2-3 years to fructify. The volume in terms of proposals is much higher in our state which may make the actual investments look small in terms of percentage.” Of the Rs 8.4 lakh crore Karnataka has attracted as investment proposals between January 2011 and October 2020, Rs 6.3 lakh crore (or 75%) has come between January 2016 and October 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-10-yrs-ktaka-converted-just-10-investment-proposals-into-projects/articleshow/79983842.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||19-year-old hangs self||Jangaon: A 19-year-old girl committed suicide at Sakhi Counselling Center on Sunday. The girl, Srilekha, was a resident of Edunutula of Kodakandla mandal in Jangaon district. According to police, the Srilekha had recently married one Manohar from her village against her parents’ wishes. After coming to know about the marriage, Srilekha’s parents lodged a complaint with Kodakandla police that their daughter was missing for the last one week. Police traced them and took Srilekha to Sakhi Counselling Center for counselling. During the counselling, Srilekha went to the washroom and hanged herself. As she did not return for a long time, staff grew suspicious and found her dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-year-old-hangs-self/articleshow/79982831.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
December 28, 2020||Pune||Massive Pune metropolitan region serosurvey of 14,500 citizens yet to launch||PUNE: A key Covid-19 serosurvey that was to cover 14,500 residents across urban and rural areas of the Pune Metropolitan Region is yet to take off. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had said last month that the 21-day study would start by the second week of this month. These studies test blood samples for virus-specific antibodies. The results are an estimate of the proportion of people who may have had Covid already. In other words, the surveys can determine immunity levels in a population. For weeks now, health experts have been calling for large serosurveys to determine how much the pandemic has spread in the region — an assessment that needs more than lab data as many may not have been tested via RT-PCR or antigen kits. The sustained drop in Pune’s positivity rate, despite easing of restrictions after Diwali, has shown that something very important is at play, experts said. “We lifted the lockdown, but cases continue to dip. This is a strong indication that we are approaching some level of herd immunity,” said senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee. Disease experts said a serosurvey now — when the number of cases has reduced — would be a good idea. “RT-PCR tests cannot help evaluate herd immunity. For that, we need to measure antibody prevalence (IgM and IgG) against the virus,” said senior microbiologist Renu Bharadwaj. “It also may be a good idea to check all blood coming into labs for Covid antibodies,” Bharadwaj said. Microbiologist and virologist Suvarna Joshi added that serosurveys will be useful only if a ‘statistically significant’ portion of the population is studied — which is why the proposal for a study covering over 14,000 people is being seen as important. “To arrive at any conclusion on herd-immunity levels, we need to analyze a statistically significant number of residents across urban and rural parts,” Joshi said. Results from Pune’s first serosurvey, released in August, showed seropositivity rates nearing 60% in some pockets with an overall 50% positivity. But that survey was limited to just 1,644 citizens across five high-incidence zones of the city. A larger Pimpri Chinchwad sero survey in October found antibodies in 34% of 5,000 surveyed residents. A community generally achieves herd immunity if 40% to 50% of the population surveyed has antibodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/massive-pmr-serosurvey-of-14500-citizens-yet-to-launch/articleshow/79981604.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 28, 2020||Goa||Soon, beaches may have fishing space demarcated||Panaji: To resolve the frequent conflicts between local fishermen and tourism stakeholders over space on beaches, the final draft comprehensive plan for the fishing community has stated that undisturbed areas will be reserved for traditional fishing activities. Prepared by the state government, the final draft plan has also recommended a ward-wise survey to regularise dwelling units built prior to 1991. Stating that continuous expansion of tourism activities has gradually led to beaches and areas along the coast to be occupied by related structures, the final draft stated, “At times, there is no place for fishermen to land or berth their canoes on the beach as shack (temporary restaurant) owners, water sports operators and sun bathing chairs continuously use the whole stretch of the beach for their business. Therefore, fishermen, after toiling hard to catch the fish, find it difficult to either land or berth their canoes and boats.” Similarly, traditional fishermen who operate ‘rampons’ — a very long net laid between the low tide line and high tide line to catch fish — require a large undisturbed part of the beach for their regular operations. “It is therefore necessary to demarcate certain stretches on such busy beaches, beyond which tourism stakeholders should not be allowed to operate,” the draft stated. The final draft plan also stated that as per the claim of the fishing community living in coastal regulation zone (CRZ) areas, several of their dwelling units permissible as per the provisions of erstwhile CRZ notification of 1991 are yet to be regularised.  The final draft has asked that the genuineness of each case be checked and it be ensured that the dwelling units due for regularisation are not being used for any commercial activity and have not been sold or transferred to non-traditional coastal community. In cases where such unregularised dwelling units are located within 200m to 500m of the HTL, provisions under the CRZ 2011 notification may be used to allow maximum possible extension of their units in accordance to the prevailing TCP regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-beaches-may-have-fishing-space-demarcated/articleshow/79982843.cms||Murari Shetye
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 81% vote in GP polls; result on Wednesday||BENGALURU: Voter turnout in the gram panchayat elections was 81%, a drop from 90% in the 2015 polls, with the second and last phase held on Sunday witnessing a turnout of 80%. The first phase registered 82% vote. A rather disappointing 81% vote is still significant since elections were held amid the Covid-19 pandemic and fears of a second wave. Votes will be counted on Wednesday. In the 2015 elections, candidates backed by the Congress and JD(S) had won in big numbers, and the BJP settled for a third position. The BJP, holding reins this time, hopes to reverse the trend and make strong inroads in rural pockets. Polling picked pace by noonFor the first time, the party micro-managed panchayat electioneering to ensure victory of the partysupported candidates in a good number of seats. Except for minor glitches and skirmishes, the voting was peaceful in the second phase. It began on a dull note and picked pace by noon. Polling was held in 2,709 panchayats across 109 taluks in 20,728 booths. More than 1 lakh candidates are in the fray for 39,378 seats. The first phase saw polling in 3,019 gram panchayats across 117 taluks. While 4,377 wards elected representatives unopposed in the first phase, 3,697 candidates sailed past the victory post in the second phase without a contest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/81-vote-in-gp-polls-result-on-wednesday/articleshow/79983867.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Surat||Bharuch Dalit advocate dies of assault injuries||Surat: A 65-year-old Dalit advocate in Bhaurch, who was thrashed by four men outside a provision store over petty issue on December 17, succumbed to his assault injuries on Sunday at a hospital. After protest by his family members and 10 days after the incident, police arrested one accused Dinubha Rana on Sunday. Earlier on December 17, Jasu Jadav, a resident of Alakanada society who had retired as register from Jhagadia court three years ago, went to purchase some provisions in Kutch Superstore and entered into a verbal altercation with Dinubha Rana at the counter. Later, Rana left the store and returned with his men to assault Jadav outside the store. Later, they fled the spot. Jadav was rushed to the hospital in a serious condition where he lodged a complaint against Dinubhai Rana, one Pravin and two unidentified persons under various sections of Indian Penal Code and sections of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act with C Division police station of Bharuch. Police said that charges of murder would be added against the accused and probe further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bharuch-dalit-advocate-dies-of-assault-injuries/articleshow/79980980.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Meerut||Train engine gutted in blaze at UP’s Shamli railway station, probe ordered||Muzaffarnagar: The engine of a Delhi-Saharanpur passenger train was gutted in a fire early Sunday morning at UP’s Shamli railway station, where it had been stationed since the outbreak of pandemic. No one was injured.The railways has ordered a probe to know the cause of the blaze which destroyed the entire CNG-run locomotive worth crores of rupees.The fire was first spotted by some passengers waiting for another train, the authorities said. They alerted the Railway Protection Force (RPF), which, on its part, called the fire department. The blaze was doused in a few hours by the fire engines with the help of some passengers, fire station officer Azeez Khan said.Deputy superintendent of the railway station, Pawan Kumar, said, “A probe has been ordered to look into the cause of the blaze. We will also assess the total loss caused by the fire. A forensic team will also conduct a probe into the matter.”Lakshmi Kant, a passenger who first saw the fire, said, “I saw the flames leaping out of the rail engine at 4am. So I rushed and alerted the railway police. Later we helped the fire department in putting out the flames.”ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/train-engine-gutted-in-blaze-at-ups-shamli-railway-station-probe-ordered/articleshow/79980984.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 28, 2020||Pune||Registration of 10,000 frontline staff starts in Pune||PUNE: After healthcare workers, the PMC has started the registration process for frontline staff for the second phase of the Covid vaccination drive in the city. An estimated 10,000 workers — from essential services such as sanitation, the fire brigade and the police units — are expected to sign up for the shots, officials said. Sunil Indalkar, deputy commissioner (general administration), PMC, said, “We are going to ensure that every frontline worker — including those on contract — gets the vaccine. We will get to know exact numbers soon. The vaccination drive remains voluntary.” The city’s chief vaccination officer Amit Shah said, “It’s a sort of dry run for logistics before the mass vaccination phase in Pune. Every department will collate, compile and upload the data of their frontline staff on the government portal.” The Union government plans to include nearly one crore health workers in the first batch of beneficiaries, whenever a vaccine is approved for use in India. This will be followed by nearly two crore frontline workers. The third batch is expected to include nearly 27 crore senior citizens from across the country. Sanjay Patil, vice-president of the Indian Medical Association in the state said, “Vaccination of frontline workers against Covid will help to run key services, thereby reducing the economic impact.” So far, PMC officials have registered a total of 45,143 healthcare workers from government and private hospitals within its limits. They include doctors, nurses, paramedics, and non-medical staff including security, cleaning and administration personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/registration-of-10k-frontline-staff-starts/articleshow/79981610.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 28, 2020||Meerut||‘Love jihad’: 7 held in Bijnor for thrashing youth found roaming with a Hindu girl||Strap: All accused from the minority community; more to go, say cops Bijnor: Police in UP’s Bijnor district on Sunday arrested five more men for the alleged attack on a Muslim youth, 13 days after he was brutally thrashed and handed over to police by a mob after it found him roaming around with a Hindu girl. The exact trigger of the attack is not known yet. Some say the couple was mistaken for thieves. However, sources claimed that some unsocial elements saw the youth and the girl together and started hounding them. So far, seven persons have been arrested for the attack on the youth, who was later booked under the UP’s anti-conversion law.The alleged attackers, Shahjad, Shakir, Kasim, Mohsin, Nadim, Raes and Nawazis, are behind the bar now. And so is the victim for the last 12 days.The youth was returning home with the girl -- a former classmate-- after a birthday party when the attack took place on the night of December 14 in Nasirpur village. Apart from pleading innocence in the “love jihad” case, the youth’s family members had also filed a complaint against unidentified people for the attack, which was filmed on mobile phones and shared on social media platforms.On Friday evening, police took note of the videos, filed a case and arrested two persons. Two days later, on Sunday, they arrested another five youths, all from the victim’s community.Bijnor’s superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, “We learnt that the accused was beaten up and video of it was shared on social media platforms. Based on the complaint of the family, we had registered an FIR. So far seven persons have been arrested. Other suspects are being identified with the help of video.”Unidentified persons were booked for the attack under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult to provoke) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.“They were returning from a friend’s birthday party. A group of locals spotted them, attacked him and handed the two over to cops at the Nahtaur police station,” the boy’s mother had said.Later, in an FIR registered based on the complaint of the father of the girl on December 15, it was claimed the accused “lured the girl” on the pretext of marriage and conversion and eloped with her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/love-jihad-7-held-in-bijnor-for-thrashing-youth-found-roaming-with-a-hindu-girl/articleshow/79980981.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 28, 2020||Meerut||Vehicles with caste stickers to be impounded in UP||Strap: Move comes after PMO sends a note to state govtMeerut: Putting a sticker announcing caste or religion on the windscreen or on number plate may cost people their vehicle now as the Uttar Pradesh’s traffic department has launched a state-wide crackdown against it. The move comes against the backdrop of a missive sent to the state government by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), which recently took note of a letter sent to it by a teacher expressing concern that display of such stickers is a threat to the social fabric of the society. UP’s additional transport commissioner (administration) Mukesh Chandra has written to all the RTOs to launch a crackdown and impound vehicles sporting caste stickers. Same action will be taken against two-wheelers also.“According to the instructions given by the Prime Minister’s Office, the caste stickers may trigger animosity among the groups and affect law and order,” the order issued by Chandra read. The RTO authorities said that earlier there was an order to put a penalty on vehicles having caste-stickers. But it is for the first time that an order of seizure of such vehicles has been passed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/vehicles-with-caste-stickers-to-be-impounded-in-up/articleshow/79980985.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Neolithic axe dated 4000-2000 BC discovered in Nagarkurnool district||Hyderabad: Archaeologists have found remains of Neolithic period at Somasila in Telangana. A Neolithic axe, made out of solarising stone, was discovered at Somasila village, Kollapur mandal in Nagarkurnool. Archaeologist Dr E Sivanagi Reddy said that the tool dates to the period between 4000-2000 BC, during which domestication of animals, intensifying of agriculture and settling at one place began. Dr Reddy, CEO, Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati, was conducting exploration on the left bank of the river Krishna. “I chanced upon a Neolithic tool (axe) with a very sharp cutting edge derived out of grinding and polishing. The celt is coated with patina of lime and ash denoting that it was dumped in a pit after its usage. This is based on the similar evidence found at nearby village Chinnamarur, where Neolithic habitation was excavated by the then state Department of Archaeology and Museums in early 1980’s and the features of the stone tool noticed at Somasila village from 4000-2000 BC. The tool was found in the agricultural field of Telugu Pentaiah of the same village from which Neolithic tools like discoids, pestles and grinding stones were recovered two decades ago by Dr Reddy and are now kept in the local museum. Sivanagi Reddy appealed Department of Heritage Telangana to take up scientific survey to know the archaeological potential of the site. Dr Reddy mentioned that near Somasila, prehistoric rock paintings are seen at Amaragiri-Bollaram. “There is a lot of scope for introducing Somasila as a site for pilgrimage tourism because of the Somasila group of temples, archaeological tourism became of the rock paintings and eco-tourism for its vast water body and chain of hillocks and lush green picturesque spots in abundance,” added Dr Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/neolithic-axe-dated-4000-2000-bc-discovered-in-nagarkurnool-district/articleshow/79982865.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 28, 2020||Agra||Cold winds add sting to chill in UP||AGRA: With heavy snowfall in the Himalayan region, cold winds intensified in Agra and Meerut on Sunday. According to the meteorological department, the mercury is likely to drop below 4 degree Celsius in the next three days in Agra and neighbouring districts. Sky remained partly covered with clouds throughout the day. According to the weatherman, Agra region is likely to witness dense fog in the morning and evening for the next one week. On Sunday, the maximum temperature in Agra was recorded 23.1 degrees which was one notch less than normal. The minimum was recorded 7.4 degrees. To save people from the cold wave, Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) operated gas heaters at over a dozen places in the evening. Besides, people also set up bonfires. Apart from Agra, cold wave swept across Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri. Aligarh remained colder as compared to Agra. Here maximum temperature was recorded 21.8 degrees whereas minimum temperature was recorded 7 degrees. Minimum temperature is likely to decrease by 3 notches and maximum by 2 degrees in the next three days. Meanwhile, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Agra was recorded at 319 or “very poor” category by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Particulate matter 2.5 remained a prominent pollutant in the city. The maximum level of PM 2.5 was recorded at 473 milligrams per cubic meter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cold-winds-add-sting-to-chill-fog-engulf-region-temp-may-dip-below-4-deg-c/articleshow/79980999.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 28, 2020||India||Institute files results of gene sequencing of UK returnees||HYDERABAD: On a day when the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) submitted the results of the targeted genome sequencing (a rapid testing method to pinpoint the strain of coronavirus) of some of the 18 samples of UK returnees to the Telangana government, two more who returned from that country tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Their samples are being forwarded to CCMB for genome sequencing. The results of full genome sequencing (which is a detailed testing method) are to come on Monday. When asked about the results that were submitted to the government, Dr Rakesh Mishra, director of CSIR-CCMB, Hyderabad, said: “We have forwarded our findings to the government and the health ministry. The second round reports will be submitted on Monday. Based on the results of samples from other states being tested at various other labs, a clear picture of which strain of the virus is circulating will emerge. An announcement in this regard is expected to be made by the government on Monday.” Dr Mishra further explained that genomic sequencing was a complex procedure and that two different rounds — fast-track and detailed — of testing were being done. On Sunday, 30 UK returnees were traced by state health authorities. With this, the number of untraced returnees now stands at 246.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/institute-files-results-of-gene-sequencing-of-uk-returnees/articleshow/79983798.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 28, 2020||Pune||Statewide surveillance starts in Maharashtra to track UK strain||PUNE: State health officials are gearing up to test a fixed number of positive Covid samples to check if the new UK strain has arrived in Maharashtra. The tests — part of a huge genomic surveillance effort — will also track other changes in the variants currently circulating in the state. Officials said they are in talks with the National Institute of Virology to design a roadmap for enhanced genomic surveillance. There are 487 labs in the state carrying out RT-PCR and antigen testing for Covid-19. But only the NIV is capable of carrying out genomic studies of the virus drawn from clinical samples of infected patients. “We have been given a list of six more labs in India we can send samples to, besides the NIV,” state surveillance officer Pradip Awate said. The national task force on Covid-19 has recommended that as part of the surveillance, 5% of all positive samples from all states and regions have to be checked for the more infectious UK strain. A genomic surveillance consortium has also been formed under the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to study existing strains. Public health expert Subhash Salunke, technical advisor to the state government on Covid-19 mitigation, said, “Right since the start of the pandemic, the NIV and a few other labs in India have been tracking changes in the genetic make-up of the virus. The national task force recommendation of testing 5% of all positive samples — for the genomic study — will be discussed during our meetings with NIV officials.” Currently, the state government is testing around 60,000 to 70,000 samples every day for presence of SARS-CoV-2. Of them, an average of 2,500 to 3,000 samples have been coming back as positive. In the last nine months, 1.25 crore of the state’s 12.48 crore population has undergone testing for the pandemic virus. Officials from the NIV were unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/statewide-surveillance-starts-to-track-mutant-strain-other-changes-in-virus/articleshow/79981613.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 28, 2020||Pune||UK returnee positive in PCMC limits, sent to hospital||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A 35-year-old UK returnee has tested positive for Covid-19 in the twin towns. The individual, who arrived 11 days ago, was moved to the PCMC-run New Bhosari Hospital on Saturday. Civic chief Shravan Hardikar said the patient is asymptomatic and is currently under observation. A swab sample has been sent to the National Institute of Virology, which will try to determine if it has the new variant. A PCMC health department official said samples of 85 UK returnees were tested for Covid-19 recently. Sixty-nine tested negative, results for 15 are awaited and one tested positive. Pavan Salve, acting head of the health department, said results of the 15 tests are expected by Sunday evening. The PCMC said it has traced 115 UK returnees within its limits, of which 15 went on to travel to other destinations in the country. Another 15 could not be traced because of incomplete contact details. The district health office said as many as 512 people have arrived from the UK since November 25. By Friday, 444 of them had been traced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/uk-returnee-positive-in-pcmc-limits-sent-to-hosp/articleshow/79981614.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||IFAT: Tweak social security rules||Hyderabad: The Indian Federation of App-based Transport Workers (IFAT), a worker's organisation representing app-based transport and delivery workers, based in Hyderabad made a joint submission of a memorandum to the Ministry of Labour and Employment over the ongoing public consultation on the Draft Code on Social Security (Central) Rules, 2020. The memorandum provides suggestions and states that the Draft Rules do not provide for universal social security for platform workers. IFAT, which represents over 35,000 workers, also demands for assuring a “basic social protection floor” for all gig and platform workers and protecting their data rights. “In this memorandum, we made suggestions to make social security universal for all platform workers and seeks clarity on the criteria to determine exemption of aggregators from contributions to social security and asks for assuring workers’ data rights,” said Shaik Salauddin, national general secretary, IFAT. The key demands included in the submission made by the organisation that represents workers connected with platforms including Swiggy, Zomato, Ola and Uber, among others, stated that even though the Draft Rules indicate that aggregators will have to contribute towards a government-framed social security scheme, further clarity should be provided on how these contributions will be assessed and what extent of social protection will be given in case platform workers are associated with several aggregators simultaneously. After receiving a copy of the letter of suggestions to the draft code on social security rules from IFAT, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday wrote to Santosh Kumar Gangawar, Union minister for labour and employment, urging him to look into the process and ensure that the code brings benefits for the lakhs of gig and platform workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ifat-tweak-social-security-rules/articleshow/79982903.cms||Moulika.KV
December 28, 2020||Meerut||Man, 26, dead, 2 injured after tiff over drain in M’nagar||Muzaffarnagar: A 26-year-old man died and two others were injured after a minor tiff between two groups over a drain in Kheri Dudheri village in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday. The victims were taken to the district hospital where one of them was declared dead. Police have launched a manhunt for the culprits while local SHO and police outpost in-charge have been attached to Police Lines.According to sources, the two families have had a dispute over construction of a drain for some time. On Sunday morning, it spiraled into a scuffle, following which fires were exchanged. Muzaffarnagar senior superintendent of police Abhishek Yadav who rushed to the spot and formed several teams to arrest the culprits, said, “All accused have been identified and we will arrest them soon. A case was also registered and our investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-26-dead-2-injured-after-tiff-over-drain-in-mnagar/articleshow/79981003.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||In WFH times, villages in Andhra Pradesh are powering IT giants||VISAKHAPATNAM: When the Covid-19 pandemic struck and IT companies decided on work from home (WFH), many thought the techies would continue to live in big cities like Bengaluru and Hyderabad. They would simply set up their workstation at home. Instead, many of them decided to return to what they really considered home — their native places — even if it meant a village in Andhra Pradesh. This has created a situation where many of India’s tech giants are now being run by professionals living in distant villages. For instance, about 40 IT professionals have left their rented apartments in the cities and are working out of KJ Puram village, a small village in Viskhapatnam. They work for IT giants in Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai. Fifteen kilometers away in Turuvolu village, another batch of 10 young techies are equally toiling hard and performing various tasks of software development process. KJ Puram, which has not been affected by Covid-19, has a population of 5,700. People here are in diverse fields, especially in IT sector, medicine and film industry. “It is altogether a different experience working from the village,” Ravi Pothula, a young IT professional, said. Anil Kumar Barla and Prasanna Kumar, who hail from Turuvolu, said Internet reach in the villages and no power outages have made it easy for them to work. Bantu Hari Babu, who hails from Mallepalli village near Rajahmundry, said life has come full circle for him in the pandemic. “I am back in my native village where I grew up and studied for almost 25 years. Almost all my friends and colleagues have moved out of metros and WFH,” he said. Not just Hari, Ravi and Anil, thousands of professionals have taken to WFH in gram panchayats, small towns and emerging cities of AP. IT companies are also allowing virtual onboarding and working for freshers apart from experience professionals due to the pandemic. Kaki Lokesh, who had a long stint in the US, is getting used to the slower pace of Jaggampeta, a small town near Kakinada. “The WFH model comes with several benefits such as saving time in commuting, work-life balance, reduced expenses on housing, food and clothing, pollution-free environs, etc.,” he avers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-wfh-times-villages-in-ap-are-powering-it-giants/articleshow/79983800.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 28, 2020||Pune||No infra at Pune airport to store vaccine: Girish Bapat||PUNE: MP Girish Bapat, who heads the city airport advisory committee, has said that Airports Authority of India (AAI) will not be creating its own vaccine storage facility at the airport but private parties willing to set up such a facility can approach the AAI. “Last week, I sent a reminder letter to senior AAI officials and the ministry of defence (MoD) requesting them to act fast and initiate the land transfer process. As far as building infrastructure to store the vaccine being developed by Pune-based Serum Institute of India is concerned, the AAI will not do that. However, if any private organization wants to have a vaccine storage facility at the airport, they can approach the AAI and enter into a deal to create proper infrastructure,” Bapat told TOI. Serum Institute of India (SII) has entered into a partnership with AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford to manufacture the Covishield vaccine. Explaining further, Bapat said that the authorities have been trying to shift the existing cargo facility since a year. “Shifting the cargo hold area is important as the existing building near the airport arrival area has to be dismantled for the construction of the new terminal building. The new place will help many businessmen as well as the SII or they would use either the Mumbai or Hyderabad airports,” Bapat added. “As such we do not have any need for a storage facility as we can transfer the accepted cargo directly from trucks to the aircraft after screening. However, if land is available and the need is projected by stakeholders, than we have the technical capability to construct the storage facility,” said airport director Kuldeep Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-infra-at-pune-airport-to-store-vaccine-bapat/articleshow/79981617.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 28, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad civic panel wants 100% non-Covid treatment at YCMH||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Members of the standing committee of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation have directed the administration to revert the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital into a fully non-Covid facility at the earliest. The hospital has set aside 50% of its capacity for Covid-19 treatment. “At present, nearly all available dedicated Covid-19 treatment facilities are at least 50% vacant,” Shiv Sena member Rahul Kalate said. The jumbo hospital at Annasaheb Magar stadium, the Autocluster facility, New Bhosari hospital, and Jijamata hospital are dedicated Covid care hubs in PCMC limits. PCMC commissioner chief Shravan Hardikar told TOI they were likely to take a decision in this regard on or after January 1. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-chinchwad-civic-panel-wants-100-non-covid-treatment-at-ycmh/articleshow/79981620.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||Citizens recreate Chipko movement to save Ajni trees||Nagpur: In a second-of-its-kind protest meet in the city, hundreds of citizens came together to recreate Chipko movement at the lush green patch that they have christened ‘Ajni Vann’. Sunday morning saw over 150 people from different age groups and all walks of life protectively hugging the age-old trees in a re-enactment of Chipko movement. The agenda was clear — to protect one of the last green patches of a ‘concretisized’ Nagpur. In March last year, a similar protest was held to save the trees at Bharat Van. Thousands of age-old trees are facing the axe for construction of an inter-modal station and other commercial projects at Ajni. The Rs1,288.81 crore project is coming up at the land of Central Railway, which is a thriving biodiversity habitat of bird and animal species. During the protest, people hugged the trees which have been numbered to be felled. As reported by TOI earlier, a joint inspection by the garden department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is being carried out. While NHAI, in its official statement, has maintained that 1,950 trees will be cut, activists stated that the real figure was much more. “The freshly painted numbers have already crossed 4,000. The survey is still in process, many more trees will be identified for felling,” they said. Following the Chipko protest, the organizers took citizens deep inside the mini-forest to showcase the rich biodiversity heritage. The group came across a century-old tree which was home to three spotted owls, 4-5 yellow-footed green pigeons, which is the state bird, and over a dozen parakeets. The organizers also explained the project in detail, highlighting how alternate areas were not explored by the authorities. “The project is multi-phased and is spread over 490 acres of land. It is evident that the main motive behind the project is land grabbing,” they said, adding that the inter-modal station was a window for other infrastructural projects like malls, commercial complexes and offices. The Save Ajni movement is gaining public momentum. Organizers are planning a series of awareness campaigns to gather mass support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-recreate-chipko-movement-to-save-ajni-trees/articleshow/79981717.cms||Manka Behl
December 28, 2020||Surat||Lab technician creates fake Fb account of ex-lover||Surat: Katargam police arrested a 26-year-old laboratory technician on Sunday for allegedly creating a fake Facebook account of his former girlfriend, a 32-year-old telemarketing executive in an automobile showroom and posting her morphed photos. The accused, Parth Nai, was dumped by the woman around a year ago after an affair of over five years, police said, adding that she lodged a complaint on Saturday. “After getting exact details from Facebook, police registered an offence and arrested him. He had intentionally morphed and shared the objectionable material about the woman,” said a police officer of Katargam .The woman was alerted about her fake Facebook page by a colleague. Nai was identified from the devices he used to post the material. “It seems that he wanted to continue the relationship, but the woman ended it. He might have tried to convince her but seeing no hope, he planned to tarnish her image,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lab-technician-creates-fake-fb-account-of-ex-lover/articleshow/79981039.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Demarcation of Ponnandampalayam into four panchayats deprives residents of public utilities||Coimbatore: Residents of Ponnandampalayam village are in a quandary. With just 300 households, Ponnandampalayam has been demarcated into three village panchayats and a town panchayat. Though demarcation doesn’t matter much to the villagers, but it does affect them when it comes to development work and getting other public utilities. Ponnandampalayam village is located 22km from Coimbatore cityFor instant, Arasur village panchayat with just six households has been deprived of drinking water facility, streetlights and proper road. At the same time, their neighbours who come under the Kaniyur village panchayat get water from Athikadavu drinking water scheme. While the eastern part of Ponnandampalayam comes under Kaniyur village panchayat, southern part comes under Arasur village panchayat, western part under Naranapuram village panchayat and northern part under Moppiripalayam town panchayat.While Naranapuram village panchayat has 20 households, Arasur village panchayat six, Kaniyur village panchayat 150 and Moppiripalayam town panchayat has remaining households.Similarly, around 20 residents from Ponnandampalayam have to cast their votes for Avinashi assembly constituency while the rest of the villagers would vote for Sulur assembly constituency. Likewise, 20 residents have to vote for Nilgiris parliamentary constituency and the rest of the villagers for Coimbatore parliamentary constituency.E Chandrasekaran, 45, a businessman from Arasur village panchayat, said. “I did not get a drinking water connection. But my neighbours who are residing just 50 metres away from my house, are getting Athikadavu drinking water as their houses come under Kaniyur village panchayat. I have to fetch drinking water from nearby residential area. Likewise, my area also did not have streetlight.” R Maheshkumar, 29, a post-graduate from the village, said due to the confusion in the local body administration, he was not able to avail education loan when he was pursuing MBA. “While studying in college, I applied for a passport as well. The officials got confused about the multiple panchayats intervention in my village and did not provide the passport as I was not able to submit proper documents due to this confusion,” Maheshkumar said.P Sivakumar, a ward member from Kaniyur village panchayat told TOI that he filed a writ petition before the Madras high court to merge the village under one village panchayat in 2014. The court also ordered the district collector to pass appropriate orders on its own merits and in accordance with law. Former district collector Archana Patnaik convened a public hearing meeting twice in 2015 and the villagers claimed that the village should come under Kaniyur village panchayat. The report was also submitted to the local body authorities. But so far, no action has been taken.“The state government did not hear our demands. So, we are going to start an indefinite fasting in our village from January 6, 2021,” Sivakumar said.District collector K Rajamani said that he would go through the reports submitted before the local body authorities in 2016. “I would discuss with revenue officials and block development officers of the area and take appropriate steps to bring the village under Kaniyur village panchayat,” Rajamani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/demarcation-of-ponnandampalayam-into-four-panchayats-deprives-residents-of-public-utilities/articleshow/79981657.cms||A Subburaj
December 28, 2020||Goa||State may amend Lokayukta Act to appoint rtd HC judge||Panaji: The state government is likely to amend the Goa Lokayukta Act in the coming assembly session to make provision for the appointment of retired high court judges as Lokayukta. Advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI that the decision comes in light of the state being unable to find retired Supreme Court judges or retired high court chief justices willing to move to the state to take up the post. As per the act, only retired Supreme Court judges or retired high court chief justices can be appointed as Goa Lokayukta. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to file an application before the high court of Bombay at Goa seeking more time for the process to appoint a Lokayukta. The high court had directed the state to appoint a new anti-corruption ombudsman by December. There are at least 75 cases pending before the office of the Goa Lokayukta. The term of the state’s last Lokayukta, P K Misra, ended on September 17. A senior government official said that the state had written to a number of retired Supreme Court judges for their consent to be appointed as Goa Lokayukta. Generally, once consent is received, a three-member committee comprising the chief minister, leader of the opposition and one other is constituted to finalise the name, the official said. “Once the name is finalised in consultation with the chief justice of the Bombay high court, the new Lokayukta is appointed,” the official said. Misra had taken oath of office on April 28, 2016. The Goa cabinet had dragged its feet for almost three years before the appointment was done. Prior to his appointment as Lokayukta, Misra served as the chairperson of the Goa State Human Rights Commission for five years. Goa’s first Lokayukta, former Supreme Court Justice Sudershan Reddy, was appointed in March 2013, but resigned within seven months citing personal reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-may-amend-lokayukta-act-to-appoint-rtd-hc-judge/articleshow/79982919.cms||Murari Shetye
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||At Rs 30/kg, potato pinches pockets||Kolkata: Even though the potato price saw a sudden spike in last few days after a brief relief in the first week of December, new crops from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, which will reach the city’s retail markets shortly, are likely to bring the price down in the New Year. This year saw a record rise in potato price. In November, price of common variety (Jyoti) rose to all-time high of Rs 45 a kg. In last four days, potatoes got pricier by Rs 10. On Sunday, the retail price hovered around Rs 29/30 a kg. However, the wholesale price dropped below Rs 25 a kg. “We expect the retail price to plunge from Monday,” said Mohammed Akram, a wholesale trader at Jan Bazar. In rural markets, however, potato price dropped below Rs 24 a kg because of the impact of new crop. The cold storage stock clearance from November 30 also had an impact on potato price. Moreover, the state government’s decision to release its buffer stock of 50,000 tonnes in the retail market also led to a significant plunge to Rs 20 a kg by December 15. “This plunge, however, sent potato traders in a tizzy,” said Lalu Mukherjee, secretary West Bengal Potato Traders Association. Cold storages across the state were closed on November 30. “Sudden over-supply of potatoes in retail markets not only brought down the price but also also caused panic among traders. The traders, who were to import new potatoes from Punjab, cancelled their booking out of panic, creating a demand-supply gap,” said Gautam Sinha, secretary, Posta Bazar Traders’Association. The move of cancelling the booking of new crop was driven by fear of loss by a section of traders. Suddenly, there was a demand-supply gap. The gap led to the spike of Rs 150-200 per 50 kg bag in the wholesale market. However, the gap in supply will be bridged shortly, since fresh stock from Punjab is on its way to the city, assured Bhola Das, a potato trader at Lake Market. Even new potatoes from Bankura and Midnapore have also started reaching the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-rs-30/kg-potato-pinches-pockets/articleshow/79981666.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
December 28, 2020||Pune||1,500 needy patients with contagion benefit from PMC’s medical scheme||PUNE: The medical scheme for the urban poor, run by the Pune Municipal Corporation, has helped 1,429 Covid-19 patients. The civic body pays the hospital bills of citizens with less than Rs 2 lakh as their annual income via this scheme. It included the pandemic as a special measure. According to civic officials, the PMC had decided to include nCoV treatment in the urban poor health scheme. Citizens from poor financial background will get relief while getting treatment in private hospitals after this inclusion. The civic body will take the responsibility of paying the bills for needy people as part of this initiative. “Covid-19 patients from a poor background had given their proposals and hospital bills for this scheme. All those who fit the requirements have benefited from the scheme,” Anjali Sabane, a senior PMC’s health department official, said. The civic body had tried several ways to increase the beneficiaries with the introduction of generic medicines and giving additional funds to the scheme since it started in 2010. It spends around Rs 25 crore every year on this initiative and more funds are diverted from other projects to meet the increasing demand. The civic administration had increased the income limit so that more and more urban poor can avail this scheme. The scheme, meant for families living below poverty line, was valid for those with an annual income up to Rs 1 lakh per annum but hiked to Rs 2 lakh in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1500-needy-patients-with-contagion-benefit-from-pmcs-medical-scheme/articleshow/79981623.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Coimbatore||MSME technology centre to come up at Arasur village||Coimbatore: The ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) has identified 14.6 acres at Arasur village in Sulur block to set up an MSME technology centre.The centre will have cutting-edge machineries, said R Vijayakumar, assistant director in-charge of the MSME Development Institute in Coimbatore. “It will have the latest equipment that most of the MSMEs could not afford. The units can make use of the equipment, which will help them meet international competition by improving product quality. The centre will meet the needs of foundries, coir units, automobile and textile industries. Before finalizing the machineries, another round of meeting will be conducted with the industrialists,” he said.The land met the specifications like non-residential area and adequate transportation facilities. A team of officials from the Coir Board and the MSME Development Institute also inspected the land. The office of the development commissioner of MSMEs has written to the state government for land transfer.“Competent authority has approved the site for establishment of the new technology centre in Coimbatore. Therefore, you are requested to transfer the identified land in the name of development commissioner, MSME and handover the possession of the same to the director of MSME, Chennai, for further action,” a recent communication from the office of development commissioner of MSMEs to the principal secretary of MSMEs said.Besides aiding 50,000 MSMEs in the district, the centre will also be useful for MSMEs functioning in nearby districts.Under the Technology Centre Systems Programme, the central government had allotted funds to set up technology centres in 12 cities, including Coimbatore, in 2019. The government has allotted Rs 200 crore to set up the centre in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/msme-technology-centre-to-come-up-at-arasur-village/articleshow/79981685.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Limited OPD services to start at AIIMS Kalyani from next month||KALYANI: Limited out patient department (OPD) services at AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences) Kalyani will start next month, AIIMS Kalyani’s executive director, Ramji Singh, said. The limited OPD, Singh said, will start with facilities of medicine, surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology, ophthalmology, ENT, psychiatry and dermatology. The full-fledged OPD is scheduled to start in April next year. The indoor patient department (IPD) is likely to start in September 2021. It will start with 300 beds but will depend when the building is handed over by the constructing agency, Singh said. The beds will be scaled up later. The hospital is being developed on a land of 197 acres at Kalyani Basantapur — around two kilometres from NH-12 — in Nadia at an estimated project cost of Rs 1,200 crore, he added. Approved by the Centre in October 2015, the institute is coming up on a plot provided by the Bengal government. In Phase I, AIIMS Kalyani is proposed to be a 960-bedded hospital. It is expected to cater to patients from Bengal and Northeast. A Dharmasala has been developed for the lodging of patient parties with an accommodation for 156 persons. Classes of 50 MBBS students, the first batch, started in Kalyani Medical College last year. But the classes of second batch MBBS will start on the AIIMS Kalyani campus in January 2021. There are 125 students in the second batch and the admission is on. The campus shifted here from Kalyani Medical College in August 2020. The hostels are also ready for the students. While 25 faculties have been selected in second phase, 11 have already joined, Singh said. There are 183 teaching, 600 nursing, 231 senior staff nurses and around 40 other posts. Around 30 posts, including that of security, house-keeping staff and clerks, will be filled up by outsourcing through agencies. AIIMS Kalyani is also likely to get its own helipad later. “Now the emphasis is on providing services at a rudimentary stage,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/limited-opd-services-to-start-at-aiims-kalyani-from-next-month/articleshow/79981714.cms||Ashis Poddar
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cops plan action after five fatal cycle accidents in December||KOLKATA: At a time when there is an increasing demand to allow cycles to ply on main roads and prioritize it as an important mode of transport, a compilation on the accidents that took place in December has established that the process cannot be a hurried one. In December alone, till 26th of the month, at least five cyclists have died in six accidents. In 2019, not a single cyclist met with a fatal accident in the city, according to NCRB data. The first non-fatal accident of a cyclist this year was recorded in June, but many fatal accidents involving bicycles have taken place in December. This has prompted Lalbazar to mull taking action like confiscation of cycles. In a new directive, Lalbazar has asked cops to ensure that cycles don’t ply on accident-prone stretches in the city like Hastings, Strand Road and EM Bypass and on flyovers. “We have not launched any special drive against cyclists for so long on humanitarian ground. We may not have extended the relaxed cycle policy but at the same time, our actions against the cyclists, who are at fault, are limited in some parts of central and south Kolkata. In 2021, we will have to be stricter. We cannot allow cycles on main thoroughfares,” said an IPS officer. Some statistics have been worrisome for the fatal squad of traffic police. “We have found that almost all types of vehicles like buses, trucks and cars have been involved in cycle accidents. The accidents are not limited to specific zones. Fatal accidents have taken place at Dalhousie, Garfa, Behala and Kolkata Leather Complex area. Secondly, in most accidents, the cyclists have been hit from behind. Hence, there is a strong possibility that the cyclists are not responsible for the accidents in all cases,” said a police officer. He added that in most of the cases, it was found that the cycles involved in accidents did not have reflective tapes, especially at night. “We are not against cycles. But unless we can provide proper infrastructure, cycles should not ply on the roads where other vehicles can run in maximum speed,” said the officer. “All our men have been given alternative routes for cyclists. When the cyclists are found taking the main road, they are being given the alternative options. We have also finalized a few crossings where we will allow crossovers through the main road,” said an ACP from an eastern suburban traffic guard. At the Jorabagan traffic guard, an alternative link, parallel to BK Pal Avenue, has been finalized. At Beliaghata Traffic Road, cyclists are being directed towards Tangra and Canal South Road. “This route is now popular and we can easily turn it into an official route by keeping EM Bypass completely off-limit for cyclists,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-plan-action-after-five-fatal-cycle-accidents-in-dec/articleshow/79981696.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Protesters bang thalis during ‘Mann ki Baat’||Ludhiana: Members of a farmers organisation banged thalis during Prime Minister’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ programme near a popular mall on Ferozepur Road here. A few other members of the organisation sat on a hunger strike against the recently passed farming laws. They also raised slogans against the Modi government. The protesters said that whereas the Prime Minister was listening to the talks of a few corporates, but he was not listening to farmers and had closed his ears to them, which is why they were banging thalis during his ‘Mann ki Baat’. They demanded that the government should listen to them as people have elected it and not the few corporate houses. They said that the Prime Minister was doing wrong as he was not listening to farmers and was still going on with his “Mann ki Baat”. He demanded that the government should repeal the ‘black laws’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/protesters-bang-thalis-during-mann-ki-baat/articleshow/79981048.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP holds Cong govt, DGP for frequent gherao of partymen||Ludhiana: Irked over the frequent gherao of BJP workers and recent incidents of violation during party programmes, the state BJP president, Ashwani Sharma, has held the Congress government and DGP, Punjab, responsible for the same. While addressing a press conference here on Sunday at the Circuit House, Sharma said enough was enough and now BJP leaders would also stand up for their rights. He asked chief minister Amarinder Singh if other opposition parties could protest or organise their events, then why alone the BJP was being stopped from doing the same. He even quoted an incident that took place in Bathinda on December 25 when the party had organised programmes at 482 places in Punjab to mark the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. But in Bathinda, the police lathicharged the workers of the BJP and asked them to stop the programme because farmers were outside to hold a protest. He alleged that one worker got 22 stitches and when they went to get an FIR registered, even that was not registered properly. He said at 27 places the police stopped their programmes. He said farmers could never attack anybody, rather these were some miscreants who wanted to spoil the peace of Punjab and the police was shielding such people. Sharma further said that instead of stopping these people, the cops should ask them to wind up their programme. He said for the past 90 days protests were going on outside residences of their workers and they do could not even enjoy their personal space now. He asked Amarinder why he was allowing such kind of protests in the state and in their wish to fulfil vote politics they would spoil the peaceful environment of the state. He said on Monday they were going to meet the DGP, Punjab, and if they did not satisfy then the party would announce state-level programmes to reach out to the masses, but in a peaceful manner. Farmer organisations should keep miscreants away Ashwani Sharma while addressing the press conference said the central government held six round of talks with the farmer organisations and also agreed upon their demands, but still the agitation was going on. He said on December 29, another meeting would take place and hopefully some good results should come. Sharma said farmers could not attack anybody and rather miscreants in the garb of farmers were trying to create tension. So, farmer organisations should understand the real motive of such people and remain away from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-holds-cong-govt-dgp-for-frequent-gherao-of-partymen/articleshow/79981049.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Goa||Panaji’s road repair work to continue in Jan||Panaji: Incomplete zebra crossings and potholes will be visible across the state capital well into the new year due to delays from the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP). The repair work was to be completed for the festive season especially with increased traffic from the other states. While other work on city roads is already afoot, zebra crossings and filling up potholes will be completed only in January. “The paintings of the road can be done only at night, besides the contractor took a few days off due to the holiday season. Therefore the delay,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. After five years of being neglected, roads across Panaji were marked with zebra crossings earlier this month with a target to complete the task by December itself. Similarly other essential traffic markings like parking spots for two-wheeler and four-wheeler vehicles are also being painted. “The process of filling potholes has also started. We aim to complete filling all the potholes by January 10 but anticipating the rush expected on major roads for the New Year’s Eve, potholes on such roads are being filled up on priority,” Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panajis-road-repair-work-to-continue-in-jan/articleshow/79983003.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR introduces three more special trains for passengers||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has introduced three more special trains for the benefit of passengers. As per the official release, Nanded-Tandur-Nanded special train (07681) will start its services from January 10 next year. The train will depart from Nanded every day at 10.50 pm and reach the destination at 8.10 am two days later via Secunderabad. The Tandur-Parbhani (07682) is another special train, which will start its operations from January 11. The train will leave from Tandur in Telangana at 7.40 pm and is expected to reach Parbhani by 6.35 am the next day. The former Parbhani-Nanded passenger train will run as a special train (07665) from January 12. It will leave Parbhani at 9.40 am and reach Nanded at 11.25 am. Rajesh Shinde, the public relations officer for SCR’s Nanded division, said prior seat reservation is mandatory for all the three trains. “All Covid-19 prevention norms are being followed by the railway administration during the operation of trains and passengers are also requested to take necessary precautions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-introduces-three-more-special-trains-for-passengers/articleshow/79980290.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Reconsider precipitous decision, Louis Kahn’s family writes to IIM-Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Celebrated American architect Louis Kahn’s daughters, Sue Ann Kahn, Alexandra Tyng and son Nathaniel Kahn penned a letter to IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) director Prof Errol D’Souza on December 22, where they requested India’s premier B-school to reconsider their plan to raze the dormitories, part of the larger ‘heritage campus’ designed by the master. The letter termed destruction of dormitories as a ‘disaster’ for their father’s built legacy. The trio mentioned that they were shocked and dismayed to learn of the abandonment of the conservation plan and issuance of expression of interest (EOI) for demolition of 18 dormitories. ‘The buildings in question are the heart of our father’s universally acknowledged masterpiece at IIMA. We urge you in the strongest possible terms to reconsider this decision,’ reads the letter, adding that the action would unleash powerful reaction not only from architects but also from alumni, leaders of culture, business and industry. Kahn’s children also mentioned that it’s more shocking in the light of restoration of Vikram Sarabhai Library, which even received UNESCO Asia-Pacific Award for Cultural Heritage Conservation in 2019. The letter mentioned a meeting with Prof D’Souza at the University of Pennsylvania in the summer of 2018. ‘As you recall, the purpose of the visit to Richards (Medical Research Laboratories) was to see first-hand how a great Kahn building could be reimagined to suit changing needs. We might add that the Richards Building was also at one time in peril of demolition. It is now considered a very useful structure and a desirable address on campus,’ stated the letter, drawing parallels with the current discussion around the 14 dorm buildings. The trio also addressed Prof D’Souza about his interest in their assistance in thinking about future of the Kahn buildings and his commitment to preserving the areas designated by the conservation plan – which included the 18 dormitories. The letter asked the B-school to reconsider the usage and also extended support to explore options so that ‘this impending disaster can be averted.’ IIM-A officials on Sunday confirmed receipt of the email, and mentioned that in a response, Prof D’Souza has expressed the state of anguish. ‘As you will see we are thinking along the lines you hint at which is to redesign the buildings to provide new functionalities whilst preserving the grammar that your father had visualized for the campus,’ mentioned his response to the kin of the American master.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/destruction-of-dorms-disaster-for-fathers-built-legacy/articleshow/79981887.cms||Parth Shastri
December 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Active cases in Kolhapur drop to 73 after 14 recover||KOLHAPUR: Active patients in Kolhapur district dropped to 73 after 14 more patients were discharged from various Covid facilities on Sunday. So far, 47,707 patients have recovered from the contagion in the district. The district, meanwhile, reported 16 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the total number of patients to 49,480. Of these, 1,700 have succumbed to the contagion. Sangli reports 17 casesSangli district reported 17 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of confirmed patients to 47, 505, of which. 1,728 have already succumbed to the contagion. At present, there are 189 active patients in Sangli district. Satara adds 58 casesSatara district added 58 new cases on Sunday. So far, the district has reported 54,541 cases, of which, 1.795 have died due to the infection. Currently, the district has 1,213 active patients. Solapur identifies 19 patientsSolapur city identified 19 more cases along with one death while the rural district reported 49 cases and two deaths. With this, the active cases in the city have increased to 285 while that of the rural district stands at 874. The total number of cases in city has reached 10,958 while that of the rural district has swelled to 37,857. The death toll stands at 590 in the city and 1,115 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/active-cases-in-kolhapur-drop-to-73-after-14-recover/articleshow/79980291.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Uncontrolled karvy growth eating into bison habitat’||KOLHAPUR: Uncontrolled growth of the karvy shrub on the slopes of the Western Ghats is now being cited as a reason for bison leaving their habitat and entering the thick sugar cane fields and residential areas. Samrat Kerkar, a wildlife activist and convenor of the Bison Nature Club-Radhanagari, said: “The growth of karvy is one of the reasons for bison being driven out of their natural habitat. Karvy shrubs eat into grasslands that are needed for bison to live. In absence of grasslands, the animals start eating sugar cane which has long grass blades. Earlier, the jungle dwellers and even those living in the vicinity used dried-up karvy shrubs for construction of roofs and walls. However, that practice has now disappeared and, therefore, the growth of the shrub has become uncontrolled.” Prakash Abitkar, the MLA of Kolhapur’s Radhanagari constituency that has the Dajipur sanctuary with hundreds of bison, said the shrub has now covered the Radhanagari forest range to such an extent that the range should now be named after karvy. “Due to the rampant growth of the karvy shrub, the natural habitat of the bison is on the verge of being lost. In the coming times, only karvy will be found in the jungle. I have asked the foresters to remove the karvy shrubs and replace them with tall green grass — the natural food of the bison. I also have also requested the foresters to ensure that the bison population is controlled. Though many may not approve of this suggestion, I understand the pain of the farmers downhill, who are facing problems due to the bison damaging their crops on both sides of the ghats.” Even earlier, Abitkar had pitched for the culling of bison. The demand was made before then forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar. Abitkar had cited that the bison had killed more than 35 farmers in 10 years in and around Radhanagari. He pointed out that several wild animals are allowed to be killed to avoid human loss. Kerkar said the karvy shrub is endemic to the Western Ghats. However, its growth needs to be controlled. The flowers, after drying up, form seed balls which have a large number of seeds. Even in light moisture conditions, the seeds spread fast and germinate. The karvy shrubs bloom once every eight years. Experts claim the shrubs have significance that they prevent the weathering of the hill slopes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/uncontrolled-karvy-growth-eating-into-bison-habitat/articleshow/79980293.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Birth, death cert delay: Lens on KMC officials||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided to intensify vigil over the activities of some health department officials who are responsible for an abnormal delay in issuing birth and death certificates. The decision was taken following an order from KMC Board of Administrators (BoA) chairman, Firhad Hakim, said a civic source. Hakim on Saturday conceded that some citizens had reasons to feel worried for a delay in getting birth or death certificates. He asked the municipal commissioner, Binod Kumar, to streamline the process at the earliest. As part of the streamlining process, the commissioner was also asked to develop a mobile app that will replace the prevalent drop-box system amid the pandemic. Since the development of the app will take some time, the civic top brass wants to put lens on some officials. “We know that some touts are hand-in-glove with civic officials and they have been running a racket together. Taking the advantage of the pandemic, they are extorting those who need birth/death certificates urgently,” said a KMC health official. “We need to expedite the process of sorting and communicating to the applicants, who have submitted valid documents to appear before the birth/death certificate wing to receive their papers,” a Kolkata Municipal Corporation health department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/birth-death-cert-delay-lens-on-kmc-officials/articleshow/79981734.cms||Saikat Ray
December 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Minimum, maximum temps likely to drop to 3 and 18°C on New Year's Eve||NEW DELHI: The minimum temperature increased marginally on Sunday under the influence of a western disturbance, but India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the temperature was likely to fall from December 29. Met officials say New Year’s Eve may be colder as the minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to drop to 3 and 18 degrees Celsius, respectively. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 6 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal, while the maximum was 22.6 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Department, said, “There was a slight relief on Sunday due to a western disturbance. However, as it will pass on Monday, the temperature will again start dipping from December 29. Cold wave conditions are likely at a few places and shallow to moderate fog may be recorded in the morning from December 29 to January 1.” The minimum temperature is likely to be around 4 degrees Celsius from December 29 to January 1, but it may dip to 3 degrees on December 31. After the influence of western disturbance is over, the wind direction will change to northwesterly and cold winds from snowcapped western Himalayan region will blow to Delhi causing decrease in temperature. However, another western disturbance is forecast for January 2, which may again raise the temperature. Meanwhile, Delhi's air quality deteriorated and reached the upper end of “very poor” category with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 396 on Sunday. According to Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the air quality is likely to remain in “severe” to “very poor” category on Monday. On December 29, air quality would remain in the “very poor” category. VK Soni, head, Environment Monitoring Research Centre, IMD, said, “The air quality will remain in the severe category on Sunday night and Monday morning, but improvement is expected after that. Due to western disturbance, easterly wind is currently blowing in Delhi leading to increase in moisture content. Though wind speed of 10-15 kmph was reported on Sunday, high concentration of moisture led to deterioration in air quality.” Experts said high moisture levels make pollutants heavy, which slow down the dispersion process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cold-wave-to-usher-in-new-year/articleshow/79981713.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Bareilly postmaster penalised for default in payment to city firm||Ludhiana: A meeting of the District Delayed Payment Council (DDPC), which is headed by deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, Varinder Kumar was held recently. During the meeting, several matters related to Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) industry of Ludhiana and their cases with regard to delay in recovering their payments from their customers were also discussed. In one of the cases which came up for hearing, the postmaster of Bareilly has been penalised for not making timely payment to a Ludhiana firm. Several other similar cases were decided by the committee in this meeting. The DC reiterated that the delay in payments for supplies received from the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises would invite heavy penalty against defaulting buyers. Giving more information, Mahesh Khanna, convener of DDPC, and general manger of the District Industries Centre, Ludhiana, said, “A meeting of the DDPC was held recently under the chairmanship Ludhiana DC. Fortyseven references were enlisted for conciliation proceedings and nine cases were enlisted for arbitration proceedings in this meeting. During conciliation proceedings, observing no component of settlement in spite of providing ample opportunity to the stakeholders, the conciliation proceedings of four references, terminator and subject matter taken up for adjudication through arbitration by district council during arbitration proceedings gave ample opportunity to both claimant and respondent to give evidences in their respective claim and defence. While claimants such as M/S Khurana Hosiery Works, a micro category unit which had instituted reference petition against the postmaster, the Postal Stores Depot, Bareilly, pleaded before the district council that he had received only part payment and the balance principal amount was still pending. Taking cognizance of the evidences presented by the claimant and after detailed deliberations the council resolved to accept the reference of the claimant and an award of balance principal amount, along with compound interest with monthly interest at three times of the bank rate was pronounced in favour of the enterprises.” Khanna added that, “Similarly, an award of principal amount, along with interest there upon, was awarded in favour of another micro unit M/s MP Auto Industries of Transport Nagar, Ludhiana, whereas M/s RK Steel Industries, which said that after instituting the reference petition before this council the matter had been resolved amicably. He submitted an application for withdrawal of the reference, which was accepted by the council.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bareilly-postmaster-penalised-for-default-in-payment-to-city-firm/articleshow/79981056.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||City women take to wheels to back farmers’ agitation||Ludhiana: A group of women from the city took out a car rally in support of the farmers here on Sunday. It was headed by Arvinder Kaur Virk and Inderjit Kaur Virk, along with Arvinder Kaur Ghuman, Rani Deol, Bubbly Grewal, Paramjit Kaur Chahal, Sweety Waalia, Jasbir Gill, Balwinder Gill, among others. Students from different walks of life too attended the function and participated in the car rally, which saw many participants. The rally started from near a resort on Barewal Road and went up to Bharat Nagar Chowk and back. Arvinder said that the purpose of organising the rally was to inform the governments, both at the Centre and in states, that the entire nation was with the farmers and supported their demands. She added that they also wanted to make the people aware that farmers were fighting for the people of India and that ‘we should awaken our sleeping conscious’. “The message given to the government through this rally is that if required, then women can leave their household work and jump into this agitation, with the sole motive of getting the black laws withdrawn. When the entire world is claiming that the laws are bad, including lawyers and judges, then how can a Prime Minister and his ministry claim that the laws are good,” she said. “The farmers for whom the laws have been enacted do not accept these, then why is the government forcing these on them.” Ishwin Kaur Ghuman said that it was not a matter of politics as was being claimed by the government, but rather the matter was of inheritance. She added that the laws were illegal. “It is not the farmers’ agitation any more, rather it has become a civil society agitation, wherein people from all walks of life are participating. The laws which deprive the farmers of their right are bad laws. The government is doing false propaganda and the youth is aware about the illegal designs. The government cannot divide the Indian society on the basis of religion, caste or creed,” she said. “And that the government is alleging that the matter is that of farmers produce only is also wrong as the matter is of generations to come and of our generation also.” She added that any false propaganda by government could not divide the people, whether on the matter of Khalistan or CAA or Shaheen Bagh or of foreign funding or any other. “In fact, when Punjabis have been holding camps and langars across India during Covid or during disasters, then the government did not bother about funding and now to make the agitation political it was using all these sought of dirty tactics to divide the nation. The new generation is with the views and sentiments of farmers and shall stand by them,” the protesters said. The organisers said that people from all walks of life participated in Sunday's rally, thereby stating that people of the country were with the farmers and were against the laws. They added that all participants raised slogans in favour of farmers and also expressed their solidarity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-women-take-to-wheels-to-back-farmers-agitation/articleshow/79981059.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||Dayashankar Tiwari to be elected mayor at special GB||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has convened a special general body meeting on January 5 to elect city’ 54th mayor and deputy mayor. Sandip Joshi and Manisha Kothe had resigned from the post of mayor and deputy mayor on December 21. The meeting will be held at the Town Hall, Mahal. This will be the first in-person meeting after the five-day house held in June this year. At that meeting, the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe left the general body meeting midway following criticism by both ruling party and opposition corporators for ignoring them and not allowing development works in the city. After Nanda Jichkar completed her two-and-a-half-year term as mayor, the BJP had split the remaining term of 26 months into two. Though BJP has declared Dayashankar Tiwari’s nomination for the post of mayor, it has not yet declared a name for the post of deputy mayor. Party sources said Dayashankar Tiwari and Joshi were the main contenders when the mayor’s post was reserved for the general category. Being close aide of ex-CM Devendra Fadnavis, Joshi was given first chance to serve as mayor. Joshi completed his 13-month term on December 21. City BJP president and MLC Pravin Datke has said that the party would soon declare the name of new deputy mayor. It is being speculated that senior BJP women corporators Varsha Thackeray or Divya Dhurde may become deputy mayor. In the house of 151 elected members, BJP had 108 corporators, while Congress has 29, BSP 8, Shiv Sena 2, NCP one and one independent corporator. With BJP having majority, the election of city mayor will be just a formality. During Joshi’s election, he had won the elections by getting 104 votes while Ibrahim Khan from Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) had got 10 votes and Congress candidate Harshala Sable had got 26 votes. Tiwari will be the ninth non-Maharashtrian mayor of the city. Earlier, Lala Jainarayan, Pannalal Deshraj, Madan Gopal Agrawal, Rikhabchand Sharma, AA Antik, Vallabhdas Daga, Atal Bahadur Singh and Kalpana Pandey had served city as mayor. Pannalal Deshraj served two terms in 1957-1958 and 1960-1962.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dayashankar-tiwari-to-be-elected-mayor-at-special-gb/articleshow/79981811.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Inspiration behind Lapierre’s ‘City of Joy’ passes away at 93||HOWRAH: The messiah of the hapless in Howrah, who hand-held Dominique Lapierre through the alleys of poverty and distress in Pilkhana and other slums, when he did his groundwork for ‘City of Joy’, is no more. Father Laborde, the French Jesuit priest, who spent all his life serving the underprivileged, especially physically challenged children, was immortalised as Stephan Kovalski by Lapierre in his novel — ‘City of Joy’ — published in 1985, which was later filmed. He was 93 and died a natural death. The archdiocese of Kolkata will give him a final send-off on Monday. Last year, Laborde was conferred the Legion d’Honneur, the highest civilian award of France, for his tireless work among the underprivileged. French ambassador, Alexandre Ziegler, had gone to Howrah South Point in Andul, the home that Father Laborde set up for those in need, to confer the award. This was the second time that he won the award, the first time he was awarded by the late president Mitterrand. Born in Paris in 1927, he completed his studies in philosophy and went on to do his clerical studies at the Prado and became a priest in 1951. He taught philosophy at Prado for eight years and finally in 1965 he came to India. His seminal research work, Relations between Marginal and Integrated Populations in India, under the aegis of the Unesco, was his stepping stone into the world of poverty. He worked in Pilkhana for eight years where he set up Seva Sangh Samiti to improve the condition of the slum dwellers. Urged by the late Cardinal L T Picachy, Father Laborde started a rehabilitation home for the poor and physically challenged at Andul under the Nirmala Mata Maria Girja parish. His exemplary work with these children spread across the country and gradually grew into the Howrah South Point with wings across several districts of Bengal. There are several formal and non-formal schools, a colony of lepers and their children, health centres, mobile dispensaries, mother and child care centres etc. “Father Laborde worked silently and with great humility among the poor for more than 55 years. Religion, caste and creed did not matter to him as he reached the poorest of the society. He was always just a call away. And when praised, he would humbly say, he was just doing God’s work,” said archbishop Thomas D Souza, who has taken upon himself the responsibility of giving Father Laborde the respectful farewell he deserves. The body of the Jesuit priest will be kept at Mata Maria Girja at Andul first. A special mass will be organised by the archbishop at Andul after which the funeral service and mass will be held at St John’s Church at Sealdah, which will also be led by the archbishop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/inspiration-behind-lapierres-city-of-joy-passes-away-at-93/articleshow/79981820.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Everyone involved in decision was in state of anguish: Errol D’Souza||AHMEDABAD: It was not an easy decision for the top-ranked committee of the IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) to decide the fate of the dormitory buildings – part of the heritage campus designed by American architect Louis Kahn. Sources close to the development told TOI that it was a heated discussion with more than one member getting ‘emotional’. But the conservative estimate of Rs 5-7 crore for each dorm building repair – coming to about Rs 90 crore to Rs 126 crore – proved to be a clincher. Elaborating on the process, Prof Errol D’Souza’s letter to the son and daughters of Louis Kahn mentioned, ‘I can assure you that everyone involved in the decision was in a state of anguish about where the discussions were leading and at each point they hesitated and requested that we pause, re-think, and get back again to the discussion at a later meeting so as to give ourselves enough opportunities to evaluate the options in a considered manner.’ “But it was a contention between restoration versus new construction resembling the original one. The current structure does not serve the aspirations of the future business leaders with lack of amenities. Even when the institute has emotional connect with the structure, there was no assurance that how many more years the conservation would add,” said a source close to the development. “At the estimated budget for restoration, a new building could be constructed which can address majority of the current issues.” Heritage and conservation experts point at the ‘burden of history’ and the concept of shared heritage. “The conservation science has progressed much, and there are ways in which the buildings could be maintained with modern amenities. Of course it’s expensive, of course it requires expertise – it’s important to understand that restoration is almost always expensive than the new construction. But it’s important to conserve our legacy,” said a city-based conservation architect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/everyone-involved-in-decision-was-in-state-of-anguish-dsouza/articleshow/79981771.cms||Parth Shastri
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||Ayodhya Ram Temple project to cost Rs1,100 crore||Nagpur: Building the Ram Janmabhoomi Temple at Ayodhya will be a Rs1,100 crore project, to be completed completely from donations. “This includes over Rs300 crore needed to make the main structure of the temple itself,” said Govindeya Giri, treasurer of Ram Janmabhoomi Teerthkshetra Nyas — the trust formed to construct the temple after the Supreme Court ruling. Giri was in the city to announce the beginning of a month-long donation drive to collect funds for the temple building stating from January 15. This is a special campaign under which door-to-door contact will happen to collect donations through sale of coupons. Contributions for the temple other than the special drive have already begun and will continue, said Giri. So far Rs100 crore have been collected for the project. The Rs6 crore collected during the drive of 1990s has also been handed over to the trust, he said. Giri said the idea is to make Ayodhya the cultural capital of the world. The campus will have a number of facilities like a yagnashala, library and a martyrs’ memorial. “The memorial will pay homage to all those who have laid down their lives for the temple, which include those who fought the war during the invasion of 1528AD and also the karsevaks who lost their lives.” Giri said the design of temple’s foundation will be decided on Tuesday after a meeting with experts from IITs at Mumbai, Hyderabad, Surat and Roorkee. “They have come up with two suggestions for the foundation. After finalizing the plan in the meeting, we hope to start construction by January. It will take over three years to complete the temple structure,” he said. The earlier plan had been put up by Larsen & Toubro on the request of then president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad late Ashok Singhal. Now, alternatives are being explored, he said. During the donation drive coupons worth Rs1,000, Rs100 and even Rs10 will be sold. The idea is to get contribution from even the poorest for which coupons worth Rs10 will be sold. The donation drive has drawn flak from other parties, who call it be an election campaign of the BJP. Reacting to this, Giri said, “We have nothing to do with any party, yet if the drive helps the country in any way, then let it.” Donations will be sought from devotees of Lord Rama even in neighbouring countries like Nepal, Myanmar, Thailand, and Sri Lanka, and also Pakistan and Afghanistan. “The idea is to bring students from these countries to India. If the devotees of Lord Rama in such places feel isolated then we are here to assure them that India is always there for them. This way it will help build bridges too,” said Giri. BOX ‘No hosp at temple site’ On a question whether the trust will also build a hospital at the temple land, like the Sunni Wakf Board is doing on the 5 acre plot granted to it, Govindneya Giri said, “It’s not our job. The government is already taking up such work.” The wakf board had unveiled a plan of a mosque and a 200 bedded hospital at the site. Giri also commented on the farmers’ strike, calling it the handiwork of Pakistan and Khalistani elements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ayodhya-ram-temple-project-to-cost-rs1100-crore/articleshow/79995131.cms||Shishir Arya
December 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Kovai Kutralam falls reopens to visitors||Coimbatore: The forest department reopened the Kovai Kutralam falls, a popular tourist spot in the district, on Sunday, after a gap of nine months. As many as 1,996 people, including 218 children, visited the place on the first day. “Based on the direction of the state government, we ensured that the visitors had face masks and maintained social distancing. They were advised to use hand sanitizers and undergo temperature screening before buying tickets,” district forest officer D Venkatesh said. “The state government had announced that all tourist places will be reopened for public use some days ago. But as the falls is in the forest, we had to monitor movement of wild animals including elephants. We also carried out cleaning and repair works.”Visitors will be allowed from 10am to 3pm. Teams have been formed to ensure that public follow social distancing norms and wear face masks, an official said. “We sold tickets worth Rs 1.11 lakh on the first day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kovai-kutralam-falls-reopens-to-visitors/articleshow/79981768.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Which way will women swing this election?||For Dhanalakshmi L, a tailor, life has been a bumpy road. Hailing from rural Tamil Nadu and living at Guduvanchery near Chennai, the 36-year-old is a leader of a self-help group (SHG). Arranging loans, microcredits and motivating women in the village to become entrepreneurs, Dhanalakshmi, who has studied till Class XII, considers herself empowered. But the pandemic has been tough, orders have slowed down and so have finances.With an assembly election not far ahead, she nurses hope. There are discussions among the 49 members of her SHG as to which political party they should vote for. "With Jayalalithaa around, it was easy to make a choice. Kamal is a kalaignar (artist). Rajini rides on his rasigars (fans). What have they done for the people? We have to choose between the two big parties and see what they have in store for us," said Dhanalakshmi.So, which party will the women voters of Tamil Nadu choose? Normally, this question would seem redundant. But these are not ordinary times. DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi, the architect of the women’s self-help groups, and J Jayalalithaa, who crafted the Cradle Baby scheme to prevent female infanticide and feticide, are no more. They drew the women with schemes, doles and dynamism.But a pandemic is raging; some parties have forgotten about women power; the promise of prohibition has a history of flip flops and there are new attractions, like Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan, who may chip away at the dedicated women vote bank of the established parties. With women constituting a significant chunk of the state’s 6.1crore voters, 3.09cr as compared to 3.01cr men, according to the electoral rolls, political parties are sharpening their strategies to woo women voters ahead of the 2021 assembly election."The women are getting sharper. There’s more clarity about what they want," said actor Khushbu, now with the BJP. "This is the first election without the towering Dravidian leaders. This could well shake equations," she said. BJP’s Mahila Morcha national president Vanathi Srinivasan said her party had been highlighting all the Narendra Modi government schemes for women. "Jayalalithaa was the anthem of empowerment. Now all the political parties are eyeing woman voters. We are following the Bihar model where the BJP won over a chunk of the women segment," said Vanathi.In every election in TN, women were an important target audience. The ruling AIADMK has chosen to focus on booth committees, rather belatedly, packing them with 17 lakh women to lure women voters. "Our schemes for women are unmatched. Be it those formulated by former chief minister Jayalalithaa or CM Edappadi K Palaniswami," said AIADMK’s women’s wing chief Vijila Sathyanath. The latest scheme, providing medical assistance of `45,000 for hysterectomy, has received a lot of appreciation, she said.In the rival camp, Lok Sabha MP Kanimozhi is DMK’s arsenal to woo women with the party’s Vidiyalai Nokki Stalin-in Kural campaign. The Congress’s new Mahila Congress president for Tamil Nadu Sudha Ramakrishnan has launched a vituperative campaign against the AIADMK and allies, accusing them of ignoring women’s safety. "Indira Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi and Jayalalithaa were inspiring. But now women voters are disillusioned. There will be a migration to the DMK-led alliance," said Sudha.The surprise would be the party manifestos. "We have spoken to women across the state about their problems, needs and safety. Our manifesto will factor in this," said former minister Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan, a member of the DMK’s manifesto committee.With the Women’s Reservation Bill (to ensure 33% representation for women in the Parliament and assemblies) stuck in the Lok Sabha, there’s a dearth of leaders. The parties have not groomed enough of them to fill the void left behind by Jayalalithaa. For women like Dhanalakshmi, making a choice in this election wouldn’t be easy.Email your feedback tosouthpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/which-way-will-women-swing-this-election/articleshow/79981767.cms||Jaya Menon
December 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Check misuse of tractors: Activists||Coimbatore: Tractors bought using subsidy for promoting agricultural mechanization are used in brick kiln units in Thadagam valley, activists say.Most of the brick kiln owners had purchased tractors using the government subsidy, says S Ganesh, an activist. “The vehicles are used to carry bricks and red sand to the units. As many as 200 such tractors are operated in Thadagam valley. What is more alarming is that they are operated by adolescent guest workers, who don’t even have driving licence.”“The tractors are always overloaded. They often carry 25 tonnes of materials, more than double of what is permitted. The vehicles pose threat to commuters,” Ganesh says.The transport department last month seized two tractors that were used for commercial purpose during a surprise check and slapped a penalty of Rs 20,000 each on the owners. “Such surprise checks are conducted only at Somayampalayam, which is 7km away. But most of the vehicles are used in 24 Veerapandipudur, 22 Nanjundapuram Pirivu, Thanneerpandal near Thadagam, Mangarai and Periyathadagam Pirivu. We request the officials to conduct inspection at these places.”A group of activists had petitioned the transport department recently about the illegal use of the vehicles.A region transport officer said that tractors used illegally for commercial purposes will be seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/check-misuse-of-tractors-activists/articleshow/79981773.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Despite lockdown, 2020 sees more drug busts||NEW DELHI: Police are all set to intensify operations against narcotics syndicates from New Year’s with a crackdown being planned on the top cartels that are under the scanner. The crackdown on the drug cartels active in the city was ordered by Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava, who has directed the narcotics units to investigate the financial aspect in drug-related cases on priority and identify and seize properties acquired by drug cartels to weaken them at the grassroots level.  Recently, Shrivastava had asked the narcotics units to analyse drug syndicates and their operations. The study, which was released on Sunday, lists the top 10 active trafficking gangs and also identifies the source of most kinds of drugs being brought to the city. In 2020, 726 cases under NDPS Act were filed against 712 last year. The action is significant because the drug business was badly hit due to restrictions in movement during the lockdown months. In all, 882 people were arrested this year in drug-related cases. “Despite several months of lockdown, more FIRs were registered compared with the previous year. Steps are also being taken to give an impetus to financial investigation so that the illegally acquired properties of drug suppliers can be seized,” said Shrivastava. Since March, narcotics officials had been working on the twin objective of taking focused action against drug suppliers and educating the general public about drug abuse to curb the menace. The strategy was adopted by the narcotics cell of Crime Branch through a drive, along with other units. While Crime Branch and Special Cell were tasked to bust the interstate network of drug traffickers, district police arrested local peddlers and suppliers. “The concerted action led to busting of networks and arrest of drug dealers having links with suppliers in states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Manipur, among others,” said a senior officer. The analysis by police showed that the most commonly used drugs in Delhi were ganja, heroin, charas, cocaine, codeine syrup and inhalants. Among party drugs, LSD, MDMA, ketamine, methamphetamine and amphetamines were the most sought after contraband. “Stress was laid on busting the forward and backward chain of drug syndicates and to get suppliers prosecuted through proper investigation and argument of cases during trial. Even during the lockdown period, police kept pressure mounted on drug suppliers, developed information about traffickers and took timely action,” said the senior officer. The study claimed that Delhi was not a consumption hub, but more of a transit point for cartels transporting the contraband from other countries or states. “Mapping of hotspots has been done and teams constituted with specific tasks to arrest the drug traffickers. Focused action has yielded results with a huge seizure of contraband of different types, apart from busting of gangs,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/despite-lockdown-2020-sees-more-drug-busts/articleshow/79981733.cms||Raj Shekhar
December 28, 2020||Goa||Turtle nesting beaches to have ‘no-take zones’ demarcated||Panaji: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has drawn up a management plan for the state’s four Olive Ridley turtle nesting sites, recommending the demarcation of ‘no-take zones’ on these beaches to help preserve them in their current ecological conditions. Only marine conservation activities will be permitted in these zones. “The ‘no-take zone’ must be maintained as a sacrosanct space. While tourists will be permitted to enter this space, no extractive activities will be permitted over here. No shacks will be permitted. Riding of bikes, parties, bright lights, etc, will be prohibited. The beach ecology, including sand dunes, will be maintained and enriched with native beach vegetation species,” states the management plan, prepared with aid from the Centre for Environment Education, a body recognised by the Union environment ministry. The GCZMA said that the management plan is aimed at striking a balance between conservation efforts and livelihood and, therefore, it has been decided to set up a marine turtle interpretation centre in Morjim. The centre will create awareness on turtle nesting among locals and tourists, as per the management plan. The turtle nesting grounds in Morjim, Mandrem, Agonda and Galgibaga were surveyed to prepare the plan, as per a high court directive in a PIL. In the case of Agonda, the entire beach stretch will be a ‘no-take zone’. “The beach stretch of approximately 2.8km is a preferred nesting site of Olive Ridley turtles. The Goa forest department has had nesting records since the year 2000. The entire beach stretch has been designated ‘no take zone’. No shacks on the beach are permitted,” the management plan states. However, a fisheries livelihood zone will be allowed in Agonda to permit traditional ramponkars to carry out their small-scale fishing activities. The forest department has been told to come up with a ‘strict’ plan to be implemented in the ‘no-take zone’ during turtle nesting and hatching periods. Additional staffers will be deployed on the sites during the nesting period from October to May, the management plan states. A ‘sustainable tourism zone’ will be marked in beach stretches extending out from where the ‘no-take zones’ are marked. “Allotted number of shacks will be permitted in this zone following strict guidelines. This includes turning off lights and sound particularly during turtle nesting and hatching periods. The positioning of shacks will be based only by maintaining a mandatory distance of 20m each between shacks. Seasonal shacks permitted by the government should close operation no later than 8pm,” the management plan states. Deck beds, beach umbrellas, tables and chairs will have to be removed after sunset, as per the plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/turtle-nesting-beaches-to-have-no-take-zones-demarcated/articleshow/79983025.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Hundreds of DMK cadres arrested for holding ‘makkal gram sabhas’||Coimbatore: Scores of DMK cadres were arrested on Sunday for conducting ‘makkal gram sabhas’ across the district, campaigning for the ouster of AIADMK government.A day after a scuffle broke out between the DMK workers and police at Sowripalayam, the former held the ‘makkal gram sabhas’ in various places on the day, defying police prohibition. DMK functionaries C R Ramachandran and Krishnan alias Payya Gounder were among the arrested.In one venue, a group of AIADMK men interrupted the meeting and picked up a quarrel with the DMK cadres, sparking tension for a while. Police intervened and diffused the tension later.According to police, 100 DMK men were arrested at Uppilipalayam, 95 at Machampalayam and 80 at Kovaipudur. In all, 872 party workers, 280 of them women, were arrested in the district. All the arrested cadres were released in the evening, inviting criticism from the AIADMK men, who said the DMK workers had congregated once again in a different place and held the meeting.However, police maintained that they were following the rule book. “We arrested the DMK cadres because they gathered in the name of gram sabhas without obtaining any permission for such congregation. Similarly, we had to let them off later in the day as per legal provisions,” a police officer said.DMK men, meanwhile, said the gram sabhas have become a huge hit and were drawing droves of people. “The AIADMK government can’t digest this. Hence, they have deployed police to prevent the meetings.”Payya Gounder said large number of police personnel were deployed at the meeting venues in a bid to intimidate the villagers and prevent them from participating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hundreds-of-dmk-cadres-arrested-for-holding-makkal-gram-sabhas/articleshow/79981790.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Coimbatore||15.5kg gutka seized, MJK leader held||Coimbatore: The Tirupur city police on Saturday arrested I Hyder Ali, Tirupur urban district secretary of Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi (MJK), for possessing 15.5kg banned tobacco products (gutka).A police team conducting vehicle check at Olapalayam around 9pm had stopped Ali, 52, a resident of KNP Colony on Kangeyam Road, who was on a motorcycle. His bag contained the contraband.Police took him to Anupparpalayam police station and registered a case against him under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003. He was remanded in judicial custody.Ali used to supply the banned products to shops in Tirupur city, police said.A special team formed by Tirupur city police commissioner G Karthikeyan had seized more than 1,000kg banned tobacco products in the past two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/15-5kg-gutka-seized-mjk-leader-held/articleshow/79981818.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: New lessons as classrooms go virtual||CHENNAI: From kindergartens to universities, traditional classrooms have made way for digital learning. Changes that would have taken five to ten years happened in months. Students stayed home but attended classes, completed assignments and wrote tests: unthinkable at the beginning of the year. Now, the question is: What will happen to physical classrooms after the Covid-19 pandemic ends? Will students go to school or college as usual in 2021? Education experts say hybrid learning -- a mix of online and traditional -- will be the way going forward for all educational institutions. There are huge gains from the pandemic experience as institutions start producing video content for students. So, a student need not depend on classroom coaching alone. He or she can watch a video lecture on a particular topic anytime online and get doubts clarified. Teachers also will be forced to innovate in classrooms as students will expect more than what was taught inside the classrooms in pre-Covid days. Students took to new technology like fish to water. For example, 93% of engineering students have successfully completed the proctored online test. So AI-monitored exams could be the reality for college students, including those studying in distance mode from 2021. Some colleges also introduced online lab experiments using virtual reality technology. On the flip side, online classes have limitations; students can attend only three or four a day against seven periods in the physical classroom. There is also wide disparity in accessing digital devices and connectivity between rural and urban students. The divide between the rich and the poor has also deepened. Experts suggest that offering free data for educational purpose may bridge the digital divide to an extent. With the disparity in access to digital devices and connectivity in mind, the Tamil Nadu school education department aired video lessons on Kalvi TV from July. For classes XI and XII, the school education department uploaded video lessons children can access on their laptops. They have issued a time-table of telecasting the lessons. Many video lessons produced by experts were an instant hit among children from all types of schools. The state government also shifted its NEET training online and ran a test series with video lectures to prepare government school students for the medical entrance test. The state government also introduced 7.5% special reservation for government school students in MBBS/BDS courses. More than 300 poor students have joined medical colleges under this quota. The number of students enrolled for NEET coaching has doubled this year to 16,000. The state government also entered into an MoU to provide JEE coaching for government and government-aided school students. The central government has launched the National Education Policy in July. Many proposals in it, including common entrance exam for arts and science colleges and three-language formula faced opposition in the state. The state government has planned to reopen colleges and schools in a phased manner from January 2021. Colleges have already reopened for UG, PG final year students and research scholars from December first week. But, due to the Covid cluster at IIT Madras, the state government may decide to go slow. However, parents of students who are going to write board exams want schools to reopen in January. The exams of all boards are likely to be delayed by at least one or two months, though. All in all, 2020 has brought big change to the education sector, some good, some bad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-lessons-as-classrooms-go-virtual/articleshow/79984965.cms||A Ragu Raman
December 28, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: New lessons as classrooms go virtual||CHENNAI: From kindergartens to universities, traditional classrooms have made way for digital learning. Changes that would have taken five to ten years happened in months. Students stayed home but attended classes, completed assignments and wrote tests: unthinkable at the beginning of the year. Now, the question is: What will happen to physical classrooms after the Covid-19 pandemic ends? Will students go to school or college as usual in 2021? Education experts say hybrid learning -- a mix of online and traditional -- will be the way going forward for all educational institutions. There are huge gains from the pandemic experience as institutions start producing video content for students. So, a student need not depend on classroom coaching alone. He or she can watch a video lecture on a particular topic anytime online and get doubts clarified. Teachers also will be forced to innovate in classrooms as students will expect more than what was taught inside the classrooms in pre-Covid days. Students took to new technology like fish to water. For example, 93% of engineering students have successfully completed the proctored online test. So AI-monitored exams could be the reality for college students, including those studying in distance mode from 2021. Some colleges also introduced online lab experiments using virtual reality technology. On the flip side, online classes have limitations; students can attend only three or four a day against seven periods in the physical classroom. There is also wide disparity in accessing digital devices and connectivity between rural and urban students. The divide between the rich and the poor has also deepened. Experts suggest that offering free data for educational purpose may bridge the digital divide to an extent. With the disparity in access to digital devices and connectivity in mind, the Tamil Nadu school education department aired video lessons on Kalvi TV from July. For classes XI and XII, the school education department uploaded video lessons children can access on their laptops. They have issued a time-table of telecasting the lessons. Many video lessons produced by experts were an instant hit among children from all types of schools. The state government also shifted its NEET training online and ran a test series with video lectures to prepare government school students for the medical entrance test. The state government also introduced 7.5% special reservation for government school students in MBBS/BDS courses. More than 300 poor students have joined medical colleges under this quota. The number of students enrolled for NEET coaching has doubled this year to 16,000. The state government also entered into an MoU to provide JEE coaching for government and government-aided school students. The central government has launched the National Education Policy in July. Many proposals in it, including common entrance exam for arts and science colleges and three-language formula faced opposition in the state. The state government has planned to reopen colleges and schools in a phased manner from January 2021. Colleges have already reopened for UG, PG final year students and research scholars from December first week. But, due to the Covid cluster at IIT Madras, the state government may decide to go slow. However, parents of students who are going to write board exams want schools to reopen in January. The exams of all boards are likely to be delayed by at least one or two months, though. All in all, 2020 has brought big change to the education sector, some good, some bad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/new-lessons-as-classrooms-go-virtual/articleshow/79984967.cms||A Ragu Raman
December 28, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: New lessons as classrooms go virtual||CHENNAI: From kindergartens to universities, traditional classrooms have made way for digital learning. Changes that would have taken five to ten years happened in months. Students stayed home but attended classes, completed assignments and wrote tests: unthinkable at the beginning of the year. Now, the question is: What will happen to physical classrooms after the Covid-19 pandemic ends? Will students go to school or college as usual in 2021? Education experts say hybrid learning -- a mix of online and traditional -- will be the way going forward for all educational institutions. There are huge gains from the pandemic experience as institutions start producing video content for students. So, a student need not depend on classroom coaching alone. He or she can watch a video lecture on a particular topic anytime online and get doubts clarified. Teachers also will be forced to innovate in classrooms as students will expect more than what was taught inside the classrooms in pre-Covid days. Students took to new technology like fish to water. For example, 93% of engineering students have successfully completed the proctored online test. So AI-monitored exams could be the reality for college students, including those studying in distance mode from 2021. Some colleges also introduced online lab experiments using virtual reality technology. On the flip side, online classes have limitations; students can attend only three or four a day against seven periods in the physical classroom. There is also wide disparity in accessing digital devices and connectivity between rural and urban students. The divide between the rich and the poor has also deepened. Experts suggest that offering free data for educational purpose may bridge the digital divide to an extent. With the disparity in access to digital devices and connectivity in mind, the Tamil Nadu school education department aired video lessons on Kalvi TV from July. For classes XI and XII, the school education department uploaded video lessons children can access on their laptops. They have issued a time-table of telecasting the lessons. Many video lessons produced by experts were an instant hit among children from all types of schools. The state government also shifted its NEET training online and ran a test series with video lectures to prepare government school students for the medical entrance test. The state government also introduced 7.5% special reservation for government school students in MBBS/BDS courses. More than 300 poor students have joined medical colleges under this quota. The number of students enrolled for NEET coaching has doubled this year to 16,000. The state government also entered into an MoU to provide JEE coaching for government and government-aided school students. The central government has launched the National Education Policy in July. Many proposals in it, including common entrance exam for arts and science colleges and three-language formula faced opposition in the state. The state government has planned to reopen colleges and schools in a phased manner from January 2021. Colleges have already reopened for UG, PG final year students and research scholars from December first week. But, due to the Covid cluster at IIT Madras, the state government may decide to go slow. However, parents of students who are going to write board exams want schools to reopen in January. The exams of all boards are likely to be delayed by at least one or two months, though. All in all, 2020 has brought big change to the education sector, some good, some bad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/new-lessons-as-classrooms-go-virtual/articleshow/79984966.cms||A Ragu Raman
December 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Rs 90 lakh found hidden in secret compartments of abandoned car on outskirts of Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The highway robbery has taken a new turn with police unearthing Rs 90 lakh from the secret compartments in the car that was found abandoned on the outskirts of the city a day after an unidentified gang had taken it away from the Kerala-based realtor in the early hours of Friday. Police suspect the cash to be hawala money and have alerted the Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax Department. District superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said, “There were four secret compartments in the car - one each in the rear seat, driver seat, front seat and rear bumper. We found Rs 60 lakh from the rear bumper compartment and the remaining Rs 30 lakh from the rear seat compartment.” The realtor, Abdul Salam, 50, of Malappuram in Kerala, had initially told the KG Chavadi that he was robbed of the car while transporting Rs 27.5 lakh to his hometown from Bengaluru. While Salam said the money belonged to Mohammed Ali, of Malappuram, a gold businessman, the latter had refuted the former’s statements during police inquiry. “Salam had told us that it was Ali who asked him to transport the amount to Malappuram from Bengaluru. While Ali has denied any connection with the money, our teams have collected his call details and confirmed that he had visited Coimbatore on Friday morning and met Salam near Madukkarai. The two have given us contradictory statements,” Arularasu said. It is to be noted that as per the realtor’s police complaint, the gang had attacked him and his driver near Navakarai around 4.5am on Friday and made away with the car. The vehicle was found abandoned on Siruvani Main Road near Madampatti around 1am on Saturday. Arularasu said they had alerted the Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax Department officials about the cash seizure. “As of now, no one has claimed the ownership of Rs 90 lakh. So, we will surrender the cash before the Madukkarai judicial magistrate court on Monday. Two special teams are camping in Kerala to nab the robbers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/highway-heist-rs-90l-hidden-in-car-seized/articleshow/79981821.cms||A Subburaj
December 28, 2020||Delhi||Residents claim 14 trees felled illegally in Rohini||NEW DELHI: Residents of Rohini’s Sector-9 have alleged around 14 trees had either been completely hacked or heavily “pruned” at Amardeep apartments without prior permission from the forest and wildlife department. The felling took place between December 2 and December 9, and despite complaints made on Delhi Green helpline, no official had visited the site yet, they added. Sanjiv Kumar, president, Delhi residents’ front, who filed the complaint on December 3, alleged that the matter was not taken seriously by the forest officials, who were allowing illegal felling to continue until December 8. “We asked the contractors for permission, but they fled. After waiting for days for the forest department to visit the area, a complaint was finally made to Delhi Police on December 8,” said Kumar. He stated that police on a site visit found several men felling the trees. The woods were confiscated, while the men taken to the Prashant Vihar police station. A complaint through Delhi Police was forwarded to deputy conservator of forest (West), under whose jurisdiction Rohini falls, Kumar added. “We have also made a complaint on the LT listening post portal, with this grievance also sent to the forest department, however, no site visits have been carried out yet. Not only were the trees cut due to a lack of response, but we are yet to see any follow-ups,” said Kumar, stating his complaint status was still “pending”on the helpline. When TOI contacted DCF (West), Muan Guite on December 21, he said a team of forest officials would be sent to the spot for inspection “If no permission is found, suitable action will be taken,” said Guite. However, Kumar insisted that no one had visited the site yet. “There has been no progress on the matter,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/residents-claim-14-trees-felled-illegally-in-rohini/articleshow/79981772.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Dehradun||Now, U’khand forest minister calls road through Corbett of ‘strategic value’, writes to NSA Ajit Doval citing its ‘national significance’||Dehradun: Giving an all new twist to the controversy surrounding the construction of 88-kilometre-long Kandi Road, a proposed stretch cutting through the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) to reduce the distance between Garhwal and Kumaon regions by around 70 kilometres, Harak Singh Rawat, forest and environment minister of Uttarakhand, on Sunday said that the road has a strategic value and is of ‘national importance’. The minister said that the proposed road will be crucial for the safety of the country and ensure swift movement of Army troops during any emergency. Rawat has also written a letter to national security advisor Ajit Doval in this regard. Speaking with TOI, Rawat said, “Uttarakhand has the headquarters of the Indian Army’s Garhwal Rifles in Lansdowne and the headquarters of Kumaon Regiment in Ranikhet. Our state holds strategic importance and therefore, swift movement of Army troops is needed here. In case of an emergency, our forces might need a shorter and quicker route to Pithoragarh or Champawat. Here, the proposed Kandi Road can be of immense significance. Therefore, I have written to national security advisor Ajit Doval. Also, I intend to meet defence minister Rajnath Singh and discuss the issue with him very soon.” In 1998, the Supreme Court had rejected the proposal of Kandi Road and had agreed upon the construction of an alternate road through Uttar Pradesh. While hearing the writ petition — Navin M. Raheja Vs. Union of India and Others — filed in 1998, the apex court had stated that ‘it is the duty of the state to preserve and protect the Corbett National Park’ as it is a national asset. If constructed, the Kandi Road will cut through the 24-km-long buffer zone between Ramnagar and Khara Gate areas, a 21-km-long core breeding area of CTR, and a 32-km-long buffer zone between Kalagarh and Pakhro in CTR. Notably, Corbett has the highest tiger density in the world. On an average, the reserve has 19.7 big cats per 100 square kilometres. According to WII scientists, the proposed Kandi Road may lead to more incidents of animals getting hurt in accidents. Earlier on December 18, Rawat had announced a bus service through Pakhro-Morghatti-Kalagarh-Ramnagar route (Kandi Road stretch). “We are not yet opening up the stretch for public use as there are several legalities to it but it is my understanding that the road is of immense strategic importance and therefore, I want it to be constructed on priority for the safety of our nation,” added Rawat. Kandi Road is seen as the dream project of the incumbent state government as it would cut down the travel time for people of Kumaon and Garhwal regions. It was announced by the chief minister after assuming office in 2017. If the road is constructed, people will not have to pass by Najibabad, Nagina and Afzalgarh pockets of Bijnor district of Uttar Pradesh to travel between Garhwal and Kumaon regions. Back in 2017, WII scientists had stated that Kandi Road should ideally see the daylight soon as both Uttarkhand and Uttar Pradesh have BJP-led state governments. Also, the saffron party has a comfortable majority in the Centre as well. And an alternate route — road through Amangarh, Badapur, and Sauwala of Uttar Pradesh — would do the needful rather than passing through Kandi Road by fragmenting habitat of big cats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/now-ukhand-forest-minister-calls-road-through-corbett-of-strategic-value-writes-to-nsa-ajit-doval-citing-its-national-significance/articleshow/79980303.cms||Shivani Azad
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||DRI catches cargo of Dubai dry dates declared as scrap||Ludhiana: The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Ludhiana, seized 10 containers of dry dates that were misdeclared as metal scrap at the inland container depot (ICD), Hind Terminals Private Limited (HTPL), Kila Raipur, on Saturday night.Sources said the consignment valued at over Rs 1.25 crore had arrived from Dubai and the importer disguised dry dates as metal scrap to save heavy customs duty. The duty on scrap is in the range of 2.5-5% and on dates up to 200%.Sources said the operation, which was held under the instructions of the additional director general (ADG) Nitin Saini, was codenamed as D3 (DRI-Dry-Dates).Unlike the usual trend of misdeclaration in which the importers stuff the container with a portion of the declared goods, too, so as to mislead the inspecting authorities, in this case not a trace of the declared goods (scrap here) was found in the cargo.Various teams of DRI, led by additional director GS Bains and deputy director Pankaj Dwivedi, had been working on this operation for the past few days and gathered all intelligence about the shipment and its movement was tracked ever since it left Dubai for India. The role of some customs officials, who cleared this cargo, is also under the scanner. Sources said they allowed the clearance without proper checking. After the cargo’s seizure, more searches were under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dri-catches-cargo-of-dubai-dry-dates-declared-as-scrap/articleshow/79981065.cms||Mohit Behl
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: New lessons as classrooms go virtual||CHENNAI: From kindergartens to universities, traditional classrooms have made way for digital learning. Changes that would have taken five to ten years happened in months. Students stayed home but attended classes, completed assignments and wrote tests: unthinkable at the beginning of the year. Now, the question is: What will happen to physical classrooms after the Covid-19 pandemic ends? Will students go to school or college as usual in 2021? Education experts say hybrid learning -- a mix of online and traditional -- will be the way going forward for all educational institutions. There are huge gains from the pandemic experience as institutions start producing video content for students. So, a student need not depend on classroom coaching alone. He or she can watch a video lecture on a particular topic anytime online and get doubts clarified. Teachers also will be forced to innovate in classrooms as students will expect more than what was taught inside the classrooms in pre-Covid days. Students took to new technology like fish to water. For example, 93% of engineering students have successfully completed the proctored online test. So AI-monitored exams could be the reality for college students, including those studying in distance mode from 2021. Some colleges also introduced online lab experiments using virtual reality technology. On the flip side, online classes have limitations; students can attend only three or four a day against seven periods in the physical classroom. There is also wide disparity in accessing digital devices and connectivity between rural and urban students. The divide between the rich and the poor has also deepened. Experts suggest that offering free data for educational purpose may bridge the digital divide to an extent. With the disparity in access to digital devices and connectivity in mind, the Tamil Nadu school education department aired video lessons on Kalvi TV from July. For classes XI and XII, the school education department uploaded video lessons children can access on their laptops. They have issued a time-table of telecasting the lessons. Many video lessons produced by experts were an instant hit among children from all types of schools. The state government also shifted its NEET training online and ran a test series with video lectures to prepare government school students for the medical entrance test. The state government also introduced 7.5% special reservation for government school students in MBBS/BDS courses. More than 300 poor students have joined medical colleges under this quota. The number of students enrolled for NEET coaching has doubled this year to 16,000. The state government also entered into an MoU to provide JEE coaching for government and government-aided school students. The central government has launched the National Education Policy in July. Many proposals in it, including common entrance exam for arts and science colleges and three-language formula faced opposition in the state. The state government has planned to reopen colleges and schools in a phased manner from January 2021. Colleges have already reopened for UG, PG final year students and research scholars from December first week. But, due to the Covid cluster at IIT Madras, the state government may decide to go slow. However, parents of students who are going to write board exams want schools to reopen in January. The exams of all boards are likely to be delayed by at least one or two months, though. All in all, 2020 has brought big change to the education sector, some good, some bad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-lessons-as-classrooms-go-virtual/articleshow/79981819.cms||A Ragu Raman
December 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: New lessons as classrooms go virtual||CHENNAI: From kindergartens to universities, traditional classrooms have made way for digital learning. Changes that would have taken five to ten years happened in months. Students stayed home but attended classes, completed assignments and wrote tests: unthinkable at the beginning of the year. Now, the question is: What will happen to physical classrooms after the Covid-19 pandemic ends? Will students go to school or college as usual in 2021? Education experts say hybrid learning -- a mix of online and traditional -- will be the way going forward for all educational institutions. There are huge gains from the pandemic experience as institutions start producing video content for students. So, a student need not depend on classroom coaching alone. He or she can watch a video lecture on a particular topic anytime online and get doubts clarified. Teachers also will be forced to innovate in classrooms as students will expect more than what was taught inside the classrooms in pre-Covid days. Students took to new technology like fish to water. For example, 93% of engineering students have successfully completed the proctored online test. So AI-monitored exams could be the reality for college students, including those studying in distance mode from 2021. Some colleges also introduced online lab experiments using virtual reality technology. On the flip side, online classes have limitations; students can attend only three or four a day against seven periods in the physical classroom. There is also wide disparity in accessing digital devices and connectivity between rural and urban students. The divide between the rich and the poor has also deepened. Experts suggest that offering free data for educational purpose may bridge the digital divide to an extent. With the disparity in access to digital devices and connectivity in mind, the Tamil Nadu school education department aired video lessons on Kalvi TV from July. For classes XI and XII, the school education department uploaded video lessons children can access on their laptops. They have issued a time-table of telecasting the lessons. Many video lessons produced by experts were an instant hit among children from all types of schools. The state government also shifted its NEET training online and ran a test series with video lectures to prepare government school students for the medical entrance test. The state government also introduced 7.5% special reservation for government school students in MBBS/BDS courses. More than 300 poor students have joined medical colleges under this quota. The number of students enrolled for NEET coaching has doubled this year to 16,000. The state government also entered into an MoU to provide JEE coaching for government and government-aided school students. The central government has launched the National Education Policy in July. Many proposals in it, including common entrance exam for arts and science colleges and three-language formula faced opposition in the state. The state government has planned to reopen colleges and schools in a phased manner from January 2021. Colleges have already reopened for UG, PG final year students and research scholars from December first week. But, due to the Covid cluster at IIT Madras, the state government may decide to go slow. However, parents of students who are going to write board exams want schools to reopen in January. The exams of all boards are likely to be delayed by at least one or two months, though. All in all, 2020 has brought big change to the education sector, some good, some bad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-lessons-as-classrooms-go-virtual/articleshow/79984964.cms||A Ragu Raman
December 28, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: New lessons as classrooms go virtual||CHENNAI: From kindergartens to universities, traditional classrooms have made way for digital learning. Changes that would have taken five to ten years happened in months. Students stayed home but attended classes, completed assignments and wrote tests: unthinkable at the beginning of the year. Now, the question is: What will happen to physical classrooms after the Covid-19 pandemic ends? Will students go to school or college as usual in 2021? Education experts say hybrid learning -- a mix of online and traditional -- will be the way going forward for all educational institutions. There are huge gains from the pandemic experience as institutions start producing video content for students. So, a student need not depend on classroom coaching alone. He or she can watch a video lecture on a particular topic anytime online and get doubts clarified. Teachers also will be forced to innovate in classrooms as students will expect more than what was taught inside the classrooms in pre-Covid days. Students took to new technology like fish to water. For example, 93% of engineering students have successfully completed the proctored online test. So AI-monitored exams could be the reality for college students, including those studying in distance mode from 2021. Some colleges also introduced online lab experiments using virtual reality technology. On the flip side, online classes have limitations; students can attend only three or four a day against seven periods in the physical classroom. There is also wide disparity in accessing digital devices and connectivity between rural and urban students. The divide between the rich and the poor has also deepened. Experts suggest that offering free data for educational purpose may bridge the digital divide to an extent. With the disparity in access to digital devices and connectivity in mind, the Tamil Nadu school education department aired video lessons on Kalvi TV from July. For classes XI and XII, the school education department uploaded video lessons children can access on their laptops. They have issued a time-table of telecasting the lessons. Many video lessons produced by experts were an instant hit among children from all types of schools. The state government also shifted its NEET training online and ran a test series with video lectures to prepare government school students for the medical entrance test. The state government also introduced 7.5% special reservation for government school students in MBBS/BDS courses. More than 300 poor students have joined medical colleges under this quota. The number of students enrolled for NEET coaching has doubled this year to 16,000. The state government also entered into an MoU to provide JEE coaching for government and government-aided school students. The central government has launched the National Education Policy in July. Many proposals in it, including common entrance exam for arts and science colleges and three-language formula faced opposition in the state. The state government has planned to reopen colleges and schools in a phased manner from January 2021. Colleges have already reopened for UG, PG final year students and research scholars from December first week. But, due to the Covid cluster at IIT Madras, the state government may decide to go slow. However, parents of students who are going to write board exams want schools to reopen in January. The exams of all boards are likely to be delayed by at least one or two months, though. All in all, 2020 has brought big change to the education sector, some good, some bad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/new-lessons-as-classrooms-go-virtual/articleshow/79984968.cms||A Ragu Raman
December 28, 2020||India||Nadda shares Rahul speech, accuses him of ‘hypocrisy’||NEW DELHI: Sharing an old video of Rahul Gandhi’s speech in Lok Sabha in which he is advocating the need for farmers to get rid of middlemen and sell their produce directly to industry, BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday accused the Congress leader of playing politics over the ongoing farmers’ protest. The video clip is of Gandhi’s speech in the Lok Sabha in 2015. “What is this magic happening Rahul ji. You are opposing now what you had advocated earlier. You have nothing to do with the country's or farmers’ interests. You have to play politics only. But this is your bad luck that your hypocrisy will not work. People of the country and farmers have recognised your double standards,” Nadda tweeted in Hindi along with the video clip. The Congress has backed the farmers’ protest against three agriculture-marketing laws which give cultivators an option to sell their produce directly to private players. Agitating farmers have argued that these laws are aimed at weakening the existing government support for the farm sector, a charge denied by the Centre. In his speech, apparently made in the last Lok Sabha when he was an MP from Amethi, Gandhi is heard saying that a farmer during his trip to UP asked him to explain the “magic” behind a packet of potato chips costing Rs 10 while farmers sell potato for Rs 2 per kg. When he asked what they thought was the reason for this, the farmer said factories are located very far from them and if they could sell their produce directly there, they will get all the money without middlemen earning any cut, Gandhi is heard saying in the short video posted by Nadda. That was the idea behind a food park, and this is in a way what farmers and labourers of Amethi and 10-12 districts of UP have been fighting for, he says in the clip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nadda-shares-rahul-speech-accuses-him-of-hypocrisy/articleshow/79983915.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Dehradun||13-year-old boy among 3 killed in 2 road accidents||Haridwar: Three people, including a 13-year-old boy, were killed in two separate road accidents in Haridwar. The first accident was reported on Saturday night from Kankhal, when Kush (13), resident of Hanumant Puram colony under Kankhal police station, fell from his uncle’s motorbike in which he was riding pillion after his uncle lost balance, and was hit by a truck. He was taken to the district hospital where he died. In the second accident, two people going to Roorkee on a motorbike were hit by an unknown vehicle on Kaliyar-Roorkee road under Bhadrabad police station. They were identified as Ashok Kumar and Sitaram, both residents of Bhadrabad. Bhadrabad SHO Sanjeev Thapliyal told TOI, “Both bodies have been sent to the district hospital for post-mortem. We’re trying to identify the vehicle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/13-year-old-boy-among-3-killed-in-2-road-accidents/articleshow/79980304.cms||MS Nawaz
December 28, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital SSP & Haldwani med college principal among 427 new Covid cases||Dehradun: With 427 new cases of Covid-19 reported on Sunday, the state’s corona virus tally reached 89,645. Among those who tested positive were Dr C P Bhaisora, principal of Susheel Tiwari Medical College and Nainital Superintendent of Police S K Meena. Nainital chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Bhagiratji Joshi confirmed that the principal of the medical college in Haldwani had tested positive, along with his wife and mother-in-law. “The district SSP also tested positive. They have all been admitted to Susheela Tiwari Medical College, and are stable,” added Dr Joshi. A woman who has just returned from England also tested positive in Udham Singh Nagar. Her sample was sent to test for the new virus strain at the virology lab in Delhi. The health department in Haridwar also tested 19 people who have recently returned from England. Their reports are awaited, said Dr S K Jha, CMO, Haridwar. Meanwhile, 24 students tested positive in Uttar Kashi district in the last two days. “The health department had done random sampling of over 100 students, out of which 24 tested positive in four blocks of the district. Their contact tracing is being done, as many of them have recently attended school and met their friends,” said Dr D P Joshi, CMO, Uttar Kashi. Among the 427 new cases, 172 were reported in Dehradun, followed by 106 in Nainital, 34 in Haridwar, 27 in Uttar Kashi, 25 in Udham Singh Nagar, 24 in Tehri, 11 in Pauri, seven each in Pithoragarh and Champawat, five in Chamoli, four each in Rudraprayag and Bageshwar, and one in Almora. “Seven Covid deaths were also reported, taking the state’s Covid toll to 1,483. With 229 people recovering from the infection on Sunday, total recoveries reached 81,383,” said Abhishek Tripathi from the state’s Covid-19 control room. Uttarakhand tested 1 lakh samples last week, which is the highest number of tests done in a week in the past seven months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainital-ssp-haldwani-med-college-principal-among-427-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79980305.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 28, 2020||Jaipur||Raj seeks changes in proposed norms for hybrid energy parks||Jaipur: Seeking modifications to the proposed norms for hybrid energy parks, Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation (RRECL) as written to the Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy to reduce threshold of capacity utilisation factor (CUF) for wind power to between 25-30% instead of 30%. Chairman and managing director of RRECL Subodh Agarwal said said that given the moderate wind speed in Rajasthan, a lower level of CUF will help the state to realise it huge potential. “We have a potential for about 127 gigawatt wind power potential in the state. For hybrid parks will play a significant role in realising the potential. That’s why we have suggested MNRE to bring down CUF level to between 25-30% which will encourage a lot of investors given the other advantages the state provides in terms of barren and semi-fertile land, high levels of solar radiation and related infrastructure.” Over the past few years, the attention has shifted to solar projects because of lower rates. Wind capacity has not increased much owing to other regulatory issues as well. The hybrid park scheme would lend a required impetus to the sector. “We want to see wind also contributing a substantial share of the renewable energy. That’s why the hybrid park scheme is important for us,” added Agarwal. In Hybrid parks, both solar and wind power projects are set up. As per the concept note of the MNRE, the general size of the parks are stipulated at 500 MW or more even as small parks are allowed at 50 MW or more. Central financial assistance is offered to the parks which includes Rs 25 lakh per park to park developer for DPR preparation and Rs 20 lakh per megawatt or 30% of the park development cost to park developer, whichever is lower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-seeks-changes-in-proposed-norms-for-hybrid-energy-parks/articleshow/79981816.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Corpn to install 3 incinerators to process dry waste||Chennai: After Manali, Greater Chennai Corporation has planned to install three more incinerators in the city. Recently, the civic body called for tenders to supply, install and commission incinerators in Ambattur, Ayanavaram and Kodungaiyur. These incinerators will be able to process 100 tonnes of non-recyclable dry waste a day. Through these incinerators, corporation will be able to convert non-recyclable dry waste into fly-ash which may be used for making bricks. The corporation has instructed that the incinerator plants should follow emission standards pertaining to particulate matter, SOx and NOx and other environmental pollutants. Monitoring will be real-time with feeds being provided to Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. The noise levels should not exceed 85 decibels one metre from the equipment surface. This is part of a plan to ensure that fewer quantity of waste is sent to the city’s dumpyards in Kodungaiyur and Perungudi. Already, the corporation has begun to convert wet, bio-degradable waste into manure at micro-compost centres in the city. According to official sources, around 5,200 tonnes of waste is generated in Greater Chennai Corporation limits across 15 zones. Official data shows that 68% of this waste comes from residential sources, 16% from commercial establishments, 14% from marriage halls, schools and other institutions and the remaining 2% from industries. Dry waste is 49% of the total waste generated, while remaining 51% is wet and organic. Solid waste management rules, 2016, mandate that local bodies must process or recycle the waste. The techniques available include composting centres, biogas plants, bio-methanisation plants and incinerators for dry, non-recyclable waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-to-install-3-incinerators-to-process-dry-waste/articleshow/79981836.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: High-risk passengers from UK resist institutional quarantine||LUDHIANA: With a female from Ludhiana testing positive on her return recently from the United Kingdom, where a new strain of coronavirus has been detected, the health officials of Ludhiana department have swung into action to track and institutionally quarantine the high-risk passengers sitting in her proximity in the flight. But, most of them are unwilling to undergo institutional quarantine, an official revealed. According to the health officials, in all 25 persons had returned from the UK by that flight, out of whom 12 are considered to be in high-risk category, as they were sitting close to the woman carrying the infection, and they need to be institutionally quarantined before their sampling is done. However, as of now, the authorities have met with only limited success, as they are facing resistance from the returnees. So far, only one of them has enrolled for institutional quarantine. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the high-risk contacts are to be first institutionally quarantined for seven days and if they test negative after that, they would be home quarantined. Asked what the department would do to institutionally quarantine the UK returnees who have already left for their homes, the civil surgeon said, “We will bring them back.” A health department officer, who is directly involved with the process, said of the 25 returnees, 12 low-risk persons are under home quarantine. “Even though the remaining 12 tested negative at the airport and have left for their homes, they need to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine. After that, their samples will be taken again, as the incubation period of the virus is 14 days. But, the main problem is their reluctance to undergo institutional quarantine…they are posing resistance. Of the 12 returnees, only one person has enrolled at Khanna sub-divisional hospital, while the families of seven to eight passengers say they are out of the state. Similar excuses are being made by the relatives of the rest high-risk passengers as well,” said the officer. The health department officer also appealed to all the high-risk persons to undergo institutional quarantine for their own good, and that of their families and the society in general. Woman shifted to civil hospital The 35-year-old female UK returnee, hailing from Payal area, had tested positive for the virus after her sample was taken at the Amritsar airport on landing there, health officials said. She was shifted to the Ludhiana civil hospital on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/high-risk-passengers-from-uk-resist-institutional-quarantine/articleshow/79981077.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Greater Chennai Corporation ropes in contractors to run composting centres||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation has engaged contractors to maintain 180-odd micro composting centres. These centres were being managed by the local conservancy inspector, assistant engineer and officials from the solid waste management team. But with complaints that the centres were becoming dump yards, a decision was taken to engage three contractors, said a senior corporation official. “We have been working with residential welfare associations, NGOs and waste management experts to better manage the waste locally. The new contractor has been collecting waste door-to-door. We wanted to ensure that wet waste is not dumped in the bins. That waste should be brought to these centers where they are composted. Now, these contractors will be held responsible for it and our staff would be more active in creating awareness on segregation,” said N Mahesan, chief engineer, solid waste management. At these centres, waste is segregated and wet waste is filled in pits. Cow dung and chemicals are added to speed up the compost process. In Kodambakkam zone, there are seven micro composting centres that produce 20 tonnes of manure a month. “We have seen an improvement in the maintenance of these centers. They are running to full capacity now,” said T P Jai Beam, Kodambakkam zonal officer. Vamsi Sankar Kapilavai of Citizen Consumer and Civic Action Group said 60% of the waste generated in the city is bio-degradable. “This means 60% of the problem will be solved if these centres function. We hope that these contractors run these centres to full capacity and maintain them properly as there were complaints earlier about them turning into mini dump yards,” he said. Urbaser-Sumeet, the company that has taken over the waste collection and transportation contract in seven zones, has begun transporting the waste into these centres. The civic body is planning to set up more composting centres across the city. “Odour, maintenance and improper functioning of these centers irked residents. We are hopeful all that will change now,” said a corporation official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/civic-body-ropes-in-contractors-to-run-composting-centres/articleshow/79981902.cms||Komal Gautham
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Chakar boxing girls making their mark sans govt support||Ludhiana: Even as the boxing girls of Chakar village in Ludhiana district have continued winning medals and doing both state and country proud, with the change of government in the state, the promises made by the previous government to support budding players of the village have been forgotten.In 2015, when Chakar girl Mandeep Sandhu had won a gold medal for the country in Junior World Boxing Championship in Taipei, then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal had announced to turn the Chakar Sports Academy (CSA) into an extension centre of the Sports Authority of India’s (SAI) training centre. Badal had also asked then deputy commissioner Rajat Agarwal to submit an action plan to make the village a sports hub.However, when the government changed in 2017, everyone forgot about sports promotion and the support needed to the aspiring sportspersons. Despite that, the Chakar girls continued with their victory streak. Recently, Simranjit Kaur from the village won a gold medal in the Boxing World Cup in Cologne, Germany. Simranjit is also the first Punjab girl to have qualified for the Tokyo Olympics. But, apart from showering some praise on her, the state government has done little to promote sports in her village.However, the villagers and others running the CSA have now approached the government to get a sports wing to it. Balwant Singh Sandhu, a representative of the academy, has written to Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi in this regard.Balwant Sandhu said, “Chakar village got attention in 2015 when village girl Mandeep Sandhu bagged a gold medal in Junior World Boxing Championship. After that, then CM Parkash Singh Badal had announced to make CSA an extension centre of SAI. The project kept getting delayed and eventually everyone forgot about it. For some time, boxing coaches of the Punjab sports department were sent here, but nobody stayed here for long, as they were transferred within months.”At present the Chakar academy has total 80 girls and boys, who are getting boxing training from private coaches hired by the academy. Balwant Sandhu further said another Chakar girl Harprit Kaur also won a bronze medal in 4th National Cup, Serbia-2015 in 2016 and a silver medal in Khelo India Youth Games-2019, Pune (U-21). If provided better diet as well as coaching by better coaches, the Chakar girls can win more medals for the country, he said.“I have written to the sports minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi and the state government to make a boxing wing in Chakar village and support the young talent. If that happens, our academy will also start training girls for other sports like wrestling. I am hoping for a positive response from the government,” added Sidhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/chakar-boxing-girls-making-their-mark-sans-govt-support/articleshow/79981068.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Virus claims 2 lives, infects 53||Ludhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 53 tested positive on Sunday.As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 54-year-old man of Lakkar Bazaar with hypertension, who died at DMCH; and an 82-year-old man of Gurdev Nagar, who too had hypertension and passed away at Deep Hospital.The day also saw a patient from Moga succumbing to the disease and 22 outsiders testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll has risen to 958 and that of outsiders to 443.To date, 5,29,995 persons have been tested.Of the 53 new cases, 23 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 12 positive cases’ contacts, 12 from OPD, four through tracing process, one healthcare worker and one severe acute respiratory infection case.The local health department officials said the district case count was 24,649 and that of outsiders 3,660.So far, 23,285 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.46% of the total cases.There are 403 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,549.On Sunday, 100 persons were quarantined and 2,222 samples collected.Three patients, including one of Ludhiana, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-claims-2-lives-infects-53/articleshow/79981072.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||District records lowest weekly Covid-19 case count after July||Ludhiana: In a major improvement in the Covid-19 scenario, the district recorded the lowest number of new cases in the past seven days since July.This despite the fact that daily tests in July were much less than now.The latest health department data suggests that between December 20 and 26, as many as 275 cases were reported. However, from December 13 to 19, the number of cases was 467 and a week before, 516.The data since July 6 shows that after reaching the highest value of 2,802 cases between September 13 and 19, the figure fell to 523 between October 11 and 17 and to 325 from October 25 to 31. However, after that the number of cases increased and were 439 between November 1 and 7, 610 from November 8 to 14 and 696 between November 22 and 28. The figure then started descending and settled at the present value.As per the latest state media bulletin, Ludhiana is at number three spot in the state in number of new cases in seven days. SAS Nagar is at the top with 447 cases and Jalandhar second (288). Tarn Taran and Barnala districts have the lowest number of new cases in seven days—7 each.The health department authorities said the cases were likely to decrease further.“It is good that cases in a week have decreased and are less than July. We hope the fall continues. We request the residents to follow the pandemic guidelines to contain the spread of the virus,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.More testing nowAfter July 6, the daily tests in the month were between 373 and 1,163 and the new cases in seven days varied between 297 (on July 12) and 1,109 (from July 27 to August 2). As the number of daily tests ranged between 640 and 4,344, the weekly cases were between 1,671 (in seven days from August 16) and 2,296 (in seven days from August 23).In September, the daily testing was between 2,900 and 5,636, and the weekly number of cases between 1,007 (in week starting October 3) and 2,802 (in seven days from September 19). The daily tests mostly remained between 2,000 and 3,000 in October, November and December. The cases in seven days in each month mostly witnessed a fall. Even as there have been fluctuations during these months, the weekly case count was never beyond 750-mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/district-records-lowest-weekly-covid-19-case-count-after-july/articleshow/79981083.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 28, 2020||Goa||Rise in heavy rainfall events may hit Goa’s water security||PANAJI: Goa’s mean annual rainfall has increased by 68%. While this may seem like a blessing for the environment, it is actually light and moderate rainfall that sustain biodiversity, agriculture and ecosystems. “What further complicates the water security scenario for the state is the fact that very heavy rainfall events are projected to increase under climate change scenarios,” professor Rajiv Chaturvedi of BITS Pilani K K Birla Goa campus said in his analysis for the Goa State Action Plan on Climate Change. In a recent publication of the state environment ministry, Chaturvedi, who was a member of the climate change action plan panel, said that climate change, like in the rest of the world, has already started affecting Goa’s pristine climate. “Our analysis of more than 100 years of climate data for the state suggests that the climate of Goa state has already changed in the last century under the influence of rising greenhouse gases in the atmosphere,” Chaturvedi said. He explained that in 2019, Goa witnessed floods that marred over 1,300 hectare of crops, leading to estimated losses of at least Rs 10 crore, and that barely a year later, it saw one of its heaviest monsoons on record. “Very heavy and exceptionally heavy rainfall events have increased by more than 100%. It is interesting to note that it is the moderate and light rainfall events that nourish biodiversity, agriculture, various life forms and ecosystems, whereas very heavy and exceptionally heavy rainfall events create devastation, floods and chaos to life forms as well as to different natural and production systems. Unseasonal rainfall events have also increased in the state,” Chaturvedi said. Exceptionally heavy and extreme rainfall events, which are rare today, are projected to become commonplace in future climate change scenarios for Goa, he said. “Our study concludes that increasing frequency of very heavy and exceptionally heavy rainfall events in Goa are one of the key impacts of climate change witnessed in the state. We should worry about how such events may evolve in future and may affect the state’s climate, economy and biodiversity.” The Goa State Biodiversity Board recently drafted the State Action Plan on Climate Change with the help of Nabard, and Chaturvedi carried out the long-term climate change analysis for Goa based on Nabard’s request. He studied how the temperature and rainfall profile in the state has changed in the last 118 years (from 1901-2018) and how it is likely to change in future up to the year 2100 under different climate change scenarios.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rise-in-heavy-rainfall-events-may-hit-goas-water-security/articleshow/79983026.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Blow to pre-nursery schools as Covid plays out||NEW DELHI: Chetna Singh and her partner left their jobs two years ago to start a playschool in north Delhi after realising that their neighbourhood offered no Montessori education. They had hoped to expand the school this year, but are instead finding it hard to sustain their project. Playschools like theirs have been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. Budget private school which provide education at very affordable costs, are struggling, but playschools are worse off because offering online classes for tots is neither practical nor feasible. This means that since March they have collected almost nothing as fees and have had no new admissions. Playschool operators don’t see things changing before the Covid vaccine becomes available. Singh, 40, whose playschool in Model Town is called Sensory Steps, sighed, “We are right at the bottom in the hierarchy of schools. It is unlikely we will be able to reopen this year.” Sensory Steps caters to 24 children aged 18 months to two years. Singh is lucky she hasn’t had to consider closing her school because the building belongs to her. Vibha Kumar who has run Little Creative Minds in Greater Kailash since 1992 is similarly relieved not to be a rent payer. None of her around 70 students remain on the rolls, though her employees have stood by her. “The vaccine is the only solution to our revival,” said Kumar with certainty. “It is premature to assess the damage caused by the pandemic to playschools. The parents must be exasperated at not being able to provide learning to their children, but they cannot take chances.” It is the age of the students that makes parents risk-averse. Most are 18 months old at the time they enter playschool. Yet because of the age factor, admission also takes place round the year. In 2018, Delhi High Court set some ground rules for playschools, but they are largely unregulated. An earlier study had determined a growth of around 19% over 2019-24 for preschools, so they were seen as lucrative sources of income. But Covid has played spoilsport. Kumar observed that those operating as franchisees of playschool brands were bearing the brunt of the economic repercussions of the pandemic. “They have to pay a high royalty, and perhaps haven’t got good returns on their investment in four years, especially this year,” she said. Franchisees of schools like Kidzee, Mother’s Pride and Shemrock pay Rs 5-12 lakh as licence fee. The owner of a Mother’s Pride franchise in Rohini concurred. “We are almost on the verge of closing down with the rent simply unpayable now,” said the owner, who has run the institution for three years. “Parents are not interested in online classes, which means there is no money. A few more months of this and our business will be over, though children will lose out on their early learning years.” This last fact was noted by UNICEF in its report in May. The “Guidance for re-opening of pre-schools and kindergartens post-Covid19” reports says, “…the decision to reopen kindergartens might come before decisions to reopen primary or secondary schools. Given the role preschools serve in supporting not only children but also the ability of parents to return back to work, the loosening of lockdowns also means young children will need care urgently as their parents return to work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/blow-to-pre-nursery-schools-as-covid-plays-out/articleshow/79981893.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 28, 2020||Dehradun||Teams formed under SDMs to ensure ban on NY celebrations||Dehradun: In order to enforce the ban on New Year's celebration in restaurants, bars and clubs on December 31 and January 1, Dehradun district magistrate has set up teams under Sub divisional magistrates (SDMs). The teams will not only ensure mandatory screening of tourists coming to Mussoorie but also keep a close watch on any social gathering at public places. The officials said that huge gatherings at private prosperities will also be checked. SDM Mussoorie, Manish Kumar, along with officials from Nagar Palika are keeping a track on the movement of the tourists coming to Mussoorie for celebrating the New Year. The officials also said that information related to possible celebrations at clubs and restaurants are being taken seriously and teams will keep a vigil on December 31 as well. Any individual found flouting Covid-19 norms will be booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/teams-formed-under-sdms-to-ensure-ban-on-ny-celebrations/articleshow/79980312.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Opening of locker of accused: Wife, 2 bank officers booked in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Taking cognizance of the complaint filed by the Central GST (CGST) commissionerate, Ludhiana, in the case of operation of the bank locker of a businessman while he was in judicial custody for bogus billing, Daresi police registered an FIR against three persons on Saturday night. The accused include the manager and the assistant manager of the bank and the businessman’s wife, who operated the locker. Non-bailable sections have also been slapped against them and raids are on to trace them. Sub-inspector Chaman Singh, who is investigating the case, said, “On the complaint of CGST commissionerate, we have registered an FIR against manager Manpreet Singh and assistant manager Manish Verma of Capital Small Finance Bank Limited, Sunder Nagar Branch, and Yashita Jain under sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC for fraud, forgery, cheating and abetment to an offence. Teams have also been formed to nab the accused.” The complaint lodged by Anil Dogra, inspector, CGST commissionerate, Ludhiana, with the police commissioner’s office stated, “This office is investigating a case of fake input tax credit (ITC) against Sahil Jain, who was found to be involved in bogus billing of invoices having value more than Rs 252 crore, involving input tax credit of more than Rs 17 crore in respect of 14 firms created and operated by him…without actual movement of any goods and causing loss to the government exchequer. Jain was sent to judicial custody on November 11 and his bail application was dismissed by the court. During investigations, some bank accounts and a bank locker maintained in Capital Small Finance Bank Limited, Sunder Nagar, Ludhiana, were found to be operated on November 12 at 12.15pm... Thereafter bank’s assistant manager Manish Verma and manager Manpreet Singh were summoned…Verma stated that the locker was operated by Yashita, wife of Jain. He also stated that he allowed her to operate the locker on the directions of the manager and he himself forged the signatures of Jain…. The manager stated Yashita requested him that she wanted to operate Jain’s locker urgently as he was out of town and she needed some documents.” The motiveSources in the department said, “The wife of the accused might have taken the risk of operating his locker to dispose of cash or other assets amassed by him or to destroy documents related to the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/opening-of-locker-of-accused-wife-2-bank-officers-booked/articleshow/79981080.cms||Mohit Behl
December 28, 2020||Surat||Surat goon breaks Covid rules for birthday bash, booked||SURAT: After his video on birthday celebration went viral on social media, Olpad police registered an offence of violation of public notification and negligent act that can spread disease against history sheeter Surya Bangali, a resident of Gopipura, on Sunday.Bangali celebrated his birthday at a farm within the limits of Olpad police station in presence of family and friends on December 25 bursting firecrackers besides cake cutting and blaring music. Bangali shared the celebration video on his Facebook that sparked a controversy. “It was a private function in a rented farmhouse with less than 100 attendees. It was within the norms but as the people present in the party were seen to be not wearing masks, an offence has been registered,” said a police officer. The accused was booked for violation of public notification, unlawful act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life and Epidemic Diseases Act. Bangali is known for celebrating his birthday parties in the presence of huge gatherings. In the past, his videos of birthday celebrations at public places sparked controversy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bangali-breaks-covid-rules-for-birthday-bash-booked/articleshow/79981097.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Dehradun||Co-accused in rape, murder of Haridwar minor arrested from Sultanpur, UP||Haridwar: The co-accused in the rape and murder of an 11-year-old from Rishikul, Haridwar, was arrested by Haridwar Police from Sultanpur district, Uttar Pradesh, on Sunday morning, after a week-long hunt. The minor was found dead on Sunday at her neighbour’s place, the prime accused in the case, who confessed to assaulting and strangling her. While the main accused was arrested the next day, the co-accused, his uncle, a resident of Gorakhpur, UP, went missing. Police had placed a bounty of Rs 1 lakh on his head and sealed district borders to prevent his escape. On Saturday, Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar had reviewed and asked for daily updates on the case and Haridwar police had arrested the co-accused’s brother from New Haridwar, saying he helped the man get away and held crucial information on his whereabouts. Police said the man is a property dealer by profession and managed to slip away from the site of the crime despite heavy police presence. He first reached Roorkee, then Dehradun and finally left for Uttar Pradesh after borrowing some money from an acquaintance. According to police, in eastern UP, the accused hid in Faizabad, Barabanki, Sulatnpur and Basti. Circle officer (CO), Manglaur, Abhay Singh, who was leading the search in Uttar Pradesh, told TOI, “The man was clever not to use any electronic device to contact anyone. We received a tip-off that he was in Sultanpur. We reached his relatives’ place there but did not find him right away. However, our team was eventually able to nab him.” Police said that around 200 persons, including relatives and friends of the accused had been questioned and footage from 900 CCTV cameras was inspected before the accused was finally caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/co-accused-in-rape-murder-of-haridwar-minor-arrested-from-sultanpur-up/articleshow/79980325.cms||MS Nawaz
December 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||11 who returned from UK, Europe tested +ve||Ahmedabad: The state health department on Sunday announced that a total of 1,148 persons came to the state from the UK and other European countries between December 9 and 23. Out of the total, 11 passengers have tested positive. These include four from Ahmedabad, two each from Anand, Vadodara and Bharuch, and one from Valsad. Samples of these persons have been sent to Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) and National Institute of Virology (NIV). “The result will indicate whether the new strain found in the UK was present. All of them are under observation,” said a senior official. He said the result is expected in eight to 10 days. The state officials said that those tested upon return include CM Vijay Rupani’s daughter Radhika, her husband Nimit and their son Shaurya. All have tested negative in RT-PCR test, they added. According to the guidelines issued by the Government of India, all those who have returned from the European nations between December 9 and 23 will have to stay in isolation, whereas those who have returned from November 25 to December 8 will have to self-monitor and report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-who-returned-from-uk-europe-tested-ve/articleshow/79981936.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||Sameet Thakkar baits Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackrey with tweet to rename Aurangabad||NAGPUR: Sameet Thakkar, whose tweet against chief minister Uddhav Thackrey had led to his arrest in October, is back in action. In a tweet, Thakkar, a BJP sympathizer, has asked Thackrey to fulfil his late father and Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray’s dream and rename Aurangabad city as Sambhajinagar. In 2019, the same demand had been made by a Shiv Sena leader, targeting the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for ignoring the renaming demand. The city in Marathwada that has been named after Mughal emperor Aurangzeb was also the place where Maratha king Sambhaji was held captive by the former’s troops before being executed in New Delhi. Shiv Sena had raised the renaming demand in the 1990s too. In one of his earlier tweets, that had led to a controversy, Thakkar had called the chief minister modern day Aurangzeb. Thakkar’s recent tweet says, “I called @officeofUT Modern Day Aurangzeb, for which his party has filed a case against me. Now that Aurangabad corporation is going to the polls, I hereby announce that I will apologize to the CM, if he fulfils late Balasaheb Thackerayji’s wish of renaming Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar.” The tweet has received 2,895 retweets and 13.8k likes. It was also retweeted by former MLA and energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, who is from Nagpur. Even as Sameet did not come forward, his brother Rishi spoke on his behalf, saying this was his first tweet related to Thackeray after his release on bail. “Sameet was arrested from Rajkot on October 24 and released on bail after 20 days. He was kept in custody both at Mumbai and Nagpur,” said Rishi. Rishi said it has been reported by a certain television channel that the Aurangabad civic body polls are due sometime in February. The development prompted him to come up with his recent tweet, reminding the chief minister about his late father’s wish. He alleged that Sameet was ill-treated by the police during custody, for which a case has been filed in the National Human Rights Commission. It is due to be listed in the coming week, said Rishi. Raising the issue at the time of polls may have its impact on the MVA alliance. If Shiv Sena backs renaming, it may not be comfortable for its new allies NCP and Congress. On December 25, Sameet had tweeted, “If I am alive, surviving the ruling class mob attack which wanted me to be eliminated, then it all is because of Manoj Kotak, I pray for his long healthy life on his birthday.” Kotak, the person whom Sameet thanked, is BJP Member of Parliament from Mumbai-North East. Sameet has also tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sameet-thakkar-baits-cm-with-tweet-to-rename-aurangabad/articleshow/79981913.cms||Shishir Arya
December 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 750 get first trial shot of Covaxin||AHMEDABAD: With four days to go before the enrolment period for volunteers of Covaxin vaccine against Covid-19 by Bharat Biotech gets over, Sola Civil Hospital reported 75% trial vaccination. The trial intends to get 1,000 volunteers, against which 750 were already provided the first shot of trial vaccine, said the hospital authorities. The authorities said that about 15 volunteers have also got the second (booster) shot of the vaccine. “So far, none of the participants have recorded any side effect. The booster dose is given after 28 to 30 days of the first shot. In addition to the regular health check-ups, those who have got both the shots will be examined for the vaccine’s impact a month after both the shots,” said an official. The first shot is administered after mandatory RT-PCR test, as the vaccine is not given to the existing or recovered Covid-19 positive patients. The results of stage III trial on about 26,000 volunteers across India will decide whether the vaccine will be made available for wider usage, said experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/750-get-first-trial-shot-of-covaxin/articleshow/79981926.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Dehradun||WII scientists radio-collar three jumbos within a week in Haridwar forest division||Dehradun: In a bid to reduce the threat of rogue jumbos ahead of Kumbh Mela 2021, the teams of Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and Uttarakhand forest department radio-collared three elephants within a week in the Haridwar forest division. “We are picking up the pace to radio-collar them so that remaining works to curb human-wildlife conflict incidents can be done timely,” said JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, forest department. Now, the experts would move to radio-collar rogue jumbos of Rajaji Tiger landscape, Dehradun and Narendra Nagar forest divisions. According to the project, funded by GIZ, the forest department has the permission to radio-collar ten elephants. All the ten rogue elephants have already been identified by the WII scientists and efforts are on to radio-collar them. While two jumbos were radio-collared in Shyampur range, the third one was radio-collared in Rasiyabad range. “On Sunday, a male elephant was radio-collared in Anjani beat which comes under Shyampur range while on Saturday, another tusker was radio-collared in Gurukul area of Shyampur range. Earlier on Wednesday (December 23), a male elephant was radio-collared in Daasowala range of Haridwar forest division,” said Neeraj Verma, DFO, Haridwar forest division. It is worth mentioning that for over 60 years, the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) has been working jointly with partners in India for sustainable economic, ecological, and social development in various fields, primarily including Environment, Climate Change and Biodiversity. It is the prime developmental agency which is developing guidelines to mitigate the human-wildlife conflict incidences from the country. In 2018, GIZ started a project with MoEF and three partner states – Uttarakhand, Karnataka and West Bengal, under which it identified 10 animals as ‘conflict’ species and decided to come up with guidelines to control these negative interactions between human and different animals. And under the same project, Uttarakhand is getting funds and these plans are being implemented with support of GIZ, to ensure that the Kumbh is conducted smoothly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wii-scientists-radio-collar-three-jumbos-within-a-week-in-haridwar-forest-division/articleshow/79980334.cms||Shivani Azad
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||3 held for threats to loan defaulter||Following a crackdown on loan app promoters, cyber crime police arrested three persons for issuing threats to a defaulter in Warangal on Sunday. According to Warangal commissioner of police P Pramod Kumar, a three-member gang from Bengaluru developed four instant loan apps under the company Shine Bay Technologies Private Limited. The app was developed with the assistance of Erric Pengloo from China, who was in India on a business visa and Padra Bind Roy, who is from Odisha. The trio of Bengaluru residents—Debashish Das, BR Sanjay and Santosh Kumar Naik—sanctioned loans through Past Credit App, breaking norms set down by the government. Bandaru Srinivasa Rao, resident of Jangaon, took a loan of Rs 4,000 loan the app and was unable to repay the loan in time. The app developers began threatening him and started sending him messages in filthy language. Unable to to handle it, he lodged a complaint with Jangaon police. Warangal cyber crime police, along with DCP Srinivas Reddy, arrested the developer trio in Bengaluru. On the directions of CP Pramod Kumar, cyber crime police produced the trio in the local court and shifted them to Jangaon police station for enquiry. Police seized two laptops, SIM cards and three mobile phones from their procession,.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-held-for-threats-to-loan-defaulter/articleshow/79983055.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Bikers snatch woman’s purse||Ludhiana: Two men on a bike snatched a purse from a woman in the busy Ghumar Mandi market on Saturday night.Radhika Chauthani, 40, a resident of Deep Nagar, Civil Lines, said in her police complaint, “I was walking in the market when two men on a bike snatched my purse. I tried to chase them, but they sped away. The purse contained Rs 30,000, debit cards, my cellphone, house key and important ID proofs and documents.” Radhika borrowed a phone from a passerby and called up the police.Ghumar Mandi police post in-charge sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh said, “We have scanned the footage of CCTVs installed in the market. The accused have been captured fleeing towards Aarti Chowk. As it was night, the footage is not clear. More CCTVs are being scanned to trace them. We are recording the statement of the woman to lodge an FIR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bikers-snatch-womans-purse/articleshow/79981087.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Govt panel lies to NGT about solid waste dump||CHENNAI: A government committee comprising officials from Kancheepuram district collectorate, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) among other state agencies has misled the National Green Tribunal (NGT) about illegal dumping of solid waste at a vacant temple land in Moulivakkam, which falls under Kancheepuram district. While the committee, which was appointed by NGT to look handle the issue, informed the tribunal on December 15 that the site was rid of all waste, a field check by TOI on Saturday proved otherwise. Only a small portion of the plot was free of waste and construction debris was found dumped alongside domestic waste. Moulivakkam residents claimed only a portion of the dump was cleared and photos were taken. A few photos were submitted as ‘evidence’ to NGT by the panel. The issue was first brought to light by TOI through its August 29 report that stated that the Moulivakkam panchayat was using the said piece of land near Golden Industrial Estate, Palani Nagar in Moulivakkam, as a dumping ground for untreated and unsegregated garbage against the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules. While disposal was not done in a scientific manner, the waste was burned from time to time, leading to air pollution in the area. According to official data, Moulivakkam panchayat has a population of around 12,500 and about 2.6 tonnes of solid waste is generated every day. The waste is collected and dumped at the said site illegally. The land belongs to ‘Arulmigu Tiruttani Murugan Temple’ in Tiruttani and the temple authorities have permitted the dumping. The same day the report was published, NGT took suo moto cognizance of the TOI report and formed a committee with representatives from the Kancheepuram district collectorate, TNPCB and other relevant state agencies to look into the issue and submit an action-taken report. The panel, during an interim hearing, informed NGT that TNPCB had already issued a show-cause notice to local authorities for the said violations and that it had in February warned the authorities that they will be made to pay compensation if the issue was not addressed. On December 15, the panel submitted a false report that the Moulivakkam panchayat has removed the waste and sent it to a waste processing yard in Gerugambakkam, based on which NGT disposed of the case. “Some local industries are dumping their waste at the site this time,” said Pattabiraman, a Moulivakkam resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-panel-lies-to-ngt-about-solid-waste-dump/articleshow/79981954.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Breaking it right||Chennai: Uvashree remembers when her life’s most defining moments occurred — her father’s sudden demise almost a decade ago, the diagnosis of her breast cancer in 2017 and the first time she started experiencing blackouts due to it. But the one thing she cannot recall is when she started getting drawn to breakdancing. Read the entire story on TOI+Will dancers bring an Olympic medal for India?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/breaking-it-right/articleshow/79981950.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bareilly||Girl, 9, raped by 18-year-old youth in UP's Pilibhit district||PILIBHIT: A nine-year-old girl was allegedly raped by an 18-year-old youth of her village under Gajraula police station on Saturday afternoon when she had gone to graze goats. Following a written complaint by the girl’s father on Sunday afternoon, police registered an FIR and sent her for a medical examination. According to the complainant, he and his wife are employed in Bareilly, while their daughter and a 12-year-old son live with their grandmother in the village. When the girl had gone to graze the goat, the accused dragged her to a nearby sugarcane field and raped her, alleged the father. Upon returning home, she narrated her ordeal to her brother, who informed the parents about the crime over the phone, said the father. SHO Jai Prakash Singh said the accused was booked under sections 376 AB (committing rape on a woman under 12 years of age) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He was arrested on Sunday evening, added the SHO. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-9-raped-by-18-year-old-youth-in-pilibhit-dist/articleshow/79979961.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 28, 2020||Chennai||After 4 years of efforts, Jeth Nagar has zero bins, is litter-free too||CHENNAI: Four years ago, irked at the sight of an overflowing bin right in front of his house, Ravi Nandyala, a resident of Jeth Nagar in Mandaveli, decided to shoot an angry message to the solid waste management contractor of Greater Chennai Corporation. In return, the employee politely accepted the mistake and asked him to contribute to the process. Thus began the idea of making Jeth Nagar a binless locality and Jeth Nagar residents association was formed to help. “After four years of hard work, we became binless last week, when the final bin in the locality was removed,” said Ravi. The eight streets in the locality with 300 houses generate 950kg of solid waste daily. It wasn’t an easy process. “When I spoke to the corporation officials and the contractor in charge for door-to-door waste collection, I was told that source segregation, awareness to stop street littering and 100% door-to-door collection will be vital to be rid of placer bins. It took us eight months from June 2016 to ensure 70% of the residents handed their waste to the workers at their doorsteps. Many continued to litter even after the bins were removed,” said another resident, Shiva. The residents formed Jeth Nagar resident association and began awareness drives. They purchased bins, called for meetings, distributed pamphlets on segregation but household composting didn’t work for them. “Many disagreed and it took us months to convince the residents to do it. We wrote to the PM cell and got a compost centre set up near the Mandaveli railway station. We ensured that conservancy workers took the waste to there and tied up with many vendors such as kabadiwalas, who set up an IOT bin (bin with internet-enabled application) only for plastic waste. They collected the plastic waste from there,” said Ravi. Many activists, however, raised concerns that many such localities were simply moving the bins to adjacent localities and main roads. N Mahesan, chief engineer of the solid waste management department of GCC, said they were extremely happy with associations being proactive about their civic duties. “It is a work in progress. We intend to make the entire city binless soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-4yrs-of-efforts-jeth-nagar-has-zero-bins-is-litter-free-too/articleshow/79981983.cms||Komal Gautham
December 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rooftop solar rules threaten our existence, say MSMEs||Jaipur: MSMEs catering to the rooftop solar market said by keeping the commercial and industrial units out of the ambit of net metering will lead to the collapse of their businesses and trigger large-scale unemployment. They said the norms of the ministry of power (MoP) and the draft notification of Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission will stall the rooftop solar programme in the state and country, threatening the survival of many MSMEs in the sector. “The order of MoP will derail the entire planning of solar components manufacturers in Rajasthan. We were assuming 5,000 MW rooftop solar project in the next three years. The new rules, if implemented, will erase manufacturing opportunities worth Rs 20,000 crore and GST revenue for the government,” Sunil Bansal, MSME Panel chairman of National Solar Energy Federation of India. He said almost 1,000 companies working in Rajasthan in the segment employ a lakh people. The order has created a wave of concern among the MSMEs. “First, the lockdown hit our businesses. After that steel prices rose over 40%. Now the government is slamming the door on the rooftop solar. More than 30% of our business comes from rooftop segment and the demand for structures was growing. But if the proposed norms become reality, we would be hit hard,” said Sanjeev Dakshini, founding chairman of Raydean Industries, which employs over 350 people in its two units in Jaipur. Vineet Jain, who supplies panels and other raw materials to the rooftop segment said that the industry will take up the issue with both state and Central governments through various trade and industry forums. “In one hand the Centre has set a target of 40,000 mw from rooftop segment by 2022. On the other hand, it is practically blocking all the routes to achieve the target. The domestic segment is a small fraction of the entire rooftop solar market. If the government removes commercial and industrial rooftop units from net metering, there would be no viability for them,” said Jain, whose Insolation Energy Pvt Ltd engages 150 people. He said the decision will impact the livelihoods of lakhs of people engaged in the industry. The draft norms and the MoP guidelines continue to offer net metering facility to the domestic consumers. But for the commercial and industrial units having more than 10 kW capacity, they will have to pay the discoms the regular tariff even though they consume power from their rooftop solar plants. For their rooftop power, discoms will pay them at rates discovered through biddings in other projects along with 25% incentive. Earlier, all rooftop projects till 1 MW were eligible under the net metering where the generators used cheaper solar energy instead of costly discom power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rooftop-solar-rules-threaten-our-existence-say-msmes/articleshow/79981932.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Despite bumper harvest, farmers fail to sell olive oil, demand MSP||JAIPUR: After waiting for 5-6 years since plantation, olive farmers in Rajasthan had a bumper harvest this year. High oil content of 19% in some varieties, which is closer to international levels, provided the jittery farmers another reassurance that the Mediterranean fruit has a future in the state. But as the crushing season ended last month and time to sell the oil came, the farmers are again questioning their decision to divert hundreds of hectares for olive and sacrificing incomes from traditional crops in the land. “By selling at Rs 600 per kg does not cover my running cost of the farm, let alone investments made over last six years and incomes foregone from other crops in the same land. The government has to find a way so that the farmers get the right price for their produce. Maybe, the authorities can look at announcing a MSP so that prices don’t go down below a certain level,” said Dileep Baid, whose olive fruits from Momaser farm yielded highest ever oil content of 19% in India. Farmers look up to government because it had demonstrated and convinced them that olive can be a better cash crop. In fact, it was Rajasthan Olive Cultivation Ltd (ROCL), a state agency, which experimented with the cultivation of olive in Rajasthan and rolled out incentive schemes to encourage farmers. Farmers said that ROCL had promised to buy oil from them. Surendra Singh Shekhawat, chief operating officer of ROCL, said that olive created many milestones this year but price is something that is decided by branding and marketing, and the government cannot do much to influence the rates. “The government tries to ensure higher level of yield, lower cost of cultivation and better percentage of oil content. Price is something that the farmers can collectively think of. There is an association of the farmers, and they can also form farmer producer organizations to ensure that they get better price for their produce,” said Shekhawat. Import of substandard olive oil packaged as premium product which is sold at dirt cheaper rates has made it difficult for farmers to bargain a better price for their oil. Deepak Saharan, secretary of Olive Grower Welfare Organisation (OGWO), said, “In international market, extra virgin olive oil, the most premium category, is sold at Rs 1800-3000 per kg. The same is sold here in India at Rs 800-1200. This after paying import duties and other taxes. So, it is highly likely that what we get in India as extra virgin oil could be the lowest grade oil. There is no testing done to ascertain their quality. But we are working on it to find out the exact quality of imports. Unless we do that, we cannot get the right price for our extra virgin oil.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/despite-bumper-harvest-farmers-fail-to-sell-olive-oil-demand-msp/articleshow/79981907.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
December 28, 2020||Dehradun||Snow and rain likely on Dec 28, cold wave conditions to prevail in plains||Dehradun: A fresh spell of snowfall is likely in the higher reaches of Garhwal region, while foothills, including the state capital Dehradun, are going to receive light-to-moderate showers on December 28 and 29. A western disturbance will affect the weather of Uttarakhand from Sunday night, according to the regional meteorological centre. “Snowfall is likely to occur at places with altitude of 2,200 meters and above, especially in the Garhwal region. In Kumaon region, very light-to-light showers and snowfall is expected at the same time,” said Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre. Hail along with lightning could also occur at isolated places in the districts of Garhwal region of Uttarakhand, according to the forecast of the regional meteorological centre. According to Bikram Singh, due to the fresh spell of rain and snow, cold wave conditions are likely to prevail at isolated places till December 30. He added that dense fog may engulf plain areas of Udham Singh Nagar and Haridwar districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/snow-and-rain-likely-on-dec-28-cold-wave-conditions-to-prevail-in-plains/articleshow/79980351.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 28, 2020||Bareilly||Rape bid on minor Dalit girl: Police say ‘forget’ to apply POCSO Act to FIR||PILIBHIT: A 35-year-old man was booked for allegedly attempting to outrage the modesty of a 14-year-old Dalit girl in a village under Madhotanda police station, but police "forgot" to slap the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on the accused. Notably, police have recorded 2006 as the year of the girl’s birth in the FIR. Asked about the slip, SHO Ram Sewak said, “It happened mistakenly, but we would add appropriate sections of the POCSO Act to the FIR during the course of the investigation.” “We have, however, booked the accused and his brother, residents of the girl’s locality, under sections 354 (force or assault to a woman with intent of outraging her modesty), 452 (house trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on a written complaint lodged by the girl on Saturday afternoon,” added the SHO. The complainant alleged that the accused barged into her house around 11 pm on December 25 and made a bid to outrage her modesty. As she raised alarms, her family members rescued but the accused managed to escape, she said. “The next morning, the accused and his elder brother beat me up and hurled derogatory and casteist remarks at me. When neighbours assembled, they fled the spot but not before threatening me with my life,” alleged the girl. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rape-bid-on-minor-dalit-girl-police-say-forget-to-apply-pocso-act-to-fir/articleshow/79979966.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Guard held for flashing 10-year-old girl||PUNE: The Pimpri police on Saturday arrested a 57-year-old security guard of a mall on the charge of flashing a 10-year-old inside his cabin in the afternoon. P T Chate, the sub-inspector of the Pimpri police, said the girl was playing outside the back gate of the mall when the suspect took her in his cabin and flashed her. Youth held in POCSO caseThe Wakad police on Saturday arrested a 21-year-old youth from Wakad on the charge of outraging modesty of a minor girl. The incident occurred when the 15-year-old girl was returning home with her mother and brother. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/guard-held-for-flashing-10-yr-old-girl/articleshow/79981989.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi colleges in a fix over five add-on seats||NEW DELHI: Following the controversial Delhi University notification of December 21 regarding the addition of five new seats to courses this year, no new directions have been issued to colleges yet, even as admissions for 2020 end on December 31. The notification signed by the registrar stated that college principals will be allowed to admit five students over and above the allotted number of seats, out of which the university may suggest two names. These five applicants would get 10% relaxation on the cutoff. This, DU claimed, was due to the Covid-19 pandemic and on the request of principals While most are waiting for directions, some colleges have forwarded the DU notice to their governing bodies, stating that principals do not have the right to take such decisions. Others have questioned the need for this notification at all. A principal, on the condition of anonymity, dismissed the varsity’s claims. “Using Covid-19 as a crutch to conduct an activity similar to management quotas of private colleges is utterly shameful,” they said. Principals say that most of them are unaware how the process will take place. “The university could have routed it through the Academic Council and the Executive Council, or at least from the admission committee,” said Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College. Suman Sharma, principal of Lady Shri Ram College said that no decision has been taken on this so far. “We have no clarity on how to go about it as we have no directions,” said Kamala Nehru College principal Kalpana Bhakuni. “We also have to think about its implications.” Principal Babri Moitra Saraf of IP College for Women said that the notification is unusual and is not supported by any ordinance or resolution. “I have forwarded it to my college GB for implementation as I don’t think the principal is empowered to select students for admission,” she said. Saraf added that as she attended the last EC meeting in December as a member and there was no discussion on the topic. “We do not know which principals requested the notification,” she further said. Speaking to TOI, DU’s dean of college Balram Pani was unsure of when directives would be issued. “The directions will go through the registrar. There was a meeting on the issue by the admission committee recently. We will get clarity by Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/colleges-in-a-fix-over-five-add-on-seats/articleshow/79982024.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Canvassing for furry friends||CHENNAI: While other children are enjoying their Christmas break, Nandita Vijayaraman decided to put it to good use by raising funds for animals. The 11-year-old, a self-taught artist who charges Rs300 for each portrait, will donate part of the money raised to Blue Cross of India (BCI) and use the rest to feed community animals. Nandita began feeding stray animals after her pet dog, Lilly, passed away two months ago. "I realised stray animals struggle to survive and want to ensure that they get good food to eat," she says. This festive season, artists across the city have been using their talent to raise funds for animals — while some, like Nandita, are doing it on an individual basis, others have been helping animal welfare organisations create their calendars for 2021. "I use water colours and colour pencils to make my portraits," says Nandita, adding that she makes plain portraits as well as theme-based ones for her customers. "I also customise the portrait, adding the pet’s favourite toy or food," she says. Alamelu Annhamalai, 27, has collaborated with BCI to create a calendar that features portraits of rescue animals. "I started volunteering with BCI to get over my fear of animals and the stories of the rescue animals inspired me to work on the calendar," says Alamelu, adding that some people prefer portraits over photos. "It was interesting to know the animal so that I could bring out its personality on canvas. This way I also got to understand animals better," says Alamelu. Vivek Venkatraman, volunteer-coordinator at BCI, says they chose to have portraits done as people would like having a beautiful piece of art on the table. "It is also a way to support local artists and make art affordable to people." Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary (BMAD) has also roped in 25 artists across the world to make portraits of their rescue animals for their calendar. For the last three years, the BMAD calendar has featured photographs of animals, says Dr Josika Navukkarasu, vet at BMAD, who curated the calendar. "This year, we came across a lot of budding artists showcasing their work during lockdown. So we thought collaborating with them would be a great idea." City-based Chitra Mandanna, who is part of the initiative, says she began doing pet portraits because of her love for animals. The 47-year-old full-time artist has eight cats and one dogs and her portraits are usually priced between Rs1,000 and Rs50,000. "I usually work with water colours, acrylic paints, charcoal acrylic, and oil pastels," she says. Many pet parents are opting for portraits of their furry friends. "It takes two days for me to complete a portrait, but since I don’t have school now I am able to focus on my work," says Nandita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/canvassing-for-furry-friends/articleshow/79981987.cms||Vidya Gowri Venkatesh Tarwady
December 28, 2020||Dehradun||Terai farmers bang utensils during ‘Mann ki Baat’ to protest against new farm laws||Rudrapur: Several farmers of the Terai region of Uttarakhand banged utensils during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on Sunday to protest against the three contentious farm laws. The agitating farmers at Ghazipur border also raised slogans against the Centre. Talking to TOI over phone, Tejender Singh Virk, president of the Terai Kisan mahasabha, said, “Farmers have been protesting in the biting cold for the last one month demanding to revoke the ‘black’ agricultural reform laws. However, instead of listening to the plight of farmers, PM Modi is busy with his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme.” He added, “Banging utensils was PM Modi’s idea to recognise the hard work of the frontline workers battling coronavirus. In a similar vein, we are boosting the morale of the protestors and also expressing our resentment to his radio address by banging utensils.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/terai-farmers-bang-utensils-during-mann-ki-baat-to-protest-against-new-farm-laws/articleshow/79980348.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: As Christmas sale falls flat, Tasmac pegs hope on New Year||CHENNAI: With sale during Christmas having gone for a toss, Tasmac is pinning hope on New Year’s eve to rake in some festive revenue. The state-owned liquor marketing corporation is expecting to hit sales of Rs 600 crore for the New Year, which makes for an extended weekend. According to official sources, sale on Christmas day was 50% of what was expected. While Tasmac looked to sell 2.25 lakh cases of IMFL (Indian made foreign liquor) on December 25, hardly half of it was sold. Against this backdrop, the hopes on New Year eve sale is up. “In total, sales over the four days could net an income of Rs 600 crore. Most of the sale is expected on December 31,” a Tasmac source said. Outlets have stocked up. Though bars attached to star hotels are also receiving inquiries to reserve tables, restriction to wind up liquor sale by 10pm on December 31 has discouraged many from having a night out. Tasmac will be losing substantial income as the state government has banned celebrations in restaurants, hotels, clubs and resorts in view of Covid-19. This leaves people buying liquor only for private, house parties. While this could push retail sale across Tasmac counters, it will impact overall liquor demand. T Nataarajan, South India Hotels and Restaurants Association (SIHRA) honorary secretary and CEO of GRT Hotels and Resorts, said inquiries for reservations are steady. “Government SOP allows only 50% occupancy in bars and we’ve informed our guests that liquor will not be served after 10pm on the eve.” Sudip Sengupta, vice-president (operations), Green Park Hotels, said there were not many takers for offers on unlimited liquor due to the restrictions. “People reserving tables prefer to order alcohol to the table instead,” he said. In the past, liquor used to be served till the wee hours by licence holders on New Year’s day, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-xmas-sale-falls-flat-tasmac-pegs-hope-on-new-year/articleshow/79981986.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur: Differently-abled couples tie knot in mass wedding||UDAIPUR: A mass wedding event turned out to be a low-key affair in Udaipur on Sunday where 11 differently-abled couples tied the knots. It was the 35th mass wedding event organised by Narayan Seva Sansthan (NSS), an organization working for treatment of polio-affected patients and those disabled by birth. The organisation also helps in social rehabilitation of these people and have been holding community wedding events to stop dowry and extravagance on such occasions. On Sunday, the mass wedding was limited to a few guests and family members of brides and grooms. The couples tied the knot wearing masks and pledged not to do it away until they were vaccinated. The donors stepped ahead to gift the newlyweds home appliances as a symbol of ‘kanya daan’ and help them with a new beginning. Sharing her emotions, Pooja, one of the brides said, “After losing my leg in an accident, I had thought my life to be over, but thanks to NSS where I got a free treatment and surgery which would have cost a huge amount for my family”. Pooja’s groom Kamlesh too has led a life full of challenges after being affected with polio at the age of 3. “ I can walk with the help of crutches today. I am thankful to the organization which not only offered free treatment but also helped me finding a supportive partner in form of Pooja,” said Kamlesh, who completed his studies after the treatment and has secured a job as a panchayat assistant. Most of the couples said their disability is just a physical disorder and not an incurable illness. NSS president Prashant Agarwal said, “Our ‘No Dowry Campaign’ is a flagship campaign which has been organised for 18 years. We feel happy to see 2,098 couples settled in their lives today. NSS offers free corrective surgeries, skills development classes, talent nurturing activities along with mass wedding ceremonies. Couples from Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Bihar, Gujarat and several other states have approached NSS for assisting them to support their weddings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/differently-abled-couples-tie-knot-in-mass-wedding/articleshow/79981961.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Jaipur||Congress dropped farmer-friendly schemes: Vasundhara Raje||JAIPUR: Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje slammed chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday for dropping the government schemes related to agriculture including power subsidy of Rs 10,000 to farmers, which was formulated during her regime. "In a bid to provide help to our farmers we made a provision that every year farmers will get free power supply of Rs 10,000," said Raje in a tweet. In another tweet, Raje said that present government has always given financial loss to the farmers and our farmer brother and sisters will respond to them in the upcoming polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-dropped-farmer-friendly-schemes-raje/articleshow/79981949.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||Aircraft emergencies’ mock drill conducted at Nagpur airport||Nagpur: A partial emergency exercise (mock drill) in relation to aircraft emergencies was conducted at Nagpur airport on Monday. The mock exercise was conducted from 1:48pm to 2:45pm. The participating agencies were ATC, ARFF, IAF, AOCC, airlines, CISF, security section, terminal management, MIL, city fire brigade, MADC fire brigade, hospitals and city police. The aim of the drill was to check the preparedness of the agencies as per the aerodrome emergency planning to minimize the effects of emergency, particularly for saving lives, property and maintaining aircraft operations. As per the DGCA guidelines, partial emergency mock exercise needs to be carried out once in two years in the intervening years, and full-scale emergency mock exercise once in two years, so that every year there will be one mock exercise for aircraft emergency. Table-top exercise has to be conducted once in 6 months. This mock exercise was conducted under the chairmanship of Abid Ruhi, senior APD, MIL, command post-in charge Lakshminarayan, HOD (operations and safety) and PP Ingole, HOD (ARFF & MT).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aircraft-emergencies-mock-drill-conducted-at-nagpur-airport/articleshow/79995835.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 11-year-old boy murdered, kin allege human sacrifice||ALWAR: An 11-year-old boy was brutally murdered at Malakhera police station area in Alwar on Sunday. His body with chopped ears, nose and nails was found a day after he went missing. Police so far have detained two persons and are being interrogated. The boy's family has alleged that the boy was murdered for human sacrifice by some occultists. According to the police, the family of the boy had given a missing complaint on Saturday evening at Akbarpur police chowki. On Sunday morning, some locals spotted the body in a farm at Malakhera police station area. People and police who arrived at the spot were shocked to see the body with chopped, nose, ears and nails. A team of senior police officers led by Alwar SP Tejaswini Gautam also rushed ot the spot with dog squad and FSL team. Raghuveer Singh, father of the boy, in his FIR alleged that the accused identified as Nanda, Badri, Someto, Bala Sahai, Jeetu and Kallu killed his son with the help of an occultist over greed for money. "It is a clear case of human sacrifice due to the superstition that it will fetch them money," alleged Singh. Police have not ruled out the possibility of human sacrifice in this case and have detained a few persons in this connection. "The family of the deceased has given a named FIR against some accused. We have got some clues and will solve the case," SP Gautam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-year-old-boy-murdered-kin-allege-human-sacrifice/articleshow/79981984.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Aldabra tortoise missing from Madras Crocodile Bank stolen with inside help, say cops||CHENNAI: Police now suspect that the male Aldabra tortoise missing from the Madras Crocodile Bank was stolen with inside help on November 11. As there are no CCTV cameras around the enclosure of the giant tortoise, one of four at the Crocodile Bank at Vadanemmili on the East Coast Road, police are banking on the cellphone tower dump to identify the movement of outsiders in the area. Though the facility has many exotic species of tortoises and crocodiles, security arrangements are inadequate; CCTV cameras have not been installed for all enclosures. Police are scanning footage from the few cameras on the campus and those of other establishments outside on the main road. “Without CCTV footage, we are now dependent on the cellphone tower dump. Once we obtain the numbers, we can easily identify the suspects,” said an investigating officer. The missing tortoise was worth more than Rs 15 lakh on the international market, police said. A senior worker at the crocodile bank said the tortoise weighing more than 50kg cannot be easily lifted and taken out of the premises. Lack of CCTV network inside the bank is one of the major drawbacks, conceded the worker. The male Aldabra tortoise cannot be kept as a pet in a home. It requires regular veterinary care and monitoring, he said. The authorities at the Crocodile Bank are guarded in their responses. Neither the director of the bank nor the trustees wanted to share information with the media. Zai Whitaker, one of the trustees, said she was recovering from surgery and would ask the bank director Alwin to share information. Alwin wanted a mail to be sent to him and said he would send his reactions on Monday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aldabra-tortoise-missing-from-croc-bank-stolen-with-inside-help-say-cops/articleshow/79982025.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Capsicum to cost more this week, potato less||CHENNAI: Prices of non-seasonal vegetables such as capsicum, cluster beans and bitter gourd have increased due to a dip in arrivals, while potato is expected to cost less this week due to better supply. Volume of potatoes arriving to the Koyambedu wholesale vegetable market complex (KWMC) from Karnataka will increase this week. Cost of ginger has dropped substantially but cost of other vegetables including onion are expected to remain stable. According to market sources, capsicum rates will shoot up by Rs 10 per kg, costing Rs 50 in the week ahead. Cluster beans would cost Rs 35/kg, bitter gourd Rs 30 to Rs 40 at the KWMC. V R Soundararajan, a wholesale trader and former member of the market management committee of the market complex, said the price hike was simply because the vegetables were out of season. “Green peas cost has dropped to Rs 30/kg due to additional arrivals from northern states and will remain so till the end of January,” he added. Cost of potato is likely to drop by Rs 5 to Rs 10 at the wholesale market due to better arrivals and may be sold at Rs 25 to Rs 30 per kilogram. Soundararajan said ginger prices have nosedived by Rs 30/kg and they cost Rs 40/kg at Koyambedu. There won’t be much change in the prices of other vegetables including onion, Soundararajan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/capsicum-to-cost-more-this-week-potato-less/articleshow/79982011.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Samastha hails LDF government’s resolution against CAA||KOZHIKODE: The LDF government received a shot in the arm with Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema, the largest Muslim organization in Kerala, expressing satisfaction over the government’s performance. Samastha Mushavara (consultative body) member Umar Faizy Mukkam, who represented the organization at the meeting called by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan as part of Kerala Yatra on Sunday, told reporters that the performance of the government is good though there are some problems. “There are many things we agree with the government. Most important is the resolution adopted in the assembly against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Though many others did the same, Kerala government was the pioneer,” he said. “Moreover, LDF took the initiative in opening a warfront against CAA in Kerala and I myself attended some of the programmes. The government also did many things on the development front. The opposition may have a different opinion, but Samastha doesn’t have a political view,” he added. Faizy said Samastha president Syed Muhammad Jiffri Muthukoya Thangal had said that the government is positive to the demands of the Muslim community. He said Samastha had, however, expressed its concern over the issues in implementing reservation for the economically weaker section. Faizy defended the government’s decision not to invite the Jamaat-e-Islami to the programme. “We didn’t invite Jamaat to many of our programmes as it is an organization that stands for theocratic state. We have been countering Jamaat since it was founded in 1948. We are happy that Pinarayi too endorses our view,” he said. Faizy said it is against UDF striking alliance with Welfare Party of India (WPI). “The UDF leadership had assured us that there will not be any truck with the Jamaat. But it is a fact that there was some understanding at local level. We are against it,” he said. Samastha leaders’ words will be a great morale booster for LDF government as majority of cadres of the religious organization are IUML activists. Faizy lauded the state government at a time when the IUML is making an all-out attempt to put the LDF on the defensive. Meanwhile, addressing the meeting Vijayan said the government is attempting all-round development in the state. LDF prepared its election manifesto last time taking into consideration the opinion of the people at all levels, he said. Ministers A K Saseendran, T P Ramakrishnan, E Chandrasekharan, MP Elamaram Kareem, MLAs C K Nanu, P T A Rahim, E K Vijayan, K Dasan, V K C Mammad Koya, Karat Razak, A Pradeep Kumar and planning board vice-chairman V K Ramachandran were present at the meeting. M P Ahamed, C E Chakkunny, Dr Mili Mony, C Muhammad Faizi, T P Abdulla Koya Madani, T K Ashraf, N M Salim and others represented various organizations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/samastha-hails-ldf-govts-resolution-against-caa/articleshow/79981116.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hit by Covid slowdown, Telangana borrows record Rs 41,000 crore||HYDERABAD: Hit by a Covid-19 induced slowdown, the state has borrowed Rs 41,000 crore, the highest since the formation of Telangana, even as experts said that spending loan amounts on short-term purposes will not strengthen the economy. With three more months remaining before the financial year closes, the state has an upper cap limit of Rs 45,000 crore to raise as loans. While the state is going for another round of bonds raising at RBI on Tuesday, the long-term repayment schedules with less interest rate seem to be the plan for the state. Telangana presented a budget for Rs 1.84 lakh crore revenue this year, nearly 30% of that is coming from loans, and not from the income, which experts said would be worrisome if the trend continues. State planning board vice chairman B Vinod Kumar said that raising loans for the maintenance shouldn’t be a concern. “The state has been making repayments every month, and as long as we can pay, there should not be problem for now,” he said. Provisional details of state economy for the month of October by Controller and Auditor General (CAG) shows that the state, till October this year earned Rs 38,530 crore income as against Rs 42,286 crore in the same period last year. In the first seven months of the year, the state had raised Rs 34,000 crore loan till October. Last year, Telangana raised only Rs 29,902 crore as loan, by the end of October The report also says that there is a revenue deficit of Rs 15,318 crore this year till October. This would mean that the state has a revenue deficit of 312% till now. The CAG details show that loan amount was not spent on capital expenditure (infra and assets creation) but on revenue expenditure (salaries, pension and welfare schemes). Experts say that this will cause a long term impact on the economy. “As long as the state's growth rate is maintained in double digits it should be fine, otherwise the spending on revenue expenditure by taking loans will have a long-term impact. Loan amount should always be spent on capital expenditure,” Krishna Reddy Chittedi, assistant professor, school of economics, University of Hyderabad said. K Narsimha Murthy, banking expert added that spending loan amounts on short term purposes will not strengthen the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hit-by-covid-slowdown-t-borrows-record-rs-41k-crore/articleshow/79983064.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 28, 2020||Bareilly||35 ASHA workers held for referring patients to private hospice against ‘gifts’||Bareilly: The Budaun naib tehsildar, along with local police, caught 35 ASHA workers red-handed from a private nursing home during a raid on Sunday. They were caught accepting gifts from staffers of the nursing home for referring a pregnant woman to the private facility instead of the district hospital. The nursing home was sealed and ASHA workers detained. Preliminary interrogation revealed they used to get a handy commission for referring patients to the nursing home.Sudhakar Pandey, SHO, Civil Lines police station, told TOI, “The raid was conducted on instructions of the DM. Four pregnant women who had recently been referred by the accused were also found admitted in the nursing home. They were sent to the district hospital. The nursing home owner is absconding. We’re in the process of registering an FIR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/35-asha-workers-held-for-referring-patients-to-private-hospice-against-gifts/articleshow/79979973.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Decision soon on Wayanad medical college, says CM Pinarayi Vijayan||KOZHIKODE: The state government would take a decision on Wayanad medical college within the next few days, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. He was speaking at the meeting with prominent personalities from various walks of life as part of the Kerala Yatra at Kalpetta in Wayanad on Sunday. Setting up a government medical college has been a main election promise of the LDF. The government is currently considering a report submitted by a seven-member team constituted to assess the feasibility of takeover of the DM Wayanad Institute of Medical Sciences (DM WIMS). The chief minister said that the state government would consider the demand for setting up an air strip in Wayanad in the wake of recurring natural disasters in the district. He said that the two main irrigation projects in the district — one at Karapuzha and the other at Banasura Sagar — will be commissioned in 2023 and 2024, respectively. He said that the two long-delayed projects have now picked up steam. Steps will be taken to increase the storage capacity of Karapuzha project this year itself and land acquisition for that has been completed, he added. “With the addition of eight acres, the storage capacity of the reservoir will be doubled. It will also enable a drinking water project,” he said. Allaying concerns over granting 10% job reservation for economically backward sections in the general category, Vijayan said that those sections who were currently enjoying the benefits of reservation need not be concerned, and assured that they would not face any reduction in their reservation quota. Kalpetta MLA C K Saseendran presided over the meeting, which was attended by representatives of various social, religious, trade and industry bodies. Mananthavady bishop Mar Jose Porunnedom did not attend the meeting. Diocese officials said that he could not attend the meeting because of some prior engagements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/decision-soon-on-wayanad-medical-college-says-cm/articleshow/79981120.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kochi||Cops recover murder weapons||PALAKKAD: Police on Sunday recovered a knife and an iron rod used to attack Aneesh, the victim of an honour killing that took place at Mamkulumbu in Thenkurissi. The weapons were found during evidence collection done at the house of Suresh, the second accused in the murder. First accused Prabhukumar, father of Aneesh’s wife Haritha, and her uncle Suresh were taken to the spot where the murder took place. Arumughan, the father of Aneesh, said that the main conspirator in the murder was Haritha’s grandfather Kumareshan Pillai. His phone conservation with Haritha asking her to return and offering money to her husband for the same has been revealed. In one of the telephonic conversations, Pillai could be heard threatening Haritha. Arumughan has alleged that Pillai and the two accused have criminal cases pending and were also jailed in a case. Haritha said that caste superiority and money power resulted in the cold-blooded murder of her husband. Her family had threatened that her married life would not last three months and a day before the completion of three months, Aneesh was murdered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-recover-murder-weapons/articleshow/79981127.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Pharma exports achieve 15% growth, will hit $25 bn mark||HYDERABAD: Standing apart from all other sectors during Covid-19, pharma exports in India witnessed 15.3% so far in the financial year 2020-21 so far. According to the Pharmaceuticals Export Council of India (Pharmexcil), pharma exports are expected to touch $25 billion mark. Pharma exports recorded growth of 11.5% in November. Pharmexcil director general R Uday Bhaskar told TOI that more than 70% of exports are generic formulations. R Uday Bhaskar said, “Pharma exports are doing well this financial year till November, and the same trend will continue. It is expected to do well in the next few months till March. For November, the quick estimate is around $1,989 million. The growth in November is 11.5%. So far this year, exports are around $15,868 million with a growth of 15.37%. By the end of the financial year, it will touch $25 billion.” Pharma exports in financial year 2019-20 were $20.5 billion. Uday Bhaskar said, “More than 70%-75% of our exports are generic formulations other than APIs and vaccines. if we touch $25 billion in FY ‘21, we may touch $28 billion by FY22.” Regarding vaccines, he said, “We are capable of producing high volume of vaccines. Almost all the Indian vaccine manufacturers are tied up with overseas manufacturers/institutions in the development of Covid-19 vaccines.” Drug formulations and biologicals contribute 76% exports followed by 16% by bulk drugs and drug intermediates. Vaccines compromise 3% of exports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pharma-exports-achieve-15-growth-will-hit-25-bn-mark/articleshow/79983073.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 28, 2020||Kochi||No change in leadership: Congress leader Tariq Anwar||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Congress leaders in the state have demanded a total revamp in the organization before the assembly election to strengthen the party structure. The demand was made by the party leaders to AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar. The leaders flayed the present team of KPCC office bearers for the dismal performance of the party in local body elections. Most KPCC office bearers have no connection with the grassroots with a majority of them getting the post through group equations, they alleged. Anwar who reached the state capital for discussions with the state leaders however has ruled out any leadership change in KPCC. “I am here to observe the present situation and understand the ground realities. Based on the discussion I have with the leaders here I will be submitting a report to the party president. The party president will decide on any action to be taken,” said Anwar. The AICC leader met senior Congress leaders individually and collected their opinions for reasons behind the party’s defeat in the local body polls. He also sought their opinions on changes to be made to improve the performance in the ensuing assembly elections. Most leaders who met Anwar demanded a comprehensive revamping of the party right from the KPCC level to the DCCs. There are several defunct district congress committees which resulted in the party’s defeat in those districts. Lack of coordination among senior leaders on crucial issues and lack of discussion within the party forum were also reasons cited. The leaders warned that the traditional Christian vote bank has started drifting away from Congress and the party leadership has failed to woo them back. There was a demand that Oommen Chandy be brought back to the leadership to win them back. However, all group managers unanimously told AICC that there was no need for any leadership change in the party. Both the ‘I’ and ‘A’ group leaders made it clear that there was no need for changing the KPCC president or the opposition leader now. Chandy also made it clear that leadership change is not on AICC’s agenda. Anwar met KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran in the morning before meeting the other leaders individually. He will be meeting the UDF leaders on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-change-in-leadership-anwar/articleshow/79981130.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Despite rain, 87.8% appeared for Mmster cadre exam||Ludhiana: As many as 4,597 candidates were registered for the recruitment test of master cadre in Punjabi and Hindi held at government schools on Sunday. For Punjabi, 3629 candidates were registered for the morning shift (9.30am to 12pm), and 3,228 appeared for the test leading to 89.23% of attendance. While 968 applicants were registered for Hindi and 809 candidates appeared between 2pm and 4.30pm and 139 remained absent leading to 83.57%. The recruitment exam for English will be conducted on Monday in which over 1,000 candidates will appear. Teachers will be recruited against 3,704 total posts. The candidates underwent thermal screening at the entry gate and their hands were sanitised. Only 24 candidates were accommodated in every room maintaining social distancing protocols. Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal too has banned the assembly of five or more persons within a 200-metre radius of the examination centres under Section 144 of the CrPC till Monday. Rajinder Kaur, district education officer (elementary), who is handling the charge of DEO secondary said, “The exam was conducted smoothly and GSSS Jawahar Nagar is the head centre and I have personally visited a few schools too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-rain-87-8-appeared-for-mmster-cadre-exam/articleshow/79982033.cms||Mehak Jain
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||House parties on New Year’s Eve OK, but stay off roads: CP||Nagpur: Top cop Amitesh Kumar on Sunday clarified that police department would not interfere in celebrations at home, including terrace parties, on New Year’s Eve. But he has strictly warned against any such activities at public places post 11pm. Kumar said the night curfew would be enforced without any relaxation from 11pm till the next day till 6am. “Hotels or any such establishments would be allowed till 11pm after which they would be held legally liable,” said Kumar. “Police, right from the rank of senior officials to constabularies including the traffic units, will be present on roads in adequate numbers,” he said. The CP hinted that he would supervise the bandobast on roads. He said there would be complete crackdown on criminals and other anti-national elements. “We would not allow any kind of hooliganism or nefarious activities anywhere,” said the CP. The CP said citizens are advised to stay at home after the stipulated time limit. Sources from police department stated 4,300 police personnel would be deployed, around 75 places would have ‘nakabandi’ along with another 100 fixed point police deployment. Twelve special crime branch squads would be patrolling. Four teams of bomb detection and disposal squads would also be pressed into action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/house-parties-on-new-years-eve-ok-but-stay-off-roads-cp/articleshow/79982031.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 28, 2020||Bhopal||Youth Congress holds ‘kisan swabhiman’ rally in Bhopal||Bhopal: Youth Congress workers took out a march on Sunday to express solidarity with the agitating farmers at the National Capital Region.  The ‘kisan swabhiman’ march began from the PCC headquarters here in the state capital and culminated at Ambedkar Square, where Youth Congress leaders garlanded the statue of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar. Youth Congress national president Sriniwas B V was also present during the event. Before the march, newly-elected office-bearers of the state Youth Congress met at the PCC headquarters in a programme titled ‘Yuva Shakti Samagam’. Former chief minister Kamal Nath, Sriniwas B V, senior party leader Suresh Pachouri, several MLAs and former ministers attended the programme. Nath in his address reminded the participants about the way the BJP government was formed in Madhya Pradesh and called upon the youths to work hard for a change and bring back the Congress government in power in the 2023 assembly election. Pachouri said that the Youth Congress has an important place in the Congress organisation. He congratulated all the newly-elected office-bearers and asked them to remain active on the ground. Youth Congress chief Vikrant Bhuria, called upon workers to fight against BJP’s ‘wrong’ policies and come together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/youth-congress-holds-kisan-swabhiman-rally-in-bhopal/articleshow/79983068.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||Tourists elated as region’s tiger reserves teeming with cubs||Nagpur: With wildlife parks in the region teeming with tigers and cubs, there is unprecedented the rush of tourists to visit. Also, they are finding wildlife tourism a safer bet than other forms of tourism. With Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) having around 35-40 tiger cubs from 11 tigresses and Pench Tiger Reserve, Maharashtra, over 20 cubs from 9 tigresses in its core and buffer zones, tourists have been making a beeline to these parks with almost assured sightings. Not only Pench and Tadoba, regular sightings of tigers and cubs have been reported from Umred-Karhandla-Paoni wildlife sanctuary (Nagpur), Bor tiger reserve (Wardha) and Tipeshwar wildlife sanctuary (Pandharkawda). Such a large number of cubs is cheerful news. The most sought-after destination is Sillari in Pench where sightings used to be erratic. But this season, five tigresses have littered. A leopard with four cubs is also regularly being spotted. Visitors who sighted three tigresses with cubs last week said, “It is really good news. Guides told us that some tigresses had got their cubs in the open while a couple have still got them in hiding.” Pench field director Ravikiran Govekar said, “Tiger density in Pench is over 6 per 100sqkm with overall 39 tigers. At least 9 tigresses are with cubs and sub-adults in Pench’s buffer and core zone. The development of meadows in Chorbahuli, removal of lantana, and controlling illegal fishing in Totladoh reservoir are the factors.” “Better sightings in core area can be attributed to good prey density with chital 25.5 (per sqkm), gaur (2.5), sambar (7.2), wild boar (8.2), and nilgai (2.2). In buffer, prey density is relatively low. We hope to further improve the animal density once eco-restoration work at Totladoh colony and other degraded sites is complete,” Govekar added. Sandeep Singh, one of the stakeholders from Pench, said, “The response is unprecedented. Even during vacation time earlier, such a rush was not witnessed. There is no room in Sillari and Khursapar, MP Pench too has benefitted due to diktat of four persons per Gypsy on the Maharashtra side.” “Sightings of tourist-friendly tigresses like Collarwali and Langdi have helped. Besides, a black leopard (melanistic) in the buffer also pulled crowds on the MP side. It would be really unlucky tourist who is unable to sight tigers,” Singh said. Naturalist Himanshu Bagde said, “All the entries in Tadoba and Sillari are sold out till mid-January. Due to coronavirus people think wildlife parks are safer as social distancing is maintained and there is no crowding.” TATR deputy director (core) Nandkishore Kale stated, “Of the 40 cubs, we have photographs of 35. One reason for the rush is assured sightings in and around Tadoba. Secondly, schools and colleges are closed driving young ones to the parks. We are also taking Covid-19 precautions. Coronavirus has brought positive results for tourism and it has helped stakeholders overcome losses.” “People were frustrated staying at home. With 230 vehicles entering Tadoba’s core and buffer, around 1.20 lakh tourists visited the park in the last three months,” he added. Another stakeholder Nikhil Abhyankar from Kolara said, “Tourists from faraway places like Pune, Delhi, and Hyderabad are driving all the way to Tadoba. Due to assured sightings, they are staying for long and preferring entry in both core and buffer. I had a guest who drove from Jamshedpur. Visitors from cities like Amravati and Akola too are coming for long stays.” Sources said the demand in Tadoba was so much that visitors are coming with letters from VIPs to get entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tourists-elated-as-regions-tiger-reserves-teeming-with-cubs/articleshow/79982037.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Political workers raise ward restructuring objections||Kolhapur: Most of the ward reservation and restructuring-related suggestions and objections raised by the workers of various political parties pertain to the change in reservations.The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is flooded with suggestions and objections as the deadline to submit them is close. The last date for submission is January 3.Pandurang Adsul, a senior political worker has raised objection to the process adopted for reserving wards for the scheduled caste and scheduled tribe category. He said the descending order of the wards based on scheduled category population was in the wrong order. In a letter to KMC, he said the size of the population should be the criteria for reserving wards. This issue was raised during the reservation process held a week ago, where Avinash Sanas, the deputy secretary of the election commission, said population percentage of a particular category has been taken into account, not population number.Sadatkhan Hamidkhan Pathan has demanded the ward number 42, which has been reserved for the backward category, be made general as the population of the backward category is 15% of the ward.Dinkar Lakshman Kamble has objected to the restructuring of ward number 62 and wants it to be kept intact as voters from some sub-wards have shifted to nearby wards.The civic authorities will register their answers against each of the objections raised. The report will be submitted to the state election commission, which will also register its opinion over it and ask the civic authorities to make changes in case objections and suggestions is valid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/political-workers-raise-ward-restructuring-objections/articleshow/79980385.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bareilly||Chief operating officer of pvt hosp booked for raping medical staff in UP’s Moradabad||BAREILLY: The chief operating officer (COO) of a private hospital was booked at Majhola police station for allegedly raping a hospital staff in Moradabad district on Saturday after the woman lodged a complaint with the senior superintendent of police (SSP). The woman alleged that her boss had called her at his home where he offered a cold drink laced with sedative, and she lost her consciousness after consuming it. When she regained, she found her hands tied and she was raped, alleged the woman. When she raised the issue with the hospital administration, she was asked to keep quiet, and then they transferred her to another department, she alleged. Majhola police station SHO Avdhesh Kumar said, “It’s an old crime. We are questioning the hospital staff. On Monday, we will send the woman for a medical examination, and then she will record her statement before a magistrate. The accused is under our observation and will be arrested if needed.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/chief-operating-officer-of-pvt-hosp-booked-for-raping-medical-staff-in-ups-moradabad/articleshow/79980405.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 28, 2020||Surat||CCTVs to penalize highway traffic violators in Valsad||SURAT: According to Union road transport ministry’s Road Accidents India Report of 2019, 9,200 lives were lost to wrong side driving while one-fourth of these cases, 2,726, were from accidents on the national highways. To control spate of highway accidents, south Gujarat police will install CCTV cameras on national highway 48 between Valsad to Navsari in a first-of-its-kind move to keep an eye on traffic movement as well as rule violators. Vehicles caught flouting rules will be identified from its number plate and handed over for challan at toll plazas on both ends of the stretch. Police are spending Rs 50 lakh for the novel project in the first phase of CCTV network that will cover 50km stretch on both tracks between Bhilad of Valsad district to Boriyach Toll Plaza in Navsari. Cameras will be installed at a distance of one kilometre to identify heavy vehicles violating traffic rules by driving recklessly and also in the first lane. This will cover NH of entire Valsad district while half of NH in Navsari. Total 328 fatal accidents were reported in Valsad in 2019 and 174 in Navsari districts. “In most traffic accidents on highway heavy vehicles are involved. Hence we will be keeping close watch on traffic violations by vehicles through CCTV, in a first-ever project in the country. Police are aggressively working on reducing accidents on highways in south Gujarat,” IGP, Surat range, Rajkumar Pandian, told TOI. The truckers are supposed to pay the fine at the toll booth. Incidentally, Diamond City experimented with the use of CCTV cameras to penalise traffic rule violators in urban areas for the first time in the country in 2012. Then chief minister Narendra Modi launched the real time CCTV surveillance network with 104 CCTV cameras in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cctvs-to-penalize-highway-traffic-violators-in-valsad/articleshow/79981146.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hope Centre solves farmers’ issues: Gutha||Hyderabad: Legislative council chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy on Sunday said the three farm laws brought in by the Narendra Modi government will add to the financial burden of the states and will also adversely affect farmers. “I hope that PM Modi will find an amicable solution to the demands of agitating farmers at the meeting to be held with farmers association leaders on December 29,” he said. Stating that the farmers from north Indian states were continuing their agitation even after 30 days by braving the cold in Delhi, he said the situation of farmers in the north was different from their counterparts in south. The KCR government in Telangana has been purchasing agriculture produce from farmers at MSP. “As per the new farm laws of the Centre, the states have to purchase 75% of the paddy and pulses, while the Centre will purchase only 25% of it. This will cause financial burden on state governments,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hope-centre-solves-farmers-issues-gutha/articleshow/79983099.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Coimbatore||2 youths damage car for displaying Periyar quote, 1 arrested||Coimbatore: A 25-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for damaging a car on Lawley Road here on Saturday night for displaying a quote by Thanthai Periyar.The RS Puram (law & order) police identified the accused as R Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Vadavalli. He is a collection agent with a private bank.A police officer said the incident took place when Gnanavel, 35, a photographer from Lawley Road, was returning home in his car from a garage.“He had stuck Thanthai Periyar’s image on the rear windshield of the car with his quote. Two youths followed the car and threw a stone at the rear windshield glass, damaging it,” the officer said.Gnanavel chased them down near Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and questioned the duo for damaging his car’s windshield. “The duo then hurled abuses at Thanthai Periyar and broke the side mirror of the car. Meanwhile Gananvel’s friend Venkatesh reached the spot and tried to catch the duo, who sped away on their motorcycle,” the officer said.Gnanavel lodged a complaint with the RS Puram police, who registered a case, arrested Rajesh and seized the motorcycle. Police have formed a special team to nab his friend Saravanan.Police said Rajesh was against atheism and he was provoked by Periyar’s quote on the windshield of the car. “He has been remanded in judicial custody,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-youths-damage-car-for-displaying-periyar-quote-1-arrested/articleshow/79982039.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Year-end rush pushes up sales at shopping hubs in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A few big hits in the slog overs of 2020 has helped traders salvage their losses in the pandemic hit year, said store owners, mall managers and businessmen. A dip in Covid-19 cases, advancing of end of season sale and festive spirit increased shopping activity in the malls and traditional shopping hubs of the city in the second week of December. Malls registered the highest footfall of the year on the Christmas weekend while the bakery aisle in New Market has been overflowing with cake enthusiasts. Warm clothes, cool jackets and colourful cardigans sold briskly with a drop in mercury last week. Old favourite of Gariahat saw increase in footfalls. Sulagna Chakraborty, owner of Kids on Gariahat said: “We are happy that people are back at Gariahat to shop. Yes, they are following social-distancing and sanitizing but at least the sentiment is positive. It’s far better than what we did during the pujas.” Mall managers are facing an unusual challenge ahead of new year’s eve. They are ensuring that Covid-19 SOPs get followed on December 31. “We registered a very high footfall on December 24 and 25, numbers that even the most optimistic amongst us could not have predicted till last week. To ensure safety of customers and our staff, we are deploying more people to monitor guest behaviour, ensure proper checks at the time of entry, availability of adequate sanitizer and mandatory wearing of masks in the retail floors,” South City Mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree said. With end-of-season sales being advanced to convert the footfall into revenue, several retailers are doing brisk business. But what’s doing even better at all malls, including South City, Quest, Acropolis and City Centre I and II is food and beverage business. “With the party scene disrupted due to Covid, food courts have emerged as great hangout zones. People are confident about the hygiene and safety protocols followed here, and hence, turning up in good numbers,” said Quest Mall V-P Sanjeev Mehra .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/year-end-rush-pushes-up-sales-at-shopping-hubs/articleshow/79982046.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Victims saddled with unsolicited loans||Hyderabad: In the ongoing investigation into the instant loan app cases, a complainant who reached out to Rachakonda police said that on several occasions unusually, some finance companies deposited loan into his account without him even seeking for loan. Rachakonda police, after declaring the arrest of three persons, including a Chinese woman, said that the complainant first took a loan of Rs 3,500 from an app and repaid it within 7 days. Later he took Rs 4,500 loan and returned the payment. When he checked his SBI account, he found that Rs 26,000 was deposited in his account by 14 different apps and he cleared the loans by paying the demanded Rs 44,000. However, without his consent, the app organisers allegedly continued to deposit loan without him requesting for it and later started harassing him to repay it. As he was caught in a debt trap, he approached the police. In almost all the cases, for persons who sought loan through any one app, the applicants were introduced to another app by the representatives of the original app, from where he/she first sought loan. It is mainly happening in case of defaulters, who were introduced to another app to clear their previous loans. The tele-callers for each finance company harass the defaulters. To avoid further trouble, loanees took another loan to clear their previous loan. Virtually, the cycle continues and the loanee gets into a deep debt trap and the representatives of each app will call and abuse the defaulter and later defame him/her by calling and messaging all the persons who are on his call list. Police have asked Google to block 158 instant financing applications (apps) on its Play Store as the companies behind these were found harassing and shaming defaulters. On Friday, Cyberabad police had arrested a Chinese national from Delhi for illegally running moneylending apps. Yi Bai alias Dennis, a native of Jiangxi in Shanghai, was managing at least 11 such apps offering small loans to individuals between 20 and 40 years at extremely high interest rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/victims-saddled-with-unsolicited-loans/articleshow/79983140.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Vizha marathon, cyclothon to go virtual this time||Coimbatore: The marathon that is held as part of the annual Coimbatore Vizha would go virtual this time. Organisers of the event have asked participants to select a race category, decide a day and time to complete the race, time the race with smart trackers and send the tracking app records to them.“On completion of the event, please mail your ‘activity screenshot’ mentioning your full name to coimbatorevizhamarathon@gmail.com for the e-certificate which will be issued to you on due completion of your selected race category,” they said. The same goes for cycling event too. The registrations are open on the website for the event scheduled between January 2 & 10. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vizha-marathon-cyclothon-to-go-virtual-this-time/articleshow/79982045.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||UK returnee feels harassed by officials and overzealous media||Nagpur: Coming forward and informing the administration about his travel history has proved disastrous for 28-year-old Raj (name changed), his grandmother, father, mother, younger brother and even some relatives who are now being looked at with suspicion by several people known to them. A day after Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) appealed to flyers from new Covid-19 strain hotspots to disclose their travel history, Raj was probably the first from city to declare he had landed in Mumbai from London and took a train to city on November 30. As per SOPs, flyers from the UK, Middle East and South Africa need to inform if they returned between November 24 and December 23. Raj was allowed to leave Mumbai airport only after he had tested negative through the more reliable RT-PCR test there itself. “I was held back for eight hours on arrival from UK,” he told TOI over phone from his GMCH ward. He added he developed symptoms only after attending a relative’s marriage in Gondia and tested positive in rapid antigen test (RAT) on December 15 at Nandanwan UPHC. On December 24, Raj tested negative in RT-PCR test at GMCH. The same negative sample has been sent to NIV Pune and result is awaited. His father, mother, brother and grandmother, who too had attended the marriage ceremony, tested positive on December 15. He said the Gondia relative was already ailing and had tested positive before they reached there. “Authorities have also verified this. Probably all of us got infected during the wedding,” he said, asking why was he still being forced to stay at GMCH despite having testing negative. A series of goof-ups and careless reportage in different media platforms have got the family labelled as “spreader of the new virus strain” in the city. “Though I spent considerable time in the city after returning from the UK and had a negative RT-PCR report twice, media reports mischievously portrayed me and my family as carriers of the new strain. People are questioning and blaming us even though the strain is yet to be identified five days after giving sample,” said Raj. He said statements issued by authorities and officials didn’t match the actual events. Some media outlets also mentioned his name leaving his employers worried. “Some reported we infected our Gondia relatives while my cousin was ailing since December 7 and tested positive without meeting us. We are very unhappy with the way our reputation has been maligned. We feel harassed and aggrieved,” Raj’s father said. Raj added he followed Central government norms for international flyers after his arrival of self-monitoring his health. “Yet some reported I violated quarantine norms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/uk-returnee-feels-harassed-by-officials-and-overzealous-media/articleshow/79982057.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: At 16, lowest single-day Covid toll in 114 days||NEW DELHI: Delhi reported 757 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. Sunday was the sixth in the past week when the daily count of cases remained below the 1,000-mark. Sunday also saw 16 deaths, the lowest in 114 days. The latest number of positive cases emerged from 75,210 tests conducted, including 40,742 RT-PCR tests, with a positivity rate of 1%. Saturday and Friday had recorded a positivity rate below 1%. Barring Thursday, when 1,063 cases were reported, the week has witnessed the number of fresh cases remaining below 1,000. The last time Delhi recorded less than 16 fatalities in a day was on September 4, when 13 deaths were reported. While the number of new cases have been dipping since November 20, barring very few exceptions, every day the number of people recovering from Covid-19 has been higher than people testing positive. The death rate, however, has been a cause of concern but even the fatalities are slowly coming down. This month has already recorded 1,279 deaths, which is much lower than the 2,663 deaths caused by Covid-19 in November, the highest till date. However, the total fatalities this month has already surpassed the number of deaths recorded in any month since the first death recorded on March 13, barring the exception of June, which saw the first wave of Covid-19 cases and total 2,269 deaths. December has already recorded more Covid-19 fatalities than July (1,221), October (1,150) and September (917). The months of August and May saw less than 500 deaths. While the total number of deaths in December are on the higher side, the numbers are dipping and compared with two weeks ago on December 13, when the average number of deaths per day was 64.6, the average deaths has come down to 47.4, which is much lower than the 88.7 average of November or 75.6 average of June. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases reached the figure of 6,22,851 on Sunday and with 939 patients recovering from the disease in the last 24 hours, the total number of those who have recovered stands at 6,05,685 – a recovery rate of 97.2%. The number of active Covid-19 cases as on Sunday was 6,713, out of which most patients – 3,335 – are recuperating in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-16-lowest-single-day-covid-toll-in-114-days/articleshow/79982043.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||TPR climbs to 10.6%, 4,905 new cases in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Test positivity rate in the state climbed to 10.6% on Sunday with 4,905 new cases reported from 46,116 samples tested. Among the fresh cases, 4,307 including 44 healthcare workers were infected through contact while 471 cases were of unknown sources. Meanwhile, 3,463 recoveries were also reported on the day. To date, 6,72,196 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state 65,169 under treatment. The toll in the state reached 2,977 after 25 recent were confirmed as Covid-related. Ernakulam reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases on the day, 605, followed by Kozhikode, 579, Malappuram, 517, Kottayam, 509, Kollam, 501, Pathanamthitta, 389, Thrissur, 384, Thiruvananthapuram, 322, Kannur, 289, Alappuzha, 231, Wayanad, 231, Palakkad, 230, Idukki, 81 and Kasaragod, 37. The district-wise tally of contact cases: Ernakulam, 518, Kozhikode, 548, Malappuram, 480, Kottayam, 466, Kollam, 484, Pathanamthitta, 297, Thrissur, 371, Thiruvananthapuram, 246, Kannur, 240, Alappuzha, 216, Wayanad, 221, Palakkad, 108, Idukki, 77 and Kasaragod, 35. Most cases among healthcare workers were reported from Kannur, 11, followed by Ernakulam, nine, Pathanamthitta and Kozhikode, five each, Thiruvananthapuram and Wayanad, three each, Kollam and Palakkad, two each, and Kottayam, Thrissur, Malappuram and Kasaragod, one each. The highest number of recoveries were reported from Malappuram, 503, followed by Ernakulam 450, Kozhikode 447, Palakkad 327, Thrissur 257, Thiruvananthapuram 248, Kottayam 239, Alappuzha 208, Kollam 185, Wayanad 162, Kannur 158, Pathanamthitta 148, Idukki 78, and Kasaragod 53. There are 2,56,614 people under isolation in the state, including 2,43,465 under home or institutional quarantine and 13,149 people admitted to hospitals with symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tpr-climbs-to-10-6-4905-new-cases-in-state/articleshow/79981173.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bhopal||Thumri & flamenco make magic at Tansen Festival||Bhopal: With each passing day, every warp and weft of the ongoing Tansen Festival in Gwalior is attaining greater luminescence, thereby gladdening the souls of music lovers who are watching it live. Sunday turned out to be a treat for all those who are fed on the rich diet of diversity in music. The morning concert began with mellifluous Dhrupad gayan by students of Shankar Gandharv Sangeet Mahavidyalaya, Gwalior. Santoor recital by Abhay Rustom Sopori and Mohd Amaan Khan’s vocals proved beyond doubt that these young artistes have already carved a niche for themselves on this vast Indian classical horizon. Amaan’s flawless rendition of Bade Ghulam Ali Khan’s famous thumri, Yaad piya ki aaye, floored everyone. The evening, however, belong to brilliant, young Mexican musician and composer, Daniel Rangel, who mesmerised the audience with flamenco music on his Spanish guitar. A part of world music category in the fest, Daniel’s rendition of Cuban music was equally exhilarating. Later during the day, classical vocal by Vivek Karmahe and Sur Bahar jugalbandi by father-son duo, Pandit Pushpraj Koshti and Bhushan Koshti, also delighted everyone. Cherry on the cake was Dhananjay Joshi’s khayal gayiki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/thumri-flamenco-make-magic-at-tansen-festival/articleshow/79983086.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||60 fined in Maidan, zoo for not wearing masks, spitting||KOLKATA: Over 60 people were prosecuted in the Victoria Memorial-Alipore Zoo stretch on Sunday for not wearing masks and spitting in public as thousands descended on city’s hotspots — Alipore zoo, Victoria Memorial, Maidan on Sunday, throwing a stiff challenge to cops in maintaining social-distancing norms. Other popular destinations like Science City and the children’s museums, too, saw considerable footfalls on the last weekend before the New Year. Eco Park and the newly opened New Town coffee house recorded their highest footfalls this season on December 25. State agencies, including police, Hidco, anticipate similar footfalls next week with New Year leading to a weekend. Police prosecuted 57 people in the Victoria Memorial-Alipore Zoo stretch for not wearing masks. Another five were prosecuted for spitting in public. Four persons were also arrested for indecent behaviour. Over 250 prosecutions took place against two-wheelers for various offenses in the night naka checks. Cops also challaned several two-wheeler and four-wheeler riders, who tried to park in Maidan. Eco Park recorded a footfall of 55,741 on December 25 with the numbers expecting to cross on New Year’s eve. The New Town Coffee House, that has been attracting huge number of visitors since its opening on December 4, attracted about 1,100 visitors on December 25. Hidco officials on Saturday reviewed the crowd management arrangements in these two places. The traffic guards found several defaulters on Sunday night, prompting Lalbazar to ask a larger number of local policemen at certain locations, like EM Bypass and the Bypass connectors, to help traffic cops carry out the anti drink-drive campaign. (With inputs from Basabdatta Sarkar and Amit Moulick)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/60-fined-in-maidan-zoo-for-not-wearing-masks-spitting/articleshow/79982070.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 28, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur’s Hunar Haat a platform for artisans from 27 states to showcase local skills, culture||RAMPUR: Hunar Haat in UP's Rampur turned out to be a successful platform for several of the country's skilled artisans who enjoyed a business of around Rs 16 crore in the past 10 days, according to an official on Sunday. Artisans from 27 states have been showcasing some of their exquisite indigenous handmade products at the event. The introduction of electronic trading platforms opened up the event to global buyers. Rampur's district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh told TOI, "Hunar Haat has been hugely successful after receiving a tremendous boost from global buyers. The event helped our traditional artisans and craftsmen get a wider platform and audience. Till now, both through online [e-platform] and offline, there has been a business of Rs 16 crore." Hunar Haat management committee member, Armeen Afaq, said, "Through e-platform, people purchased UP sarees, handmade woollen wear from Ladakh, Manipuri toys, tea leaves baskets of Nagaland, Rajasthani paintings, Karnataka's famous wooden toys, and of course Rampur's handmade knifes." Satnam Kaur from Punjab and Syed Muzaffar from J&K praised the efforts of the local authorities for providing them an ideal platform to display their traditional artworks and sell them, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampurs-hunar-haat-a-platform-for-artisans-from-27-states-to-showcase-local-skills-culture/articleshow/79980416.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: As tourists opt to drive down, hotels see last minute bookings||PANAJI: Hotels may not have seen advance bookings for the Christmas week this year, but there is a silver lining. They are getting last-minute guests with many choosing to drive down in Covid times. This is the new trend as against the previous when guests would fly down and make all bookings — flight and accommodation — in advance. “So even if some rooms may not be taken, hotels can still expect them to be filled up by last-minute arrivals. Some bookings are even received on the day the guest arrives. Basically, the booking pattern has changed because of Covid. The booking window period, which was earlier a week or ten days, has reduced to two to three days now,” director of the Alcon Victor Group, Varun Albuquerque said. In the last two days Goa has witnessed a significant rise in domestic arrivals and occupancy at most hotels has gone up to 80%. “More than two-third of the guests drive to Goa. Unlike earlier, the decision to holiday in Goa is taken at the last minute and so the booking window has shrunk. We are getting a large number of bookings closer to the date of arrival, which is 24 to 48 hours before arrival,” general manager at The Zuri White Sands, Goa Resort & Casino, Rajendran Menon said. Bookings have picked up, but since there are so many hotels available, tariff is still low despite high occupancy. “Still, the rates are 30% to 40% lower as compared to last year,” Albuquerque said. Menon said that it will take some time for hotels to be able to command pre-Covid tariffs. “The positive thing is that business is picking up and I’m sure by the next financial year the gap in pricing will narrow drastically. By October-November next year, hotels should be able to command rates even higher than the pre-Covid period,” Menon said. President of the Travel and Tourism Association Goa (TTAG), Nilesh Shah, said that with about 28,000 rooms available, occupancy at most starred hotels is about 85% and about 75% at smaller hotels. With a surge in footfalls, hotels are facing problems with staff as their housekeeping workers from other states have not returned. “Many have sent their staff flight tickets to bring them back,” Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-tourists-opt-to-drive-down-hotels-see-last-minute-bookings/articleshow/79983165.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 28, 2020||Bhopal||Discoms want to make you pay for defaulters’ waiver||Bhopal: In 2018-19, discoms in Madhya Pradesh wrote off bad debts worthRs 3,200 crore. And now in an attempt to pass this burden of defaulting consumers to honest payers, discoms have moved a true-up petition before the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (MPERC) to allow them to recover these from consumers by increasing the power tariff in the coming years. Experts say that first the MPERC should not allow it and, second, discoms should disclose the names of those whose bad debts were waived off. Every year before the financial year, discoms file annual revenue requirement (ARR) before the regulator and seek hike in power tariff to meet the gap between their estimated income and expenditure in the upcoming financial year. This is based on estimated income and expenditures and later, when the financial year is over, then based on actual income and expenditure, if it is found that discoms have incurred losses compared to the estimated incomes, they file true-up petitions before the regulators. This is the same true-up petition for 2018-19. As per the petition filed before MPERC, on which the regulator had sought claims, objections and suggestions from stakeholders till December 31 and scheduled hearing on January 5, 2021, the east discom has informed that it has written off bad debts to the tune of Rs 771.35 crore in 2018-19, central discom has informed that it had written off bad debts of Rs 1,678 crore, and west discom has informed that it had written off bad debts to the tune of Rs 762.68 crore. Thus, cumulatively, discoms have written off bad debts worth Rs 3,212 crore. This, despite the fact that MPERC has only allowed discoms to write off Rs 6 crore bad debts in its tariff order for the year 2018-19. A senior official of discoms, said, “These are probably the bad debts out of the outstanding waiver schemes announced by the government in year 2018-19. In the scheme, the government only paid 50% of the waived amount, the rest was to be borne by discoms.” However, sources from the distribution company said that these written off bad debts include all types of bad debts — be it money waived off under government scheme or of other defaulters and will probably not be allowed by the MPERC. Retired additional chief engineer of Madhya Pradesh power generation company, Rajendra Agarwal, along with an advocate from Jabalpur, Rajesh Chowdhary, have sent objections to it before MPERC. “First of all, MPERC should not allow such true-up. Why should an honest and paying consumer be burdened with the defaults and debts of those who did not pay the bills? And, secondly, who are these consumers whose bills were written off as bad debts, discoms should disclose it. They are public companies and it is all taxpayers’ money. The amount of Rs 3,200 crore is too much. It is nearly 10% of the total income of the discoms,” Agarwal told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/discoms-want-to-make-you-pay-for-defaulters-waiver/articleshow/79983115.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath for inclusion of Sahibzadas’ sacrifice in UP school curriculum||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the supreme sacrifice made by the four sons of the 10th Sikh guru, Guru Gobind Singh, should be included in UP’s school curriculum. Speaking at a programme on Sahibzada Diwas, organised at his official residence, the CM said their sacrifice to save Hindu religion and the country would inspire future generations and inspire them to work towards nation-building. Yogi stressed that schools should organise debates and various programmes be held as a mark of respect to Sahibzadas. Hailing the Sikh community as the ‘protector’ of Hindu religion, Yogi said future generations should be told that Hindus and country was safe because of Khalsa Panth. “I suggest that the education minister should include this in school curriculum. We celebrate Sahibzada Diwas on December 27, but I feel that this day is actually the children’s day as Sahibzadas made the supreme sacrifice at such a tender age,” Yogi, who donned the traditional Sikh attire, said. “Sacrifice of Baba Ajit Singh, Baba Jujhar Singh, Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh is something that everyone should know,” he said. Yogi stressed that schools should organise debates and various programmes be held as a mark of respect to Sahibzadas. “December was known as Christmas but now it will be known for Sahibzada Diwas,” he maintained, and added that when foreign invaders attacked India, the Khalsa Panth stood up to defend the country and Hindu religion. “Guru Teg Bahadur’s sacrifice in Delhi helped in protecting Hindus in Kashmir. When the sole motive of foreign invaders was to end India’s glory and crush our religion (Hindu), Guru Nanak Dev started his campaign to protect us through ‘Bhakti mein Shakti (power of devotion),” he said. Yogi added that the state government was in the process of identifying all the places related to Guru Nanak Dev. “These places will be beautified on priority,” he said. Last year too, the 550th Sankirtan Yatra of Guru Nanak Dev was taken out from the CM’s official residence and Guru Parv was celebrated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-for-inclusion-of-sahibzadas-sacrifice-in-up-school-curriculum/articleshow/79983160.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Ooty sees heavy tourist flow this weekend||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Ooty once again came alive after a nine month gap this Christmas weekend, when more than 26,000 visitors thronged the hill retreat. Hotels in the hill town also saw 100% of occupancy in the past three days. However, hoteliers could not entertain the guests with Christmas celebrations because of the Covid-19 restrictions that are in place. The government botanical garden alone recorded a footfall of 10,223 on Sunday, compared to 6,713 and 9,849 on Friday and Saturday, respectively. Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director, horticulture department, said the garden was closed for the public in the last week of March when the lockdown was announced to contain Covid-19 spread. “While the park was reopened in September, it didn’t draw much crowd initially. Inflow of tourists started to increase gradually after the relaxation of e-pass system. The footfall crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time today (Sunday).” He said the maintenance work and planting drives were going on as usual in the park while it remained closed for the public. “All the gardens under the horticulture department were maintained properly in the past nine months.” L Srikanth, a tourist from Karnataka, said officials at the botanical garden were enforcing standard operating procedures (SOPs) strictly. “They screened us for temperature at the entrance, where we were asked to apply hand sanitizers. They also saw to it that tourists are wearing face masks.” At least 15 staff have been deployed to monitor tourists in the park. “They will ensure social distancing among the visitors and adherence to face mask etiquette,” the officer said. Hoteliers were, meanwhile, happy to see brisk business. N Chandrasekar, secretary, Nilgiris Hotels and Restaurants Association, said the crowd was unmanageable for the past three days. “All the hotels were booked fully. We were particular about following the SOPs while entertaining the guests.” However, the occupancy rate dropped to 20% on Sunday afternoon, he said. “Also, there is not much advance booking for the New Year weekend.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-sees-heavy-tourist-flow-this-weekend/articleshow/79982067.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Ex-minister Sunitha Reddy named women’s panel chief||Hyderabad: Telangana government appointed the chairperson and members of the state women’s commission on Sunday, abiding by the December 31 deadline set by the high court earlier this month. According to a government order (GO) no. 20, Vakiti Sunitha Lakshma Reddy will head the commission which will have Shaheena Afroze, Kumra Eshwari Bai, Kommu Umadevi Yadav, Gaddala Padma, Sudham Laxmi and Katari Revathi Rao as its members. “The term of the chairperson and the members will be for a period of five years from the date on which they assume office,” read the GO issued by Somesh Kumar, chief secretary to government. The new chairperson was former minister of women and child welfare in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. As a Congress party candidate, she was elected as an MLA from Narsapur assembly constituency, Medak district of Telangana. It was only in April, 2019 that she joined TRS. The women’s commission has been headless since 2018. Tripurana Venkataratnam, who was serving as the chairperson of state women’s commission, demitted office in July 2018. A PIL was filed by R Ramya Rao, a social activist seeking direction to the authorities concerned for the appointment of the chairperson to the commission. Following this, the HC on December 2 had ordered the state government to appoint the chairperson for the statutory body by December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-minister-sunitha-reddy-named-womens-panel-chief/articleshow/79983181.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Salem||Elephants migrate to TN from K’taka||Krishnagiri: A herd of 30 elephants has entered the Tamil Nadu forest from Karnataka forest. The elephants have been halting in the Sanamavu forest division in the district for the past three days. District forest officials are camping near Denkanikottai forests to monitor the movement of the herd. According to a forest official, the elephants have been moving in two groups in the Sanamavu reserve forest near Udedurgam since Thursday night. “They reached the Sanamavu forest via Cinigiripalli, Bennikkal, Anusonai, Jekkeri and Marasandram villages.” He said it was usual for the elephants to migrate into Sanamavu forest at this time of the year to taste ragi crops, which is ready for harvest. The forest officials have advised farmers to stay indoors at night and not to attempt to chase the elephants away, as that would result in human-animal conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/elephants-migrate-to-tn-from-ktaka/articleshow/79982073.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||+ve at pvt lab, negative at GMCH, man says NMC falsely branded him new strain patient||Nagpur: The 35-year-old man from Narendra Nagar is baffled as sample at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) tested negative in RTPCR test when a private lab found him Covid positive within a day. He also accused the civic officials of treating him as new strain patient though the NIV is yet to confirm the strain. The man had tested RTPCR negative at London before boarding flight to India on November 27. The IT professional, who returned on November 28, is on Christmas vacation to meet his parents living in the city. Speaking to TOI from GMCH ward, he said his family was being subjected to harassment by the civic officials who reached his home on Sunday morning. “Though there is no clarity if I am actually Covid positive or there is any link of new strain, the civic officials also informed all neighbours that we are patients of the new strain,” said the man. “I had tested negative in London. After three weeks, suddenly there is news of a new strain from UK and I started receiving calls from multiple departments. I was asked to get a test done and submit the report. Accordingly, I got myself tested and the result showed positive on December 26 morning,” he said. The private lab sample was collected on December 25 while the GMCH collected sample on December 26 and gave result same day. However, the man hasn’t been informed which of his samples (private or GMCH) has been sent to NIV Pune for genomic sequencing to look for the new strain. “All my family members are negative. We have been stigmatized. My mom and dad are alone at home and must be going through a bad time. I fear cross contamination at hospital. I think I made a mistake of going to a private lab,” he said. NMC chief medical officer Narendra Bahirwar said the first positive report shall be considered irrespective of the testing agency. A GMCH doctor said there are 30 to 40% chances of false negative in RTPCR. “But once a sample is positive, it is confirmed the person has infection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ve-at-pvt-lab-negative-at-gmch-man-says-nmc-falsely-branded-him-new-strain-patient/articleshow/79982068.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat ATS nabs Dawood Ibrahim's aide||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Anti-terrorism squad (ATS) has arrested a key absconder in the 1996 Mehsana, Gujarat, arms and explosives haul case, who is known to be an aide of gangster Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar. The accused, Abdul Majid Kutty, 58, was arrested from Jamshedpur in Jharkhand, agency officials said on Sunday. He had been declared an absconder by a Mehsana court in 2002. Gujarat ATS stated that they went to Jharkhand after receiving information that Kutty was living there under an assumed identity. He had changed his name to Mohammad Kamal. In the December 1996 case, a large consignment of arms was seized along with arrest of three persons from near Radhanpur chowkdi in Mehsana town in Gujarat. The consignment included four kilograms of RDX, 10 detonators, 130 pistols including 115 pistols made in Pakistan and 15 made in China, 113 magazines and 750 cartridges. ATS officials said the seized explosives and arms had been meant for conducting terror activities in Gujarat and Maharashtra on Republic Day. “The ATS had launched a probe against Abdul Majid Kutty. ATS deputy SP K K Patel received a tip-off that Kutty, a wanted terrorist, has changed his name to Mohammad Kamal, and was living in Barinagar near Telco mosque in Jamshedpur in Jharkhand. A team of ATS reached Jharkhand, arrested him and brought him here. When interrogated, he admitted to absconding in the 1996 case,” the ATS statement said. Kutty was born in Mumbai in 1962. He had lived in Dubai between 1978 and 1984 before returning to Mumbai where he became involved in gold smuggling and theft after getting in touch with Dawood Ibrahim, Chhota Shakeel, Abu Salem, Tiger Memon, and other members of the underworld, the ATS said. Kutty used to frequent Dubai where he met Abu Salem in 1996. Salem asked him to take the delivery of explosives and arms from Ajmer for terror activities on Republic Day in Gujarat and Maharashtra, the ATS said, adding that Kutty had sent his aide Mohammed Fazal Mohammad Usman and two others to receive the delivery of explosives in Mehsana. The three were caught then, said an ATS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-ats-nabs-dawood-aide/articleshow/79982075.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||84 events make Learnathon™ a lovely learning experience||Nagpur: Learnathon™, the world’s only marathon of learning, enriched its participants with 84 workshops on various topics conducted over two days on Saturday and Sunday. This digital edition of the event was an initiative by city-based Gurukul.education co-presented by The Times of India. With expert instructors from US and UK to China and India, Learnathon™ capitalized on the challenge posed by Covid-19 by not having a physical event and converted this into a global opportunity and brought together instructors on topics as unique as ‘How to deal with toxic people’, ‘Caring for dogs and pet-keeping’, ‘Networking for business’, ‘Pichwai painting’, ‘Belly dancing’ among the most popular ones.Over 200 volunteers (18-21 years) spread across India worked together over a span of 2 months to make this event a grand success which resulted in combined participation of approximately 5,200 learners of all age groups from toddlers to senior citizens, students to housewives and working professionals.The sessions on ‘How to become a YouTuber’, Podcasting conducted by the DGMC Mumbai faculty introduced learners to the world of new age media. Celebrity chef Vishnu Manohar shared his personal journey and answered questions on ‘How to take business from local to global’. Participants learnt the art of public speaking conducted by TM Mayuri Asudani, got introduced to data analytics and how it’s driving businesses and organisations by AICPA facilitator Rajib Majumdar, learnt how to network for business from Amit Waikar, who shared how simple things like remembering people by first name and a smile goes a long way into forging new bonds. Workshops on topics such as hydroponics, home gardening which have seen a surge in the Covid-driven lockdowns attracted audiences across India. There were also important sessions dealing with psychological aspects of life such as, ‘How to overcome personal loss’ conducted by Dr Yogesh Deshpande, ‘Dealing with change’ by Dr Vivek Nanoti and ‘Dealing with loneliness’ conducted by Neema Jain were very relevant.Children had a joyful time with workshops like ‘Cold cooking for kids’ to ‘Kathak’ and ‘How to handle parents’ conducted by Dr Rozina Rana which saw special interest from teenagers to young adults. Mansi Trivedi, a participant, said, “I thoroughly enjoyed the sessions on coffee painting and decision making along with the art of pulling sales. LearnathonTM has given a positive memory to end the year 2020.” Anup Dubey and Chitwan Tahalyani, the organisers and co-founders of Gurukul.education and LIFE said, “It’s the sheer pleasure of watching people from young toddlers to seniors learn and engage with their curiosity quotient at its peak along with the enthusiasm of the LearnathonTM volunteers that drives us to keep conducting this every year despite the amount of efforts and challenges to organise such a mammoth event.”The 5th edition of the event concluded successfully by achieving its core objective of making learning an ageless and joyful experience along with raising funds for Learnathon International Foundation For Education (LIFE)’s Scholarship Programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/84-events-make-learnathon-a-lovely-learning-experience/articleshow/79982072.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||Friend held for murder in woman’s burning case||Nagpur: Shadab Alam, 32, was arrested by Sadar police on Saturday and charged with murder and destruction of evidence over the death of his 40-year-old woman friend. The woman had got burned while having a tiff with him at his Byramji Town residence on December 25. Alam, working with a software firm, had rushed the woman to a private hospital with 75% burns on a two-wheeler, but did not inform police. He had also tried to dispose of the evidence from his house. Police later recovered a burned blanket and the woman’s belongings at his place. CP Amitesh Kumar said the accused was booked for concealing information and also destroying evidence without informing police. “We will not think the case as anything other than murder unless strong corroborative evidence is found that he did not do it,” said the top cop. The woman, married with two children, had befriended Alam on social media. After learning about the woman’s marital status, Alam had started distancing himself from her. She had gone to his place to talk about his decision, but was badly burned in as yet unknown circumstances. The woman had tried to mislead the cops by saying she was burned by someone else on the road, but cops managed to zero down upon Alam after initial probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/friend-held-for-murder-in-womans-burning-case/articleshow/79982082.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 28, 2020||Coimbatore||SI meets with accident on way to stop ATM burglary||Coimbatore: A police sub-inspector (SI) was injured after he lost control over his motorcycle, which hit a roadside shop near Fun Republic Mall, while rushing to stop an ATM burglary attempt.A police source said SI Ilangeswaran, who is attached to Saravanampatti (crime) police station, had received an information in the early hours of Sunday that an unidentified person was trying to break open an automated teller machine (ATM) of a private bank in his station limits.“The person cut the CCTV camera wires at the ATM booth around 12.30am. The bank’s officials in Mumbai headquarters came to know about the burglary attempt and contacted the city police control room. Immediately, Ilangeswaran was informed about the same,” the source said.The SI then left for the ATM booth. “He was travelling on GV Residency-Fun Mall Road. He did not notice a speed breaker and lost control over the speeding motorcycle while negotiating the same. The two-wheeler crashed into the roadside shop and he was thrown off the vehicle. His right knee was fractured in the incident. The motorcycle, meanwhile, caught fire,” the source said. Other motorists on the stretch informed the 108 ambulance service and the SI was subsequently taken to a private hospital.While a team of police visited the ATM centre, the burglar had fled the scene by then on seeing heavy traffic movement in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/si-meets-with-accident-on-way-to-stop-atm-burglary/articleshow/79982081.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Antarvedi temple’s new chariot ready before time||Rajahmundry: The new chariot of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam at Antarvedi in East Godavari district is now complete. It took three months to make the chariot. The chariot is slated to get a brake system and jockey. The new chariot was built on war-footing after the old chariot was gutted on September 6. The chariot is 42 feet high, 14 feet wide and 20 feet long. It has six wheels, each with a six feet radius. Around 1,450 CFT of quality Bastar teakwood worth Rs 72 lakh was used to make the chariot. Devasthanam executive officer, Yerramsetty Bhadraji said that the chariot has been completed ahead of schedule. He added that the celestial marriage of the Lord will be held on February 22 and ‘Rathotsavam’ will be held on February 23. Bhadraji further said that 35 workers worked round-the-clock for three months to make the new chariot and the latest technology was used to make the wheels of the chariot with assistance from JNTUK and Andhra University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/antarvedi-temples-new-chariot-ready-before-time/articleshow/79980597.cms||Samson Raj
December 28, 2020||Nashik||Nashik valley wine picked for ‘1 District, 1 Product’ scheme||NASHIK: The department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), which comes under the Union ministry of commerce and industry, has selected Nashik valley wine as a part of its ‘One District, One Product’ scheme. Sumita Dawra, the additional secretary of the department, has written to the All-India Wine Producers’ Association (AIWPA) seeking details on the wineries in Nashik. The AIWPA said that this move will help Nashik’s wine sector brand and sell products more effectively. Under this scheme, the Union government would come up with measures to help improve the sector’s performance in the future. “Nashik had already got the geographical indication (GI) tag for wine a decade ago in 2010. Small wineries are going to benefit from this scheme as they will be able to sell their wine all across the country,” said Yatin Patil, a managing committee member of the AIWPA. “We have received a letter from the government about the inclusion of Nashik valley wine under the One District, One Product scheme. The government has sought certain information on the wineries, their production capacities and related information,” said Sanjeev Paithankar, the secretary of AIWPA. “Wineries are unable to sell wine outside the state as every state has its own tax structure and rules. There is a need to have uniform tax structure across the the country,” Paithankar too added. When contacted, Satish Bhamre, the general manager of the district industries centre (DIC) in Nashik, said, “As per the scheme, the Centre will announce some measures or special schemes to boost the wine sector in Nashik.” There are 50 wineries operational in the country, including 47 in Maharashtra. Nashik district alone has 35 wineries. The price of wine is in the range from Rs 200 to Rs 4,000 per 750ml bottle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-valley-wine-picked-for-1-district-1-product-scheme/articleshow/79982080.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Aamir Khan marvels at Gir superstars, lions||AHMEDABAD: Bollywood superstar Aamir Khan, who arrived on Saturday in Porbandar, enjoyed a lion safari on Sunday morning at Sasan Gir. Reports say he spotted more than 10 lions. After the safari, Khan said that one should visit the sanctuary at least once in life and termed the lions the pride of India. Khan had come with some 50 people including family and friends and stayed in the sanctuary for nearly four hours. Officials said that the actor is staying at a hotel in Sasan. The star along with his wife and friends is said to be in Gir to celebrate his marriage anniversary. On Saturday, after landing in Porbandar, Khan visited the birthplace of Mahatma Gandhi where he spent several hours before heading for Sasan. After the safari, Khan said, “It was sheer joy to be able to spot the lions in action in their natural habitat.” “This is a royal animal and I will advocate to the people of India to visit Gir and see the lions.” In the visitors’ book, he wrote, “What a wonderful and unique experience I had this morning. This gratitude is to the forest department for carrying out the most important work of conservation. It was our good fortune to spot the King of the Jungle with his entire family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aamir-marvels-at-gir-superstars-lions/articleshow/79982083.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Jawahar Bagh park in Mathura to be New Year gift to public||LUCKNOW: The Jawahar Bagh Park in Mathura would be dedicated to the public in the New Year, energy minister Shrikant Sharma announced. Jawahar Bagh Park had hit the national headlines for a bloody battle between police and illegal squatters in the previous Samajwadi Party regime. Senior police officers Mukul Dwivedi and Santosh Yadav had lost their lives in the gun battle. Navagrah Vatika and Nakshatra Vatika will be named after the slain police officers, the energy minister said adding that the Jawahar Bagh park will be the identity of new Mathura and Vrindavan. Sharma said that Rs. 15.93 crore has been spent on the renovation of Jawahar Bagh Park. A picnic spot, an open air theatre and other facilities for visitors have been developed here. The park is spread on 153 acres and will have one km of jogging track and swings. The minister announced that 150 more such parks would also be dedicated to the public in New Year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jawahar-bagh-park-in-mathura-to-be-ny-gift-to-public/articleshow/79983203.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Tadepalle & Mangalagiri set to be developed by govt as model towns||Amaravati: A year after almost abandoning Amaravati, the state government is gearing up to develop Tadepalle and Mangalagiri as model towns. With Tadepalle and Mangalagiri adjacent to Vijayawada and located on National Highway, the development of infrastructure is expected to act as catalyst for the region’s growth. Experts say ignoring the small towns in the neighbourhood of Vijayawada, including Tadepalle and Mangalagiri, was a shortcoming of the previous TDP regime. The development of key trunk infrastructure in these towns could have pumped more energy into Amaravati, the virgin city planned by N Chandrababu Naidu. While readying a big capital city in the green fields of Amaravati has become a herculean task, the neglect of small towns has further complicated the overall development of the region. The YSRC government has set its focus on converting the existing towns and cities into growth engines of the state. The government has taken notice of the fact that the creation of big-ticket infrastructure including roads, drains, electricity and drinking water in the extended areas of the existing cities would spur the growth and make the small cities into big and big cities into metros. “Frankly, we can’t build cities. Villages into towns and towns into cities will get transformed with migration of people which would happen when we care for their needs,” said finance minister Buggana Rajendranath. Following the instructions of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, the municipal administration department has decided to develop Tadepalle, Mangalagiri towns as model towns on par with Pulivendula, the home town of the chief minister. The chief minister had promised to spare at least Rs 1000 crore to each of the cities to push the developmental works. “We have readied detailed project reports (DPRs) for the development of both Tadepalle and Mangalagiri at a cost of nearly Rs 1,500 crore. We will start the works soon after getting the final green signal from the chief minister,” said Mangalagiri legislator Alla Ramakrishna Reddy. Interestingly, the development of historical temple Sri Panakala Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy in Mangalagiri was also made part of the comprehensive development of the town. About Rs 54 crore would be spent on the temple area development. Officials have also proposed a new rope way project to the hilltop temple to attract the pilgrims and tourists. “The entire temple area will be developed as heritage tourism to attract even the international pilgrims,” said Alla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tadepalle-mangalagiri-set-to-be-developed-by-govt-as-model-towns/articleshow/79980540.cms||Samdani MN
December 28, 2020||Vadodara||School teacher robbed of Rs 82K, mobile after accident on NH-48||Vadodara: A 48-year-old school teacher from Dabhoi was beaten up, robbed of Rs 82,000 cash, mobile phone and his bike for accidentally brushing his vehicle with a car on national highway-48 near Karjan. Victim Nilesh Vasava was travelling on his bike to his brother-in-law’s house in Bharuch when he accidentally brushed against a car when the latter overtook him on December 25. Vasava did not pay much heed to the ‘mishap’ and continued riding on when the car driver stopped him near Karjan and abducted him at knifepoint. The car driver and his accomplice beat Vasava and drove him towards Surat, leaving the bike on the highway. The duo snatched away his bike’s key, mobile phone and ATM cards. As they threatened to kill him, Vasava also shared personal identification number (PIN) of the two ATM cards. After driving for some time, they thrashed Vasava so severely that he fell unconscious. They dumped him on near a hotel in Kosamba in Surat district. On regaining consciousness, he borrowed a phone from a hotel to call up his brother-in-law. Vasava was treated at a hospital in Rajpipla. The next day when his sons went to bring his bike back, they couldn’t find it anywhere. Vasava blocked the ATM cards, but the robbers had already withdrawn Rs 82,000 cash from different ATM machines. On Saturday, Vasava lodged a complaint at Karjan police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/school-teacher-robbed-of-rs-82k-mobile-after-accident-on-nh-48/articleshow/79980914.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Neolithic tool surfaces at Somasila||Vijayawada: A Neolithic celt made out of solarising stone was discovered at Somasila village under Kollapur mandal in Nagarkurnool district in Telangana by Dr E Sivanagireddy, archaeologist and CEO, Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati. Dr Reddy spotted the Neolithic tool while on a survey of archaeological remains in and around Somasila village, located on the left bank of the Krishna river. The celt measures 4x2x1 inches and has very sharp edges that have been arrived at after grinding and polishing. The celt is coated with a patina of lime and ash denoting that it was dumped in a pit after use. Based on similar evidence found at a nearby village, Chinnamarur, in which a Neolithic habitation was excavated by the former state department of archaeology and museums in the early 1980s, Dr Sivanagireddy dated the stone tool at Somasila to the period between 4,000 to 2,000 BCE during which domestication of animals, intensification of agriculture and settlements at one place began. The find was noticed in the agricultural field of Telugu Pentaiah of the same village from which Neolithic tools such as discoids, pestles and grinding stones were recovered two decades ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/neolithic-tool-surfaces-at-somasila/articleshow/79980565.cms||Venu Lanka
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Two on bike crash into earth mover at Uppal, die||Hyderabad: Two youngsters died in a road accident when their bike crashed into an earth mover taking a U-turn at Uppal on Sunday afternoon. The victims, L Naresh, 22, and T Ganesh, 20, were travelling on a two-wheeler from Ramanthapur to Uppal when the accident occurred. According to police, the accident occurred due to the negligent attitude of the earth mover driver and speeding of the biker. “The bike rider, Naresh could not control the vehicle due to speeding and crashed into the earth mover, Uppal SI Sk Mybelli said.  Police registered a case under section 304-A of IPC against absconding mover driver. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-on-bike-crash-into-earth-mover-at-uppal-die/articleshow/79983215.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh forecasts energy demand using artificial intelligence||VISAKHAPATNAM: For the first time in India, APTransco deployed the day-ahead electricity forecasting model using artificial intelligence and machine learning to forecast the next day’s electricity consumption (in units). This will also cover day-ahead electricity demand (in MW) for every 15 minutes. According to AP State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC) officials, this will enable them to take decisions on electricity demand and supply, grid management and minimise power purchase cost. Google, with the support of the World Bank, has offered to jointly develop the forecasting model with the SLDC. The SLDC has carried out the development in-house. Various power-generating companies that have power purchase agreements (PPAs) with discoms will give their availabilities on a daily basis. With the development and deployment of this day-ahead electricity demand forecasting model, APTransco intends to develop more day-ahead forecast models for wind energy, solar energy, market prices, central generating stations surplus and frequency. It is also developing a low cost electricity dispatch model, which will have information on how much electricity should be dispatched every 15 minutes the next day from each generating station with the objective of minimising power purchase cost.  Secretary for energy Srikant Nagulapalli said the government is aiming to build the most efficient and financially robust power sector to address future power demand and supply cost-effective power to consumers with zero interruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-forecasts-energy-demand-using-artificial-intelligence/articleshow/79980614.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||Hunt on for UK returnees as 2 test +ve in Buldhana||Nagpur: The administration of all the 11 districts of Vidarbha have received lists of the returnees from UK and other notified nations. As per the directives, these returnees are being tested for Covid-19. Samples of those who test positive from this list are sent for genome sequencing to NIV Pune. On Sunday, two persons, both UK returnees tested Covid positive in Buldhana district. Natives of Khamgaon town in the district, they had returned earlier this month. The district administration has kept them in independent isolation in Buldhana. Their six close contacts have also been hospitalized and RT-PCR tests were conducted. Apart from this development, the region reported 654 new cases and 700 recoveries on Sunday. With 10 deaths due to Covid-19 in Nagpur, total 14 deaths were reported in Vidarbha region. Out of Nagpur’s 10 deceased persons, five were from city, 2 from rural and 3 from other states/districts. One death was reported in Amravati and 3 in Yavatmal. Eight districts reported no deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday. Case fatality rate of the region is 2.6% which is almost equal to state’s average. On the other hand, with more recoveries than new cases for the fourth day in a row, Vidarbha’s total recovery rate matched the state’s average of 94.3%. It’s still behind the national average of 95.8%. Nine out of 11 districts in Vidarbha reported less than 50 new cases on Sunday while six districts reported more than 50 recoveries. Out of total 2.49 lakh cases reported till date in Vidarbha, 2.35 lakh have recovered. Now, 7729 patients (3% of total cases) are under treatment in the region. More than 60% of them are in home isolation. Gondia: The district reported 28 new Covid-19 patients while 42 patients recovered in a day on Sunday. This took the total cases in Gondia to 13,570. With 13,067 of them recovered till date, the recovery rate of Gondia is 94.6%. No death was reported on Sunday. Now, 325 patients are under treatment in district. Gadchiroli: On Sunday, 31 patients recovered from Gadchiroli against 17 new cases of Covid-19 detected. With this, the number of under-treatment patients in district reduced to 193, which is lowest in Vidarbha now. Gadchiroli has 8,930 cases, 8,636 recoveries and 101 deaths due to Covid-19. No death was reported on Sunday. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is nearing 98% which is the highest in Vidarbha. Bhandara: Total 60 patients recovered in a day while 21 new patients were detected on Sunday in Bhandara. Total cases reached 12,210, including 11,495 recoveries and 289 deaths. No death was reported on Sunday. Now, 426 patients are under treatment in Bhandara. Buldhana: The district witnessed 29 new cases and 50 recoveries. No death was reported on Sunday. Now, total cases in Buldhana reached 12,382, including 11,940 recoveries and 149 deaths. Total 293 patients are under treatment in district. Akola: With 43 new cases reported in last 24 hours, Akola’s total Covid-19 case count reached 10,376. On the other hand, 40 patients recovered in a day. Total 9,534 patients have recovered from Akola. Recovery rate is about 92%. No death was reported on Sunday. Death toll remained 316. Now, total 526 patients are under treatment in Akola. Total 598 tests were conducted in last 24 hours. Washim: The district reported 14 new cases and 18 recoveries in a day on December 27. With this, total cases reached 6,622 with 6,207 of them recovered from Covid-19. Recovery rate of Washim is about 94%. No death was reported for the 25th day on Sunday in Washim. Total death toll remained 148. The district now has 266 patients under treatment. Amravati: With one more death, the district’s toll is now four shy of the 400 mark. New cases and recoveries were almost equal — 63 and 64 respectively. Yavatmal: Three deaths after a three-day holiday took the toll to 400. A 56-year old man from the city, another 47-year-old man from Zari Jamani and a 70-year-old woman from Darwha were the deceased. Out of the 325 reports, 25 tested positive. Currently, there are 344 active positive patients. Chandrapur: While 44 tested positive, 77 were discharged. No death was reported keeping the toll at 359. The Covid tally has now climbed to 22,179 with 21,269 recoveries. Wardha: The caseload of the district is nearing 9,000 after 44 tested positive on Sunday. The exact count is 8,927. The 10 discharged patients took the recoveries to 8,347.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hunt-on-for-uk-returnees-as-2-test-ve-in-buldhana/articleshow/79982051.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Juvenile care homes must renew registration under Act of 2015: HC||PUNE: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has ruled that the juvenile care institutions in the state, having a valid registration under the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act of 2000 at the time of implementation of the new Act of 2015, must apply for renewal of their enrolment within a month of its judgment on December 22. “The institutions not possessing valid registration or the same having lapsed at the time of implementation of the new Act of 2015, must apply afresh for registration and the state shall decide their pleas within three months,” the HC division bench of Justice S V Gangapurwala and Justice Shrikant D Kulkarni said. The bench was disposing of a bunch of petitions filed by juvenile care institutions challenging the Pune-based commissioner of woman and child development’s communication asking all institutions to get registered under the Act of 2015 as per provisions of Rule 22 of the Maharashtra State Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children Rules of 2018. The impugned (under challenge) communication, dated March 26, 2020, also said that only those institutions enrolled under the Act of 2015 would be entitled to admit students and those not complying with the norm will stand to lose 80% of their grants. Lawyer S S Thombre, representing some of these petitioners, had argued that the registration of the institutes under the Act of 2000 was deemed to have been protected at the time of commencement of the Act of 2015 by the provisions under Section 41 (1) of the new Act and, hence, they were not required to register afresh. The Act of 2015 came into force from January 1, 2016 and the Rules-2018 (specifying the procedure for implementation of the Act in the state) came into force from March 14, 2018. Thombre had argued that the rules cannot override the statutory provisions nor can they supplant the provisions of the statute (the Act). However, lawyer P V Mandlik, appearing for the respondent-commissioner, pointed out that the registration of most of the petitioners, as per the amended Act of 2006, was from 2006 to 2011. On December 22, 2011, the state issued a government resolution (GR) which provided registration of such institutions for three years and, thereafter, it may be considered for renewal of five years. As such, the term of their registration came to an end. The government was only implementing Rule 22 of the Rules-2018 which provides for registration to secure benefits under the Act of 2015, he said. The bench referred in details the provisions under Section 41 (1) of the Act of 2015 and the Rule 22 under the Rules-2018 and held that the same were needed to be read harmoniously. “To apply for renewal of registration after 1 year (of the Act of 2015 coming into force) is also necessary because these institutions deemed to be registered did not undergo rigors of registration under the Act-2015 so as to give an opportunity to the authority to verify compliance of the requirement of the Act-2015 and the rules,” the bench said. Juvenile Justice Act Chronology # The Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act of 2000 provided a juvenile justice system for juveniles in conflict with law and children in need of care and protection by adopting a child friendly approach in adjudication and disposition of matters in the best interest of children and for their rehabilitation keeping in view the developmental needs of the children. # The Act was amended twice in 2006 and 2011 to address gaps in it’s implementation and make the law more child friendly. # During implementation, several issues such as increased incidents of abuse of children in institutions, inadequate facilities, quality of care and rehabilitation measures in homes, responsibility and accountability of institutions etc. came to the fore, prompting a review of existing law and led to the Act of 2015. (Source: Bombay HC, Aurangabad bench ruling of Dec 22, 2020)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/juvenile-care-homes-must-renew-registration-under-act-of-2015-hc/articleshow/79980439.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Restos, pubs witness year’s most crowded weekend||KOLKATA: Crowds swelled across Kolkata’s restaurants and pubs on the Christmas weekend making it the most crowded of the year, which saw three months of Covid-induced closure and a subsequent drop in footfall to less than 15%. Several central Kolkata and Park Street restaurants said they were not only packed to capacity from Friday to Sunday but also had more visitors than the corresponding days of last year. Many have made the ‘table-turnover’ faster to reduce the waiting time that has gone up due to the 50% restriction on seating capacity. Even as revelers took over Park Street on Christmas evening, crowds swarmed the restaurants at Kolkata’s party hub, too. Footfall has never been so high on Boxing Day (December 26) which traditionally sees a relatively thin crowd on Park Street, said Nitin Kothari, who owns Mocambo and Peter Cat. “While Christmas was more crowded than we had expected, Saturday turned out to be a big surprise. Footfall was just as high as Christmas throughout the day and it continued on Sunday. While this comes as a huge relief at the end of a bad year, we expect a similar turnout next weekend which will begin early with the New Year eve on Thursday,” said Kothari. The bigger crowd was indeed a pleasant surprise, said Pratap Daryanani, owner of Oasis on Park Street. “It has been a slow build-up and we expected a good footfall. But we saw an explosion of revelry, which pushed up footfall beyond our expectations. Had it not been for the restricted capacity, our business volume would have surpassed last year’s,” said Daryanani. At Songhai in central Kolkata, footfall surged over the weekend. The restaurant has added 134 seats to its existing capacity, which helped accommodate more. “This weekend was the most crowded in several years. The lockdown period has whetted the apatite for eating out and this should continue through the next weekend that ushers in the New Year,” said owner Sudesh Poddar. Amber at Waterloo Street had the biggest attendance of the year on December 25 and 26, said owner Sanjay Khullar. Efforts were made to shorten the waiting time at Mocambo and Peter Cat. “We have made the table-turnover faster to ensure that people can finish their meal quicker and those in the queue can come in faster. Orders are being taken faster and food served more quickly,” said Kothari. At Flurys on Park Street, the crowd was as big as previous years. “It was heartening to see people turning up with family and friends over the weekend, following safety protocols and limited seating arrangements. Apart from the Flurys tearoom at Park Street, our neighbourhood outlets also had good footfall. From Christmas takeaway goodies to dining in for some quick bites, we had guests turning up like every year,” said Flurys director Rajesh Kumar Singh. Mughlai chain Oudh 1590 and continental outlet Chapter 2 remained packed through the weekend. “Most of our tables were booked in advance for the weekend. Normally, we don’t accept table bookings but this time we were forced to make an exception,” said owner Shiladitya Chaudhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/restos-pubs-witness-years-most-crowded-weekend/articleshow/79982085.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||20 fall ill in Srikakulam after drinking hooch||VISAKHAPATNAM: More than 20 people fell ill, two of them quite seriously, after consuming illicit liquor (hooch) at Sirimandi village of Sompeta mandal in Srikakulam district on Saturday night. While 18 people were discharged after preliminary treatment, two persons — Karagi Papa Rao (51) and Karagi Rudrayya (56) — had to be initially shifted to RIMS Hospital in Srikakulam and subsequently to KIMS for better treatment. They are currently reported to be stable. According to reports, a local named G Rama Rao had died of kidney-related ailments on Saturday. A group of villagers accompanied the dead body to the cremation ground. At the cremation ground, around 20 members of the group consumed hooch. After drinking, the 20 people complained of vomiting, headache and stomach pain and had to be hospitalised on Saturday night. Police visited the village and appealed to people to not consume hooch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/20-fall-ill-in-srikakulam-after-drinking-hooch/articleshow/79980640.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bareilly||Man ‘kidnaps’ daughter, 10, to frame rivals||PILIBHIT: A man allegedly staged his 10-year-old daughter’s kidnapping in order to frame two of his neighbours in a false case. Appropriate legal action will be taken against him, said Atar Singh, SHO of Sungarhi police station in Pilibhit city. On Saturday morning, the man lodged a complaint that his daughter had been kidnapped. A search was immediately launched. Police also questioned her grandmother. However, her story did not match with the CCTV footage of the time, said Singh. In the evening, police were informed that the girl was dropped home by two men. The girl was brought to the police station. Initially, she narrated the kidnapping story she had been schooled to tell. Then, police won over her confidence and she divulged that her father had dropped her on Friday evening at the house of her cousin at Piparia village under Puranpur Kotwali police station, and taken her back home on Saturday evening, Singh said. The police have placed the girl in safe custody of the child welfare committee, where her statement will be recorded. She was also sent for a medical examination. On the basis of the girl’s story, action will be taken against her father, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-kidnaps-daughter-10-to-frame-rivals/articleshow/79980441.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 28, 2020||Kochi||Congress picks Mohanan for post of Kannur mayor||KOZHIKODE: Ending days of uncertainty, Congress has chosen Adv T O Mohanan as the party’s pick for the post of mayor of Kannur corporation. The decision was arrived at through an internal poll in the Congress parliamentary party meeting held at Kannur DCC office on Sunday. The party’s 20 councillors were asked for their choice among the two leaders in the fray. The meeting was held at the DCC office in the presence of KPCC vice-president and observer at the meeting T Siddique, KPCC working president and Kannur MP K Sudhakaran and DCC president Satheeshan Pacheni. UDF was in a tricky situation in the sole corporation won by it in the state after three senior leaders, including KPCC member Mohanan, KPCC general secretary Martin George and former deputy mayor P K Ragesh, staked claim to the mayor post. With consensus eluding, it was decided to convene a meeting of parliamentary party to select the person with support of most councillors as the candidate for mayor post in the election to be held on Monday. George withdrew from the race on Sunday morning, just before the parliamentary party meeting, leaving Mohanan and Ragesh in the fray. Mohanan emerged as the party’s parliamentary party leader, winning support of 11 councillors. Sudhakaran said that no internal poll was held at the meeting. Kannur DCC president said that the parliamentary party leader was selected through separate interactions by Siddique, Sudhakaran and Pacheni with elected councillors. UDF was had emerged as a clear winner in the local body elections for Kannur corporation with the front candidates winning in 34 of the 55 divisions. Mohanan has served as councillor in the previous council and was also municipal vice-chairman in 2013-15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/congress-picks-mohanan-for-post-of-kannur-mayor/articleshow/79981207.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Singer injured after rogue riders hit bike on Red Road||KOLKATA: A singer going to a concert near Rabindra Sadan on Christmas Day along with her husband on their bike claimed she had met with an accident after rogue bikers hit their bike from behind while trying to speed on a busy Red Road. The singer then took to Facebook to claim how cops had failed to nab the accused on the spot despite her trying to point out the accused with an injured foot. A scan later revealed a crack in the bone. Cops, however, claimed they had managed to nab three bikers while they were fleeing from the Bhowanipore area. “A relevant case has been initiated under Motor Vehicles Act as they were triple riding besides the other violations they were involved in,” said an officer. The incident though has led the cops to ask all traffic guards to pull up their socks and stop such incidents. Cops hinted that targeted round-the-clock drives — launched last week — against rogue bikers will continue till December 31. “We have been asked to challan — and even impound — two-wheelers. We have been asked not to wait for special raids unlike in the past. A few stretches have been identified where these checks will be intense,” said an officer from a south Kolkata traffic guard. To ensure no one gets hurt in the process, cops are relying on CCTVs. “We are checking if someone is without helmet or triple carrying. We are relaying the information to the officer on duty at key roads.” The officer then takes action accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/singer-injured-after-rogue-riders-hit-bike-on-red-road/articleshow/79982094.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 28, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Discoms want to make you pay for defaulters’ waiver||BHOPAL: In 2018-19, discoms in Madhya Pradesh wrote off bad debts worth Rs 3,200 crore. And now in an attempt to pass this burden of defaulting consumers to honest payers, discoms have moved a true-up petition before the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (MPERC) to allow them to recover these from consumers by increasing the power tariff in the coming years. Experts say that first the MPERC should not allow it and, second, discoms should disclose the names of those whose bad debts were waived off. Every year before the financial year, discoms file annual revenue requirement (ARR) before the regulator and seek hike in power tariff to meet the gap between their estimated income and expenditure in the upcoming financial year. This is based on estimated income and expenditures and later, when the financial year is over, then based on actual income and expenditure, if it is found that discoms have incurred losses compared to the estimated incomes, they file true-up petitions before the regulators. This is the same true-up petition for 2018-19. As per the petition filed before MPERC, on which the regulator had sought claims, objections and suggestions from stakeholders till December 31 and scheduled hearing on January 5, 2021, the east discom has informed that it has written off bad debts to the tune of Rs 771.35 crore in 2018-19, central discom has informed that it had written off bad debts of Rs 1,678 crore, and west discom has informed that it had written off bad debts to the tune of Rs 762.68 crore. Thus, cumulatively, discoms have written off bad debts worth Rs 3,212 crore. This, despite the fact that MPERC has only allowed discoms to write off Rs 6 crore bad debts in its tariff order for the year 2018-19. A senior official of discoms, said, “These are probably the bad debts out of the outstanding waiver schemes announced by the government in year 2018-19. In the scheme, the government only paid 50% of the waived amount, the rest was to be borne by discoms.” However, sources from the distribution company said that these written off bad debts include all types of bad debts — be it money waived off under government scheme or of other defaulters and will probably not be allowed by the MPERC. Retired additional chief engineer of Madhya Pradesh power generation company, Rajendra Agarwal, along with an advocate from Jabalpur, Rajesh Chowdhary, have sent objections to it before MPERC. “First of all, MPERC should not allow such true-up. Why should an honest and paying consumer be burdened with the defaults and debts of those who did not pay the bills? And, secondly, who are these consumers whose bills were written off as bad debts, discoms should disclose it. They are public companies and it is all taxpayers’ money. The amount of Rs 3,200 crore is too much. It is nearly 10% of the total income of the discoms,” Agarwal told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/discoms-want-to-make-you-pay-for-defaulters-waiver/articleshow/79983198.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||One more Europe returnee tests +ve, 14 new flyers quarantined||Nagpur: One more city resident, who had returned from Europe, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday taking the tally of suspected patients of new variant of novel coronavirus to five. Also, 14 flyers from countries in Europe, Middle East and South Africa arrived in the city on Saturday and Sunday, and were quarantined. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) said the latest positive patient (35) is a resident of Mahal in NMC Gandhibagh Zone and was working in Ireland. The man, his wife and six-year-old son landed at Raipur, Chhattisgarh, and attended a marriage ceremony at Jajgir on December 14. They came to the city three days ago. Then, the family got a call from the Jajgir administration to get tested as the addresses on their passports are of that town, and their names featured in the second list sent by Bureau of Immigration. Accordingly, the couple got tested on Saturday, and the man came positive while wife is negative. The child is yet to be tested. An official from NMC Gandhibagh Zone told TOI, “We will ensure the child is tested as per standard operating procedures (SoPs) issued by the government. The man has been admitted in special ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH).” The results of genome sequencing of earlier four positive patients — a youth from Nandanwan, mother-daughter duo from Trimurti Nagar, and a man from Narendra Nagar — are awaited from National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. They had returned from United Kingdom. The swab samples of the person from Mahal will also be sent to NIV on Monday. Like three of the earlier four positive patients, the person from Mahal has also tested positive within incubation period of 14 days. But the government is now considering incubation period of 28 days for new strain of Covid-19 which had emerged in UK. In two lists comprising 204 air passengers sent by Bureau of Immigration, around 119 are from the city who returned from the listed countries between November 25 and December 23. Tests of many flyers are yet to be conducted. As per NMC, 14 flyers from Europe, Middle East and South Africa arrived in the city on Saturday and Sunday. “Of these, 12 air passengers opted for quarantine in private hotels,” NMC official said. NMC had given permission to nine private hotels with capacity of 250 beds to act as quarantine centres. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has also started quarantine facility for flyers from these particular countries at VNIT hostel. Three of the flyers have reportedly opted for quarantine in VNIT hostel. In initial stages of the pandemic, quarantine centre was started in this hostel and later converted into Covid Care Centre (CCC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-europe-returnee-tests-ve-14-new-flyers-quarantined/articleshow/79982088.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||5,000 traffic cops to join force in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: As many as 5,000 traffic police personnel will soon be added to the existing traffic strength of 5,200 traffic cops in the state. The cops, who are undergoing 30 days non-practical training and 15 days physical training, will join the force soon. “The move is aimed at better management of traffic as well as to keep a check on fatalities,” said additional director general of police, traffic, Ashok Kumar Singh. The 5,000 personnel, who are undergoing training in different police schools, include at least 400 of sub-inspector rank, 43 inspectors, head constables and constables, he said. The constables and head constables are being trained in different districts. Sub-inspectors will be trained at Sitapur Arms Training Centre and inspectors will be sent for training in Maharashtra and Delhi. Additional superintendent of police, traffic, Balwant Chaudhary, said that after the training each district will be allotted its share of cops. “Keeping in mind the requirement of traffic in the 75 districts of the state, a special training centre is also being established,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5000-traffic-cops-to-join-force-in-up/articleshow/79983239.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 12 arrested for setting police inspector ablaze over removal of encroachment||HYDERABAD: Twelve persons were arrested for allegedly setting ablaze Jawaharnagar inspector P Bhikshapathi Rao while he was assisting revenue officials in removal of illegal encroachment of government land. On Sunday, a special team of Rachakonda police under the supervision of Uppal inspector Ch N Ranga Swamy arrested the land grabbers who attempted to kill the inspector by throwing inflammable liquid and also attacked other government officials by sprinkling chilli powder when they were trying to clear illegal encroachments from survey number 432/P of Jawaharnagar municipality. Jawaharnagar police arrested Poonam Chand Kumavath, 50, a businessman, his wife, Shanthi Devi, 45, a housewife, his son, Nihal Chand, 27, also a businessman, daughter Nirmala Kumawat, 26, a housewife, Poonam Chand’s relatives Bal Singh, 40, a painter from Balaji Nagar, Ch Patel, 24, a businessman, from Neredmet, Madan Lal, 45, a businessman from Monda Market, Ruparam Kumavath, 43, a businessman, Yogi Kamalnath Solanki, 21, a garments store worker, both from Balaji Nagar, Om Prakash Kumavath, 32, from Neredmet, Geetha Devi, 40, and Godavari Kumavat, 40, both housewives from Jawaharnagar. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat, in an official release release, said an ex-serviceman, R Mallesh, had applied to Medchal-Malkajgiri district collector to allot 1 acre 20 guntas of government land in survey number 432/P in Jawaharnagar municipality to him under ex-serviceman quota. Mallesh’s representation was rejected, but he illegally occupied the government land and executed an unregistered GPA in favour of Poonam Chand Kumavath, police said. Recently, the district collector, Medchal-Malkajgiri , had accorded permission to municipal authorities to utilise the land for construction of a modern toilet complex and municipal authorities have realised that 900 square yards of the said government land has been in illegal possession of Poonam Chand who constructed two tin-roofed sheds with toilets in the encroached property. On December 24, when revenue officials visited the spot along with police to clear the encroachments, the accused along with others assaulted them using chilli powder. Nihal, Nirmala and Shanti hid themselves in a room and set ablaze some clothes. As smoke and fire started emanating from the tin roof of the room, inspector Rao along with constable Arun kicked the latched door open to rescue the trio. “But the trio threw an inflammable liquid on the inspector and the constable, setting them ablaze. Inspector Rao suffered severe burns and constable Arun suffered minor burns in the assault,” Rachakonda commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/12-arrested-for-setting-police-inspector-ablaze-over-removal-of-encroachment/articleshow/79983238.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Minority panel member hails Yogi Adityanath for Sikh event at 5 KD||LUCKNOW: Lauding Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for organising the Sahibzada Diwas, member of state minority commission, Parminder Singh, said on Sunday said the present regime has brought about a positive change — the Chief Minister’s residence, which once hosted ‘iftar’ and Eid Milan, was now hosting ‘Gurbani Kirtan’. “Jis 5 Kalidas (Marg) ko roza iftar ki partiyon aur Eid Milan ke liye jana jata tha, ye mananiye CM Yogi Adityanathji ka hi pratap hai ki jinke netratva mein aaj hume Gurubani Kirtan sunne ko mil raha hai (I have no hesitation in saying that it is under the leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath that a Gurubani Kirtan is being organised at CM’s official residence, which was otherwise known for hosting ‘iftaar’ parties and Eid Milan in the past),” he said at the programme organised at 5, Kalidas Marg to observe ‘Sahibzada Diwas’ (martyrdom of four sons of Guru Govind Singh and his mother Gurjari). Singh said Yogi Adityanath would be known as the first CM who got the Sahibzada Diwas programme organised – an event that would boost the morale of Sikh community. He said though Sikhs are economically sound they are deprived of social justice. “It was the UP government which chose two members of the Sikh community in the state minority commission,” he said, adding that the steps taken by the UP government to get the Sikh community on board invited appreciation. Iftar parties had become a routine during Ramzan in the tenure of Samajwadi Party CMs Mulayam Singh Yadav and his son Akhilesh Yadav. Even BSP chief Mayawati hosted iftar parties at five-star hotels in Lucknow through her aides. Even during the regime of BJP CMs, Rajnath Singh and Kalyan Singh, iftar parties were organised at the CM’s residence. The only exception was BJP CM Ram Prakash Gupta, who did not host iftar party because of political instability. The practice formally got discontinued after Yogi Adityanath came to power in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/minority-panel-member-hails-yogi-for-sikh-event-at-5-kd/articleshow/79983287.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Twist in T'puram wife ‘electrocution’ case||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It was his reluctance to commit to the relationship with his wife’s desire to have a baby before time ran out for her, that led to the events wherein Arun, 28, ended up murdering his 51-year-old wife. On Sunday night, police recorded Arun’s arrest at Vellarada police station after police surgeons, who conducted Shakha Kumari’s postmortem examination, confirmed the cause of death as electrocution. Earlier, the accused had confessed to the crime. The police, however, delayed the arrest until they had medical and scientific evidence. While in custody, Arun told police that the couple broke into a quarrel, which turned violent, on Friday night in their bedroom. Kumari wanted to conceive a child while Arun was against it. He smothered her face which rendered her breathless and unconscious. He then dragged her to the living room which was decorated with serial lights. He placed an exposed live wire and turned on the switch. “We presume that the accused believed Shakha Kumari died when he smothered her and staged the electrocution to make it look like an accident,” said inspector M Sreekumar, Vellarada station house officer. He added that while there are allegations that Arun committed the crime to secure the Kumari’s wealth, the evidence at hand currently suggests that it was an impulsive crime. Arun and Kumari met at a private hospital at Killippalam in the city in 2017. Their friendship soon grew into a love affair. But, Arun was not ready to marry her. “He claims that she forced him to marry her. He laid down a few conditions to marry her, one of which was that the marriage should be kept a secret from his extended family,” the inspector said. Only his parents and a close friend attended the marriage. Problems started when Kumari circulated the wedding pictures on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/twist-in-tpuram-wife-electrocution-case/articleshow/79981209.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||CBI should make public Sushant Singh case report: Home minister Deshmukh||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to make public the investigation report into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death at the earliest. He was speaking at a press conference at Police Gymkhana here on Sunday. This is the second time Deshmukh has cornered CBI over Rajput’s death case. Accusing it of being a tool for political interference and conspiracy, the MVA government had earlier withdrawn ‘general consent’ for the agency to probe cases in the state without permission. Deshmukh said CBI has taken over the case four months ago and it’s high time they release the outcome, whether it’s murder or suicide. “People keep asking me as the home minister, about the Rajput death case. Hence, I am asking CBI to make the findings public,” said the home minister. Rajput had allegedly committed suicide at his Bandra apartment in June triggering a nationwide socio-political churning and legal debates, apart from political bickering between BJP and the incumbent Mahavikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The case had taken a turn after Bihar police registered a case to abetment to commit suicide. This had led to the two state governments going on the warpath. The apex court had transferred the case to CBI in August. Bihar police had claimed victory, justifying their decision to register offence in the case. In a blow to the conspiracy and ‘murder’ theory, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which had been asked to analyse the post mortem report prepared by Mumbai’s Cooper Hospital, had said that there was no organic poison found in the actor’s body. Mumbai police and state home minister Deshmukh had tried to justify their decision to register the case as accidental death. After a round of tussle over Rajput’s case, MVA government had withdrawn the ‘general consent’ to CBI to probe cases in Maharashtra. State home minister had then blamed CBI for becoming a potent tool for ‘political interference’. “CBI would not be able to probe any case in Maharashtra henceforth without the permission of the state government,” he had said then. MVA government, it’s learnt, had felt the CBI may also take up the TRP case against Republic TV after registering a similar case elsewhere in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbi-should-make-public-sushant-singh-case-report-home-minister-deshmukh/articleshow/79982108.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 28, 2020||Nashik||Two Kandivali residents on their way to Shirdi temple run over by tanker||NASHIK: Two people were killed and three sustained injuries after a speeding tanker knocked them down from behind while they were walking to the Shirdi temple on the Ghoti-Sinnar Road on Saturday morning. The deceased — Rajkumar Patel (35) and Alok Gupta (30) — were residents of Kandivali in Mumbai. Ghoti police have registered a case of causing death by negligence against the driver of the tanker. According to complainant Ganesh Saroj, a group of 15 people had started their journey from Mumbai to Shirdi a few days ago. After putting up at Ghoti for a night, the devotees were walking towards Shirdi using the Ghoti-Sinnar Road when a speeding tanker came from behind and hit the five devotees. “While Patel died on the spot, Gupta succumbed to his injuries on the way to the hospital,” said Saroj. Every year, a large number of devotees from across the state go to Shirdi — many of whom walk — on the occasion of New Year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-devotees-killed-on-way-to-shirdi/articleshow/79982095.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Book fair after Cov situation improves: Guild||KOLKATA: The International Kolkata Book Fair has been postponed by a few months, according to an official statement of the Publishers and Booksellers Guild that has been organising the fair for the last 45 years. The fair has not been cancelled, rather it will be held once the pandemic situation improves across the world. For, representatives from several countries participate in it. The Guild held several meetings and was unable to decide any date, though the state has given a go-ahead to all other fairs across Bengal. TOI had earlier reported that the fair has been deferred till the end of March or early April. Guild authorities said they have not cancelled the “booking” of Salt Lake Central Park where the fair was supposed to be held between January 27 and February 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/book-fair-after-cov-situation-improves-guild/articleshow/79982098.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 28, 2020||Kochi||Fragrant ginger species discovered||KOZHIKODE: Researchers from Malabar Botanical Garden and Institute for Plant Sciences based here have discovered from Arunachal Pradesh a highly fragrant ginger species which is a wild relative of ‘Kalyanasougandhikam’ (hedychium coronarium), a mythological flower in Mahabharatha for which Bhima went in search as per Draupadi’s request. This newly-described species named hedychium mechukanum is the largest of all known species of hedychium and is highly aromatic. The plant, which was spotted near the Indo-China border, has high potential as ornamental plant by virtue of its large showy flowers with pleasant fragrance. The discovery has been made by M Sabu, CSIR-Emeritus scientist, Malabar Botanical Garden and Institute for Plant Sciences, Kozhikode, and researcher V S Hareesh, also from the same institute. “The new species is similar to the hedychium coronarium or ‘kalyanasougandhikam’ plant and can be considered as its wild relative. Both the plants are fragrant but the new species differs from the mythical ‘kalyanasougandhigam’ plant as they have larger flowers and a yellow tinge in the base of the labellum,” Sabu said. According to researchers, the new species is only known from Quing and Tato near Mechuka Valley in the Shi-Yomi District of Arunachal Pradesh at an altitude of around 1,400m. The flowering season of the plant is from mid-June to September. The plant was collected from the Mechuka valley. The researchers have made the conservation assessment of the species as Data Deficient under IUCN guidelines. “The area is under threat due to road widening. However, as this species is known only from the type locality and could be more widespread in areas away from the road and in the wider region, we assess it as Data Deficient (DD) following the IUCN guidelines,” the study said. The two researchers along with Dipankar Borah, a researcher from department of botany at the Rajiv Gandhi University at Itanagar, have also discovered another species of ginger which has been named Amomum arunachalense. The new plant was spotted during a floristic expedition from Nirjuli in Papum Pare district of Arunachal Pradesh in moist, slopping locations along streams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fragrant-ginger-species-discovered/articleshow/79981226.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: One booked on charge of aiding suicide||PUNE: The Alandi police on Saturday registered an offence against a woman from Khed taluka on the charges of suicide abetment of her 20-year-old neighbour and also attempting to extort money from him via blackmail. On December 4 the youth ended his life by jumping into a well near his house. The youth’s sister on Saturday lodged an FIR against the woman with the Alandi police. Sub-inspector Surekha Sagar of the Alandi police told TOI that the the suspect was her brother’s neighbour. “They were also in contact over a social networking platform,” Sagar said. The complainant said the woman had been demanding sexual favours from the youth since the last month. “According to the complaint, when her brother refused to give in to the woman’s sexual advances, she pressured him. She also started threatening him by claiming that she would defame him by disclosing their illicit relationship to his relatives,” Sagar said. Frustrated by the harassment, the youth ended his life by jumping into a river on December 4. “We will soon arrest the woman,” Sagar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-booked-on-charge-of-aiding-suicide/articleshow/79982115.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nashik||MSEDCL gives a facelift to Nashik dist’s power infra||NASHIK: The Nashik zone of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has completed the work of laying 110 kilometre of cables underground as well as installation of 194 new Distribution Transformer Centres (DTC) and augmentation of 196 DTCs across the Nashik district to strengthen the infrastructure. The infra department of Nashik zone of MSEDCL had undertaken various works of putting the overhead wires to underground supply in urban areas of Nashik city, Malegaon city and several other semi-urban pockets across Nashik district besides installation of new DTCs and also augmenting of several DTCs to provide uninterrupted power supply to the residents of Nashik district as part of the Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS)-II since 2018. “The work of IPDS that was undertaken in 2018 has been completed and in most of the cases the infrastructure has been put to use for the citizens,” Sanjay Khandare, MSEDCL superintending engineer (Nashik zone), said. “It is not only helping in de-congestion of the wires above ground, but also improving the quality of power supply and cutting down the chance of possible mishaps due to the overhead lines. However, the work is very costly and it was possible only because of the special funds that were provided by the central office as well as measures taken up by the local civic body cutting down the costs involved by various ways,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msedcl-gives-a-facelift-to-nashikdists-power-infra/articleshow/79982116.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 28, 2020||Bhopal||Mother held for burning baby to death in MP's Singrauli||BHOPAL: A 24-year old woman wrapped her five-month-old infant in cloth and allegedly set it ablaze, killing the baby in Singrauli district on Christmas Day. The accused, Guddi Singh Gond, was arrested the next day and is now in jail custody. “Preliminary probe has found she has some psychological issues,” said Singrauli SP Virendra Singh said. She has been charged with murder. The horrifying incident happened in Sukhar Barhi village of Chitrangi area, some 675km from Bhopal and close to the UP border. “Prima facie, it has surfaced that both Guddi Singh and her husband Pushpraj have psychological issues. On December 25, the husband and wife had a quarrel over some petty issue,” said the SP. Pushpraj left for the farm, next to their house, along with his father and mother. The woman was alone with the infant at home. “She wrapped up the baby and set fire to it. On seeing the infant burn, she threw the baby to one side and hid in a pile of hay,” Singrauli additional SP Anil Sonkar told TOI. “Other villagers saw flames coming out of the house and ran inside to find the infant burning. The father and grandparents also arrived and took the child to hospital, but he died on the way. The locals then informed police,” said an officer. SP Singh said the mother tried to kill herself later. Police say the dead baby was her fourth child; the other three are girls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mother-held-for-burning-baby-to-death-in-singrauli/articleshow/79983236.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Stop pretence of being people’s party: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has asked the BJP leadership to stop maligning protesting farmers by calling them offensive and derogatory names like urban naxals, Khalistanis and hooligans. “If the BJP cannot distinguish between anguished citizens fighting for their survival and terrorists/militants/hooligans, it should give up all pretence of being a people’s party,” said Amarinder. Attacking BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh over his description of farmers from Punjab as “urban naxals”, the chief minister said with these remarks, the BJP leadership had hit a new low in its desperation to promote political agenda. Amarinder pointed out that such protests by farmers were also taking place in BJP-ruled states such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. “Do farmers protesting in all these places look like naxals to you? And does that mean law and order has collapsed everywhere?” he asked Chugh. The chief minister added that what was visible in all these states, as well as the Delhi borders, was the fallout of the BJP-led central government’s failed policy on agriculture and its mishandling of the situation triggered by the farmers’ protest. He said instead of heeding to farmers’ plea, the BJP was busy trying to demean them and stifle their voice. Amarinder said farm leaders had themselves appealed to agitating farmers not to disconnect power to mobile towers in Punjab. He added this clearly showed that what was being witnessed on the ground in some places was a spontaneous manifestation of the wrath of farmers who see a dark future ahead as a result of the new farm laws. The CM said farmers’ unions had stated that they did not want farmers to indulge in such acts. “In fact, the farmers’ unions had advised all protesters, and those standing with the farmers, to port their numbers out of the network of the telecom provider whom they had decided to boycott,” he added. He also said farmers’ leaders were themselves stressing that it was imperative for the success of their movement to ensure that it remained peaceful. “Is that the language of naxals, as Chugh is alleging?” he asked. Taking a dig at Chugh’s plea to the Union home ministry to keep an eye on such developments in Punjab, Amarinder said that it would be better for the state if the BJP leader had sought the Centre’s support in keeping any eye on the fresh spurt of terrorist movement and smuggling of weapons into Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stop-pretence-of-peoples-party-if-you-cant-distinguish-between-citizens-terrorists-capt-to-bjp/articleshow/79982117.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Agra||Automatic coach washing plant installed at Agra Cantt railway station||AGRA: Agra Cantonment railway station has become the first in North Central Railway (NCR)to receive an automatic coach washing plant (ACWP). The hi-tech facility - commissioned at the station by the NCR - will enable automatic cleaning of train exteriors, similar to a drive-through car wash. It will ensure cleaning of 24 coaches in five minutes, said railway officials. Notably, the National Green Tribunal had taken note of excessive extraction of ground water by railways for cleaning coaches and platforms, sources said. Installation of ACWP is mainly aimed at preventing water wastage. Besides, it provides clean coaches for passengers. According to the railway officials, the facility is equipped with an effluent treatment system and water softening plant for recycling water used for cleaning trains and platforms. About 12,000 litres to 14,000 litres of water was being used for cleaning one rake consisting of 22-24 coaches. Now, the automatic plant will require 6,000 litres to clean a rake. Divisional commercial manager, Railways, SK Srivastava said, “ACWP is a multi-stage external cleaning system for train coaches. It uses high pressure soap solution and water jets along with horizontal and vertical rotating nylon and cotton combination brushes to clean the complete exterior of the coaches in a rake while being placed on a pit line for maintenance." He also said, “Agra Cantonment is the first railway station in the entire NCR to get this advanced facility installed at coaching depot. Apart from ensuring high standard cleaning and saving water features, ACWP has also significantly reduced time and the human effort.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/automatic-coach-washing-plant-installed-at-agra-cantt-rly-station/articleshow/79980451.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 28, 2020||Pune||4-wheeler falls into Garware subway, driver gets injured||Pune: A 22-year-old man from Pashan suffered minor injuries, while his four friends escaped unhurt, after the car they were travelling in fell into the subway from the Garware flyover in the early hours of Sunday. The Deccan Gymkhana police stated that the car driver, Manoj Kalgunde, who suffered minor injuries in the accident, claimed that he lost the control of the vehicle while attempting to prevent hitting a stray dog that had appeared in front of the vehicle. An officer from Deccan Gymkhana police stated that on Friday night, Kalgunde and his four friends had gone out for dinner. “The five friends were driving back home via Deccan. When their car reached near the flyover, a stray dog suddenly appeared in front of the vehicle. In an attempt to save the dog from coming under the wheels, Kalgunde lost the control of the vehicle, crashing it into the railings of flyover. Following this, the car fell into the subway,” the officer said. The officer said the locals reached the spot and took out all five out of the car. “We have registered a case of accident,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-wheeler-falls-into-garware-subway-driver-gets-injured/articleshow/79982119.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Pune||Burglars break into two flats in Pune, steal gold||PUNE: Burglars broke into two flats at a housing society in Talegaon Dabhade and decamped with gold ornaments and a car, collectively worth Rs2 lakh, police said. Police are yet to ascertain the cost of the valuables stolen from one flat. Rita Jugsenia from Ashogandha Apartments has lodged an FIR with the Talegaon Dabhade police. An officer from the Talegaon Dabhade police said the theft came to light on Saturday morning. “The suspects broke the locks of the complainant’s flat and also the door of the cupboard in the bedroom. They stole gold ornaments worth Rs1 lakh and Rs3,000 from her flat,” the officer said. “We are checking CCTV footage to identify the suspects,” the officer said. Vehicles stolen from MarunjiUnidentified men stole two four-wheelers, worth Rs16 lakh, from Marunji in Hinjewadi between December 18 and December 25, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/burglars-break-into-two-flats-steal-gold/articleshow/79982121.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt to identify child labourers||LUCKNOW: To improve the lives of kids living below the poverty line, the state government has started identifying child labourers and children engaged in begging. A state government spokesperson said the exercise has been started under Mission Shakti campaign, which was launched by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in October. He said the theme of January 2021 focusses on children engaged in child labour, begging and elimination of child trafficking. Under the programme, the department of women and child development has started working in all the districts of UP. The officials are also preparing a list of ration card holders at the district level. Officials said teams of labour, police, women and child development and health departments have been tasked to identify children at ground level. The identified kids are being admitted to primary schools and provided primary and hygiene kits besides food items.. “An action plan has been prepared for providing benefits of government schemes to children. Government and non-government institutions are being encouraged to adopt city crossings and blocks,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-govt-to-identify-child-labourers/articleshow/79983292.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nashik||Second UK returnee from Nashik city tests positive||Nashik: A 20-year-old resident of the Gangapur Road area has become the second UK returnee in Nashik city to test Covid-19 positive. The health department of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sent the youth’s swab sample to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) to check if he has been infected by the new strain of the coronavirus.Earlier, on Saturday, a 25-year-old UK returnee had tested Covid-19 positive and his swab sample too was to the NIV. The civic body is yet to receive his reports.Apart from both the patients having UK travel history, the two cases have several other similarities. Like the 25-year-old who had tested positive on Saturday, the youth who was confirmed as a Covid-19 patient on Sunday too had first tested negative when the RT-PCR test was conducted on his arrival at the Mumbai airport on December 7. Moreover, in both cases, the mothers of the youths first started showing symptoms and were tested positive for the virus. It is not yet clear if the youths had infected their mothers or vice versa.“We came to know about the second UK returnee only after his mother tested Covid-19 positive,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the medical superintending officer of the NMC. “His mother had tested positive on December 24. The youth had also given his swab and we received his reports on Sunday. The youth and his mother are being treated at a private hospital,” he said.“We have received a list of 90 people who returned from the UK after November 25. We have traced 78 of them so far and have taken swab samples of 56. While two have tested Covid-19 positive, 29 have tested negative,” said Nagargoje, adding that more reports are awaited. “The person who tested positive on Sunday had his name in the list of 90 people. However, the UK returnee who had tested positive on Saturday did not figure in the list,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/second-uk-returnee-from-nashik-city-tests-positive/articleshow/79982122.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 28, 2020||Bhopal||Covaxin trials: Second dose of vaccine begins for volunteers||Bhopal: Administering of second dose to volunteers of Covaxin — the Bharat Biotech’s vaccine for protection against Coronavirus — has started in the city. Administering second dose started on December 26, however it was not carried out on December 27 as it was a Sunday. Trials were done at People’s Hospital of the city wherein around 1700 volunteers have been provided the first dose of the vaccine. In the first round, trials were done on 1000 subjects till December 14. Then between December 15 and December 22 trials were done on another 700 volunteers.The first volunteer from the city who was administered vaccine on November 27, had complained of cold and cough, however he also reached to the hospital for second dose and prior to these his covid-19 tests were conducted twice, and the results were negative, the cold and cough were probably seasonal, said sources from the hospital. Some 28 days after the first dose, a second dose is to be provided. Around 20 volunteers were administered second dose on December 26, said sources.Phase III human trial of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech’s vaccine for protection against coronavirus, is going on at People’s Hospital in the city. While it was to be held at Gandhi Medical College too, it could not start till now.Sources from the hospital said that registration for new volunteers was stopped after December 22 as 1,700 subjects have been administered doses.Sources from the hospital say that there has been no report of any adverse effect on any of the subjects, barring minor cough and cold, which could also be due to the cold weather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covaxin-trials-second-dose-of-vaccine-begins-for-volunteers/articleshow/79983280.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP leader writes to CM, accuses him of patronising criminals||CHANDIGARH: General secretary, Punjab BJP Subhash Sharma has written to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, expressing concern over deteriorating law and order situation in the state. He also accused the government of patronising criminal elements. “You are only doing this to shield your failures in the last four years in power. But the state can’t afford to pay the price of your misadventures,” reads Sharma’s letter. The BJP leader said criminals were targeting BJP leaders and party cadre. “But the violence against political leaders, failing to provide protection to investors’ property and such things are actually pushing Punjab in the hands of miscreants who want anarchy and terrorise communities,” he added. Sharma also alleged corruption and patronisation of mafias dealing in drugs, illicit liquor, sand mining and land grabbing in Punjab. He said during the pandemic, Punjab had one of the worst fatality rates in the country and alleged that the chief minister failed the state during the worst crisis it faced. The BJP leader also said that Amarinder failed to lead excise as well as home departments as the business of illicit liquor and revenue theft was running blatantly in the state. “The 127 deaths of consumption of moonshine in Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Taran Taran are still awaiting justice. You will never be able to wash your hands of the blood of these dead,” he wrote. Sharma advised the chief minister to come out of the comfort zone of his farm house and return to the official residence to obey his “Raj dharma.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-bjp-leader-writes-to-cm-accuses-him-of-patronising-criminals/articleshow/79982120.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bhopal||43 UK returnees test negative, one ‘suspect’ resampled in Bhopal||Bhopal: Re-sampling of Covid-19 test of one person from Bhopal with recent United Kingdom travel history was undertaken on Sunday. The person has been asked to be under quarantine until RT-PCR test for the infection determined, according to health department sources. So far, all 47 people with a recent United Kingdom travel been traced in Bhopal and 43 of them have tested negative through RT-PCR test. Of the four remaining, one test has been red flagged as ‘suspected’ for the infection. “The suspected person’s first sample was inconclusive. Another sample was taken on Sunday and test report is expected to be known late in the night,” said a health department official. Earlier this week, one person with a recent travel history to UK was diagnosed with Covid-19 infection in Indore. Those with recent United Kingdom travel and Covid-19 positive would have to undergo, ‘whole genome sequencing’ (WGS) to determine presence of the UK-variant in Covid-19 infection. “WSG can be undertaken at All India institute of medical sciences (AIIMS) Bhopal,” said institute director, Dr Sarman Singh. On Saturday, National Task Force on testing, treatment and surveillance strategies for Covid-19 was convened. The national task force directed 5% of positive cases from all states and UTs be tested for WGS to check for the presence of the UK variant that is seen to have a higher degree of infectiousness. However, it was not clear whether prospective surveillance of ‘5% of positive cases to be tested for whole-genome sequencing’ would imply 5% of all Covid-19 cases or only ones with UK travel history or all positive cases found with the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/43-uk-returnees-test-negative-one-suspect-resampled-in-bhopal/articleshow/79983291.cms||Jamal Ayub
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 1 more Chinese among 3 held in loan app case||HYDERABAD: Telangana police on Sunday arrested three, including a Chinese woman from Pune, as authorities stepped up their probe into illegal instant loan app businesses across the country. Rachakonda police said that Parshuram Lahu Takve, his wife Liang TianTian, a Chinese national, and HR Manager SK Aaqib, were all arrested from the Pune call centre. TianTian is the third Chinese to be arrested in the case. “We have seized 101 laptops, 106 mobile phones and several documents, besides freezing Rs 1.42 crore parked in their company’s bank account,” an investigating officer said. On Christmas, Cyberabad police had arrested Chinese national Yi Bai alias Dennis, a native of Jiangxi in Shanghai, from Delhi for illegally running 11 money lending apps and offering small loans to individuals between 20 and 40 years at extremely high interest rates. In October, officials arrested a Chinese man from Delhi for illegally running betting apps and duping Indians of crores of rupees. He is in a Hyderabad jail on remand. So far, Telangana police have arrested 18 persons from call centres in various parts of the country, after four victims, including an agriculture officer and a software engineer, committed suicide and scores of people said they were harassed and their pictures were shared on social media by the companies to shame them for defaulting loans. In connection with Sunday’s raid, police said the accused had an agreement with four different financing companies based in Mumbai and Mysuru for recovery of their money from people by setting up a call centre in Pune. These financing apps have developed 16 instant loan apps which were used by the customers to take loans. “They used to call up persons who took loans and defaulters for collecting money at the behest of the finance companies. The tele-callers abuse customers in filthy language and threaten them with dire consequences,’’ Rachakonda commissioner of police Mahesh Bhagawat said in a press conference. He said both Parshuram Lahu Takve and wife Liang TianTian met each other in 2013, reportedly in Mumbai, and later got married. Since then she has been living in India on a dependent visa. In 2016, Lahu started a Business Processing Unit (BPO) in Pune but shut it down during the recent Covid-19-induced lockdown. Again, in June 2020 Lahu started a new call centre, this time offering the service to recover money from customers by tying up with finance companies. “There are three directors in this company and the Chinese national is not a director. But she monitors the call centre on day-to-day basis along with her husband,” Bhagawat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-more-chinese-among-3-held-in-loan-app-case/articleshow/79983628.cms||Srinath Vudali
December 28, 2020||Pune||Prominent jeweller dies in hospital||PUNE: City-based jeweller Milind alias Balwant Marathe (60), who owns the Marathe jewellery stores on Laxmi Road and Paud Road, succumbed on Sunday to the bullet injury he had sustained in an alleged suicide attempt in his office on December 15. Marathe was under treatment at a private hospital where he died on Sunday morning. Senior inspector Vijay Tikole of Vishrambaug police said, “We have registered a case of accidental death and our investigation is in progress. Marathe’s wife, Meena, and son, Pranav, have recorded their statements saying that on the day of the incident, Marathe called Meena at their Narayan Peth residence and told her that he had shot himself with his licenced pistol in his office cabin. Pranav then rushed to their Laxmi Road office where he found Marathe lying injured and moved him to a hospital after summoning the police.” Tikole said both, Meena and Pranav, had said in their statements that Marathe was under tremendous stress owing to financial losses in business and the repayment of debts. Pranav also stated that Marathe had grown anxious about the losses, especially after the lockdown. Tikole refused to get into the specifics of Marathe’s financial dealings and losses. The police have seized the pistol Marathe is suspected to have used to shoot himself in the chest. The weapon has been sent for ballistic examination along with the empty cartridges and a report is awaited, he said. “We tried to record Marathe’s statement, but it was not possible as his health did not improve in the last 10 days. He did not write any note before shooting himself,” Tikole added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prominent-jeweller-dies-in-hospital/articleshow/79982127.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 100 crore released for Kanwar Marg||LUCKNOW: The UP government has released the first tranche of Rs 100 crore for the ‘Kanwar Marg’ which has been named after the farmer leader and late PM Chaudhary Charan Singh. The Rs 628 crore project will be built on the right bank of the Ganga canal covering Muzzaffarnagar, Meerut and Ghaziabad, for hassle free movement of kanwarias (Shiv devotees). The 120-km long route would facilitate the movement of kanwarias towards Haridwar from the busy Delhi-Meerut highway. The project was approved by the state cabinet earlier this month. About 42km of the project will be in Meerut alone. A senior official said the public works department (PWD) would be responsible for the quality of construction and timely completion of the project. The fund released would be spent on a time to time basis and as per the financial rules laid down by the state government. The PWD or the agency deputed by the state government would be required to get all legal as well as environmental clearance before starting the project. Various stretches of the project have a large number of trees which will have to be cut by the district authorities and the forest department. The project would also entail shifting of utilities like power distribution and transmission lines for which the PWD would be required to pay compensation to UP Power Corporation Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-100cr-released-for-kanwar-marg/articleshow/79983302.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Agra||Two kids die as car crashes into truck due to dense fog||AGRA: Two children - aged six and eight - were killed after a car packed with 10 members of a family crashed into a pickup truck amid dense fog on Shikohabad Road in Etah district on Saturday night. The accident also left eight persons, including three women, critically injured. The family was returning after meeting an ailing relative in Jasrana block of Firozabad district and, according to locals, the pickup truck was moving backwards at the corner of the road to turn towards a different direction. The car's driver probably failed to spot the pickup truck due to low visibility on the Uttar Pradesh highway, the station house officer (SHO) of Kotwali Nagar said. The two deceased children were identified as Lalit Kumar, eight, son of Ved Prakash, and Prateek, six, son of Hemchand. Both the kids were residents of Etah district. Their bodies have been sent for postmortem. The injured were admitted to a local hospital. Out of these, three were later referred to the SN Medical College in Agra. Ved Prakash, his wife Neeraja Devi, son Lokendra; Hemchand, his son Bharat, wife Kusum Devi; Vinod Kumar, a relative from Kasganj, and his wife Sarvesh Devi, were all hurt. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Raj Kumar Singh said, “One of the children, Lalit, died on the spot. Prateek died on the way to hospital." The eight injured passengers of the car were rushed to the district hospital and three of them later referred to Agra, the DSP said. A thick blanket of fog shrouded the road which caused low visibility and resulted in the crash, he added. Kotwali Nagar SHO Ashok Kumar Singh also cited poor weather conditions, particularly from night till early morning, for the accident. "It seems the car's driver was unable to spot the pickup truck which was trying to move backwards to go in a different route. The car rammed straight into the truck," the SHO said. No complaint has been received in the matter so far, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-kids-6-8-die-as-car-crashes-into-truck-due-to-dense-fog-on-up-highway/articleshow/79980459.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Direct CCI to remove daily ceiling on cotton purchase: Harsimrat to PM Modi||CHANDIGARH: Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention to direct the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) to do away with the daily ceiling on cotton procurement. The Bathinda MP said apprehensions of farmers were already coming true in Punjab with the CCI imposing daily ceilings on procurement of cotton and effecting a four-time reduction in its purchase. “Even though you have made repeated statements about the continuance of minimum support price (MSP), your inability to specify anything regarding assured government purchase at MSP is already having an adverse effect on government departments,” said Harsimrat. The SAD leader added that the CCI was throwing cotton farmers to the mercy of private players by announcing a daily purchase ceiling of 12,500 quintals against daily arrival of 50,000 quintals of cotton in mandis across seven districts of Punjab. She urged the Prime Minister to issue a clear directive guaranteeing government procurement of all agricultural products listed under the MSP system. This is the need of the hour as even a government department like CCI, which has a mandate to procure cotton on MSP, was abdicating its responsibility, added the Bathinda MP. “If CCI can do this, what can farmers expect from private players?” she questioned. She also asked the Prime Minister to bring in a simultaneous legislation making it mandatory for private players to procure farmers’ produce at rates not less than the MSP. Even though cotton arrivals had peaked, especially in the Malwa region, the CCI announced that it would stagger purchase by restricting buying to only 12,500 quintals per day across 22 purchase centres, said Harsimrat. She added that this would not only result in overcrowding at mandis with farmers competing to get their produce procured first, but would also result in corrupt practices, besides distress sale of cotton to private players. “As per the present schedule fixed by CCI, purchase season will extend till September next year. Small farmers can neither store their produce nor wait for so long. They will be forced to sell cheap to private players,” said Harsimrat. The former union minister pointed out that the situation in major mandis of Bathinda, Abohar, Mansa and Maur was precarious. Therefore, she requested the Prime Minister to intervene and direct CCI to take back its arbitrary orders immediately and purchase the entire cotton arriving in mandis across the state. She also warned of an agitation by the SAD to ensure justice to cotton growers in case the Prime Minister failed to ensure smooth procurement of cotton.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/direct-cci-to-remove-daily-ceiling-on-cotton-purchase-harsimrat-to-pm/articleshow/79982125.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Pune||Small, home-based vendors gain from shopping website||PUNE: Moved by their plight of smaller businesses and home-based vendors, a group of students from Vishwakarma Institute of Information Technology (VIIT) came up with an idea of launching an online shopping platform where their products would be available. The website, ShiningHumans (www.shininghumans.online) went alive on October 2 and has about 50 vendors. “During the lockdown, everyone was trying to buy stuff online. But small entrepreneurs had no place to showcase their products, and they were not in a position to offer huge discounts on their products. But their livelihoods depended on the everyday sales. Hence, nine students from the second-year and I developed this website so that such people will have a platform and can reach out to consumers,” Dhananjay Rashinkar, a third-year student at VIIT, said. When an order is placed, they inform the seller about it, WhatsApp him/her the address and phone number of the buyer and then they send it to the buyer via courier. In Pune, they have a tie-up with a courier service which gives the sellers a discounted rate. There was high demand for handknit sweaters for babies as well as lamps during Diwali. “When the customer likes a product, they stop using the portal and directly call up the seller when they want to buy more. We are also giving a type of unpaid internship to about 120 students from across the country who help us get more vendors onto the platform and manage the website, thus giving them some work experience,” Rashinkar added. Avishkar Gandhi and Yash Wankhade are in the core team along with Sarvesh Bhalerao, Soham Jadhav, Vaibhav Pagare, Sayali Choudhari and Nikhil Borane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/viit-students-launch-shopping-website-for-small-home-based-vendors/articleshow/79982179.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 28, 2020||Pune||Pupils take to interactive, 3D STEM toys as pandemic confines them indoors||PUNE: Fifteen-year-old Aryan Bharti has deep interest in astronomy and has already begun educating himself with interactive toys that help him traverse planets, watch rovers and landers and unearth the secrets of space science. The interest of students in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) has driven the sales in the toy market related to these branches to a new high, especially in the Covid-19 period. Many ordered these toys online and explored them with the manuals that accompanied them. According to brands that make such toys, the industry has witnessed three times more demand during the lockdown period. Prakruthi, who is in standard III, said, “Earlier, I was not very good at maths but after buying the Plugo kit, I have learnt a lot. It makes maths fun.” Even during the lockdown, PlayShifu had a positive effect when many businesses were disrupted. Chief executive officer and co-founder of PlayShifu, Vivek Goyal, said, “We saw a 300% surge in demand for their innovative, educational tech products and they added 1,50,000 new users. We are accelerating our online channel launch plans in several new geographies with the new online demand.” Goyal added that the growth in educational robots, coding, and smart toys is expected to drive the segment. Technological toys are highly preferred among kids and pre-teens, especially among boys. Coding and programming toys are also increasingly aimed at 3 to 5-year-olds. School teacher Revati Suryawanshi said, “With the change in study patterns, syllabus and also the teaching learning methods, technology will make its presence felt. It depends on how it is going to be received by the children. Educational toys are a boon in the current lockdown when students are all by themselves. They can explore new ways of learning.” Explore New Ways According to toy manufacturers, in India, tech toys space is fierce because it is the future of the play. Companies have promising products like PlayShifu, Kano, Wonder Workshop, Sphero, LittleBits, and OsmoMany market players have launched STEM toys that make engaging story-based games that help students fall in love with numbers It is interwoven with puzzles on counting, arithmetic, and word problems For English, there are word-builder kits which help children spell new words, grow their vocabulary, and improve their grammar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stay-at-home-students-take-to-interactive-3d-stem-toys/articleshow/79982154.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: After 6 months, daily Covid case count dips below 1,000||LUCKNOW: After a gap of nearly six months, the number of daily Covid-19 cases in the state fell below 1000-mark on Sunday. The state had recently recorded a dip in weekly positivity rate to 1%. At least 959 Covid-19 cases were recorded in the state on Sunday. Additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said it was in July this year when less than 1,000 fresh cases were recorded in a day. “There is a drop in fresh Covid-19 cases because of the strict preventive measures, close monitoring and contact tracing by the health department,” Prasad said. According to state health bulletin, Lucknow recorded maximum 199 cases, followed by Meerut (64) and Kanpur (35). At least 13 people lost their lives in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 8,306. As many as 1,391 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the total number of recoveries since the outbreak of pandemic to 5.6 lakh. The development comes at a time when the state government has geared up to deal with the new strain of the virus which has already resulted in panic in the United Kingdom and other countries. The health department has tested over 1.4 lakh samples in the last 24 hours taking the total number of samples tested to over 2.3 crore. Over 5.8 lakh people have tested positive in the state since March this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-6-months-daily-covid-case-count-dips-below-1000/articleshow/79983311.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab imports 4 Holstein breed bulls from Germany||Chandigarh: Punjab government has got four Holstein Friesian (HF) breed bulls imported from Germany. State animal husbandry and dairy development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said under the Rashtriya Gokul Mission, the National Dairy Development Board has imported these bulls to enhance the germ plasm of cross breed cows in the country. Bulls provided to Punjab will not only boost milk production but also help improve the breed of milch cattle. As traditional agriculture is no longer a lucrative sector for farmers due to the rapidly increasing cost of food production, Punjab government is focusing on developing dairy as an allied farming sector, for which the state government is providing free insemination, vaccination and other services to livestock farmers. The animal husbandry department charges a nominal fee from livestock farmers for most of the services. Additional chief secretary (animal husbandry) V K Janjua said the imported HF bulls are in the age group of 10 to 12 months and semen production will start in the next two years. During the first year, around 8,000 to 10,000 semen straw production is expected from these bulls, which will increase to 25,000 semen straws in the coming years. He said introduction of exotic germ plasm into the local gene pool will result in overall improvement of the breed. H S Kahlon, director, animal husbandry, said these four imported bulls have been kept at the semen bank in Ropar under the supervision of experts. When semen production from these new bulls starts, semen straws will be distributed to all veterinary hospitals and dispensaries of districts through the semen bank. These will be utilised for artificial insemination program of the department, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-imports-4-holstein-breed-bulls-from-germany/articleshow/79982163.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||In a first, Egyptian vulture recorded in Pandharkawda||Nagpur: At a time when vultures are on the verge of extinction, the sighting of an Egyptian vulture, also called the white scavenger, near Pandharkawda has thrilled wildlife lovers as this is the first record of the endangered bird in the area. The prey bird was recorded by Ramzan Virani, former honorary wildlife warden of Yavatmal district, on Saturday. In the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List, the bird is listed in the endangered category. In Maharashtra, this species of vultures can be found only in Gadchiroli and Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR). “Two months ago, I had seen the bird hovering around the same area but I could not record it. On Saturday, I could get a close view of the raptor. It was scavenging on a buffalo carcass. A scientific study needs to be done to find out whether there is a resident population,” said Virani. Pandharkawda deputy conservator Kiran Jagtap said, "We are monitoring the raptor and will see whether it is a resident or migrant. We are also verifying whether there are some more birds. Only then would a conservation plan be prepared."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-egyptian-vulture-recorded-in-pandharkawda/articleshow/79982431.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 28, 2020||Nashik||8,000 Covid workers in Nashik register for vaccine||NASHIK: Around 8,000 Covid workers, including doctors, nurses and other health staff, across the city have registered for the first phase of Covid vaccination. These frontline workers were involved in activities like treating Covid patients and testing suspected Covid-19 patients. This includes around 2,000 health staffers of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and 6,000 health staffers from the city’s private hospitals Covid vaccines are not mandatory. The vaccines will be administered to those who have given consent and registered their names with the NMC’s health department. “We are prepared for the first phase of Covid vaccines to be administered to the frontline Covid workers. Around 2,000 of the total health staff from private hospitals are yet to be register themselves,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the medical superintending officer of NMC. “We have written to the private hospitals concerned asking them to register the names of the staff for the Covid vaccination,” he said “We will soon start uploading the names of the frontline Covid warriors on the government website so that plans are made accordingly to make arrangements for the vaccine,” said Nagargoje. Although the government is yet to announce the exact schedule for the first phase of vaccinations, NMC is prepared and has appointed 378 doctors as vaccinators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8000-covid-workers-in-nashik-register-for-vaccine/articleshow/79982157.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Civic body polls: Voter turnout at Sonipat may touch 60%||CHANDIGARH: Sonipat was expected to record a 60% voter turnout for its civic body polls on Sundat as the figure had touched 54.7% by evening. The voter turnout was also good for the elections to Rewari municipal council and municipal committees of Dharuhera, Uklana and Sampla. Sonipat deputy commissioner, who is the district election officer too, said the final figure of the turnout in Sonipat would be final late at night, after all polling parties submit their machines. Sources said rural wards and booths have recorded more polling than the urban ones in Sonipat as well. In Sonipat, 245 booths had been set up for a total of 2.48 lakh voters. A total of 1,35,828 votes were reported to have been polled at 5.30pm and persons were waiting for their turns at polling centres. Rewari reported 69.02% polling, as 74,348 of the total 1,07,413 electors had cast their ballot by 5.30 pm. As many as 108 polling booths were set up and the polling percentage was likely to go up to 75%. In Dharuhera municipal committee election,74% polling was reported as total 16,293 out of 22,018 votes had been polled for 31 wards. Sampla recorded 74.02% polling and Uklana reported highest figure of 79.02% polling. In Sonipat, Congress and BJP-JJP alliance are the main contesting parties and both fielded mayoral candidates too. Congress fielded its candidate for the post of president only in Rewari municipal council, BJP JJP alliance have fielded candidates on all posts in the council. The alliance has also fielded candidates in Sampla, Uklana and Dharuhera municipal committees as Congress stayed away from these elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civic-polls-voter-turnout-at-sonipat-may-touch-60/articleshow/79982139.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana cites loss to end direct purchase of crops from farmers||HYDERABAD: At a time when farmers are protesting new farm laws and demanding Minimum Support Price (MSP) in the country, Telangana said on Sunday it will not purchase agricultural produce from procurement centres from next year as it has incurred massive losses. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday led a review meeting where officials announced that state has suffered Rs 7,500 crore loss on purchase of various agriculture products bought from farmers by offering MSP to them, the chief minister’s office (CMO) said. State Planning Commission vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar told TOI that offering MSP is the responsibility of the central government. It was a decision of CM KCR to set up procurement centres in villages to buy agriculture produce at MSP as the farmers did not have market facilities due to the coronavirus pandemic. “We are only reverting to the old system of allowing farmers to sell their agriculture produce at agriculture markets as was the case before Covid-19 pandemic. CM KCR had clearly told three months ago that the state government’s plans of purchasing agriculture produce of farmers were due to lack of market facilities during the pandemic and it would not be forever,” said Vinod Kumar who attended the meeting. While the government offered MSP to farmers, it did not get the same price, when it sold the agricultural products in the open market later. “We should not purchase agricultural produce of farmers by setting up procurement centres in the villages from next year. The farmers should sell their agriculture produce at the market yards to those from whom they get the best price,” an official was quoted by the CMO as having said. The high-level review meeting was held two weeks after CM KCR’s return from New Delhi after his meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, among others. “The government is not a business organisation and sale and purchases are not its responsibility. Due to the coronavirus pandemic the government was purchasing agriculture products on humanitarian grounds so that farmers did not suffer losses. It is not possible to continue it,” the CMO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cites-loss-to-end-direct-purchase-of-crops-from-farmers/articleshow/79983631.cms||Roushan Ali
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University readies pitch for launch of university premier cricket league||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow University is planning to launch University Premier Cricket League and other tournaments, besides holding annual sports meet, from next academic session. The university will make arrangements for a cricket field, lawn tennis courts and a multipurpose sports complex where both indoor and outdoor sports facilities will be available. The facilities will come up on the second campus with the help of Rs 15 lakh grant given by the government under Rashtriya Uchchtar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA). “While the construction work of basketball court on the second campus has already begun, other projects will start soon. The old campus already has two sports grounds for activities like football, cricket, volleyball and athletics,” said Ram Milan, president of Lucknow University Athletic Association. He said a number of fields were present on second campus which would be cleaned and prepared for various sports activities. Milan said every hostel on the second campus would have open-air gym. “The idea of organizing University Premier League on the lines of Indian Premier League is also being finalized. Teams not only from LU but from other universities of the city and state will participate in the event,” he added. The news has brought smiles to students who were dependant on other sports grounds for practice sessions before participating in inter-university or other tournaments. “I am sure once the sports complex and courts are available here we need not go to old campus, KD Singh, or sports college for practice,” said Mayur Shukla, a student. Another student, Pragya Ojha, said: “The badminton court is awaited by all girl students. Not only those who participate in sports events but hostellers and day scholars will also be benefitted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-readies-pitch-for-launch-of-university-premier-cricket-league/articleshow/79983318.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala launches e-Keralam project||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has come up with e-Keralam, a project aimed at increasing awareness of the internet and achieving cent percent e-literacy in the state. Kerala State Rutronix, a PSU under the industries department that has undertaken the project, targets one crore beneficiaries. Awareness classes on online banking, online marketing, cybersecurity and online education are expected. Rutronix network’s experts will train people at the school level. Besides online classes, regular contact classes will also be organised. The project that is being introduced as part of the second 100-day programme of the government will be launched on an assembly constituency basis. In the first phase, it will be launched in the Mattannur constituency in Kannur, where there are eight panchayats and one municipality. The constituency has 2.5 lakh people and it is estimated that approximately 70,000 people would need a basic awareness of the internet. The programme in Mattannur is expected to be completed in 30-50 days and the government has said it expects other constituencies to adopt it. The government has also sanctioned another initiative titled Vijayaveedhi project aimed at providing online and offline training for various competitive examinations at the panchayat level (one centre each), municipality level (two centres each) and corporation level (three centres each). The materials that will be used for training will be IT modules prepared by the Kerala State IT Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-launches-e-keralam-project/articleshow/79981307.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nashik||25 flyers from UK traced to rural Nashik||NASHIK: Around 25 people, who flew from the United Kingdon (UK) after November 23 and travelled to the rural areas of Nashik district, have tested negative for Covid-19. The state public health department retrieved the data of the passengers arriving in Nashik from the airport authorities on the Centre’s directive to carry out a special surveillance of all those returning from UK to India post November 23 and check if they have been infected with the new strain of Covid-19. “After receiving information, our health workers tracked down the citizens and conducted the health check-up and and RT-PCR test of all the flyers. In all, there were 21 adults and four children. The RT-PCR test of all the adults have returned negative,” said district health officer Kapil Aher. While Nashik taluka received 11 passengers, including four children, six people reportedly arrived in Niphad taluka, four in Chandwad taluka and four in Nandgaon taluka. Health officials are monitoring the health of the family members of these people and have been advised to exercise precaution and be in isolation till the 28-day period is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/25-flyers-from-uk-traced-to-rural-nashik/articleshow/79982198.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Modi govt should end farm laws stalemate: Bhagwant Mann||CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president Bhagwant Mann said the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government should end the stalemate and take the talks with farmers’ delegation seriously. The Sangrur MP was reacting to the decision of farmers’ organisations to resume talks with the central government on the farm laws issue on December 29. “Farmers have decided to resume talks with the government. The government should listen to the farmers and must immediately accept the four-point agenda of repealing of the central farm laws, provisions to guarantee purchase on MSP, exclusion of farmers from the penalties as per air quality management in NCR, and changes in the Electricity Amendment Bill,” he said. Mann said already five rounds of talks with the government had failed to yield any result as the “ruthlessly insensitive Modi-led central government was unmoved” by the plight of the farming fraternity. It was a high time for the government to listen to the voice of lakhs of farmers fighting for their survival on the Delhi borders, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/modi-govt-should-end-farm-laws-stalemate-bhagwant-mann/articleshow/79982200.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers bang thalis, dhols during PM’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’||Bathinda: In response to the call given by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmers lodged their protest during the ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme of Prime Minister Narendra Modi by banging thalis at different places across Punjab. Farmers banged thalis, dhols and whatever else they could lay their hands on during the Prime Minister’s programme on television. In many villages, farmers gathered at common places and rooftops to bang thalis, as the PM addressed the nation. Similar protests were also held at Singhu and Tikri borders. The SKM has sent a four-point agenda to the government for talks on December 29. If the talks fail or cannot be held for some reason, farmers have given the call for a massive tractor march from Singhu border to Tikri and Shahjahanpur on KMP Expressway on December 30. “Farmers banged thalis at various places in the region to register their protest against the Prime Minister. It was done to make him hear the voice of protesting farmers and repeal agri laws,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Bathinda district secretary Mothu Singh Kotda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-bang-thalis-dhols-during-pms-mann-ki-baat/articleshow/79982249.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nashik||Cyber cops register 68 online fraud complaints this year||Nashik: This year, the cyber crime unit of the city police has received 68 complaints of online frauds in which the complainants were collectively cheated of Rs 2.1 crore compared to 55 such complaints registered last year in which total Rs 2 crore was siphoned off from bank accounts.Sripad Paropkari, senior inspector at the cybercrime police station, said the increased use of internet due to work from home and online education led to a rise in the number of online frauds. While conmen posing as bank officers and seeking details of bank account, debit/credit card and then asking for the OTP sent on the victim’s cellphone was the common modus operandi in most of the cases, Paropkari said fraudsters were coming up with new ways to con people. An advisory issued by Paropkari stated people need to be cautious about the friend requests sent on social networking plarforms. In many cases, it has been found fraudsters in matrimonial websites project as if they are based abroad, befriend a person, who happens to be their victim in most cases, show interest in marrying him/her and tell them that they have sent some valuable gift for which the victim would have to pay a certain sum to get a clearance from the customs office. Once the victim deposits the money into the bank account, the fraudsters vanish from the scene. The advisory mentioned fraudsters cheat people by telling them their plot has been selected for setting up a mobile tower for which they have to make a certain deposit. Some people are also promised jobs in lieu of payment of a certain sum of money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cyber-cops-register-68-online-fraud-complaints-this-year/articleshow/79982235.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||‘Parsi community bonded with Awadh via trade and lifestyle’||LUCKNOW: Parsi community may constitute a small section of the city’s population but its contribution to Lucknow in trade and commerce has been immense, said Zarine Viccajee, the fifth generation descendant of Lucknow’s first Parsi family. Viccajee said her family came to settle in Lucknow about 200 years ago. She was speaking at the launch of her book “My Way” at the Avadh Girls’ Degree College (AGDC) on Sunday. The event was organised by Metaphor Lit Fest in collaboration with AGDC. “My great-great grandfather, Nowrojee Damkewala, belonged to Mansabdars family of Damka (Gujarat) and Diu. He moved to Awadh during the rule of third king of Awadh Mohammad Ali Shah and began trading in silks and pearls with the nawabs. He became the first Parsi to settle in Lucknow and contributed to a lot of trade here,” said Viccajee, who is also the president of AGDC. “Later, he invited his doctor and lawyer friends here and thus began the settlement of a Parsi community in the city. With the passage of time, the family’s business changed and they opened a carriage manufacturing workshop where all sorts of fancy horse-drawn carriages were built for nawabs, aristocrats and the general public. There were 300 Parsis in Lucknow then, but now only 40-odd are left. The numbers have dwindled due to many reasons — mainly due to passing away of members and lack of employment avenues,” she added. Speaking about the Lucknow she has seen, Viccajee added that the city was full of charms in 1960s and 70s. “Lucknow has not lost its old charm but it has definitely changed. The ‘nazaakat’ and ‘nafaasat’ are missing,” she said, adding that the Parsi community made Lucknow its home and embraced its lifestyle. Even though only a few members of the community are left, they come together during festivals and other social events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/parsi-community-bonded-with-awadh-via-trade-and-lifestyle/articleshow/79983327.cms||Aditi Singh
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Raja Mahmudabad’s properties worth Rs 421 crore to be confiscated||LUCKNOW: After a prolonged legal battle lasting 13 years, the claim of Mohammad Amir Mohammad Khan (better known as Raja of Mahmudabad) over 422 hectare of land spread across three districts — Sitapur, Barabanki and Lakhimpur Kheri — was rejected by the Lucknow revenue court of ADM, administration, Amarpal Singh. The property, which is worth Rs 421 crore, will now be confiscated by the state government. According to the verdict, 388.301 hectares of land in 179 villages of Sitapur, 10.659 hectares in 31 villages of Lakhimpur Kheri and 23.045 hectares in 21 villages of Barabanki would be confiscated. Talking to TOI, ADM (administration) Amar Pal Singh said, “The plaintiff has every right to appeal against the judgement for a review. The market value of the declared land is close to Rs 421 crore. Out of this, the land in Sitapur is worth Rs 388 crore, the one in Lakhimpur Kheri of around Rs 11 crore and in Barabanki worth about Rs 23 crore.” Under the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976, excess land held by any person beyond the prescribed limit is registered in the name of government. More than a decade ago, sealing operations were carried out on irrigation land claimed by Raja Mahmudabad. The land area measurement was in excess of the prescribed limit. The Raja went to the Supreme Court which referred the matter to the commissioner. On January 15, 2007, the then commissioner referred the case to the court of additional district magistrate (administration).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/raja-mahmudabads-properties-worth-rs-421cr-to-be-confiscated/articleshow/79983346.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Ascetic booked under Arms Act||AURANGABAD: Three days after the alleged incident of an ascetic threatening villagers with a sword and them pelting stones on him, the Bidkin police registered an offence against both parties. Taking cognizance of a video depicting Naga sadhu Ganesh Giri Maharaj brandishing a sword, the police have booked him under the relevant sections of the Indian Arms Act. At the same time, 25 villagers have been booked for attacking Maharaj with sticks, stones and axes. Bidkin police said they have arrested 14 people in the case of attacking Maharaj in the Paithan taluka. His devotees and the villagers had lodged counter complaints on Sunday. Accordingly, the police have registered cases against Maharaj and 25 villagers of Nilajgaon. A dispute had started between Maharaj and the villagers of Nilajgaon on the occasion of Mokshada Ekadashi on Friday at Shriram Tekdi in Meharban Naik tanda of Paithan. While Maharaj brandished his sword, the villagers pelted stones on him. Maharaj was also injured. He was later admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Police took his statement and registered a case against villagers. We also booked Maharaj for threatening the villagers with a sword, said PSI Rahul Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ascetic-booked-under-arms-act/articleshow/79982266.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab finalises sites for vaccination dry run||CHANDIGARH: Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Sunday that they would begin with the dry run for administering Covid-19 vaccine on Monday and Tuesday in Nawanshahr and Ludhiana. Sidhu said the vaccine was planned to be rolled out in a phased manner with priority groups like healthcare workers, frontline workers, elderly and population with co-morbidities. He said details of 1.5 lakh healthcare workers from private and public facilities had already been uploaded on the CoWIN portal. All beneficiaries are to be compulsory pre-registered on CoWIN portal and photo ID will be required for the same. The health minister said as per the instructions of the ministry of health and family welfare, Nawanshahr has identified five session sites including district hospital, CHC Mukandpur, PHC Jadla as urban outreach, sub-center Usmanpur as rural outreach and Ivy Hospital as private facility. Seven sites have been identified in Ludhiana — Lord Mahavir civil hospital as district hospital, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital as private facility, three urban outreach centres as Jagraon SDH, Raikot SDH and Khanna SDH, and rural outreach sites as community health centres at Dhamot and CHC. He added along with state vaccine store, three regional vaccine stores had been created in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-finalises-sites-for-vaccination-dry-run/articleshow/79982254.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||91% of pre-Covid days industries functional again in Punjab: Minister||CHANDIGARH: Out of over 2.59 lakh industrial units functional in Punjab before the spread of Covid-19, nearly 91% have been able to restart their operations. As per Punjab industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora, over 2.37 lakh industries are functional as on date. He said through a series of initiatives, the state industries department had provided massive relief to the industries ravaged by disastrous pandemic. Listing various initiatives taken by the industries department, Arora said these included the Punjab Right to Business Act, 2020, new telecom guidelines, district reform action plan 2019-20, besides achieving disinvestment of the Punjab Alkalies and Chemicals Limited (PACL) realising over Rs 40 crore. The department was able to achieve the disinvestment of 33.35% stakes of the Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC) in PACL successfully, he added. The minister said a bulk drug pharma park in an area of 1,300 acre involving project cost of about Rs 1,800 crore had been proposed at Bathinda under the central government scheme and the project had been submitted to the Centre. A greenfield project with an aim to give an impetus to the emerging need of the pharma sector in the region was being established in an area of 130.32 acre in village Wazirabad in Fatehgarh Sahib district. The gram panchayat land of 130.32 acre had been procured and physical possession had also been taken over. For upgradation of industrial focal points, PSIEC was taking up 17 projects under Micro and Small Enterprises-Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP) schemes of the central government. The total projects’ cost amounted to over Rs 146 crore. Out of 17 projects, four projects were at advance stage and about to be completed, whereas the works of eight projects were in progress at site. For the remaining five projects, the funds were yet to be received from the central government, he added. The industries minister said the sewage treatment plants were being set up and upgraded in five industrial focal points of the state under trade infrastructure for export scheme of the central government and projects with a total cost amounting to Rs 29 crore have got central government’s final approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/91-of-pre-covid-days-industries-functional-again-in-punjab-min/articleshow/79982267.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Amritsar||250 tractors, 20 buses, 35 trucks leave for Delhi borders||Bathinda: More farmers and activists from Punjab continued to leave to protest on the borders of Delhi for the second day on Sunday. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) activists left in 250 tractor-trolleys, 20 buses, 35 trucks/canters and nearly 200 other vehicles, including cars and jeeps. By 5pm, protesters reached Fatehabad, Haryana, where they would spend the night and leave for Delhi borders on Monday morning. Protesters also held a rally along with activists from Fatehabad in Haryana. The farm organisation is holding protests at 41 places in Punjab, including at the residences of 10 leaders of BJP. The farm organisation on Sunday also started a protest near the residence of Punjab former minister Surjit Kumar Jayani. Ekta (Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union general secretary Lachman Sewewala said, “These protests will continue till PM Narendra Modi government does not agree to repeal the laws. Now, it is not only a protest of Punjab or Haryana, it has reached over 10 states in the country. The biggest asset of these protests is the bonhomie between Punjab and Haryana farmers, despite the ruling party trying to create differences by raising the SYL canal project.” Taking on the central government, they said over 50 persons have lost lives in the chilly weather, but the government is unmoved and determined to provide benefits to corporates. “The government must take a lesson from the Jalalabad lawyer who ended his life today morning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/250-tractors-20-buses-35-trucks-leave-for-delhi-borders/articleshow/79982268.cms||Neel Kamal
December 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Government illegally regularizes Kila staff||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has conveniently ignored the verdict by a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court in the State of Karnataka vs Umadevi case against regularizing daily wages and contract employees in government, while regularizing the temporary employees of the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (Kila). The cabinet had last Thursday decided to regularize all the daily-wage and contract employees in Kila under the local self-government department, who have completed 10 years of service. Interestingly, the present government in 2017 had cited the same judgment to cancel the regularization of 40 employees by the previous UDF government in 2015, as part of reviewing several decisions of the previous government, by constituting a cabinet sub-committee. When its turn arrived, the LDF government chose to turn a blind eye to the court’s verdict to regularize appointments in Kila. “It is totally unconstitutional and an affront to the SC’s judgments in multiple cases, including Umadevi case. In the Umadevi case, the court had clearly said that there should not be bypassing of the Constitutional requirement hereafter, and regularization should not be done without the constitutionally laid procedure in the future,” former law secretary B G Hareendranth said. The five-member Constitutional bench constituted in the Umadevi case in 2006, had held that the words “regular” or “regularization” do not connote permanence and cannot be construed so as to convey an idea of the nature of tenure of appointments. They are terms calculated to condone procedural irregularities and are meant to cure only such defects as are attributable to methodology followed in making the appointments. The court had emphasized that when rules framed under Article 309 of the Constitution are in force, no regularization is permissible in exercise of the executive powers of the government under Article 162 of the Constitution in contravention of the rules. The court then also directed the Centre and the state governments to further ensure that regular recruitments are undertaken to fill those vacant sanctioned posts that require to be filled up, in cases where temporary employees or daily wagers are being employed. The process was to be set in motion within six months from the date of the judgment in the Umadevi case. The Supreme Court also emphasized that there should be no further bypassing of the constitutional requirement and regularizing or making permanent, those not duly appointed as per the constitutional scheme. This judgment was then cited by the present government in 2017 while cancelling the decision of the previous UDF government to regularize the daily wages and contract employees who had then completed 10 years. The Supreme Court, in the State of Karnataka versus M L Kesari, 2010, case had once again explained that the objective behind the direction given in Umadevi case was to ensure that the governments do not perpetuate the practice of employing persons on daily-wage or ad hoc or casual basis for long periods and then periodically regularize them on the ground that they have served for more than 10 years, thereby defeating the constitutional or statutory provisions relating to recruitment and appointment. Subsequent governments have been resorting to such practices towards the end of their tenures for their political gains. Towards the end of the previous UDF government, the law and finance departments had given detailed notes to all the administrative departments, alerting them against regularizing temporary employees in several such institutions, including in Kila. In October this year, the present additional chief secretary (finance) had also alerted all the other officials through the social media group that a lot of files on regularization and recruitment of employees are coming up and the officials should not permit or process unlawful proposals. He had also shared the relevant SC rulings in this regard with all the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-illegally-regularizes-kila-staff/articleshow/79981329.cms||KP Saikiran
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Create jobs to make UP $1 trillion economy: Experts||LUCKNOW: The growth strategy to achieve USD 1 trillion economy should aim at uplifting median income by providing adequate employment and wage growth opportunities, according to chairman of Manipal Global Education Mohandas Pai. Speaking at annual convention on ‘Imperatives of Creating 1 Trillion Dollar Economy for Uttar Pradesh’ organised by the Lucknow Management Association, Pai said UP was among top five states in India economically but ranked second last in per capital GDP. BJP MP Dr Zafar Islam said per capita GDP of UP was only 50% of the national average and 30% of states like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. “The state’s GDP has to grow at 30% CAGR till 2025 which is a jump of about 20% from the present 8%,” he said. Additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal said UP had taken up the Herculean task of becoming one trillion dollar economy. “UP is basically an agricultural economy but we have a large base of 9 million SMEs (small and medium enterprises). We are adding 2 million every year. With such investments and potential, there is hope that we can reach 1 trillion dollar economy,” Sehgal added. Director, SGPGI, Prof RK Dhiman said as compared to other countries, Indian economy shrunk most severely due to coronavirus pandemic. “Telehealth has and will be increasingly utilized. SGPGI has used telehealth (e-OPD, e-CCS and virtual-ICU) to augment Covid and non-Covid healthcare services,” he added. Former UP chief secretary Alok Ranjan, who chaired the session, said there had been improvement in EODB (ease of doing business) ranking of India and UP. LMA vice-president AK Mathur gave the vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/create-jobs-to-make-up-1-trillion-economy-experts/articleshow/79983367.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nashik||Awareness to be raised on nylon manja that killed 66 birds in Nashik in 2 years||NASHIK: In the last two years, as many as 66 birds were killed and over 300 injured in Nashik on the occasion of Makar Sankranti — a festival in the Hindu calendar when people celebrate their harvest. Officials from the Nashik forest department said these birds came into contact with nylon manja that is used for flying kites on the occasion. “Apart from pet birds, some of the birds which died or were injured were scheduled birds,” deputy conservator of forest (Nashik West), Pankaj Garg told TOI. According to him, the nylon manja is extremely sharp and is not visible to the birds during flight. Taking cognisance of the high number of casualties and fatalities among birds due to nylon manja, the forest department has decided to start an extensive awareness campaign among people and shopkeepers to desist the use of the thread for flying kites. “Like many other parts in India, covert sale of nylon manja is still rampant in Nashik,” said sources from the forest department sources. In 2017, the National Green Tribunal had banned nylon manja and had directed all state governments to prohibit the manufacture, storage, sale and purchase of such material. Nylon manja is non-biodegradable and harmful for the environment. Garg said the forest department officials would be meeting shopkeepers to convince them about the imperative need to stop the sale of nylon manja during the forthcoming Makar Sankranti.“People should be sympathetic towards these birds which get cut by these strings during Makar Sankranti every year,” added Garg. According to forest officials, even human beings can get injured if they come in contact with such a sharp thread. Every year before the Makar Sankranti, the Nashik city police carry out raids and seize banned material sold clandestinely by some shopkeepers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/awareness-to-be-raised-on-nylon-manja-that-killed-66-birds-in-nashik-in-2-years/articleshow/79982297.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
December 28, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: No accused in FIR over vandalism at BJP event||BATHINDA: Two days after some farm organisation activists had barged into a BJP event at Bathinda and vandalised the venue, the district police on Sunday registered a case under various sections against 30 to 40 unknown persons. One BJP worker was injured in the incident. The case has been registered for voluntarily causing hurt, mischief causing damage, negligent act likely to spread infection, disobedience, rioting, unlawful assembly and criminal conspiracy. The FIR was filed at Kotwali police station on the complaint of inspector Devinder Singh. BJP workers, led by urban district president Vinod Kumar Binta, were observing birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on December 25, when a group of farm activists reached there. They broke the barricades put by police. Ads BJP workers tried to get away, one Ravinder Kumar fell and received some injuries. On Saturday, Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma reached Bathinda to meet party workers. Kotwali police station SHO inspector Devinder Singh said the case was registered against 30 to 40 unidentified persons for breaking police cordon and not obeying orders promulgated by deputy commissioner about Covid-19 for unlawful assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/no-accused-in-fir-over-vandalism-at-bjp-event/articleshow/79982310.cms||---
December 28, 2020||India||PM Narendra Modi reaches out, recalls Sikh Gurus||NEW DELHI: In yet another outreach to the Sikh community at a time when farmers from Punjab are leading protests against the new farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the last episode of this year’s “Mann ki Baat” on Sunday, recalled sacrifices made by the Sikh Gurus and their families, referring to the martydom of Guru Gobind Singh’s sons Zorawar and Fateh Singh who were walled alive by the Mughals. The Sikh community has played a vital role in preserving the fabric of the country and resisted attempts of invaders who wanted the Gurus and their families to renounce their faith, the Prime Minister said, referring to the Mughal rulers — without naming them — as tyrants and tormentors. Paying homage to Guru Gobind Singh’s sons, the Prime Minister said they had held onto their faith even as they saw death closing in on them. This is the third time Modi recalled the Sikh Gurus in recent speeches having referred to Guru Gobind Singh’s message of dialogue at all times and then visiting Gurudwara Rakabganj in central Delhi to commemorate the matrydom of Guru Tegh Bahadur who was cremated there. His Mann Ki Baat referred to the visit and showed footage of his praying there. The references are seen as an effort to signal that the government’s sensitivity towards the community and the farmers who have demanded repeal of the farm laws and refused to yield in negotiations with the Centre so far. They are set to renew discussions on December 29 having again set out tough demands such as repeal of the law and a legal guarantee for higher minimum support prices that are being currently offered. Modi also recalled Guru Gobind Singh’s mother Mata Gujari, who too had attained martyrdom with her grandchildren. The PM’s references to the 10th Guru, who militarised his community and had raised Khalsa warriors, also saw him emphasising December 27 be commemorated as “balidan (sacrifice) day” to honour the Sikh religious leader’s two sons. “In order to protect our millennia old culture, civilisation and traditions from the cruel misdemeanors of tyrants and tormentors, many a supreme sacrifice was made…….It is a day to remember them too. On this day, the sons of Guru Gobind Singh, sahibzade Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh were immured alive. The tyrants wanted sahibzade to renounce their faith; abandon the teachings of the great Guru tradition,” he said. Modi recalled his visit to Gurudwara Rakabganj, saying “About a week ago, it was the martyrdom day of Guru Tegh Bahadur ji too. Here in Delhi, I was blessed with the opportunity to visit Gurudwara Rakabganj to offer floral tributes and pay my obeisance...During this very month, inspired by Shri Guru Gobind Singh ji, many people sleep on the floor. People reminisce about the supreme sacrifices made by family members of Shri Guru Gobind Singh ji with immense reverence.” He said the martyrdom is a new beacon of learning for entire humanity. “This martyrdom served towards the great deed of protecting our civilisation. We are indebted to this martyrdom,” the PM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-narendra-modi-reaches-out-recalls-sikh-gurus/articleshow/79983926.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Shimla||‘Try 3 laws for 2 years, get them changed if unhappy’||SHIMLA: During the function held to mark completion of three years of the state government led by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, who attended the event virtually from Delhi, said the three new agri laws would help supplement farmers’ income. He urged farmers to try the new laws for two years and engage in a dialogue with the government to get amendments made if the laws did not turn out to be in their favour. He accused the Congress of trying to mislead farmers and said once farmers understood the merit of the new laws, they would steer clear of those trying to divert them. He also said the government is willing to clear the doubts of protesting farmers. Singh said the new laws have given farmers the freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the country and assured that the Mandi system would continue. He said uncertainty is being deliberately created on the future of minimum support price (MSP) while the fact is that MSP would continue and there were no plans to end it. He said the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi implemented the MSP formula of the Swaminathan report and MSP was being paid in line with the said report. He also dismissed any possibility of acquisition of farmers’ land saying that the new laws have put strict provisions in place to protect farmers’ interests. Under contract farming, he said, the contract with farmers will only be for their crop and not for their land. The Union government, he said, is going to constitute 10,000 farmer producer organisations in the country to ensure that farmers and horticulturists are able to sell their produce in the market on their own with some value addition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/try-3-laws-for-2-years-get-them-changed-if-unhappy/articleshow/79982322.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kochi||Two prisoners escape from Covid centre||KOCHI: Two remand prisoners, who were arrested for theft cases and were lodged in a Covid First-Line Treatment Centre in Perumbavoor, escaped in the early hours of Sunday. The escaped prisoners were identified as Mishel Shafeek (22) of Kathiroor in Thalassery and Vineeth V V (22) of Edathua in Alappuzha. The accused, who entered the toilet of the CFLTC set up in EMS Town Hall, escaped through a hole on the wall made for installing exhaust fan. Three policemen were on duty at that time but by the time they were alerted by the health officials, the accused have fled. Perumbavoor police have registered a case and special teams were deployed to nab the prisoners. Due to the pandemic, remand prisoners are now lodged in FLTC under police custody to complete the quarantine period before being shifted to the prison. Both of these accused have earlier escaped from police custody when they were admitted to Ernakulam Medical College for Covid test after being arrested by Thrikkakara police on October 24. But they were later nabbed by police. Police said the duo were habitual offenders with a history of theft and burglary cases registered in their names at Thrikkakara, Palarivattom, Panangad, Nedumudi, Pulikkeezhu, Koyippuram, Mavelikkara, Karunagappallly and Kollam East police stations. They were accused of robbing cash and ornaments from motorists during night after threatening them with knives. A team led by Thrikkakara assistant commissioner of police and Panangad police arrested them last week and was remanded by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/two-prisoners-escape-from-covid-centre/articleshow/79981350.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Gurgaon||Farmers' protests: Deaths daily, Centre must relent, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||ROHTAK: Former chief minister and opposition leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda expressed concern over increasing cases of farmers’ deaths during the ongoing agitation. Slamming the Union government for its apathy towards farmers, he said all demands of farmers are valid but still, the government is constantly ignoring the movement. “Every day, some farmers are dying at the agitation site and many farmers have sacrificed their lives for the movement. The total number of fatalities has now reached about 40. In such a situation, the government should talk to farmers with sensitivity and seriousness so that they end their agitation once their demands are accepted,” he said. Speaking to reporters in Rohtak, Hooda said they want to bring a no-confidence motion against the government in the assembly on the issue of farmers. “This government has lost the trust of public and legislators. Every section is on the streets against the government and many independent MLAs have withdrawn their support. Many legislators of the coalition partner JJP have also openly spoken in support of farmers,” Hooda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/deaths-daily-centre-must-relent-hooda/articleshow/79982342.cms||Sat Singh
December 28, 2020||Gurgaon||BKU (Charuni) extends stir at toll plazas in Haryana||AMBALA: Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) state president Gurnam Singh Charuni, on Sunday, gave a call to his union workers to extend the protest at all toll plazas for an indefinite period, till the government accepts farmers’ demands. In protest against the Centre’s three controversial agri-marketing laws, BKU (Charuni) responded to the call of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, Delhi and launched protests at all toll plazas in the state from December 25 to 27. These protests have now been extended. Workers of BKU (Charuni) have been staging protests at toll plazas from the morning of December 25. On Sunday morning, Charuni released a video, saying, “We visited several toll plazas today and people there suggested that tolls should be made free permanently. We also sought people’s suggestions on social media and again, people suggested that tolls be made free of cost. The decision to free Haryana tolls has been taken in our national executive committee meeting. Tolls will now be kept free for an indefinite period even after December 27 in Haryana till the government accepts our demands.” Logistics are being arranged to that end. “To manage and run protests at toll plazas, all district leaders of the union should form committees so that if officials come to talk, the committee talks to them. Workers should start the protest for an indefinite period,” said Charuni. BKU (Charuni) Ambala block-I leader Sukhvinder Singh from Jalbera village, who has been leading the protest at Devi Nagar toll plaza on National Highway 44 (GT Road) since December 25 said, “We received the call from our president to extend the protest at the toll plaza for an indefinite period after December 27 and we are ready to do the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/bku-charuni-extends-stir-at-toll-plazas/articleshow/79982368.cms||JK Singh
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Word wars: New tools & the art of communication||By: Prof Bhoomittra Dev As a unique mode of communication during our struggle for Independence in 1857, people used simple chapatis and red lotus. Although chapatis had no tongue, it terrorized the British. Vinayak Damodar Savarkar wrote that British intelligence officers had sleepless nights trying to decipher the messages, but failed. They even cut the chapatis to small crumbs and powdered them to know what was being hidden. World has changed now. Despite sophisticated war-weapons, it seems the age of world wars is over, but word wars shall continue. Award winning writer Margaret Atwood said, “War is what happens when language fails.” Therefore, we need more skillful wordsmiths like Gandhi. While going to meet the British King, their press grilled him for his attire. Gandhi responded with magical words, “Your King was wearing enough for both of us.” With this, he conveyed a subtle hint of revolt as well as simplicity. Today, we are witnessing competition between writing (Graphosphere) and reading on one side and seeing (Videosphere) on the other. The power of images has grown because we basically think in pictures. Our inner eye sees the scenes that words evoke. Confucius said a picture speaks a thousand words. Mostly seeing is believing. Many believe today that visuality may be our future. This may be main reason why the length of a sentence has reduced over the centuries. In the 16th century, a sentence had an average of 63 words, while it has now come down to around 14. Shorter sentences are more snackable. Invention of Internet in 1983 revolutionized the modes of communication. Dan Millman called it as the nervous system of Mother Earth. It became a tool of the people, built by the people and for the people. It lowered both the cost of communication and the barriers to creative expression. Beauty of the highway was that it was flexible, open, borderless and standardized with no gatekeepers. It rapidly became the platform for everyone. The Economist said that like the Sun, newspaper circulation rises in the East and falls in the West. William Dietrich even said that it stressed those of us who remembered good old days of monopoly of newspapers. However, the alert print media has been reinventing their position with more expertise in eye-ball catching of targeted audience, increased range of coverage, added sense of history and perspective, eloquence, wit, analysis, trends and even lasting ripple effect by deft blending of words with picture. As a memorable example, when Indira Gandhi was assassinated in 1984, Thackeray sketched a lamp snuffed out with the curling smoke forming the contours of her face. (The writer is former vice-chancellor of the universities at Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Agra and Aligarh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/word-wars-new-tools-the-art-of-communication/articleshow/79983415.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Missing UK traveller to be traced using surveillance||LUCKNOW: The UK traveller untraceable for the past five days will be located via electronic surveillance if he does not respond to the email sent by the health authorities by Monday evening. He is among 111 city residents, who visited the UK or European countries between December 9 and 22.  The authorities started tracing them for conducting Covid-19 tests in the wake of the threat posed by the new variant of coronavirus detected in the UK. The identification was done on the basis of the list of travellers provided by the Union aviation ministry to the state government. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said: “While 110 travellers have been traced, one is yet to be contacted as his mobile phone is switched off and the residential address is vague. We have shot an email on the ID mentioned in aviation documents. If he fails to respond in the next 24 hours, we will seek help from district administration and police.” Another senior officer said police will be requested to trace him by putting his mobile number on surveillance. The call records can help trace his whereabouts, he added. About the untraceable traveller putting lives of others at risk, the officer said all his contacts will be traced and asked to isolate themselves. “If the man tests positive for Covid-19, we will test every person with whom he met after arriving in India,” he added. District immunisation officer and additional CMO Dr MK Singh said that of the 110 people, 94 tested negative for Covid-19 on Saturday. Much to the relief of the authorities, eight others also tested negative on Sunday. Samples of the remaining eight were collected on Sunday and sent for tests, the results of which are expected on Monday. Director, general health, Dr DS Negi said the testing of all the travellers is being done through RT-PCR. “If anyone comes positive, the sample will be sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genomic sequencing to determine whether it has the strain detected in the UK,” he said. “As a precautionary measure, all the travellers identified so far have already been contacted and told to remain in self isolation for 28 days from the day of arrival,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/missing-uk-traveller-to-be-traced-using-surveillance/articleshow/79983426.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP will form government in Himachal in 2022 too: Anurag||Shimla: Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur, in a state-level event organised to mark the three years of the BJP government in Himachal Pradesh, on Sunday said the saffron party would form the government again in the hill state in the 2022 assembly polls. The Hamirpur MP said that several schemes had been launched by the state government, led by CM Jai Ram Thakur, and it had also ensured beneficiaries of various central schemes got their rights. Defence minister Rajnath Singh also spoke virtually at the event, while Anurag’s father and former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal addressed the event virtually from Hamirpur. Anurag said India had emerged strong and powerful under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Rajnath. He said interest-free loans amounting to about Rs 500 crore had been provided to Himachal Pradesh to ensure pace of development. Anurag also lauded the stat egovernment for its global investors meet held in Dharamshala, saying it brought investment worth Rs 96,000 crore. Rajnath Singh also appreciated the efforts of CM Thakur and said PMGSY was a boon for hill states like Himachal Pradesh. He said the Atal tunnel would not only facilitate the people of Lahaul-Spiti district, but was also of strategic importance militarily. BJP general secretary Trilok Jamwal read out the speech for BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda. CM Thakur said the state government, in last three years, took several initiatives to make Himachal Pradesh one of the most developed states in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-will-form-government-in-himachal-in-2022-too-anurag/articleshow/79982401.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Hisar farmers leave for Delhi-Jaipur road||Hisar: The farmers’ protest on toll plazas continued for the third consecutive day on Sunday in response to the call of All India Kisan Mazdoor Coordination Sangharsh Samiti. Protesting farmers left for Delhi-Jaipur highway after banging utensils during the PM’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme to register their dissent. The toll free movement will be continued in future also. Farmers left for Shajapur border located on Delhi-Jaipur highway from Chaudharywas toll. District president, Kisan Sabha Shamsher Singh Numberdar, state secretary Dayanand Poonia and press secretary Sube Singh Boora flagged off about 30 tractors and other vehicles. The batch is headed by Krishan Gavar and Ramanand Yadav. Boora said about 180 vehicles from Hisar district left for the Sanjhapura border on Sunday. Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samiti district president Bablu Kharar, Manoj Rathi and farmer leader Joginder Mayar banged utensils at Mayar toll plaza. In a joint statement, they said that by banging utensils, they wanted to tell the Prime Minister, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala that farmers would be ruined if the three agricultural laws were implemented in the country .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hisar-farmers-leave-for-delhi-jaipur-road/articleshow/79982383.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam sees re-emergence of clusters||KOCHI: As pandemic restrictions are being relaxed, Ernakulam faces the challenge of increase in number of Covid cases. An action plan report submitted to the district administration by health authorities recently has pointed out that positive cases being reported from tourists who visited Munnar, and crowd at public places like Broadway, markets, shopping malls and textile shops is a cause for concern. The report calls for urgent RT-PCR testing of inmates at old age home and care homes to avoid increase in number of deaths. The report also mentions about the re-emergence of institutional clusters. Two per cent of the population in Ernakulam has already got infected with Covid-19 in the past 10 months. With the New Year Eve around the corner, health authorities expect that the district will report 700 to 800 cases per day. As per 2011 census, Ernakulam has a population of 32.8 lakh. Of these, 79,844 were infected with Covid till Friday night. Tertiary care facilities for Covid patients are arranged at Aluva district hospital as classes are set to start at Government Medical College, Ernakulam. Also, the medical college hospital will be open for non-Covid patients soon. Only 20 or 30 Covid beds with ICU facility will be retained at the medical college. Infrastructure from PVS, Kaloor, will also be shifted to Aluva hospital, where 100 beds with ICU will be facilitated. But many are apprehensive over whether the Aluva facility can meet the emergency situation. With the partial opening of schools and colleges in January, many Covid first-line treatment centres functioning in these institutions will have to be closed. “Ernakulam does not have adequate number of Covid second-line treatment facilities (CSLTCs). Currently taluk hospitals and Cial function as CSLTCs. The problem is that many cases currently reported are symptomatic ones, which needs hospitalization. If there is spike, hospitalization will be a big challenge as many cannot afford private treatment. People should practice self-discipline by avoiding public gatherings,” says IMA Ernakulam chapter former president Dr Junaid Rehman. However, health authorities expressed confidence that they can manage the possible spike in cases by arranging facilities at community health centres (CHCs). “Currently we have 38 CFLTCs. We will retain 10 of them and start admitting Covid patients to CHCs. Besides, we have Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP), under which poor patients referred by us can undergo treatment at subsidized rates at private hospitals,” said National Health Mission district coordinator Dr Mathew Numpeli. Another problem being faced by the authorities is reporting of positive cases from tribal belts of Kuttampuzha. Already 18 cases were reported from some hamlets and health authorities are conducting camps to collect samples. “The only concern regarding tribal belt is the access for treatment if anyone needs hospital care. Otherwise, they are healthy and comorbidity cases are very less,” said Numpeli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-sees-re-emergence-of-clusters/articleshow/79980547.cms||T C Sreemol
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Ahead of Swasthya Sathi meet, private hospitals stick to rate-revision demand||KOLKATA: Private hospitals have reiterated their demand for revision of Swasthya Sathi rates before the new scheme — that now covers entire Bengal population — is rolled out. Representatives of private hospitals have been asked to attend a meeting with health officials at Swasthya Bhavan on Monday, at which the modalities of the extended scheme are likely to be discussed. Rates need to be rationalized by a committee of experts or hospitals divided into categories with differential rates, most hospitals stated. The scheme should have separate categories based on the treatment and procedure, said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua, who is also the president of Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI). “Multi-speciality hospitals should take in only the more complicated and serious cases. The rest could go to the smaller hospitals and nursing homes or else a large number of beds would be blocked,” he said. He added, “Our running costs are high due to the scale of operations. We also incur huge expenditures on manpower and equipment. This is necessary to ensure that the quality of care is high. If there is a sudden rise in the number of patients who pay less than one-third of our normal charges, it will be difficult to sustain our operations.” Under the existing Swasthya Sathi scheme, rates for most common surgeries are about 7-8 times lower than what an average private hospital charges. “The charges for some procedures are absurdly low, which don’t allow hospitals to pay the surgeon and the anaesthetist a decent fee. So, hospitals will continue to stonewall patients till the rates are revised,” said IPGMER professor Diptendra Sarkar. Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra said that even the WBHS rates, covering state government employees, are better. It will be impossible to implement the Swasthya Sathi scheme if the existing rates are not revised, said Medica Superspecialty Hospital chairperson Alok Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ahead-of-swasthya-sathi-meet-pvt-hosps-stick-to-rate-revision-demand/articleshow/79982406.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana villages forego milk supply to dairies, keep protest sites stocked||JIND: Ever since farmers from Punjab camped at the borders of Delhi on November 27, their counterparts from Haryana have ensured uninterrupted supply of milk. Notably, Singhu of Sonipat and Tikri of Bahadurgarh town, where farmers are camping, are located adjacent to Haryana villages, which makes it easier to supply milk on a daily basis. This is not an easy task, since milk is a perishable commodity, which cannot be stored for long. More than 45,000 litres of milk has been supplied so far from Ujhana village of Haryana’s Jind district. The milk is supplied every other day in a tanker of 2,500 litre capacity. Village residents have stopped supplying milk in dairies to keep farmers well-stocked. Residents bring milk at the chaupal, where a Delhi-bound vehicle is parked after an announcement is made from the chaupal’s loudspeaker. Village residents have assured farmers that supply will be maintained for the duration of the protest. TOI learnt that a number of villages in Haryana have deputed personal vehicles to ferry milk for farmers on a daily basis. Vikash Sisar, state president, Bhartiya Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, who has been camping at Tikri border since the dharna started, said, “There is consumption of around 2,000 litres of milk on a daily basis at Tikri border and the same amount at Singhu border. Supply is consistently being ensured by Haryana farmers. Farmers of Haryana are happy to send milk to Punjab farmers raising a voice to repeal the anti-farmer laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-villages-forego-milk-supply-to-dairies-keep-protest-sites-stocked/articleshow/79982417.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||100 Munnabhais under lens in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A Delhi-based education consultant has reportedly supplied fake MBBS certificates to YS Teja, who hoodwinked Rachakonda police and even became their adviser during the Covid-induced lockdown, and another person from Shabad, who studied up to Intermediate and started a small hospital. Investigators found Delhi-based consultant Sunil facilitated in supplying the fake certificates to Teja and Shabad resident, whose name is reportedly Ram Reddy, from a university in Chhattisgarh. Already, health department officials have ordered a departmental probe into certificates of 100 doctors practising in Hyderabad and adjoining districts. Police said in all cases of fake education certificates, they found that miscreants had fabricated fake certificates of different institutions by illegally printing them and sold them to the prospective customers. However, the candidates would not be in the records. TimesViewA multi-agency probe team comprising cops, Indian Medical Association and National Medical Commission authorities must be set up to bust the racket behind people obtaining fake certificates from other states. Hospital authorities and other employers in Telangana are also guilty of not checking the veracity of certificates submitted by the candidates. There must be stringent checks in place, especially when the fate of scores of innocent people are at stake.“Teja and the Shabad resident came in contact with Sunil after they googled for consultants who can help them get fake certificate. Teja paid Rs 40,000 as advance and a photocopy of a fake MBBS certificate was created on his name and sent on the condition that he will be given the actual fake certificate if he pays the remaining Rs 2 lakh,” Medipally inspector B Anji Reddy told TOI. Chhattisgarh Medical University confirmed to police that the certificate produced by Teja in the name of an affiliated college of their university was fake. When police nabbed Sunil from Delhi, they found he had supplied fake certificates to several persons. Ram Reddy was one such beneficiary and he started a small hospital, which was shut by police a month ago. Similarly, Hyderabad police found that M Srinu Naik, who was arrested a month ago, reportedly had bought M Tech certificate by paying Rs 2 lakh through a broker, Srinivas Reddy of Nalgonda, from CMJ University, Meghalaya. However, there were records of his enrolment with the institution. Police said fake graduation certificates were being sold by some agents for a maximum price of Rs 1 lakh. Hyderabad deputy commissioner of police (Task Force) Radhakishan Rao said in almost all fake certificate cases they had dealt with, the accused had bought them from other states—mainly Bihar, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. “We found the accused who seek fake certificate prefer to get them from other states since they presume verification of such certificates will be difficult for an employer,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/100-munnabhais-under-lens-in-hyd/articleshow/79982427.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata film-maker documents tales of changing psyche in pandemic world||KOLKATA: A documentary on the experiences of 16 urban Bengalis across the globe, including a doctor, a film-maker, an actor, a musician, an author and a social worker — titled ‘Pandemic Perceptions’ — has thrown up interesting perspectives about the lockdown. While a psychologist talked about how Covid-19 had prompted her to join those who were rushing to lawyers’ chambers to draft wills, the actor spoke about his meeting with an out-of-work thief who had become an active member at a community kitchen initiative. Director Atanu Ghosh came up with the idea in June. “I thought it would be interesting to explore the psychological and social impact of Covid-19. So I sent text messages to various people asking them to record their thoughts on their mobile phone cameras,” he said. Most responded with eagerness. The general trend was to confirm or contradict the varied faces of human crisis and depict tales of endurance and struggles dealing with anxiety, pain and loss. Some shared tales of forging new bonds, others mentioned reviving lost connections. But if the tales of certainty of flux, exploitation of people, recession and solitary fights with death were overbearing, there was comic relief too. “Actor Joyraj Bhattacharjee talked about bumping into a ‘philosophical’ thief who rued how work from home had made him jobless. But what was worse was that he couldn’t even go behind bars, where his meals would be taken care of, because petty thieves were not being sent to prison due to the pandemic,” Ghosh said. Not just pandemic experiences, some made futuristic analysis of a Covid-free world. Artist Kunal Sen pointed out how the post-pandemic world will again see children growing up with the presence of both parents — working or just being at home — something that a few generations had missed. But not everything will change, said author Binod Ghoshal. “World War-II would never have happened if people took lessons from WW-I. There will be a lot of ‘masti’ the day the vaccine is out and then it will be back to square one,” he said. At the editing table, Sujay Dutta Ray stitched together footage of participants undergoing journeys of self-discovery that ended with a violin performance — ‘Pandemic and Beyond’ — by Debojyoti Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-film-maker-documents-tales-of-changing-psyche-in-pandemic-world/articleshow/79982422.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||New Year tourist rush leaves Manali roads choked||Manali: With a record number of tourist vehicles from other states entering Manali for Christmas and New Year celebrations, the popular tourist destination is reeling under the high traffic load, leaving tourists stranded in long jams. Traffic snarls can be seem all over Manali. The record tourist inflow, which was not expected in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, has left authorities overwhelmed. Police said they were delaying traffic at some places. However, both tourists and local residents are expressing their anger over the weak infrastructure. Officials attribute the situation to bad driving habits, idle parking and overtaking. They said police were trying their best to keep traffic moving and violators were being strictly dealt with. Although the Kullu-Manali-Atal tunnel highway has been widened till Leh, there are a few bottlenecks that cause long jams. Bridges in Manali are narrow and allow only one vehicle at a time. Both internal roads and roads leading to tourist places are also quite narrow. The town and tourist spots have inadequate parking space and a little surge in tourist inflow leads to long jams. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said traffic flow is slowed down after every thousand vehicles so that high traffic rush is managed efficiently. “No overtaking zone is implemented between Palchan and south portal of tunnel. More than 30 drivers were challaned for jumping queues. Our jawans are working day and night to prevent traffic jams and keep vehicles moving,” he said. The SP said 15 persons in two vehicles were arrested on Sunday for causing obstruction to traffic in Atal tunnel and for Covid-19 violations. Eight of them have been fined Rs 40,000 under HP Police Act, he said. Record number of vehicles at Atal tunnel, Manali Manali: Both Manali and Atal tunnel are receiving record number of vehicles these days with thousands of tourists heading to Manali for Christmas and New Year celebrations. Record 5,400 vehicles entered Atal tunnel from both ends on Sunday. Record 3,075 vehicles from other states entered Manali on Christmas and over 2,600 vehicles entered Manali on Saturday. Almost similar numbers of tourist vehicles registered outside Himachal are expected to enter Manali on Sunday till midnight. Besides, nearly 70 tourist buses from Delhi are reaching Manali every day. A large number of taxis registered in Himachal are also bringing tourists to Manali. Himachal DGP Sanjay Kundu said 2,800 vehicles entered Lahaul valley via Atal tunnel while 2,650 went back towards Manali. This is the highest traffic recorded in the tunnel till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-year-tourist-rush-leaves-manali-roads-choked/articleshow/79982428.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Trichy||I am not a star but lamp you can keep in houses: Kamal Haasan||TRICHY: Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) president Kamal Haasan said that he is no more a film star but a lamp that people can keep in their houses. He was speaking at a political campaign in Trichy on Sunday. In a veiled attack on other parties, Kamal Haasan said that even ministers are paying people to gather at public meetings. Claiming that the crowd that follows him in the campaigns was honest, MNM founder said that he can see confidence in people to form a new corruption-free government. “Some people say that the crowd will gather to see a film star. I am no more a star but a small lamp you can keep in the house. Protect me to glow continuously amid the corrupt air,” Kamal told the public in Chinthamani. Earlier, he met entrepreneurs and MSME representatives at a hotel near the Central bus stand. Stating that he alone cannot reform the state, he urged people to vote for his party that has a seven-point plan to redevelop the state. The plan was drafted after a lot of hard work and human hours, he said. Saying that his party would turn the state into a one-trillion economy, he told the gathering that MNM headquarters would go paperless from January 2021. “The so-called single window governance in the state is a trap. We will introduce a paperless single window system. I am here to remind you that your duty is to elect an honest government and that will be us,” Kamal told the entrepreneurs. He assured them that all towns and cities will get trade centres to promote industrial growth. P Maarikannan, secretary, Trichy district Differently-abled Welfare Association submitted a demand seeking employment training institutes for PwD in all the districts and representation for PwDs in poll candidature. To his request the MNM founder said that his party would field a PwD candidate in the ensuing assembly election. The actor in his customised campaigning vehicle passed through Central bus stand, Gandhi market, Main guard gate, Srirangam and Thiruverumbur. He also chaired a party meeting in Kattur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/i-am-not-a-star-but-lamp-you-can-keep-in-houses-kamal/articleshow/79983429.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: PM Modi to inaugurate railway section tomorrow||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the newly constructed Bhaupur-Khurja section of eastern dedicated freight corridor on Tuesday. The 351-km long stretch will be inaugurated by him virtually while the launch event would be attended by governor Anandiben Patel, CM Yogi Adityanath and railway minister Piyush Goyal. The section of EDFC section is built at a cost of Rs 5,750 crore and is funded by world bank. The section includes stations such as Bhaupur (in Kanpur Dehat), Kanchausi, Achalda, Ekdil, Bhadan, Makhanpur, Tundla, Hathras, Daudkan & Khurja. Railway officials said the section has some of the important industrial areas like Aligarh, Khurja, Firozabad and Agra. For a smooth and rapid transport system, the railway have eliminated 68 level crossings from the section and has 19 major bridges, 414 minor bridges, seven rail flyovers. With the new infrastructure, the freight operation is expected to run at 60-70 kmph as average speed. Ved Prakash, GM, operation, of the EDFC said, “The DFC alignment covers Kanpur Dehat, Aurayia, Etawah, Firozabad, Hathras, Aligarh and Bulandshahr. Kanpur Dehat district's Pukhrayan region is known for aluminium utensils production. They are sold in local markets and in other districts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-rly-section-tomorrow/articleshow/79983433.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||This year, BSF recovered 497kg heroin along India-Pak border in Punjab||Chandigarh: The Border Security Force (BSF), guarding the Indo-Pakistan border in Punjab, recovered 497kg heroin this year — the highest in the last seven years. The BSF had recovered 228.56kg heroin in 2019, 230.979kg in 2018 and 279.049kg in 2017. Besides recovery of 497 kg heroin, the BSF also recovered 38 types of different weapons and arrested eight Pakistanis and 93 Indians. Highly-placed sources in intelligence agencies confirmed that because of the Covid-19 pandemic most airports, seaports and international check posts (ICP) were closed and the entire thrust of drug smugglers was on the land borders, which led to such a large amount of heroin being recovered this year. A senior officer involved in interrogation of those caught for heroin smuggling on the Punjab border told TOI that some of those caught with drugs revealed that they were involved in drug running for quick money because of joblessness caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. It was also confirmed that people used as couriers were getting around Rs 40,000 for one consignment. Besides this, recovery of Pakistan and Indian SIM cards and mobiles phones, incidents of dropping drug consignments or weapons using drones were also reported this year. “Increase in incidents of anti-national elements using drones to send drugs or weapon consignments inside the Indian territory is a matter of serious concern and the BSF is working to counter this new phenomenon,” said a senior BSF officer. Inflow of narcotics on the Punjab border had witnessed decline in 2018 and 2019 because of deployment of additional battalions of BSF by the Union home ministry, increased technical surveillance, close coordination with other agencies and special measures taken by the special task force (STF) of the Punjab police against drugs. The Punjab border with Pakistan is the most vulnerable to drug smuggling. The BSF has the mandate to guard the 553-km Indo-Pakistan border — 518-km land border and 33-km riverine border — in Punjab. BOX BSF recovery of heroin Year------------Recovery of heroin (kg) 2014---------361.416 2015---------344.39 2016----------231 2017----------279.049 2018-----------230.979 2019-----------228.56 2020-----------497* *Data till Dec 28, 2020 BOX Over 3 kg heroin seized The BSF seized 3 packets of heroin, weighing around 3.16 kg, in Amritsar sector on Sunday. The contraband was recovered by BSF’s 71 battalion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/this-year-bsf-recovered-497kg-heroin-along-india-pak-border-in-punjab/articleshow/79982435.cms||Ajay Sura
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Fake certs from universities in UP common||Hyderabad: The practice of obtaining certificates from universities based out of Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh is rampant in Telangana among detained students and faculty members seeking recruitment in technical institutions in the state, said college managements. Universities such as Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) have put the onus of verifying certificates on the college managements. “In most cases, students who have been detained for few credits in Telangana seek admission in some obscure colleges in other states which don’t conduct any classes or exams. In case of faculty members, they purchase fake doctorate certificates from some random universities from other states and seek recruitment in colleges in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh,” said KVK Rao, general secretary of All India Federation of Self Financing Technical Institutions, adding that forging certificates has now reduced following strict verification by universities. Last year, JNTUH had issued an advisory to colleges urging them to be cautious in recruiting faculty from the six universities which are under the University Grants Commission scanner. These included Andhra University, Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University in Maharashtra and Solapur University and three private ones, Sunrise University in Rajasthan, Kalinga University in Chhattisgarh and Himalayan University in Arunachal Pradesh. Officials said that while they have been able to weed out majority of the cases last year, some faculty members continue to indulge in such practices. “The scale at which it existed until last year has reduced this year. Some colleges do have faculty members that have obtained certificates from some uncommon and unknown universities. Verifying their certificates is an extension process as we have to write to the respective universities. However, we are doing it,” said Manzoor Hussain, registrar, JNTUH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-certs-from-universities-in-up-common/articleshow/79982434.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Night Bazar & cycling track to add zing to Hussainsagar||HYDERABAD: Lake View Night Bazar, two 80-seater boats and a cycling track will add zing to Hussainsagar soon. As on date, grills are being replaced, streetlights put in place and walkway for the night bazar are being constructed. Telangana Martyrs’ Memorial and Neera café projects are also underway. “The night bazar will run 1,300 metres along the lake. We have taken up architectural lighting. Works are being executed duly in compliance with the Supreme Court-appointed committee recommendations,” a municipal administration and urban development(MAUD) department official said. “The works are being executed without tampering preservation and conservation aspects of Hussainsagar,” he added. The night bazar would have seating arrangements facing the lake and exclusive parking area. Granite pavements, illumination, wood plastic composite (WPC) deck along the lake were some of the features. As per the proposal, all shops coming up come in Night Bazar would be made out of pre-fabricated fibre reinforced plastic (FRP). After strolling along the lake, denizens could burn some calories too. “A cycling track is being built on Necklace Road. A part of the newly-laid vaccum-dewatered cement concrete (VDCC) road has been marked as the cycling track. The cycling track is seven-km long with a width of around 1.5 metres on either sides,” Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) chief engineer BLN Reddy said. “The construction of cycling track has almost been completed, while tenders pertaining to night bazar tenders have been floated,” he added. Apart from bazar works, civic works, including replacing the flooring near statues located near Hussainsagar, has also being taken up. A Telangana tourism officials said the two boats that would be pressed into service were eco friendly ones. “Both the cruises have two floors each. These cruises are eco-friendly, the motors are equipped with zero emission technology,” the tourism official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/night-bazar-cycling-track-to-add-zing-to-hussainsagar/articleshow/79982440.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||UK variant spreads faster, but doesn’t kill more: CCMB||HYDERABAD: More genome-based surveillance is needed to find out how much the UK variant has spread in the country, said Dr Rakesh Mishra, the director of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB). Dr Mishra said that while the UK variant is more infectious, the fatality is same as the other strains of coronavirus. So far, in general, the UK variant has not been community spread, but experts expressed fear that those who returned from UK may have spread it. “The UK variant of the virus is more virulent but symptoms are same. Going by experience from the UK, though the number of people getting infected is more, the fatality rate is same as that the existing variants,” he said. Dr Mishra added: “There are genetic differences among the variants on nucleaotide positions. It is not possible to identify the variant with the current RT-PCR tests. CCMB has so far contributed more than 900 genome sequences out of the 4000 that India has contributed to the global database.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uk-variant-spreads-faster-but-doesnt-kill-more-ccmb/articleshow/79982445.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 28, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: A drainage master plan need of the hour||KOCHI: For the past few years, waterlogging has been the most delicate problem which has been giving headache to city residents and authorities alike. As the new administration of the Kochi corporation takes charge, it is expected that it would be giving topmost priority to the issue of waterlogging in the city. The corporation administration should prepare short-term and long-term plans for containing the vexed issue of waterlogging. “Those who assume power in the corporation should start preparation of plans immediately. Normally, monsoon starts in June and so there are only a few months left for completing the work. It will take a couple of months for planning and tendering of the works. So, the issue of waterlogging should be discussed at the first meeting of the council itself and decisions in this regard should be taken without any delay,” a former secretary of Kochi corporation said. The first and most important thing the corporation authorities are to do is to prepare a drainage master plan. “The drains in the city have been constructed in an unscientific manner. There should be a master plan and all the drains and canals should be systematically connected so as to ensure that the storm water runs off into the backwaters within a few minutes of raining. Competent agencies and experts should be roped in for preparing the master plan,” the official said. “It will take quite some time for preparing the master plan and executing the work. So, there should be short-term goals as well. Measures to minimise waterlogging should be taken on a war-footing. The short-term projects to contain waterlogging should be completed by June next year, he added. The district administration has already carried out certain works to contain waterlogging under ‘Operation Breakthrough’. “Widening of some of the canals and drains in the city was carried out under Operation Breakthrough. So, the new administration of Kochi corporation should carry out works which are complementary to the works done under Operation Breakthrough,” a former councillor said. Another solution which the corporation authorities have come up with to contain waterlogging in areas like Kadavanthara and Elamkulam is demolition of bund constructed across the backwaters at Chilavannoor. The bund constructed for facilitating the work on the viaduct which is to be built across the backwaters as part of Sarovaram project has been causing waterlogging in many areas. Kerala high court has ordered Kochi corporation and Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) to demolish the bund. Moreover, one of the main promises in the LDF manifesto was implemention of Sarovaram project without reclaiming the backwaters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-drainage-master-plan-need-of-the-hour/articleshow/79980577.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Regulatory crop norm in Telangana fizzles out||HYDERABAD: A high-level review meeting conducted by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao here on Sunday was of the view that the state government should forthwith stop advising farmers on what crops they should cultivate. “There is no need for regulatory farming policy,” officials who attended the meeting told CM KCR. Farmers would be allowed to decide what they want to cultivate and sell their agriculture produce wherever they get a better price. “Farmers and agriculture officials should regularly meet and decide what is best for them to get MSP for their agriculture produce,” officials said. Analysts said all these issues assume significance in the aftermath of TRS losing Dubbak by-poll and not so-good performance in GHMC elections, and forthcoming elections to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency, Warangal, Khammam, and Siddipet municipal bodies and graduate MLC polls. Telangana was the first state to come out with a policy as part of which it advised farmers on what crops be cultivate in how much extent of an area. This new regulated farming policy was a unique move in the country, aimed at putting a check to a large number of farmers taking up cultivation of the same crop and incurring losses due to lack of demand for it in the market. TRS leaders said though the new regulated farming policy was good for the economy and in the interests of the farmers, it proved unfavourable on the political front for the ruling TRS. Also, farmers did not like being dictated by the government on what they should cultivate and several of them had opposed the new policy. Officials told the CM that Rythu Vedikas are being constructed all over the state. Farmers and officers should meet regularly at the Vedikas. They should discuss and decide on which crops they should cultivate based on the market conditions, said the officials. An extensive discussion took place at the meeting on purchase of various crops, regulated farming policy, sale and purchase of agriculture produce in the markets, responsibilities of Rythu Bandhu Samithis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/regulatory-crop-norm-in-t-fizzles-out/articleshow/79983656.cms||Roushan Ali
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||3 mining guards assaulted for seizing truck with gypsum, 7 booked||Hisar: Hisar police have registered a case against a truck driver and his six accomplices for allegedly assaulting three mining guards for seizing his gypsum-loaded truck on Saturday evening at Chandan Nagar in Hisar. Police have recovered the truck, but no accused has been arrested so far. Hisar police said a case had been registered at Sadar police station, on a complaint by mining guard Sandeep, a resident of Kheri Barki village in Hisar against Mangeram, a resident of Thaska village in Hisar, and five-six unidentified persons under sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 103 (illegal or unauthorised mining) of Haryana Minor Mineral Concession, Stocking, Transportation of Minerals and Prevention of Illegal Mining Rules. In the complaint to police, Sandeep said he and mining guards Manjit and Rajesh were on duty on Balsamand Road near Chandan Nagar on Saturday evening when they stopped the truck (HR 38S 3007) and found gypsum it. “When the driver was asked for documents, he could not produce any. During questioning, the driver said his name is Mangaram, and the team asked him to walk to the nearest police station. However, durng this time, he had called his five-six colleagues on the spot,” he said. The group beat up the guards and fled from the spot. Later, the guards called the police and handed over the gypsum to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-mining-guards-assaulted-for-seizing-truck-with-gypsum-7-booked/articleshow/79982443.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Trichy||Poultry waste to be collected separately, recycled in Trichy||Trichy: Frequently besieged by complaints about clandestine littering of water bodies and vacant plots with poultry and other animal waste, Trichy corporation has initiated a proposal to collect waste from meat stalls separately and recycle it. Private waste management organisations have expressed interest in collecting, transporting and recycling or reusing poultry waste from stalls across the 65 wards here. No additional charge is to be levied from the stalls under the new system. There are around 1,200 meat stalls in the city with each ward having at least 20 of them. So far, the urban local body has been collecting poultry waste from the shops. Stall owners say about 250 grams to 350 grams per kilogram of chicken sold remains unsaleable and has to be dumped as waste. A section of stalls which miss the waste collection vehicle frequently dump the unsold waste on the banks of water bodies and vacant land. Mannarpuram junction, Uyyakondan bridge on Vayalur road and Manjathidal bridge in Kattur often bear the brunt, posing sanitary problems for locals nearby. Trichy corporation has requested interested waste management organisations to take care of the waste generated by poultry stalls. The organisation will also be permitted to pick up poultry waste from 31 micro compost centres (MCC) across the city. “We will convene a meeting between poultry stall owners and the firm to streamline waste management. The civic body is not investing anything in the project,” S Sivasubramanian, commissioner, Trichy corporation, said. Sources said private agencies are willing to collect chicken waste and process them to use as feed in fish farms. Once the new waste management system is implemented by identifying a recycling firm, those still caught polluting vacant spaces with poultry waste are to be penalised heavily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/poultry-waste-to-be-collected-separately-recycled-in-trichy/articleshow/79983486.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Number of policy holders swells||Hyderabad: When Rythu Bima scheme started, Rs 630 crore was paid as installment. But many farmers registered their land among their family members so they are all covered by the policy. The policy holders’ number swelled and the premium doubled to Rs 1,144 crore. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/number-of-policy-holders-swells/articleshow/79983658.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kochi||Jewellery shop theft: Cops to seek custody of key accused||KOCHI: The city police, on Monday, will seek the custody of Sheikh Babloo Adiblar, 37, key accused in the jewellery-shop burglary case that reported at Eloor in November. He was brought to Kochi on Saturday night from West Bengal after a police team led by Eloor circle inspector M Manoj nabbed him while was trying to flee to Bangladesh last week. Police will seek his custody when the accused will be produced in the court on Monday to get details about other three accused in the case. Babloo, a native of Gujarat, is the second accused in the case in which burglars reportedly decamped with 3kg of gold and 25kg of silver worth around Rs.1.5 crore from a jewellery shop in Eloor in the early hours of November 15. The burglars broke into the shop after drilling the wall of a salon adjacent to the jewellery and used gas cutter to break the lockers. Eloor police had a tough time tracking the accused as the CCTVs at the shop were dysfunctional. Sources said police identified the accused after verifying about 20 lakh phone calls and hundreds of video footages retrieved from the CCTV cameras in the nearby areas. The phone numbers of the accused were found from list of phone numbers which became not reachable after the time of theft. Later, these numbers were traced in Surat in Gujarat upon which police sought the help of the Gujarat Police. “During our investigation in Surat, we found that the accused have fled to Kolkatta. With the help of West Bengal police, they were nabbed from the India-Bangladesh borders. We recovered about 1.5kg of melted gold from Surat that they tried to sell there. The custody of the accused is necessary to nab other accused in the case,” said an officer associated with the investigation. The theft at Aiswarya Jewellers came to light on November 16 when the nearby shop owners found a hole on the rear wall of the jewellery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jewellery-shop-theft-cops-to-seek-custody-of-key-accused/articleshow/79980599.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Trichy||MNM no different in banner culture||Trichy: While Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) claims to be an alternative to the Dravidian majors, the troublesome banner culture that is largely followed by major political parties causing inconvenience to the public is also being adopted by it. Welcoming the party’s founder and president Kamal Haasan who arrived at the city in a helicopter on Sunday, the cadres had erected illegal flex boards even in places that were not visited by him. Parts of the narrow Big Bazaar street and the residential roads in Kattur saw numerous flex banners placed by local cadres and functionaries to welcome Kamal. The points visited by the MNM leader such as in Central bus stand and Chinthamani anna statue, both roads with heavy vehicular movement, had massive flex banners. Netizens took social media to question the party’s claim on alternative politics by referring to the illegal banners jeopardising the safety of public. “At the party level, discussions need to take place to stop the banner culture and its menace. Banners encroaching road space and pedestrian platforms should be avoided,” said K P Rangaprasad, a resident of Big Bazaar street. Although the banners to welcome the party leaders were not new, locals expressed their disappointment over MNM which considers itself an alternative. While placing a banner on pedestrian platforms and public spaces is banned and earns public criticism, localities that were not visited by the MNM leader had life-size banners impacting vehicular movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mnm-no-different-in-banner-culture/articleshow/79983487.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 28, 2020||Pune||Three men rescue pet dog from leopard in Pune||PUNE: A 60-year-old physically challenged farmer and two others from his family risked their own lives to rescue their pet dog, a Dobermann, from the jaws of a leopard at Kandali village, about 6km from Narayangaon in Junnar taluka. The incident occurred at around 5.15am on Saturday. Ashok Bhade, who moves using crutches, heard the dog barking incessantly early on Saturday morning and came out of his house with two family members to check on him. They saw a leopard had attacked the Dobermann and had caught it’s neck in his jaws. As the leopard dragged the dog for about 100m, towards a rivulet nearby, Bhade and the two others chased him away by beating sticks. One of the men even burst crackers to rattle the leopard. The wildcat finally left the Dobermann and slipped into the nearby sugar cane field. “We have taken our pet, who suffered injuries to the neck, stomach and leg, to a treatment facility run by the forest department,” Bhade’s son Sanket said. The family has a bungalow surrounded by sugar cane fields. Their dog, named Saheb, sleeps in a corner of the veranda at their house. The farmer said, “We could barely think about anything else but saving Saheb’s life, when we saw him in the leopard’s jaw. We literally chased the leopard and rescued our dog. We were ready to face the animal’s attack in the process.” “This is the second time Saheb has come under attack from a leopard. In 2018, he saved two puppies from a leopard by literally jumping on the back of the wild animal. Saheb had then suffered serious injuries to his leg,” recalled Bhade. Manchar range forest officer Ajay Shinde, under whose jurisdiction the leopard attack took place, told TOI, “Junnar and its adjoining talukas are known for the presence of a high number of leopards and during the winter months when cane cutting begins, the big cat tends to move away from the cane fields and closer to human habitats, resulting in such incidents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-men-rescue-pet-dog-from-leopard/articleshow/79981376.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 in Telangana: Two more UK returnees test positive, samples sent for further testing||HYDERABAD: On a day when the Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) submitted the results of the targeted genome sequencing (a rapid testing method) of some samples of the 18 samples of UK returnees to the government, two more UK returnees tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples are being forwarded to the CCMB for genome sequencing as well. Meanwhile, a second round of results of the full genome sequencing (which is a detailed testing method) was under way on Sunday. When asked about the results, Dr Mishra Director, Director, CCMB-Hyderabad, said: “We have forwarded our findings to the government and health ministry. The report of the second round will be submitted on Monday. Based on the results of samples from other states being tested at various other labs across the country, a clear picture of which strain of the virus is circulating will be assessed and an announcement is expected to be made by the government on Monday.” Dr Mishra further explained that genomic sequencing was a complex procedure and that two different rounds—one fast-track and another detailed one—is being done. “This is however a continuous process. We will get more samples and analyse them,” he added. On Sunday, 30 more returnees have been traced and identified by the state health authorities, lowering the number of untraceable returnees to 246 now from the earlier 279. The 20 returnees who tested positive so far are stable and doing fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-more-uk-returnees-test-ve-samples-sent-for-further-testing/articleshow/79982454.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 28, 2020||Trichy||Vellalar outfits stage protest in Trichy||Trichy: Vellalar rights retrieval committee, a consortium of several organisations attached to Vellalar caste, on Sunday staged a protest urging the state government not to rename the subsects of scheduled caste (SC) communities as ‘Devendrakula Vellalar’. The protest was held near Chathiram bus stand in Trichy. The chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had recently said that the state government shall recommend to the Centre to regroup seven SC subsects as Devendrakula Vellalar. However, the development has not gone well with the Vellalar community listed under backward caste (BC). “There is no ground to handover the title ‘Vellalar’ to the subsects of SC. We have historical and literary proof with us to claim exclusive rights over the title which we are not willing to share,” S Mayilvaganan Pillai, convenor of the rights retrieval committee said. The Vellalar community organisations said that they will resort to poll boycott in the ensuing assembly election or shall vote for NOTA if the state government does not heed to their demands. “We have fears about our Vellalar identity and customs being diluted if the renaming of SC subsects was officially recognised,” Mayilvaganan added.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vellalar-outfits-stage-protest-in-trichy/articleshow/79983488.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘Aim of vaccine now is to prevent mortality’||Visakhapatnam: Ahead of the anticipated rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine, social media and other platforms have been brimming with myths and misconceptions over the last few weeks. Addressing such issues and other aspects, Covid-19 nodal officer for Andhra Pradesh and professor of medicine, Dr K Rambabu, discussed with TOI the technical and scientific facets related to the vaccine. The nodal officer said that the vaccine will be administered in two doses, with 21 to 28 days between the doses depending on the vaccine used. “Best protection may start ten days after the second dose. The efficacy is around 70% to 90% against all severity and 100% against hospitalisation,” Dr Rambabu said. “One dose will give only partial protection, maybe 60% to 80%, and may not last long enough. For complete protection, two doses should be taken at recommended intervals. For most vaccines, it will be the same dose given twice,” said Dr Rambabu. When asked about giving the vaccine to Covid-19 infected people, pregnant or lactating women and diabetic patients, Dr Rambabu said that Covid-infected people should also receive the vaccine. “But, it will be the last in the priority list...Centres for Disease Control and Prevention has advised against giving the vaccine to pregnant and lactating mothers. UK authorities have advised women not to get pregnant for two months after getting the shot. In fact, diabetes has been established as a risk factor for severe disease and all diabetic patients must get vaccinated on priority,” said Dr Rambabu. “All vaccines are offering equal efficacy. Indian manufactured vaccines will be more suitable for our population as they are cheaper and can be kept at 2-8 degree Celsius,” the nodal officer said. When asked about the duration of protection, Dr Rambabu said; “It is a new virus, new technology vaccine, so we don’t know. After follow-ups of these vaccinated population and their antibodies for a couple of years, we would be wiser,” pointing out that no vaccine gives 100% protection.  “A vaccinated person may not develop the disease, but may transmit it to others,” Dr Rambabu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aim-of-vaccine-now-is-to-prevent-mortality/articleshow/79980625.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||No NY bashes, staycations & buffets to ring in ’21||Hyderabad: Lavish buffets, packed meals and staycations have replaced the usual grand celebrations on New Year’s Eve this year, with many hotels doing away with the gala nights in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Even as the Telangana government is yet to declare restrictions on the parties, city hotels have voluntarily decided to hold subdued celebrations for New Year’s Eve. “Keeping the pandemic in mind, many hotels have voluntarily decided to not host huge gatherings. Special buffet and cuisines will be served at restaurants. Packed meals will be made available for people to celebrate at home,” said Mohan Krishna, president, Hotels and Restaurants Association of Telangana. Staycations at hotels, resorts or rented independent properties is another option. This in mind, several hotels have chalked out different packages that not only serves food but also unlimited beverages. “For holding a new year’s celebration, we need to book artists in advance and make all preparations. Since this year we don’t have any clarity from the government yet, we decided to focus on room selling wherein we are offering staycation packages with early check-in and late check-out options,” said Ankush Mukherjee, director, food and beverages, The Park, Hyderabad. Many hotels have shifted focus to serving exquisite buffets and beverages to ring in New Year’s Eve. The ITC Kohenur is offering private venue, a signature menu, select premium beverages and an exclusive service team for guests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-ny-bashes-staycations-buffets-to-ring-in-21/articleshow/79982469.cms||Preeti Biswas
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||State must also give good price: Bandi||Hyderabad: Reacting to the proposal to withdrawal proposal of regulatory farming policy, BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar said the CM has realised the significance of farm laws. “State cannot completely put onus of better price on the Centre, state must also try to purchase at good price.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-must-also-give-good-price-bandi/articleshow/79983661.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Pune||Night temperature will hover around 14°C this week in Pune: IMD||PUNE: After recording the lowest minimum temperature this season, so far, at 8.1°C on December 22, the night temperature in the city has kept rising steadily thereafter and is likely to remain around 13 to 14°C during the week ahead, officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. On Sunday, the IMD’s Shivajinagar observatory recorded night temperature at 13.6°C, which was 3 degrees above normal. The Lohegaon observatory recorded 14.7°C, which was 2.7 degrees above normal. Anupam Kashyapi, the head of IMD’s weather forecast department here, said, “Moisutre incursion over the Madhya Maharashtra region, which includes Pune, owing to the interaction of south-easterly winds originating from the southern peninsula and the northerly winds from Gujarat via Arabian Sea, has led to the rise in the night temperature in the city.” On Sunday, city experienced chilly weather conditions in the morning and clear skies towards afternoon. By evening, it turned cloudy. All these factors are impacting night temperature, the IMD official said. The night temperature in Pune city rose from 8.1°C on December 22 to 8.3°C the following day and 9.9°C on December 24 and 11.9°C on December 25. It further went up to 12.7°C on December 26 and 13.6°C on Sunday. Kashyapi said, “The intensity of northerly winds was more last week than expected. So, there was drastic fall in night temperature. After December 31, night temperature may go down to the range of 11 to 12°C.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/night-temperature-will-hover-around-14c-this-week-imd/articleshow/79981378.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 28, 2020||Pune||Private bus overturns on Pune–Mumbai expressway, two injured||PUNE: Two passengers aboard a private luxury bus sustained injuries after the vehicle turned on its side at the Kiwale exit of Pune–Mumbai expressway on Sunday morning around 11.30. The bus was hired by a family from Kalyan and it was heading towards Sangli for an engagement ceremony. According to the Dehu Road police, the vehicular movement towards Pune from Mumbai was disrupted for about 45 minutes. Assistant police inspector Shahid Pathan of the Dehu Road police said, “The driver of the bus lost control while taking the right turn onto Kiwale bridge and the bus turned on its left side at a high speed. There were around 35 passengers in the bus. Two passengers sustained injuries in the accident.” The injured persons have been admitted in a private hospital in Somatne Phata, Pathan said. Police said the bus driver and cleaner fled the spot. The police have contacted the bus owner and are trying to trace the driver and cleaner. A case of rash and negligent driving has been registered against the bus driver, Pathan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/private-bus-overturns-on-expressway-two-injured/articleshow/79981380.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Events of martyrdom of guru’s sons telecast at Singhu||Patiala: Sikh groups from Punjab and Delhi provided live telecast of events organised in Fatehgarh Sahib as part of the three-day Shaheedi Sabham, which concluded on Sunday, at Singhu border. Some cultural groups also organised plays at night for agitating farmers to mark the martyrdom of the sons of Guru Gobind Singh. On Sunday, Shaheedi Sabha concluded in Fatehgarh Sahib amid tributes were paid to the two younger sons of the tenth Sikh guru and his mother. A local Sikh group from Delhi along with members of an online platform organised the projector and lights to provide access to live telecast through a TV channel. Punjab Lok Sabhyachar Manch president Amolak Singh, at Tikri border said, “We are showing plays like ‘Ayen Kiven lai Jaan-ge Zameenan Saadiyan’ (How can they take away our lands) penned by late Ajmer Singh Aulakh, ‘Eh Zameen Saadi hai (this land is ours) penned by Gursharan Singh, and films like Siri and Mashaalan Baal Ke Chalna.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/events-of-martyrdom-of-gurus-sons-telecast-at-singhu/articleshow/79982463.cms||Bharat Khanna
December 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Vij records fewer offences in ’20 but some crimes see an increase||Vijayawada: While number of crimes saw a 12 per cent decrease in Vijayawada city in 2020 when compared to 2019, crimes reported under some heads registered an increase. Cases of house breaks, rape, attempt to murder and culpable homicide have increased while ordinary thefts, kidnap, cheating and accident cases witnessed a decline in 2020. When it comes to crimes against women, the number of overall crimes declined from 944 in 2019 to 831 in 2020. However, grave cases such as rape, abetment of suicide, murder and cases of outraging modesty continue to be either higher or the same as in the previous year. Crimes against minor girls remain a concern as the majority of rape cases reported in 2020 were booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Out of 60 rape cases reported during 2020, 33 were booked under the POCSO Act. Crimes against SCs and STs also witnessed a marginal increase in overall numbers. While the total number of crimes against SCs and STs stood at 42 in 2019, this number increased to 45 in 2020. Here too, rape cases continue to be a worry as the number of cases under this head increased from two in 2019 to eight in 2020. However, the number of cases under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act have come down from six to two. Both fatal and non-fatal accidents have come down in 2020 on account of the lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. Vijayawada police commissioner B Srinivasulu also attributed the reduction in number of accidents to the imposition of the nationwide lockdown. He further observed that the lockdown has also played a part in overall reduction in the crime rate. “2020 has been the most challenging for the police, if not in terms of regular policing duties, but in terms of Covid-19 lockdown enforcement works,” said Srinivasulu. He said the city police unit performed exceptionally well in fighting Covid-19 even though as many as 385 police personnel contracted the virus and two of them succumbed to the disease. The police commissioner said they have been vigilant against the new strain of Covid-19. “We have traced 146 persons, either primary or secondary contacts with UK travel history, and out of them only one person tested positive so far but the test results are yet to confirm whether it is the new strain or not,” Srinivasulu said. Srinivasulu added that the rise in cybercrime cases is a matter of concern. He appealed to people to be aware of microfinance applications and to not fall into a vicious debt trap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-records-fewer-offences-in-20-but-some-crimes-see-an-increase/articleshow/79980646.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 7,500 crore assistance to 61 lakh farmers under Rythu Bandhu Scheme: K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday said Rs 7,515 crore financial assistance under Rythu Bandhu Scheme would be deposited into the bank accounts of over 61 lakh farmers from Monday (December 28) and it will continue in January also “until the last farmer gets the money in his or her bank account. The CM held a review on Rythu Bandhu financial assistance on Sunday and announced that Rs7,515 crore financial assistance would be given on 1.52 crore acres of cultivated land of 61 lakh farmers at the rate of Rs 5,000 per acre for the 2020 summer season. Cultivation area is rapidly increasing in Telangana due to availability of water from irrigation projects. The agriculture officers should strictly monitor implementation of financial assistance through Rythu Bandhu twice a year and implementation of Rythu Bima, KCR said. The officers have to ensure that the farmers get quality seed, fertilisers, and pesticides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-7500-crore-assistance-to-61-lakh-farmers-kcr/articleshow/79983664.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Pune||Telangana cops arrest 3 from Pune in loan app case||PUNE: A team of Telangana police on Saturday raided a call centre at a mall in Koregaon Park and took three persons into custody in connection with their ongoing investigation into instant financing apps indulging in unfair practices. The call centre and its office-bearers were involved in harassing and shaming loan defaulters of different instant loan applications, the Telangana police said. “The Telangana police team was in the city on Saturday and sought our assistance. The Koregaon Park police provided them support and they searched the call centre premises before taking the suspects into custody,” Pune DCP (Zone II) Sagar Patil told TOI. Patil said the Pune police were not privy to the details of the investigation or the purpose of the three arrests. “During the raid, several laptops and cellphones were seized,” DCP Patil further said. On Saturday, the Telangana police also wrote to Google to block 158 instant finance apps on its Play Store after the companies behind these apps were found harassing, abusing, and shaming the defaulters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/telangana-cops-arrest-3-from-city-in-loan-app-case/articleshow/79981390.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: 20 bank accounts with links to online sales scams frozen||PUNE: The cybercrime branch of the Pune police have started cracking down on fraudsters posing as online vendors and cheating people of small sums of money. In the past two weeks, the police received 25 complaints, in which the victims alleged that they made payments ranging from Rs150 to Rs500 after seeing advertisements on social media and never received the goods. During this period, police said they have observed an increase in the trend of crooks cheating people of small amounts of money. The fraudsters posed as sellers of small articles — trinkets, kitchen items/utensils, and cosmetics. “The suspects uploaded advertisements on various social media platforms, claiming to be sellers or vendors of such small articles. We have frozen 20 bank accounts with the help of officials from different banks in two weeks,” senior police inspector Rajkumar Wakchaure of the cybercrime police told TOI. Wakchaure said the fraudsters have become adept at harnessing the reach of social media. “They use different platforms effectively to promote their fake advertisements. They deliberately keep the price of the ‘articles’ on the lower side, as people are less likely hesitate to transfer small sums of money,” Wakchaure said. In each case, the “seller” wanted payment in advance. In most cases, the advertisement contains a phone number and a fabricated address of the vendor/seller. “The buyers call up the ‘vendors’ and transfer money through a UPI app. After receiving the money, the suspects blocked the victim’s number,” Wakchaure further said. “The suspects must have thought people would not approach police if the amount was low,” he said. “After studying the application and UPI numbers, we obtained the bank account details and requested bank officials to freeze these accounts,” he said. “We have sought details of these accounts for further action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/20-bank-accounts-with-links-to-online-sales-scams-frozen/articleshow/79981388.cms||Gitesh Shelke
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||NMRDA declares 2,582 buildings, layouts unauthorized in metro region||Nagpur: The Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA) has issued notices to 2,582 buildings and layouts declaring them unauthorized. On the lines of industrialists, public representatives and builders are demanding regularization of these buildings arguing they all came up before new development control regulations (DCR) were implemented. As per NMRDA data, highest number of unauthorized buildings and layouts (756) was in South division followed by 750 in East, 555 in West and 521 in North division. There are 2,467 buildings and 115 layouts having large number of plots. Among buildings, 124 are educational institutions while 79 are function halls. There are 86 restaurants, 499 industries, 81 multi-storeyed residential and commercial complexes, 84 mobile towers and other buildings of which most (1,514) are residential. NMRDA officials told TOI that DCRs were approved in January 2018. NMRDA teams are conducting inspection of the buildings and layouts as per DCR since June 2018. “Till now, we found 2,582 buildings and layouts unauthorized. They have been asked to get themselves regularized. But parts of a majority of structures are non-compoundable as per DCR,” they said. TOI on December 25 had reported the demand of Chamber of Association of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT) for special scheme to regularize existing structures of industries. CAMIT said a majority of industries came up in the past and were now facing closure as NMRDA was asking for regularization as per DCR approved in January 2018. West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre said, “NMRDA should make applicable DCR of 2018 on layouts and buildings that came up after implementation of DCR. Buildings and layouts in metropolitan region are older and came up as per approval of respective gram panchayats and other authorities. Demolition of parts of these structures means destruction of total building. NMRDA has been established for development of metropolitan region and not for destroying existing development.” Thakre said he will meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, urban development minister Eknath Shinde and speaker Nana Patole and ensure a scheme for saving the structures. Secretary of CREDAI Nagpur Gaurav Agarwala said, “Compounding of a majority of buildings is not possible as per DCR of 2018. Structures constructed before January 2018 should be regularized as they are. NMRDA should ensure structural and fire safety in existing buildings.” Activist Anil Wadpalliwar who raised the issue of unauthorized constructions cropped up in Besa and Beltarodi said, “Gram panchayats were authority for gaothan and collector office for outside gaothan. But developers and builders took sanction from gram panchayats for outside gaothan. These buildings would have been not declared unauthorized if they had obtained sanction from collector office. Action should be taken against gram panchayats who gave sanctions.” Wadpalliwar added, “DCR is meant for safety of structures and providing amenities for people. Developers and builders duped people by constructing structures much above permissible floor space index (FSI). Area of open spaces, public utility lands and roads are not left. It will not be proper to regularize buildings and layouts as they are.” There are over 1 lakh buildings in the metropolitan region. When the government gave various relaxations for regularization on October 7, 2017, NMRDA received 11,000 applications. The NMRDA is conducting inspection and issuing notices at slow pace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmrda-declares-2582-buildings-layouts-unauthorized-in-metro-region/articleshow/79982504.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 28, 2020||Kochi||LDF confident of winning mayoral election||KOCHI: With voting to elect Kochi mayor scheduled on Monday, LDF and UDF are gearing up for it. It is almost sure that M Anil Kumar of CPM will be elected mayor unless there is a sabotage. A clear picture on the deputy mayor candidate of LDF is yet to get as the difference of opinion between CPM and CPI over the issue is yet to be sorted out. Still, chances are high for K A Ansiya of CPI to be fielded as LDF’s deputy mayor candidate. “A final decision in this regard has not been taken so far,” a CPM leader said. However, there are reports that CPM may not lock horns with CPI as the margin of the LDF over UDF is very thin. At the same time, UDF leaders will meet in Kochi on Sunday to decide on mayor and deputy mayor candidates. “As chances for UDF candidates winning the mayoral election is less, fixing the opposition leader will be the major task for Congress,” one of the leaders of Congress in Kochi said. “The names of KPCC secretary Deepthi Mary Varghese, Mahila Congress district president V K Minimol, Antony Kureethra and Antony Painumthara ae doing the rounds. If a person is named as the candidate for mayor’s post, he or she may not be considered for the post of opposition leader. Similarly, those who don’t figure in the list of mayor’s and deputy mayor’s candidates may be considered for chairing standing committees. Given the fact that the LDF’s strength, including the independents is just 37, the opposition will be able to head two of the eight standing committees,” he said. “Most of the contenders for the key posts are I faction leaders. This may lead to rift in the I faction,” he said. In the council with a total strength of 74, UDF has 31 councillors while BJP has four councillors. Besides T K Asharaf, the IUML rebel who chose to support LDF, and a Congress rebel, there are two more independents. LDF is expected to give chairmanship of one of the standing committees to Asharaf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ldf-confident-of-winning-mayoral-election/articleshow/79980670.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Promotion without exams will hamper learning: Teachers||HYDERABAD: Irrespective of whether or not schools will be physically reopened this academic year, teachers and management said that no student should be promoted to the next academic year without conducting examinations. They said that promoting students without exams will have an adverse effect on a student as he/she won’t achieve learning outcomes or have basic knowledge. “Last year, the situation was different. Students attended schools for almost an entire year, they gave their assessment tests and were prepared for final exams. So, promoting them without exams did not do much harm as they were taught the whole syllabus. This year, if students are promoted without exams, they will be at a loss as many are not even aware of what’s in the syllabus,” said Shekar Rao Y, president, Telangana Recognised School Management Association. They said that schools should reopen for all classes—nursery to class 12 and above, and regular physical classes should be conducted at least for 100 days so that students learn basics and all important topics. The syllabus can be further reduced and exams can be conducted for less duration or with just objective type questions, they added. “Most students are in hope that they will be promoted without exams and have not been paying attention to studies. Promoting students now will only make it difficult for them in the future. It’s not about exams or marks alone, it is more about teaching them the subject and ensuring that they meet age-specific learning outcomes,” said Nishitha P, a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/promotion-without-exams-will-hamper-learning-teachers/articleshow/79988182.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Pune||Travellers in a fix over summer flight bookings||PUNE: Nirupam Gate’s plans to take his family to Shimla in the summer this year were cancelled due to the pandemic. His plans for a summer break next year too look uncertain. “The Pune airport will remain closed to all flights either in April or May, 2021, for a fortnight. With no specific dates on the closure announced, booking tickets in advance is a major risk. Many people will be planning to take vacations next year and booking last minute tickets in that period will be an expensive affair. I could take a flight from Mumbai but considering that the pandemic isn’t over, I am not very confident,” said Gate. With work on the runway recarpeting at Pune airport presently underway, airport authorities and the Indian Air Force said that the runway will be shut down completely for a period of at least 15 days in April or May next year. However, with no specific dates spelt out until now, a number of flyers wishing to book advance tickets for trips during the summer are in a fix. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI that the exact dates had not been shared by the defence authorities yet. “There is a communication pertaining to the complete closure of the runway for a fortnight next year. However, the exact dates have not been informed to us yet,” said Singh. Owing to the runway work, the airport is already witnessing flights only between 8am and 8pm since October 26. The restriction is expected to continue for a full year. Vishal Bharti, who was planning to book tickets to Patna in April, said, “I haven’t been home for more than a year due to the pandemic. I planned to go earlier this year but the lockdown derailed all the planning. One good thing which happened was that Pune recently got a direct flight to Patna. I was set to book five tickets for the entire family in April but a friend informed me about the total runway closure. If I book tickets in April or May and the runway gets closed, the flights will automatically be suspended and my tickets will be cancelled. Under the present scenario, getting a refund is immensely difficult and time consuming. I am suddenly confused, not knowing what to do,” said Bharti, who lives in Pimpri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/travellers-in-a-fix-over-summer-flight-bookings/articleshow/79981419.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 28, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Seven-year-old boy’s paintings during lockdown sold to fund child’s education||MADURAI: What started out as a hobby and a way to keep engaged after schools were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic has now turned into a way to give back to society for seven-year-old Rithun Kunal. The Class II student has drawn 50 paintings, which he is selling and donating the proceeds to sponsor the education of a needy child. “When the lockdown was announced in the last week of March, we almost had an anxiety attack on what we would we do to keep the kids engaged. With outdoor sports also not an option, we had to resort to indoor activities. I remembered the Art corner that we had gifted to our son on his sixth birthday last December,” said Dr Preethika Gandhi, an ophthalmologist and Rithun’s mother. She said they had promised to make as many paintings as possible whenever time permitted and the lockdown became a golden opportunity. On Sunday, an assortment of 50 paintings with themes ranging from doodles, abstracts to pop culture were put on display by Rithun at his house. “The biggest challenge was to make my son sit in one place for one to two hours, sometimes even 3 hours at a stretch. I used to draw random shapes and ask him to paint as he wished. Slowly, his choice of colours and designs became more vibrant,” said Dr Preethika. She added that his cousins too gave him company and nearly 200 hours of painting had gone into these exhibits. Since his mother was also an artist earlier, the seven-year-old has always enjoyed painting. His parents are glad that it has also helped kill gadget time amid lockdown. “Apart from painting, the kids were encouraged to join their grandparents in the morning for gardening. Finally, the exhibition turned into a paintings and plants event,” said Rithun’s mother. All the paintings were sold out in a few hours and the exhibition has encouraged Rithun to do more. Dr Preethika said this was also an opportunity to teach children empathy and sharing and so the sale proceeds will be used for the education expenses of a deserving child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/7-year-old-boys-paintings-during-lockdown-sold-to-fund-childs-edu/articleshow/79982478.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Patna||Ram Chandra Prasad Singh is new JD(U) president, KC Tyagi blasts ‘love jihad’ laws||PATNA: The ideological differences between NDA allies JD(U) and BJP came to the fore on Sunday when the former accused the saffron party of trying to create an atmosphere of mistrust and hatred in the country in the name of “love jihad” and through laws to curb interfaith marriage. Addressing a press conference after the appointment of bureaucrat-turned-politician and Rajya Sabha member Ram Chandra Prasad Singh (62) as the new JD(U) national president at its national executive body meeting here, party’s senior leader K C Tyagi said there was an attempt to create an atmosphere of jealousy in the country over love jihad. “Our Constitution says any two consenting adults can choose to be life partners,” he said. The new JD(U) chief was appointed soon after CM Nitish Kumar announced to relinquish the post at the meeting. Singh’s name as the new JD(U) chief was proposed by Nitish and unanimously accepted. Singh’s elevation to the JD(U)’s top post was later ratified at the party’s national council meeting held in the afternoon. Singh was the party’s national general secretary (organization). Nitish was re-elected as the JD(U) president in 2019 for next three years. Tyagi also said the party was anguished over the political development in Arunachal Pradesh where six of the 7 JD(U) MLAs switched over to BJP. “It’s against the spirit of coalition dharma,” he said, but added that it will have no impact on the coalition in Bihar. Tyagi said the party passed a political resolution at its national council meeting on current national topics, efficient handling of coronavirus pandemic in Bihar and contesting election in West Bengal and other states. He said the party will also find out those who damaged JD(U) in the recent state assembly elections. Nitish did not want to be CM: JD(U)Referring to the less number of seats won by JD(U) in the state elections, Tyagi said Nitish is a leader of “credibility” and not the “numbers”. He said Nitish, after the poll results was unwilling to become the CM and had asked his ally to name someone else, but BJP insisted on him to lead the NDA government. Soon after taking charge as JD(U) president, Singh, commonly known as RCP, said in a veiled attack on BJP without taking its name: “We remain with our allies with full honesty. We do not hatch conspiracy. We don’t deceive anyone. People should not consider our ‘sanskar’ as our weakness. Our ‘sanskar’ is very strong and robust.” RCP also said while JD(U) votes got transferred to its allies in the state assembly polls, those belonging to the allies did not come to JD(U) candidates. “This is the reason, their number of seats in the assembly got increased,” Singh said while referring to the 74 seats won by BJP compared to 43 by JD(U) in the 243-member state assembly. In a resolution passed at its executive body meet, JD(U) proposed to its allies to follow the “Atal-Samhita” of coalition dharma. The party said, socialist leader Ram Manohar Lohia began coalition politics by forming coalition governments in the states in 1967 and former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee developed the ‘coalition politics’ in the country. “Recently, the unexpected development in Arunachal Pradesh gave an opportunity to the opposition parties to raise a question. There is a need to think over it (Arunachal episode) in depth,” the JD(U) said in the resolution. Meanwhile, RCP, a 1984-batch IAS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre, had come in contact with Nitish when the former was posted as private secretary to then Union minister Beni Prasad Verma in 1996. Nitish and RCP became more known to each other as both hail from Nalanda district in Bihar. In 2005, when Nitish took over the charge of Bihar CM, RCP was appointed the principal secretary to the CM. In 2010, RCP took voluntary retirement and he was sent to the Rajya Sabha by JD(U). He was again sent to the Rajya Sabha in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rcp-is-new-jdu-president-tyagi-blasts-love-jihad-laws/articleshow/79981425.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Pune||Man found murdered in Dahanukar Colony||PUNE: A 47-year-old man, Dilip ‘alias’ Ravindra Taware of the Dahanukar Colony, was found murdered behind the house where Taware and his mother were present on Friday evening. The Alankar police, later on Saturday, registered a case of murder on the basis of the post-mortem report. According to the police, someone assaulted Taware with a blunt object and strangulated him. Inspector Sanjeevan Jagdale of the Alankar police station told TOI, “There were external injuries on Taware’s hands and other parts of the body. We found marks on his neck as well. The medical reports hints that he was strangulated.” The officer stated that Taware was unemployed, while his mother works as a watchman at the house behind which the body was found. “The place is isolated and not under CCTV surveillance,” he said. “We suspect that someone killed Taware owing to an old dispute or he might have borrowed small amount of money from someone which might have led to the murder,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-found-murdered-in-dahanukar-colony/articleshow/79981394.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Madurai||Jagriti yatra’ shifts from train, turns digital||Madurai: The Madurai-leg of the annual ‘Jagriti Yatra’, a 15-day entrepreneurial train journey across the country for network building and experiential learning, explored the facilities of Aravind Eye Hospitals (AEH) here on Sunday. The journey turned digital this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The flagship programme of Jagriti Sewa Sansthan, a charitable organization, Jagriti Yatra has taken 500 youth and women every year, over the past 12 years, on a national train journey to explore, understand and learn from ‘Middle India’ - small towns and districts. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Jagriti Digital Yatra 2020 is carrying 1,000 digital yatris on a journey through digital means for 15 days from December 24 to January 8. Yatris interact through live sessions with 12 role models at key locations where the yatra stops and will undertake business plan competitions. The yatra is to have 90+ hours of content and engagement with 200+ speakers over 15 days. On Sunday, in the Madurai leg of the journey, the digital yatris listened to the keynote of Dr Govindappa Venkataswamy. They were inspired by his vision, and explored the Aravind Eye Hospital and care facility over the course of the day. Participants observed the priority given by the hospital to those who could not afford the cost of cataract surgery, and how it could be implemented in their home towns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/jagriti-yatra-shifts-from-train-turns-digital/articleshow/79982474.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Trichy||Malai Kuravars seek end to oppression||Trichy: An association representing a tribal community, Malai Kuravar, has demanded that the oppression of the community in Tamil Nadu be ended and the lawless attitude of the police towards the people be curbed. In a memorandum sent to the chief minister of Tamil Nadu by the founder and president of Kurunji Ina Makkal Ezhuchi Kazhagam, advocate K Uthamakumaran has stated that more than four lakh Malai Kuravar people are there in Tamil Nadu and of them 90% do not have homes. “They are unable to continue their higher studies, as the revenue officials are not providing community certificates,” he alleged. Those who completed their studies are unable to get any job without community certificate. All the governments are continuing to ignore the people. “Police make innocent youths from the tribal community their prey,” he stated in the memorandum. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/malai-kuravars-seek-end-to-oppression/articleshow/79983500.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No Covid fatality in Vizag dist in 12 days but active cases rise||VISAKHAPATNAM: No Covid-19-related death has been reported in Visakhapatnam district over the last 12 days. Till mid-December, the district was recording one or two Covid-19 deaths on a daily basis. However, the number of active Covid-19 cases have gone up from 215 in mid-December to over 280 at present. Around 100 of these cases are being treated across various hospitals in the district with nearly 70 per cent in the state-run King George Hospital. According to health officials, in December, Vizag had 217 returnees from the United Kingdom. Of the 217, 18 were from other states and only transited through Vizag. Of the remaining 199, 191 have been traced by the district administration while efforts are on to trace the remaining eight. All the returnees’ samples have been sent for Covid-19 tests. Results of 154 test have returned, all of which are negative. A sample found positive will be sent to one of the eight designated virology institutes in the country for genome sequencing to check if it is the mutated virus strain. Covid-19 nodal officer for north-coastal Andhra Dr P V Sudhakar said, “Even though new cases have come down in December, it is not the time to be complacent. Since a lot of movement and violation of Covid safety norms are expected during new year and Sankranti, there is every chance of increase in cases after mid-January.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-covid-fatality-in-vizag-dist-in-12-days-but-active-cases-rise/articleshow/79980674.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Art of protest: Brothers from Punjab craft plough to show support||LUDHIANA: In line with singers and writers who are using their skills to support the farmers’ protest, two brothers from Ghall Kalan village in Moga district are using their craftsmanship to express solidarity with protesting farmers. They have crafted a bullock plough being run by a farmer, with D R Swaminathan encouraging him. The bullock plough symbolises their demand for implementation of Dr Swaminathan report and repeal of the agri laws. Manjit Singh said, “This plough was made to show support for our brothers and encourage them to continue the protests. Being artists, we wanted to express our support with something creative.” He said he started work on the plough a day before the farmers left for Delhi to protest against the agri laws and it took almost one month to complete it. Surjeet Singh said, “We have created this bullock plough with the farmer and Dr Swaminathan with iron, fibre glass and brass. We used money from our own pocket without anyone’s support and we will take it to Delhi on Monday.” Surjeet said they have been staging protest in Moga for almost two to three weeks and will now march towards Delhi with the plough. He said they kept the plough in the village after it was completed and it drew considerable public attention. He added that the Union government has implemented the three agri laws but the actual Dr Swaminathan report is still missing, so they are raising the demand to implement the report for the benefit of farmers. They also said that the three agri laws should be rolled back immediately. Manjit Singh and Surjeet Singh, who are both farmers and artists, are also working on building a park housing statues of eminent personalities around the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/art-of-protest-bros-craft-plough-to-show-support/articleshow/79982465.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||E-classes: Parents, teachers struggle to engage students||HYDERABAD: It’s been more than six months since online classes began for most of the private school students, but parents, students, and teachers say that these classes are not of much use as students are not understanding and retaining the subjects. With the majority of schools conducting internals/assessments online, they said that students are either taking elders’ help or copying answers from the textbooks, notebooks, or other sources. “Quality teaching is not happening through online classes. Although about 70% are attending classes, there is no guarantee that they are following and learning. Quite a few students, especially those who are academically weak, are not gaining anything through online classes, “said Sharada R, a government teacher, adding that hardly 40% to 50% of students are able to understand online classes. They said that lack of classroom and personal interaction is having an adverse effect on teaching and learning as many students are unable to follow the concepts. “In the online classes, I am not able to see my students’ faces as they keep their cameras off. It’s only by their voice and participation that I get to judge whether they are learning or not,” said Sudha Dutta, a teacher working in a school affiliated to the International Baccalaureate board. “Students are not opening up. Many are complaining that when they are physically in school, they could get their doubts cleared immediately, but that’s not the case with online classes as they have to either wait till the next day or make an appointment and contact the teacher over a zoom call.” Parents said that they are worried that their children might lose interest in academics if schools don’t reopen anytime soon. “My son hardly refused to go to school before they were shut amid the pandemic as he loved interacting with his classmates, teachers, and enjoyed playing sports. But now he keeps making excuses to skip online classes. Even when he is in the virtual class, he is distracted most of the time and keeps browsing something or the other,” said Mahesh A, whose son is in Class 8, adding that during tests and exams, he takes the help of his mother. They said that unlimited access to mobile and other gadgets is making children lazy and is also affecting their emotional and mental health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/e-classes-parents-teachers-struggle-to-engage-students/articleshow/79981408.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 28, 2020||Kochi||Development projects need better coordination||KOCHI: Kochi is fast developing into a metropolitan city and various agencies are associated with the development of the city. Kochi corporation, Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) and various government departments should act in unison to get the desired results out of the projects being implemented by different agencies in the city. Those who come to power should act as a host to coordinate with various agencies and departments so as to ensure better output from the projects. “Various government departments like Kerala Water Authority, KSEB, police, etc. are implementing projects which could improve the living standards in the city. There should be a good liaison so as to get proper support from various agencies and coordinate the works,” a former secretary of Kochi corporation, who conducted an informal study to find the ways to improve the infrastructure and other amenities in the city, said. The agencies like GCDA also design projects for augmenting infrastructure and other facilities in the city. “There should not be overlapping of projects. A committee headed by the corporation should oversee all the projects being implemented in the city. This will avoid delay and loss of revenue from the public exchequer,” the official said. “Kochi corporation may be relaying a road. At the same time, another agency may be implementing a project which requires digging of the road. If there is proper planning and coordination, digging up the road immediately after relaying can be avoided,” he said. District administration plays a key role in the development of Kochi city and so better relationship and coordination with the administration will be essential. In the past, there were occasions when the district administration and the corporation locked horns over various projects like the work to address waterlogging. Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) has already undertaken various development projects. The metro agency had been exemplary in implementing at least a few projects like relaying of city roads. Water metro, which is being implemented by KMRL, also is going to change the landscape of Kochi and surrounding islands. Various central government agencies like railways, Cochin Shipyard Ltd and Cochin Port Trust also can contribute a lot for the development of the city. Besides using their CSR funds for implementing various projects designed by Kochi corporation, the central government agencies can directly undertake the development of certain areas connected to their projects. As of now, KWA and KSEB are associated with the implementation of projects under Smart City and Amrut. Cochin Smart Mission Ltd (CSML) has started implementation of various projects so as to improve traffic, infrastructure and other facilities in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/devpt-projects-need-better-coordination/articleshow/79980689.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||Reporter’s Diary: Dial TOI for Covid help||Nagpur: It was like being oblivious of the reality. Until it hits you. A family member getting infected by Covid-19 four months back exposed how alarming the situation was. For a few hours, the civic body’s helpline number remained unanswered. When somebody did pick up, name of a private hospital having intensive care unit (ICU) facility was suggested. On reaching the hospital, the receptionist informed that there was not a single bed available. The operator at the helpline number suggested another hospital which gave the same response. Finding a decent private hospital with oxygen, ventilator and other crucial facilities became a nightmare that night. 2020 was unprecedented for everyone. More so for journalists who saw news of death lurking all around them. After experiencing it, what more can a journalist do but write about it. The idea of facilitating coordination between patients and administration through the newspaper floated in the newsroom. Almost every morning would start with a panic phone call by hapless wife, daughter, son or a husband of a patient unable to find beds in government and private hospitals. The coordination part would work in some cases, but there were times when nothing worked. They say a pen of a journalist is very powerful. These were the times when like the diarist, many would have felt absolutely incapacitated. We could do nothing to bring back someone’s life or alleviate the pain. All we could do was write — write about the administration’s callousness, write about how a son ran pillar to post to find a bed for his sick mother who eventually died in the ambulance after spending four hours inside it, write about a daughter who was not allowed to take her father’s body for funeral because she did not have money to pay the exorbitant bill of a private hospital. While this was happening, there were still people hosting parties, not wearing masks and spitting in public. And then there were conspiracy theorists refusing to believe in the existence of the pandemic. Probably, they couldn’t see what a sinister form this virus could take. Covid has covertly managed to show us our place. No matter how rich, famous or VIP you are, everyone is at the mercy of nature. With a hope of an effective vaccine, people are letting their guard down. They think they have crossed the finish line and are absolutely safe, but it is anything but that. A streak of self-preservation in me says I can’t relive reporting on shortages of bed again, on lack of oxygen and people losing their loved ones. Let’s stay safe till we get our doses. (In reports on environmental issues, Manka Behl thoroughly explains their impact on human life)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reporters-diary-dial-toi-for-covid-help/articleshow/79982483.cms||Manka Behl
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Teachers of tech institutions protest at Pragathi Bhavan||Hyderabad: Teachers from various technical institutions staged a protest over salary issues and job security in front of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s camp office-cum-residence at Begumpet on Sunday. In response to a ‘Chalo Pragathi Bhavan’ call given by Telangana State Technical College Employees’ Association (TSTCEA), several teachers reached the camp office raising slogans against the state government. “We have not been paid our salaries since May/June. The government is least bothered about our well being. We have submitted petitions to the affiliating universities, the chief secretary and have done everything in our capacity, but there has been no response from the government,” TSTCEA president A Santhosh Kumar said. The teachers demanded the government ensure all private institutions pay pending salaries to all employees and reinstate those who were laid off during the lockdown. Later, the protesting teachers were detained and taken to the Goshamahal police station. TSTCEA had also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over job loss and non-payment of salaries recently. TSTCEA claims over a lakh teachers in Telangana had lost their jobs during the pandemic-induced lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-of-tech-institutions-protest-at-pragathi-bhavan/articleshow/79981442.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Madurai||480 gm gold looted from Madurai house||Madurai: A house near Sellur in Madurai was looted by unidentified people who decamped with gold weighing 480 g. The incident came to light on Saturday night. The house belongs to M Muthukumar, from Ahimsapuram West Street near Sellur. He runs a garment store in Moondrumavadi along with his sister. His wife Karthiga is working in an IT company in Tallakulam. Police said that both, Muthukumar and Karthiga left the house on Saturday morning to their work places and returned only at 9 pm. They found the main doors of the house open and found that gold jewels kept inside three bureaus were missing. Muthukumar approached the Sellur police and a scientific team was swung into action to collect evidence left behind by the suspects. Based on a complaint, a case was registered and an inquiry was carried out. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/480-gm-gold-looted-from-madurai-house/articleshow/79982482.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Madurai||Won’t allow BJP to end reservation, says MK Stalin||MADURAI: The DMK would always strive to ensure social justice in the state and reservations for the most backward classes, but the BJP is trying to destroy the fabric of social justice of the nation in a phased manner. The saffron party was also trying to bring an end to reservation, which will not be allowed, said DMK president M K Stalin. Addressing the ``Tamilagam Kaapom’’ meeting organised by its ally, Makkal Vidhuthalai Katchi, he said the meeting had the same agenda as DMK’s ``Tamilagam Meetpom’’, which was to remove the AIADMK government. The projects and schemes that the DMK brought to Tamil Nadu when it was a part of the ruling coalition at the Centre were numerous, but what can the AIADMK claim to have brought, when even the AIIMS project has turned out to be a five- year-old drama from 2015, he said. MVK founder L Murugavel Rajan said he would strive to strengthen the DMK in the state. Elaborate arrangements were made at the venue which was dotted with flags with people being brought from many parts of Madurai as in a public meeting, which was attended virtually by Stalin. People of Tamil Nadu had been a united community till the Varnashrama system entered it, Stalin said addressing them. Development was also affected after that, he said. Tamil people are known as dravidars who are beyond caste and creed. He said the legal rights of the state had been forsaken under AIADMK rule with no respect for assembly resolutions, no GST fund, no fund for national calamities and Hindu and Sanskrit being forced on the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/wont-allow-bjp-to-end-reservation-says-stalin/articleshow/79982479.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Trichy||Where families chip in to organize event||Trichy: As the state government has given permission to conduct jallikattu across the state, popular venues in the district have started preliminary works for organising the event. The district administration only monitors while the actual preparation must be done by the jallikattu organising committee comprising village heads. Since the event demands a sizeable budget for preparation and distribution of prizes, the committees have started working on raising funds which primarily comes in the form of contribution for the village temple festival. Right from erecting barricades on either sides of the Vadivasal – from where the bulls enter the arena - gallery for spectators and VIP enclosure are part of the preparatory work. Periyar Suriyur is a popular jallikattu venue in Trichy and the village heads had called for a meeting on Friday to decide on the contribution from each house for organising the event. It cost around Rs 12 lakh to organise the event last year in Periya Suriyur. There are roughly 100 families and Rs 10,000 was collected from each household. “While the same amount is expected to be spent for organising the event this year, we have decided to collect half the amount from each family this year due to Covid-19,” said S Raja Manikandan, member, organising committee, Periyar Suriyur jallikattu. We are planning to raise rest of the money as donation from local politicians and philanthropists, he added. Anbil village near Lalgudi, which had to skip hosting jallikattu last year due to the pandemic, has planned to conduct the event on March 14 this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/where-families-chip-in-to-organize-event/articleshow/79983505.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Eight drones, 40,000 cops to keep tabs, 31st party to end by 11pm||MUMBAI: Eight drones and over 40,000 cops will monitor city roads, beaches and all other important spots and vital installations on New Year’s Eve. With night curfew imposed till January 5, police said people can come out to celebrate, but festivities must wind up by 11pm.Gatherings on terraces have also been banned. Police said the cops will be deployed in two shifts of 20,000 each to ensure compliance with Covid-19 norms as well as to maintain law and order. People can visit hangouts like Gateway of India, Marine Drive, Bandra Bandstand, Girgaum Chowpatty, Juhu, Gorai and Madh Island, but only in groups of fewer than four. Besides, eight companies of SRPF, anti-sabotage team, quick response force, BDDS squad and sleuths in plainclothes will monitor important locations. The deadline applies to restaurants, pubs and other recreational establishments as well. Police said strict action will be taken against anyone found violating prohibitory orders. “Squads will also be present at various locations to prevent incidents of harassment of women,” said a police official. Joint commissioner of police (law and order), Vishwas Nangre-Patil, told TOI, “There are no restrictions on people coming out for celebrations, but it should not be in a group as night curfew is in place. Families can come out, but the number should be restricted to less than four and celebrations should wind up before 11 pm as per the night curfew order imposed under section 144. All important points will be monitored along with the anti-sabotage team. Eight drones are going to monitor important junctions, beaches and vital installations. Parties on boats, big parties and terrace parties will not be permitted, and action will be taken against the organisers as well as the crowd if these rules are flouted,” he said. Joint commissioner of police (traffic), Yashasvi Yadav, said 60 points had been identified for nakabandi on New Year night. A drive against drunk driving and rash driving will also be carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/8-drones-40k-cops-to-keep-tabs-31st-party-to-end-by-11pm/articleshow/79983504.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Kavitha meets boy recovering from ailment||Hyderabad: TRS MLC K Kavitha on Sunday met seven-year-old M Rahman and wished him speedy recovery and good health. She called on him and his family members in Peddapalli. Rahman was suffering from a brain-related disorder but his parents could not afford his treatment. Responding to a tweet for help, Kavitha, in July, ensured that the required support was extended by CMO under CM Relief Fund and surgeries are performed on Rahman in NIMS. Post the surgeries, Rahman is gradually recovering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kavitha-meets-boy-recovering-from-ailment/articleshow/79981461.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Madurai||Jallikattu forum seeks further relaxations||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Ilaingnar Peravai has urged the government to take steps to relax the norms for conducting jallikattu this year and allow the events for six months as it is a part of many temple festivals. President of the movement, G R Karthi, in Madurai on Sunday, said that the Tamil Nadu government had laid down the rules for conducting the game this year, which stated that only the bull owner and one assistant should accompany the bull to the venue. Covid-19 tests and certifications were a must for both the owner and the assistant. One test result should enable the bull’s owner and assistant to participate in all the games that are held throughout the month, he said. There should be a proper insurance scheme for the participants of this game this year, he said. The Tamil Nadu government should ensure that games are conducted in all the locations without much interference of the officials, who try to stop the game and the people should be allowed to play the game like on normal days, he said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/jallikattu-forum-seeks-further-relaxations/articleshow/79982493.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag city tops cybercrime chart in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city has reported the highest number of cyber frauds in Andhra Pradesh in 2020. Residents of the city have lost more than Rs 6.35 crore this year. A total of 352 cybercrimes were registered in Vizag, a 4.6% drop from 369 complaints last year. More than 60% of cybercrime complaints in the city constituted financial fraud. According to city police, there was a spurt in incidences of cybercrime during the lockdown. In terms of the number of cybercrimes, Vizag is followed by West Godavari and Kurnool. Speaking to TOI, Vizag cybercrimes police station (CPS) inspector RVRK Choudhary said that a lack of knowledge among netizens about using e-commerce platforms and revealing one-time passwords (OTPs) to cyber criminals have led to the increase in incidences of such fraud. Among the complaints registered at Vizag CPS, 92 were related to e-commerce and fake websites, 67 to phishing, 29 related to fraudsters posing as foreign nationals, 104 job frauds and hacking etc. In what came to be the biggest financial fraud in the city so far, a Vizag-based netizen was duped of Rs 1.63 crore on social media. Further, a youngster who was looking to sell his vehicle online was duped of Rs 1 lakh. “No matter who calls you, never give away your confidential OTP over the phone, WhatsApp or email,” said inspector RVRK Choudhury. Choudhury further added, “Sometimes, crooks ask smartphone users to download applications that allow them remote access to their phone, which the crooks then use to steal. So people should not download any mirror applications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-city-tops-cybercrime-chart-in-state/articleshow/79980721.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 28, 2020||Madurai||100 DMK cadre booked for holding gram sabha meet||Madurai: As DMK continues to conduct gram sabha meetings despite the state government warning action and that only district collectors should authorise the conduct of these meetings, cases were filed against DMK members by K Pudur police for conducting gram sabha meetings. In Madurai, Thiruparankundram MLA Dr P Saravanan has been conducting gram sabha meetings frequently where he would provide medical check-up and assistance, apart from raising issues against the AIADMK government. “Only if the DMK comes to power would the people get all their much needed basic amenities,” he said. In Dindigul, Athoor MLA I Periyarsamy addressed a meeting in Kambalipatti panchayat in Reddiarchathiram union and said that DMK president M K Stalin was the only weapon that the people had to protect them from anti-people policies of Narendra Modi government. A representation was given to the MLA seeking two industries - one to process beetroots and another for making tomato juice and other related products. The MLA told them that this would be one of the first things that would be fulfilled when DMK comes to power in the state. DMK district secretary of Madurai Urban North, P Muthuramalingam, said that the K Pudur police registered a case against them for conducting a gram sabha meeting in Anthaneri, ward 27 of Madurai Corporation, on December 23. “We obtained all the required permission, but now they have filed a case, against 100 DMK members under IPC section 143 and 269,” he said. However, he said that no case was registered against minister Sellur K Raju who conducted a similar meeting in the same ward without proper permission and flouting Covid norms.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/100-dmk-cadre-booked-for-holding-gram-sabha-meet/articleshow/79982490.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR’s adopted daughter to tie the knot today||HYDERABAD: The wedding ceremony of Pratyusha, adopted daughter of Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, will be held at 10 am on Monday (December 28). Pratyusha and Charan Reddy’s marriage will be solemnised at a church in Patigadda village at Keshampet mandal near Shadnagar in Rangareddy district on Monday. The wedding venue is about 70 km away from the city. KCR’s wife Shobha presented a diamond jewellery set and saris to Pratyusha on Sunday at a function held on the eve of her marriage, at IAS Officers Association building in the city. Women welfare minister Satyavathi Rathod among others too felicitated Pratyusha. Her family members said they have invited the CM for the wedding ceremony but it was yet to be confirmed if he would attend the marriage ceremony on Monday. Pratyusha and Charan Reddy got engaged in October. Charan works in a software firm and Pratyusha works as a nurse at a private hospital in the city. KCR had enquired about Charan before the match was finalised. Five years ago, Pratyusha, who was subjected to torture by her stepmother, was rescued by AP Child Rights Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcrs-adopted-daughter-to-tie-the-knot-today/articleshow/79981463.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kochi||Proper tax collection will help enhance revenue||KOCHI: Those who assume office in Kochi corporation will have a big burden of enhancing the local bodies revenue. The civic body authorities had to face difficulties in paying the contractors and meeting other expenses of the corporation in the past few years. While fund for implementing projects can be used from plan fund allocation by the government, such funds can’t be used for certain expenses. The corporation will have to find own revenue for paying the salaries of employees. Similarly, the local body also will have to pay the contractors who carry out the works which are being implemented by using own fund. “The local body owes the contractors around Rs 100 crore. In the past several months, there had been instances when the local body struggled to pay even the salaries of employees,” a former councillor said. Proper collection of taxes will help the local body increase its revenue tremendously. “As of now, tax collection is one of the most neglected areas in the corporation,” a former secretary of the corporation said. “Building tax, for example, is being collected as per the whims and fancies of bill collectors. They go to building owners and fix the tax as they are pleased to. If the tax collection is automated, the corporation will witness significant increase in the revenue,” the official said. There are many unauthorized buildings in Kochi corporation and if the local body authorities are able to collect tax from such buildings, crores of rupees can be collected every year. “The authorities are yet to collect taxes from the buildings’ owners as per the new tariff,” a former councillor said.  “Collection of professional tax is another area where the corporation lags. Many of the advocates in the city don’t pay professional taxes. Doctors with many of the private hospitals also don’t pay the tax,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/proper-tax-collection-will-help-enhance-revenue/articleshow/79980739.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad guitarist attempts Guinness record||HYDERABAD: David Prabhaker Bandi, a guitarist from the city, recently attempted a Guinness World Record (GWR) for the longest guitar lesson ever by teaching the instrument for 28 hours. Bandi, who holds several records including ‘World’s Fastest Guitarist’, said that he took seven sessions at a stretch without sitting or even taking wall support for this attempt. “I practised for over six months to attempt this record. I had blisters by the time I completed 28 hours of teaching. I could barely keep my eyes open in the wee hours,” said Bandi. As per the specific guidelines issued by the GWR for the longest guitar lesson, the record has to be attempted by an individual teacher and a class of a minimum of 20 students and is measured in hours and minutes. Bandi, who has been teaching guitar and other instruments since 1996, said that he wanted to set an example for youngsters. “Many learn an instrument for a few months and give up. I wanted to show that music teaches discipline, improves communication, memory skills, and has many other benefits,” said the 51-year-old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-guitarist-attempts-guinness-record/articleshow/79981466.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: 3, including minor, held for murder of history-sheeter||VISAKHAPATNAM: Three persons, including a minor boy, were taken into custody by Arilova police on Sunday for their role in the murder of a history-sheeter. Korada Sai Kumar, a 35-year-old man flagged as a history-sheeter, was murdered near TIC Point at Arilova in Vizag on Saturday night. Sai Kumar, a resident of TIC Point area, was allegedly involved in a murder case himself. On Saturday, Sai was found in a pool of blood. He was rushed to a private hospital in Arilova where he was declared ‘brought dead’. According to the police, Sai had been attacked with rods and other sharp weapons. It was learnt that the accused had earlier worked for Sai. After parting ways, Sai had started to harass them. In order to put an end to the harassment, the three murdered him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-including-minor-held-for-murder-of-history-sheeter/articleshow/79980747.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Madurai||Many commuters not ready for 100% FASTag toll collection||Madurai: With only four days left for 100% toll collection through FASTag to kick in, officials of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) are gearing up to implement it as mandated by the ministry of road transport and highways. However, despite two extensions of deadline, many vehicle owners who use the national highways are not yet ready for the system which uses radio frequency identification technology through a sticker to make online toll payment.NHAI officials say at present about 65% of the toll collected in the southern districts of the state are through FASTag which is inching towards 70% as in pre-Covid times. NHAI project director in Madurai V Saravanan said, “As per the instruction from the central government, we are working on rolling out 100% FASTag collection starting from January 1. Additional points of sale have been ensured in all toll plazas in southern districts. There will be six POS centres available to provide the facility.”J Venkatesh, Madurai district president of cab drivers association, said many are not yet ready for 100% conversion to FASTag. Many drivers have only started to recover from the financial impact of the lockdown. An extension of time should be given and it should be implemented after extensive sensitisation.However, A Shankar, a car owner from Bibikulam, said, “I am happy that 100% FASTag is being rolled out now since it can help to bring down waiting period. Many are still using cash on lanes meant for FASTag. The issue can be addressed only if it is stringently implemented,” he said.Apart from point toll plazas, NHAI is also in the process of establishing POS centres at petrol bunks within a range of five kilometres from each toll plaza. Some of the bunks have agreed to the request to provide space for such centres. Officials urged commuters to install FASTag at the earliest to avoid crowds at point of sales centres. They said collection of toll fare had dropped from 70% before Covid-19 outbreak to less than 50% in southern districts as vehicle owners did not recharge wallets during the complete lockdown when movement was completed restricted. While only one lane on each side of the road was allowed for cash transactions, people had started using all lanes for cash transactions after the lockdown. Toll plaza employees could not control them since there were more people using cash than FASTag. There is a rule to collect double the fare when cash transaction is made in lanes meant for FASTag. However, commuters often quarrelled with plaza employees when they tried to take up the punitive measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/many-commuters-not-ready-for-100-fastag-toll-collection/articleshow/79982497.cms||V Devanathan
December 28, 2020||Madurai||Temples see large crowds for Sanipeyarchi festival||Madurai: As Covid-19 norms were relaxed, crowds thronged the temples, which had exclusive shrines for the Saturn, on the occasion of Sanipeyarchi from early morning on Sunday. At the ancient Kuchanoor Sanibhagawan temple in Theni district, people started gathering at its entrance from 4am as the temple doors opened early for special poojas. People were screened with thermal scanners. Many people came without wearing masks and hawkers sold masks for as much as Rs 30. Thousands of people offered worship. Tight security arrangements were made at the temple for the festival. Police personnel led by Bodi DSP Parthiban and Chinnamanur inspector Shanmuga Lakshmi urged people to maintain a safe distance and wear masks.Similarly, the Kuruvithurai Chitra Raja Vallabha Perumal temple near Sholavandan also saw devotees in large numbers. Many of the smaller temples also witnessed crowds in large numbers. These temples, however, did not have any monitoring system to control the crowd. People vied with each other to witness the rituals as early as 5am. Meanwhile, flower prices shot up as jasmine was sold at Rs 2,500/kg and pitchi and mullai at Rs 1,500/kg in view of the festival. People made offerings of garlands and flowers at the temples.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/temples-see-large-crowds-for-sanipeyarchi-festival/articleshow/79982501.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: NASA to launch Sastra University student’s ‘lightest satellite’||TRICHY: A Femto-satellite designed by a student of Sastra University has been selected for launch by NASA under the Cube In Space programme. Femto-satellites weigh less than 100g and are low cost devices if they are based on components commercially available. Riyasdeen Samsudeen, a second year mechatronics engineering student, has designed Femto-satellites Vision sat V1 & V2, each having a payload of 33g, making it the world’s lightest Femto-satellite. The edges of V1 measure 37mm and of V2 30mm. The cubes have 11 sensors and are built using polyetherimide thermoplastic resin and 3D printing technology. Mentored by INRO Labs, Chennai, the satellites can record around 17 parameters. V1 will be part of the SR-7 NASA rocket mission expected to be launched from Wallops Flight Facility Virginia, USA, in June while V2 will be part of NASA Balloon Mission RB-6 scheduled for August launch. “The Sastra-TBI in 3D Printing and IoT will offer an incubation grant of Rs 5 lakh to Riyasdeen to further pursue his ambition of establishing a successful start-up,” said Sastra vice-chancellor S Vaidhyasubramaniam. Leaders of various political parties congratulated Riyasdeen on his success. DMK leader M K Stalin tweeted that his achievement is a matter of pride for the nation and the state. AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran tweeted encouraging him to achieve more, while TMC(M) leader G K Vasan also congratulated him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nasa-to-launch-sastra-students-lightest-satellite/articleshow/79983508.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP seeks free water scheme in Cantt||SECUNDERABAD: The Secunderabad Cantonment BJP on Sunday urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to extend free water supply scheme to residents of Secunderabad Cantonment. On Sunday, Cantonment BJP also held an hour-long protest with empty pots at Karkhana in Cantonment with over 300 protesters. With the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) making arrangements to implement the new free water supply scheme for households consuming 20,000 litres water in GHMC and its periphery from January, the BJP has demanded the state government to instruct the municipal administration & urban development (MAUD) department to implement the same scheme in the Cantonment too. Former SCB vice-president J Rama Krishna, who organised the protest, criticised the TRS government. He said that a plea seeking implementation of water tariff in Cantonment areas on a par with GHMC areas has been ignored by the state government for the past five years. “In the GHMC areas, the water board collects Rs 7 per kilo litre whereas in Cantonment areas, Rs 13.60 per kilo litre is collected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-seeks-free-water-scheme-in-cantt/articleshow/79981472.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 28, 2020||Madurai||UK returnee, 2 contacts test +ve||Madurai/Trichy: With the health department tracing and monitoring all those who recently returned from the United Kingdom (UK) and other European countries, at least one UK returnee in Theni district and two of his contacts have tested Covid-19 positive. Their blood samples have been sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune for genome sequencing to verify if it is the mutant strain of virus originating from the UK. A total of 22 people have returned from the UK and other European countries to Theni. All three who tested positive are undergoing treatment in a separate ward at Theni medical college hospital and officials are taking measures to ensure strict quarantine for all those who recently returned from abroad. Earlier this week, a 38-year-old man from Madurai had tested Covid positive out of 88 who were listed as recently returned from the UK. He is undergoing treatment in a separate ward of Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur. On Sunday, four UK returnees who were on the list to be quarantined in Madurai were reported missing. Later, district deputy director of health services, Dr K V Arjun Kumar said two have been traced. “One has tested negative while another person will be tested tomorrow. Police are tracing two others. All are in home quarantine," he added. The official said that all primary contacts of the 38-year-old man who had tested Covid-19 positive were under institutional quarantine. Meanwhile, the southern districts recorded 115 Covid-19 cases and one death on Sunday taking the region’s coronavirus tally to 1,33,047, including 937 active ones, 1,30,008 recoveries and 2,102 deaths. All ten districts reported less than 20 fresh cases with the most number of cases being at Dindigul with 18, closely followed by Madurai (17) and Virudhunagar (16). Madurai has 194 active cases, followed by Dindigul (144), Kanyakumari (133) and Tirunelveli (116). The central region recorded 100 new cases taking its overall tally to 73,493 on Sunday, but active cases remain at 775. The region recorded two deaths, one each in Karur and Tiruvarur, taking the total toll to 926. Trichy district topped new cases with 28 taking its total to 14,097 on the day. Thanjavur recorded 24 and Nagapattinam 17. Karur district reported 12 new cases, Pudukottai five, Ariyalur three and Perambalur one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/uk-returnee-2-contacts-test-ve/articleshow/79982506.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Trichy||Trial run of rope car at Ayyarmalai temple soon, collector inspects work||Karur: With the construction work on the rope car facility atop Ayyarmalai for Rathinagireeswar temple nearing completion, trial run is expected in a few weeks before it is declared open for public use. At an estimated cost of Rs 6.17 crore, work on the rope car facility began in 2017. It was estimated to be completed by 2018, but the work got delayed due to several reasons. And Covid-19 lockdown also added to further delaying the project. One has to climb 1,017 steps to reach the Chola-era temple on the hilltop. Considered to be one of the 275 sacred Saivite temples, Rathinagireeswar temple is located at height of 1,178 feet at Kulithalai in Karur district. The facility will have eight cabins with a seating capacity of two each. Four cars will come down and four will go up simultaneously. Karur district collector S Malarvizhi, who recently visited the temple to inspect the work, said that the construction at the lower station and upper station of the rope car is nearing completion. Saying that the trial run is expected in a few weeks, she said once the rope is operational, it will facilitate at least 120 people to reach the temple in an hour thereby increasing the footfall. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trial-run-of-rope-car-at-ayyarmalai-temple-soon-collector-inspects-work/articleshow/79983509.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||999 Disha cases in EG dist this year||Kakinada: As many as 154 cases were registered in East Godavari district under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act this year, said district SP Adnan Nayeem on Sunday. This is a significant increase from 114 cases reported in 2019. As many as 999 cases were registered under the Disha Act in East Godavari this year. In 2019, 758 cases were registered under the act. In case of POCSO cases, history-sheets have been opened against 68 offenders. Seven offenders were charge-sheeted within seven days, while 17 were charge-sheeted within 21 days. Three offenders have been sentenced for life for rape of minors. With regard to cybercrimes, the SP said that 253 cases have been booked. 144 grave crimes have been registered, 54 of which were murder cases. A total of 1,030 property-related cases were filed. Around Rs 3.26 crore out of misappropriated amount of Rs 6.45 crore was recovered. The SP further said 25,281 kilos of ganja worth Rs 7.65 crore were seized in the district this year and 377 people were arrested under the NDPS Act. Meanwhile, 93 people were arrested in 88 cases under the AP Excise Act before the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) was set up. After the SEB was set up, 521 people were arrested in 427 cases. As many as 504 persons died in 479 road accidents in East Godavari this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/999-disha-cases-in-eg-dist-this-year/articleshow/79980764.cms||Samson Raj
December 28, 2020||Madurai||Youths clear overgrowth at crematorium in Madurai||Madurai: Around 20 youths and children from Thirunagar Pakkam, a youth forum, came together to clean the crematorium at Thirunagar, in the outskirts of Madurai city on Sunday. The crematorium, which belongs to Madurai Corporation, was overgrown with bushes and plants due to lack of maintenance. Thirunagar Pakkam has previously undertaken cleaning public places, waterbodies, planting trees apart from maintaining them every week. Last Sunday, they cleared soil accumulated on both sides of the centre median on GST Main Road last Sunday. P R Vishwanath of Thirunagar Pakkam said that he recently went to the crematorium to take part in a death ritual and found people cramped up on the footpath inside the premises as the rest of the space had overgrowth of bushes. The shed available to accommodate small groups to do rituals was also unusable as it was dirty and required maintenance, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/youths-clear-overgrowth-at-crematorium-in-madurai/articleshow/79982503.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Madurai||GRH docs remove bottle cap from baby’s throat||Madurai: Doctors at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) successfully removed the plastic cap of a pain balm bottle from the throat of a nine-month-old boy from Madurai who accidentally swallowed it resulting in breathing difficulties. A surgical procedure was done on the baby who has now fully recovered and has been discharged. A press release from GRH dean Dr J Sangumani said boy, I Adityan from Munduvelampatti village in Madurai, was brought by his parents to the hospital on December 20 with complaints of difficulty in breathing and swallowing. It was found that the plastic cap of a pain balm bottle was stuck in his throat cavity. With the guidance of anaesthetists, a general surgical procedure was immediately performed by a team of doctors headed by Dr N Dhinakaran of the ENT department. The cap was safely removed from the boy’s throat and he was subsequently discharged after making full recovery. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grh-docs-remove-bottle-cap-from-babys-throat/articleshow/79982505.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||Muscular dystrophy: Not curable yet but definitely treatable||Nagpur: “Gene therapy is still within the four walls of research but until a cure is available, multidisciplinary care is the key to improve the quality of life of children with muscular dystrophy,” explained Dr Meenakshi Girish, professor and head of paediatrics at AIIMS Nagpur. She was speaking while inaugurating a webinar for health care professionals, parents, and care-givers of children suffering from the genetic disorder called ‘Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD)’. Department of paediatrics undertook this initiative of organizing a multispecialty webinar on ‘DMD- Current trends in management’ under the leadership of Maj Gen (Dr) Vibha Datta, SM, director and CEO, AIIMS Nagpur. Dr Shikha Jain, paediatric neurologist at AIIMS Nagpur, elaborated that DMD is a muscle disorder occurring in boys, where there is slow degeneration of muscles leading to gradual functional decline. Although no cure for the disease is available as of now, many drugs are under clinical trials and soon expected to be available. She explained how the currently available drugs, when taken with expert guidance, can slow the process of deterioration. Awareness, regular monitoring and timely interventions can prevent early heart failure, informed Dr Sagar Makode, cardiologist. Dr Satyajeet Sahoo, pulmonologist, educated the parents about home monitoring of involvement of breathing muscles. Dr Harshanand Popalwar, the only physical medicine and rehabilitation specialist of the city and faculty at AIIMS Nagpur, explained various exercises that can be done at different levels of severity of the disability. He gave very useful tips on how to decrease disability in daily living. Dr Akash Bang conducted the webinar with help from Dr Urmila Chauhan, Dr Abhijit Choudhary and Dr Nishu Khemka. The webinar was very well received and appreciated by over 100 parents from all over India most of whom thanked AIIMS Nagpur for this initiative and lauded paediatrics department for the patient and public friendly awareness webinars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/muscular-dystrophy-not-curable-yet-but-definitely-treatable/articleshow/79995269.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 28, 2020||Kochi||Open spaces and sporting centres become active again||KOCHI: As restrictions imposed due to the pandemic are being lifted people have started coming out to open spaces for recreational activities. Many sporting centres, which remained closed during the lockdown, are becoming active, and children and adults can be seen practising and training. “It was after a long time that I resumed playing in a badminton court. We are a group of eight friends and we come together and book a slot in advance. For us it comes to Rs 9,000 per month, and we divide the expense,” said Aryan A (name changed), who plays at a court near Kathrikadavu. Those who have launched sporting ventures are also looking forward for people to come down and play outdoors. As students were confined to their homes for a long time, parents are encouraging them to take up sports. Mukund Parameswaran, one the directors of Cochin Sports Area near Pipeline Road, said that they have set a football turf. “It is children who play from 4pm to 6pm. After that adults come to play. The turf is open till 11pm,” he said, adding that they are also developing a volleyball court, and the work is nearing completion. They are looking forward for corporate clients and large groups. “We follow Covid protocols and ensure that no positive person enters the sporting arena. Apart from those playing there is no crowding or any other activity happening. The activities here do not disturb the neighbourhood,” he added. However, apart from sports enthusiasts not many are keen about joining the sports centres. More than the fear of Covid-19, aspects like job loss and salary cuts have become a decisive factor. People are cautious when it comes to spending for entertainment and recreation. “It is a different scenario now. With many countries imposing a second round of lockdown, everybody is cautious with money,” said Ridhima Manohar, an interior designer. She also said that as a parent she is worried about children venturing out and interacting with random people. “But imposing too much restrictions would create a negative impact,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/open-spaces-and-sporting-centres-become-active-again/articleshow/79980808.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No need for Metro card on Airport Line||NEW DELHI: From Monday, anyone having a RuPay debit card, which is National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) compliant, won’t need to buy a separate card or token to travel in the Airport Metro Express line. While this becomes the first transport network fully equipped to read these cards and deduct the fare automatically, the entire Delhi Metro network is likely to have this facility in the next one-and-a-half to two years, which will end the requirement of a Delhi Metro card for travel. Sources said modifications have been done in all the automatic fare collection (AFC) gates on the Airport Express line, which can now read the NCMC and RuPay card, Delhi Metro card, tokens and QR codes. “This will be gradually extended across Delhi Metro lines and people won’t need to carry several cards with them for travelling. All future Metro Rail lines will have the system to read these cards,” housing and urban affairs secretary Durga Shankar Mishra told TOI. The subway system in London can read up to 7-8 cards, sources said. Earlier, Delhi Metro had carried out pilot run of this at three stations where such cards were provided to its staff and some bank executives. Similarly, pilot studies are now being done in the BEST bus network in Mumbai, BMTC bus network in Bengaluru and also in Rajkot and Ahmedabad. So far around 1.2 crore RuPay debit cards have been issued by 29 banks across the country, which are NCMC compliant and the numbers are increasing fast. The NCMC, which is also termed as ‘One Nation One Card’, was first launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March 2019. Sources said extensive work has gone into putting the system in place. “The full fledged launch of the card on Airport Metro Express will pave the way for quick adoption across all other Metro Rail lines,” said a government official, who did not wish to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-need-for-metro-card-on-airport-line/articleshow/79981587.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||At Shilparamam, 400 stalls display wares||HYDERABAD: The All India Crafts Mela 2020 is underway at Shilparamam Arts and Crafts Village till the end of the month. Close to 400 stalls selling handlooms and handicrafts such as terracotta, jute, blue pottery, cane and bamboo products have been set up at the mela. The management has ensured that Covid-19 safety protocols are in place. Artisans and customers have to wear masks at all times and sanitise their hands before handling wares. Shilparamam is also organising classical Indian dance recitals every evening in its amphitheatre. To ensure social distancing, the 1,500-seat auditorium is allowing only 100 viewers at present. The development commissioner for handlooms has sponsored 100 stalls from across the country while the National Jute Board has sponsored 50 stalls. Footfall, however, is much lower compared to last year, with the cultural hub drawing around 1,800 visitors every day and between 5,000 and 6,000 on weekends. In 2019, visitors numbered between 12,000 to 15,000 on a regular day and went up to nearly 30,000 on weekends. The crafts mela is open to visitors from 10.30 am to 8 pm everyday till December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-shilparamam-400-stalls-display-wares/articleshow/79981507.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||No Vidarbha dist in 3rd nat’l sero-survey||Nagpur: Though the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has started third sero-survey to estimate prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in India, no district from Vidarbha region has been included in it. The survey will be conducted at 700 sites in 70 districts across the country, including six districts of Maharashtra — Beed, Nanded, Parbhani, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar and Sangli. Data collection for this survey has already started and it is expected to conclude by the third week of January. Results of the survey are expected by January-end. Dr Manoj Murhekar, director, of ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), Chennai, said the districts were selected randomly during the first phase of the sero-surveillance held in May. “As per the survey standards, the same sites are to be maintained. So, it’s not possible to change or add more districts now,” he said. However, individual or city-based surveys are being conducted separately in places like Delhi, Mumbai Ahmedabad, Chennai and Indore. “We are aware of data from the local surveys done in cities like Nagpur. Sero-prevalence is considerably high in Nagpur. But, for a comprehensive national data, we must follow the earlier methodology,” said Dr Murhekar. The proposed national survey no. 3 will cover 28,000-odd people. Blood samples will be collected from general population and tested for IgG antibodies. If a person is IgG positive, it means they got exposed with SARS-CoV-2 sometime in the past. This survey is important as it will be the first national exercise to be conducted after most parts of the country experienced Covid-19 peak and now cases are reducing across the country. If sero prevalence increases in this survey, scientists may conclude that we are moving towards herd immunity. As far as Vidarbha is concerned, sero survey was conducted in Nagpur, Chandrapur, Wardha and Akola. Sero-prevalence is about 50% in Nagpur district. In urban areas of Nagpur, it varies between 55% and 78%. Sero prevalence was less than 20% in Akola and Wardha. Sero Survey Data First countrywide sero survey | May 11-June 4, 2020 (lockdown period) Subject | Conducted among adults (18+) Results | Overall prevalence of infection was 0.73% …. Second countrywide sero survey | August 17-September 22, 2020 (peak period at most places) Subject | Children were included (10+) Results | Overall prevalence in adults – 7.1% (average 1000% increase than first survey) ICMR begins third national sero-survey: No district in Vidarbha included Technically not possible to change survey sites; say scientists||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-vidarbha-dist-in-3rd-natl-sero-survey/articleshow/79982527.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Husband says no to shopping, woman ends life with 2 kids||HYDERABAD: Upset with her husband not taking the family for Christmas shopping, a housewife ended her life along with their two children by jumping into a water body at Chennapur lake in Jawaharnagar on Saturday night. The victims were identified as Nagamani, 27, her children, Ruby, 5, and eight-month-old Pandu from Balaji Nagar in Jawaharnagar. According to Jawaharnagar sub-inspector (SI) D Mohan, Nagamani’s husband Nageswar Rao has been working at a private firm in the city. On Saturday, Nagamani and Nageswar Rao had an argument when she asked him to take her and the children for Christmas shopping. “Nageswar Rao refused to take Nagamani and children out for shopping. He also reprimanded her for repeatedly asking him to take the family for shopping. Upset with her husband’s behaviour, Nagamani left the house along with their two children around 9pm on Saturday,” the SI said. As she did not return home for more than two hours, Nageswar Rao searched for her in surrounding areas and inquired with relatives. After failing to locate her, a complaint was lodged with police around 11pm. “While we were trying to locate Nagamani and her two children, locals alerted us saying that bodies of a woman and two children were found floating in Chennapur lake in Jawaharnagar on Sunday morning. We fished out the bodies and a case was registered,” the SI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/request-to-shop-declined-woman-ends-life-with-2-kids/articleshow/79981482.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Dehradun||Ahead of New Year Eve, offbeat regions in U’khand see spurt in tourist footfall for first time since March||Cars belonging to tourists from a serpentine queue in MunsyariNainital: With the New Year Eve just a few days away, several offbeat tourist spots in Uttarakhand like Munsyari, Binsar, Khirsu, Joshimath, and Lansdowne have started witnessing an increase in tourist bookings for the first time since March when the first coronavirus-induced lockdown was announced. Speaking to TOI, owners of hoteliers and homestays at these locations said that bookings have reached over 50% for the first time since the coronavirus pandemic struck and with the snowfall predicted in the coming days, there are prospects that these bookings will further increase. “Till Christmas, most of the hotels here were struggling but these days, most of the hotels here are functioning at over 50-60% capacity. This is the first time since March when tourists have turned up in such large numbers,” said Devendra Singh, a hotelier from Munsyari. Ajay Bhatt, owner of hotels and homestays in places like Joshimath and Auli, said that all his properties and camping sites are almost booked around the New Year. “We have suffered disastrous losses in the last several months. However, tourism has finally started to pick up,” Bhatt said. The officials at the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN) – run by the tourism department — in both Khirsu and Lansdowne also said that these properties have now started to witness tourists for the first time since the lockdown began. “Around Christmas, we had 10 rooms booked but we are expecting more bookings for the New Year,” said the official from Khirsu. Meanwhile, hoteliers have said that though the tourist numbers have picked up, they are no match for footfall recorded last year. “During New Year and the first few weeks of January, most of the hotels used to be totally packed but this year, the numbers are not the same. The situation is certainly better than summers but it will take time to get back to the pre-pandemic days,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ahead-of-new-year-eve-offbeat-regions-in-ukhand-see-spurt-in-tourist-footfall-for-first-time-since-march/articleshow/79980790.cms||Prashant Jha
December 28, 2020||Trichy||Rly orders proper coach formation||Trichy: The divisional railway authorities have instructed the operating department in the division to follow a set coach formation on trains including Trichy-Thiruvananthapuram inter-city express so that the passengers including disabled and senior citizens can locate their compartments easily. A circular sent to the officials of the operating department in Trichy division by the authorities from the commercial department states that the composition of the rake of Trichy-Thiruvananthapuram-Trichy inter-city special (Train number 02627/28) should be in proper order. According to the instruction, the officials have also instructed that the coach indication boards as per the proper order of the rakes should be placed during the primary maintenance at Trichy junction. The coach composition of the trains should also be announced through the public announcement system frequently for the information on the travelling public. It may be recalled that TOI carried a report on December 8 about the ordeal that the passengers of Trichy-Thiruvananthapuram inter-city express underwent due to improper coach formation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rly-orders-proper-coach-formation/articleshow/79983511.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Push to infrastructure as Vij expands||Vijayawada: Vijayawada city went through quite a few ups and downs over the last decade. The centre of the ‘Samaikyandhra’ protests opposing the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, the city later emerged as the potential centre of executive affairs. In this story, Venu Lanka, goes into some of the important developments that defined the decade for Vijayawada. Kanaka Durga Flyover: A dream project for the people of Vijayawada, the Kanaka Durga Flyover, became a reality in this decade. Works for the project started on November 22, 2015 and after five years, was completed in October, 2020. Union minister Nitin Gadkari inaugurated the project on October 16, 2020. Benz Circle Flyover: The Union government sanctioned the Benz Circle Flyover project in two phases as part of the Hyderabad–Machilipatnam highway expansion project. The project phase from Novotel to skew bridge was completed in February 2020. Construction work for phase two is currently in progress. Inner Ring Road: The project was initiated by the Vijayawada, Guntur, Tenali and Mangalagiri Urban Development Authority (VGTMUDA) way back in February, 2009. The Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) completed the works and inaugurated the project on July 28, 2016. Vijayawada bypass on NH-16 The bypass road project in Vijayawada has been pending for long. The road starts at Chinna Avutapalli village and ends on the outskirts of Vijayawada at Gollapudi. The project includes a 3.5km-long bridge on river Krishna. Vijayawada International Airport The airport situated at Gannavaram on the city outskirts saw phenomenal growth over the decade. A minor airport with only 12 movements per day in 2014, it grew to 54 movements per day in 2020. The airport was upgraded to the status of an international airport and saw a 500 per cent increase in passenger traffic between 2014 and 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/push-to-infrastructure-as-vij-expands/articleshow/79980818.cms||Venu Lanka
December 28, 2020||Trichy||Theft at NIT Trichy girls’ hostel, police initiate probe||Trichy: The NIT Trichy administration lodged a complaint with Thuvakudi police saying that valuables including laptops were missing from 11 rooms at a girl’s hostel. The complaint was registered on December 23 after a few students who returned to the hostels found their belongings missing. An internal inquiry is also underway in this regard. The administration is suspecting contract workers who were on the campus for maintenance work during the lockdown. “The doors were not broken but the screws on the padlock were removed to gain access to the rooms. We have the footage and the details of those who gained access to the rooms. We have narrowed down on the suspects and soon will identify the perpetrators,” said a senior official from NIT Trichy. The official said that they are accessing the items that have been missing. Most of the students vacated the hostel keeping their belongings in their rooms when the lockdown was imposed, said the official. There are 22 boys’ hostels and six girls’ hostels at NIT Trichy to accommodate more than 6,000 students. All the hostels are equipped with CCTV cameras and there are security personnel deployed outside the hostels and around the campus. There is little room for any outsider to gain access to the campus and get away with valuables. Students vacated the hostel in March this year. While nobody gained access till September, a few research scholars stayed at the hostels on select days after getting special permission. Thuvakudi police inspector D Gandhimathi said, “We have secured the CCTV footage and started the investigation,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/theft-at-nit-trichy-girls-hostel-police-initiate-probe/articleshow/79983512.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Goa||Canacona farmers want uniform rates for their produce from govt||POINGUINIM: While farmers across the country are protesting the government’s new agriculture laws, horticulturists and agriculturists from Canacona have also claimed that their issues are being neglected by the state government. Members of Atmanirbhar Shetkar society said they have been knocking on the doors of successive agriculture ministers since 2016 to provide them “appropriate rates” for their locally-produced farm products. Convener of the society Amey Puranik said that except for assurances they are yet to get answers on rates for farm produce. Prasad Velip, a state award-winning farmer, said that the Goa Horticulture Corporation usually takes their produce at “poor” rates” and they suffer losses as a result. Velip said that horticulturists’ requests have fallen on deaf ears till date even though farmers have been approaching successive agriculture ministers including Ramesh Tawadkar, Vijay Sardessai and the current deputy chief minister Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar. “Instead of fixing and providing us a standard average rate for the produce, the rates fluctuate based on the vegetable supplies obtained from outside the state. Canacona produces lady’s finger, cluster beans and chillies in a big way. The request of farmers in Canacona to standardise the rates throughout the year have gone unaddressed, resulting in farmers suffering losses when produce in large quantities arrives from outside the state,” said Velip. Storage facilities for farm produce are also completely lacking, said another farmer Gautam Kamat, . “We have about 14-16 types of vegetables produced here. Even at the present market yard here at Canacona, we do not have storage facility,” Kamat said. He said they have appealed the Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes through a representation, who has now fixed an appointment with the agriculture minister to discuss the issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-farmers-want-uniform-rates-for-their-produce-from-govt/articleshow/79982567.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Dehradun||Down with Covid, Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat shifted to hospital||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 18 and has been in home isolation since, was shifted to Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) on Sunday evening after he developed fever and was diagnosed with mild chest infection. Dr NS Khatri from GDMC administration confirmed that the CM had been moved to hospital as a precautionary measure. “The CM’s physician recommended that he be shifted to a hospital after he developed fever on Sunday. A chest scan revealed a mild chest infection. Therefore, he was brought to GDMC. A team of experts are treating the CM. He may have to stay in the hospital for a couple of days,” Khatri said. To recall, the CM tested positive for Covid-19 barely two days before the Assembly session that started on December 21. Consequently, after contact tracing, his wife and daughter also tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/down-with-covid-uttarakhand-cm-shifted-to-hospital/articleshow/79980847.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 28, 2020||Bareilly||Daily oil massage, jaggery to keep 10 Karnataka jumbos warm in Dudhwa||BAREILLY: To ensure that the 10 elephants translocated from Karnataka to Dudhwa tiger reserve (DTR) in May 2018 are able to endure the harsh north Indian winter, forest authorities have made special arrangements to make them feel warm and comfortable. Now, their daily routine includes a full body mustard oil massage and a diet comprising double portions of jaggery. All this under the watchful eye of the veterinarian who issues a health card of their condition every day. What’s more, the elephant enclosure has been enveloped with tarpaulin to keep the cold out while the floor is covered with dried grass. Sanjay Pathak, field director, Dudhwa tiger reserve, told TOI, “The Karnataka elephants have started adapting themselves to the winters here but they are yet to change their eating habits. Every elephant is given approximately three quintals of food which includes sugarcane, tree barks, rice, seasonal fruits and jaggery. They still prefer rice to flour. Jaggery, considered an ideal food in both summer and winter, is given to them as it improves the digestive system and dilates blood vessels, keeping the body warm.” Pathak went on to say that mahouts have been instructed to regularly change the dried grass carpeting the elephant enclosure. “The oil massage is given to maintain the elephant’s body temperature and keep insects and mosquitoes at bay. Our veterinarian also conducts a complete check-up of the elephants and ensures they are dewormed at regular intervals.” Mudit Gupta, state coordinator, World Wildlife Fund-India, said, “Mahouts use their traditional methods to keep the elephants warm during winters. Jaggery and oil massage and use of select herbs is a tested technique which has yielded fruitful results and is even recommended by experts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/daily-oil-massage-jaggery-to-keep-10-ktaka-elephants-warm-in-dudhwa/articleshow/79980174.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 28, 2020||Jamshedpur||Dawood aide arrested from Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDPUR: A Gujarat Police Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested fugitive don Dawood Ibrahim’s aide Abdul Majeed Kutty from the Mango area here on Saturday, police said on Sunday. Police said Kutty, who is in his early 50s, was involved in a case related to explosives sent by Dawood at the behest of a Pakistani agency to carry out bomb blasts in Gujarat and Maharashtra during the Republic Day celebrations in 1997. SSP M Tamil Vanan said the ATS has taken Kutty to Gujarat after making a proper station diary entry here and has produced him at a court in the western state. “Since no case was pending against Kutty in Jharkhand, there was no need of his production before a Jharkhand court before completion of 24 hours of his arrest,” Vanan said. Kutty was picked up from a place near Bari Masjid while he was driving his car to Sahara City from Mango. Vanan said Jamshedpur Police joined hands with the Gujarat ATS to ensure the arrest. “On Thursday, Gujarat Police approached us with the request after it got information that Kutty is living in Jamshedpur,” he said. The SSP also said Kutty was staying at his relative’s house at Astha town in Sahara City residential colony of Mango for the last six months. “He was living here on a fake passport in the name of Mohamed Kalam after his return from Malaysia, where he was hiding for the past several years,” he said. Vanan further said the arrest warrant which Gujarat ATS was carrying was issued in the name of Kutty, who was living with a new name with forged documents to support his claims such as his travel details to Malaysia, Bangkok and Dubai. Later, a new warrant was issued by the Gujarat court in the name of Mohamed Kalam. “Kutty was wanted for smuggling over 106 pistols, about 750 cartridges and nearly 4kg of RDX to Gujarat in 1996 for the terror plot. Four of his gang members have been arrested earlier in the same case,” he said. The arms and explosive haul was made from the Bombay Guest House near Dudhsagar Dairy under Gujarat’s Mehsana police station area on December 23, 1996. The Mehsana police station had filed a case under Section 25(1) of the Arms Act and 4(b), 5(b) and 6 of the Explosive Substances Act against Kutty in connection with the haul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/dawood-aide-arrested-from-jamshedpur/articleshow/79982491.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ranchi||Trade bodies urge Jharkhand govt to frame investor-friendly policy next year||RANCHI: Representatives of trade and industry bodies in the state said they are hopeful of a much improved and productive year in 2021 with government help after the downward slide in the industrial sector because of the Covid-19 pandemic this year. The newly-elected president of the Federation of Jharkhand Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), Pravin Jain Chhabra, said 2020 was bad for every sector but the worst affected was the micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) sector. He said the government should ensure proper implementation of its existing policies for revival of the industries. “For instance, the single-window system is not very effective as entrepreneurs have to approach the departments concerned offline on many occasions, leading to delays in taking up projects. Similar situations exist in applying for licences under the factory Act,” Chhabra said. The FJCCI president further said, “Notifications on any issue should not be made with retrospective effect and local trading bodies must also be taken into confidence apart from national organisations during investors’ meets.” Chhabra hoped that the new industrial policy, which is expected in 2021, would be investor-friendly and its policies implemented in letter and spirit. ASSOCHAM regional director Bharat Jaiswal said the pandemic affected every sector of the economy of which hospitality, tourism, skill development, MSME and manufacturing sectors were the worst hit. He said, “The industry sector is still awaiting the all-inclusive relief package from the government. The proposed package should focus on manufacturing and MSME sectors. The recovery is likely to be slow and steady with the complete recovery expected to take a couple of years.” President of Jharkhand Small Industries’ Association (JSIA), Philip Mathew, said 2020 was no doubt a very difficult year for MSME sector. He said the lockdown came at a time when the industries were already struggling and improvements began after the unlock process and many industries have just re-started functioning. “However, several sectors are still facing big hurdles. For instance, the export-oriented industries are facing stiff challenges due to shipping hurdles. With the change in the import policies, several sectors are also facing scarcity of raw materials,” Mathew said. He further said, “Many of the announcements made by the state government to support the industries are not effective. For instance, the state government’s move to bear the cost of provident funds of employees has excluded a large number of industries. Further, the government is all set to take back the amount it waived under fixed electricity charges.” Mathew suggested that the government should invest in infrastructure, ensure timely payment for services and purchases made from the MSMEs and also support the local industries by purchasing their products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/trade-bodies-urge-jharkhand-govt-to-frame-investor-friendly-policy-next-yr/articleshow/79982021.cms||Sanjay Sahay
December 28, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Congress to hold ‘Tiranga Yatra’ today to mark foundation day||RANCHI: Ahead of the Indian National Congress’s (INC) 136th foundation day on Monday, the Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) on Sunday said it will hold a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Morhabadi Ground here on Monday where all the party MPs, MLAs and workers are expected to take part and as part of which, they will post selfies with the Tricolour on social media. The campaign is aimed at uniting people against the country’s divisive forces, a party spokesperson named Rajesh Gupta said. Meanwhile, JPCC — which is part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand — on Sunday also released a report card of its performance in the last one year which the party said was mostly centered on working hand-in-hand with the state government in its efforts to fight the pandemic. “Several JPCC units, which were being led by state and district level office-bearers, worked round-the-clock all through the lockdown,” state party spokesperson Alok Dubey said. He added that the party’s biggest achievement has been the relief it extended to more than 10 lakh people, including the migrants, during lockdown. “Through our dedicated Covid-19 control rooms set up at the state and district levels, we could extend help to 10.52 lakh people,” he claimed. “We gathered information through our control rooms about the problems being faced by the people and accordingly, apprised the government and the district administrations concerned so that help could be extended to them on time. In case if the government machinery took time in helping out the distressed, the party tried to provide ration, transport and health services, among others, to them,” he said. Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, another party functionary, claimed that in the past one year Congress has cemented its place among the common people “which has been the party’s biggest achievement”. “Besides helping the government in combating the virus, the party did not shy away from raising public issues and concerns even at the government forums. Congress was the first party in Jharkhand to hit to streets against the recently enacted anti-farmer and anti-labour central laws, as part of which the party organised several demonstrations, protests and other activities,” he said. He added, “Congress has also played a key role in controlling the rising distress among job seekers. The party leadership had formed special committees to look into the issues and concerns of several protesting groups, be it displaced villagers or farmers, to put forward suggestions on their behalf to the government. Instead of trying to stifle voices of dissent, the party has always tried to act as a bridge between the aggrieved and those in power. For instance, just before Durga Puja, more than six groups of protesters were sitting on a dharna in Morhabadi and it was only after JPCC intervened that they agreed to call off their agitation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-to-hold-tiranga-yatra-today-to-mark-foundation-day/articleshow/79981979.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ranchi||122 new Covid cases, one death in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded 122 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, 70 less than what was reported on Saturday, but the positivity rate remained almost the same at 1.12% with fewer samples tested. The test figures came down to 10,849. Recovery was recorded at 97.12% corresponding to 134. The only death in the state was reported from Dhanbad taking the total toll to 1019, though the mortality rate remained constant at 0.89%. Ranchi saw 53 new cases against 50 recoveries while East Singhbhum saw 15 and Ramgarh 10 new cases. Eight districts in the state — Dumka, Garhwa, Jamtara, Khunti, Lohardaga, Pakur, Sahibganj and Seraikela did not record any new case while the remaining 13 districts had cases in single digits. The total number of cases reported in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic reached 1,14,268 while the recoveries stood at 1,11,664. The active cases decreased marginally to 1,585 in comparison to 1,598 on Saturday. The seven-day growth rate reduced slightly to 0.13% while the seven-day doubling rate improved to 515.73 days as against the 491.62 days estimated on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/122-new-cov-cases-1-death-in-state/articleshow/79982507.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Ranchi||Adityapur units hope for turnaround in 2021 after bleak business for 2 years||JAMSHEDPUR: Hit by the automobile slowdown in 2019 and the pandemic, in 2020, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) of the Adityapur industrial area are hoping for a revival in 2021. “The two back to back incidents hit the SME sector, but September onwards there is a visible improvement and we are hoping for good business in 2021,” said president of Adityapur Small Industries Association Inder Agarwal. Agarwal also said the demand in the auto sector has improved reasonably, but at the same time, material cost has increased. “I would urge the state government to pace up the implementation of the policies for the industrial sector to help entrepreneurs take advantage of them in order to revive soon,” he said. Vice-president of Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry Bharat Vasani said close to 80% of the over one lakh workforce has returned to their workplaces at the 1,000 plus factories in Adityapur in the last three months. “We are expecting demand in the automobile sector to increase in the coming year so that the condition of the ancillary units improves swiftly,” Bharat said. He also said that ancillary units suffered financial problems hugely during the slowdown and subsequently during the lockdown. Entrepreneur Santosh Khetan said the SME sector is on the verge of coming out of the crisis period and if the state government extends support, then industries will accomplish the task ahead of time. “We have no new demand from the government. All we require is timely implementation of the policies announced by the industry department,” Khetan said. “Government claims to be industry-friendly, but the priority seems to be only on agriculture and its related activities and farmers,” owner of an ancillary unit said requesting anonymity. In the wake of soaring steel prices, SMEs are also expecting the Central government to take some corrective measures to rein in the price hike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/adityapur-units-hope-for-turnaround-in-2021-after-bleak-biz-for-2-years/articleshow/79982464.cms||B Sridhar
December 28, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro Steel Plant-dependent MSMEs fail to tide over lockdown lull||BOKARO: Though many investors are showing interest in setting up their firms in the Bokaro region of Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority (Jiada), the existing MSMEs, especially those that depend on orders given by Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), are still struggling. Although business is slowing picking up pace after a period of prolonged lull during the nationwide lockdown, traders are expecting special assistance and other cooperation from the state government in the next year to boost local employment. In this week, 38 new investors have applied for land in Bokaro region for setting up their units. Of them, five companies, including a beer factory, have been allotted land while the rest of them were asked to participate in the online auction. President of Jharkhand Industries Association (Jia) Mahesh Kejriwal said, “The condition of MSMEs that are dependent on BSL is not good. They are not getting support from BSL.” Kejriwal said BSL’s director in-charge Amarendu Prakash had held a meeting with owners of MSMEs a few week back and had assured help, but till date, no aid has arrived from the PSU. “There are about 200 MSMEs which depend on BSL in Jiada’s Bokaro region. Of them, about 120 are are passing through a bad phase in absence of BSL’s support”. President of Bokaro Chamber of Commerce and Industries Sanjay Baid said, “The global pandemic has hit industries and business establishments. It has ruined everyone’s expectations. The industries are running at a loss. The time to come will be more difficult.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bsl-dependent-msmes-fail-to-tide-over-lockdown-lull/articleshow/79981900.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Vadodara||‘Attacker’ leopard caged in Limkheda||Vadodara: Forest officials rescued a leopard, believed to have attacked three persons in the area so far, from Kaliyagota village of Limkheda taluka in Dahod district. The series of attacks in Kaliyagota and Rama villages had begun on November 21 when it attacked a man in Rama village. On December 1, it attacked another man in the same village.  Exactly a month after the first attack, a youth was attacked in the Kaliyagota village on December 21. Personnel of the Devgadhbaria forest range had set up a cage to rescue the leopard in the area. On Saturday night, the leopard was trapped in the cage at the Kaliyagota village where one of the attacks had taken place. The leopard, a six to seven-year-old female, will now be taken to the Dhobikuva rescue centre near Pavagadh in Panchmahal district. Recently, two leopards were trapped in Ghoghamba taluka of Panchmahal district bordering Dahod. Cages were set up to trap the leopard in Ghoghamba after a series of attacks on people including two that had led to the deaths of two boys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/attacker-leopard-caged-in-limkheda/articleshow/79980932.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ranchi||Centre harasses all states under non-BJP rule: Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Sunday said the journey for Jharkhand in 2020 was riddled with tussles between the Centre and the state and claimed that the Union government is harassing all non-BJP ruled states in some way or the other. He said it is time to leave them behind and look beyond for the state’s prosperity. On the eve of the first anniversary of his Mahagathbandhan government, Soren said his administration is looking forward for a good relationship with the Centre but said Jharkhand needs to look at other resources than mines for its prosperity. In an interaction with TOI at his official residence on Sunday, the 45-year-old JMM scion spoke at length about his alliance government’s achievements, challenges and priorities as it completes one year on Tuesday. He conceded that since assuming office in the fag end of 2019, this year was bumpy, including the battle to save Jharkhand from the Covid-19 pandemic without “much help from the Centre”. The chief minister, however, said his administration had adopted a road less taken to put Jharkhand on the accelerator to development for 2021. Soren said, “We have taken lessons from the challenges we faced in the one year we are in office. In the coming year, our focus is to look beyond mines and minerals to make Jharkhand a self-reliant state in the long run. We are not opposed to mining, but we just don’t want to focus solely on it for our resources.” He argued, “There are many states in the country today which are considered developed even without mines. Why can’t we also explore other resources like the tourism sector, the biodiversity assets and the likes, which we have plenty, for prosperity? Dependence on mining has led to a host of infamy for us (state) without any genuine profits or progress on the ground. I remember speaking to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, when he visited Jharkhand for the first time after assuming office, about the state's tourism potential. For us, the year ahead will be to look beyond the mines to be self-sufficient,” he stressed. Soren, who championed many firsts to defuse flashpoints with the Centre and helped the state’s migrant workers, was also arguably the most vocal leader to speak up for worker and tribal rights during the peak of lockdown and when the country faced a migrant crisis. Under his leadership, Jharkhand became the first state to host a Shramik Special Train in May and brought over 1,200 stranded workers back from Telangana. It was also the first state to airlift labourers from Leh and bring them back to their homes in Santhal Pargana. In the following months, over five lakh labourers were brought back on trains, flights and buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-centre-harasses-all-states-under-non-bjp-rule/articleshow/79981802.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 28, 2020||Ranchi||Para-teachers give ultimatum to Jharkhand govt, to launch agitation if demands not met||RANCHI: Members of the Ekikrit Para-Teachers Sangharsh Morcha said on Sunday that they would start an agitation from January 17, if the state government failed to accept their demands regarding regularisation of jobs and payment of salary by next Tuesday. In a meeting held at the Prabhat Tara ground here, the members decided to stage a ‘Vada Pura Karo Pradarshan (Fulfil Your Promise Demonstration)’ in front of the houses of MLAs on January 17, those of the ministers on January 24 and that of the chief minister on February 10. The organisation also decided to hold block-level meetings in this regard on January 3 and district-level meets on January 10. A member of the Morcha, Sanjay Kumar Dubey, said, “ The para-teachers who failed to complete the training process should be given one more chance. The payment of honorarium to untrained para-teachers that has been pending for the past 19 months should also be cleared soon.”  A 21-member committee was also formed by the Morcha members to conduct the state-level election of the organization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/para-teachers-give-ultimatum-to-govt-to-launch-agitation-if-demands-not-met/articleshow/79982502.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Protesters beat drums to ‘drown’ Mann Ki Baat||RANCHI: Various trade unions, farmers’ organisations and political parties, including CPM, on Sunday beat utensils, drums and clapped in Albert Ekka Chowk here in protest against the Centre’s farm laws and a symbolic gesture to prevent people from listening to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’. Besides political parties and other organisations, several artistes, including painters, recited poems and drew sketches, in support of the farmers agitating near the Delhi border. Organisations like Kisan Sabha, All India Trade Union Congress, All India Students Federation and All India Students’ Association also took part in the protest. CPM state secretariat member Prakash Viplav said, “We shouted slogans like ‘had enough of Mann Ki Baat, now we want kaam ki baat’.” He also said since the farmers’ agitation is gaining momentum, the BJP leaders have become frustrated and now Modi is trying to handle the situation by “spreading lies” like how the Kerala government has “failed” to provide minimum support price (MSP) to its farmers. “Modi seemed unaware that Kerala is the only state in India which paid its farmers according to the rates fixed by the Swaminathan Committee, which is higher than the MSP,” Viplav said. Protests were also organised by trade unions, youths’ and women’s organizations in other parts of Ranchi and across several district headquarters in Jharkhand, Viplav said. Meanwhile, members of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha (JRKS) staged a dharna in front of former deputy chief minister Sudesh Mahto’s house in Silli to oppose the farm laws. JRKS vice-president Sufal Mahato said a memorandum highlighting their demands has been submitted to Sudesh. He added, “Sudesh told us that Jharkhand should implement a purchase policy along the lines of the one in Kerala. He also told us that a special session of the assembly should be convened to discuss the farm laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/protesters-beat-drums-to-drown-mann-ki-baat/articleshow/79982028.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Six arrested for lynching 30-year-old cellphone thief in Santacruz park||MUMBAI: A 30-year-old mobile thief died hours after he was allegedly tied to a pole and thrashed by six people inside Muktanand Park in Santacruz (west). The incident occurred in the early hours of December 25 when Saijjad Khan reportedly went to the park to steal mobile phones of labourers who had kept their devices to charge while they were asleep. Santacruz police on Sunday arrested six people- Hrishikesh Pasi (24), Hyat Ali (26), Alimuddin Shaikh (24), Motibur Alam (19), Maskar Firojjuddin (18) and Pintukumar Shah (25)-from the park. The six accused have been employed for repair work at the park. After completing their day's work, they sleep in the park at night. The incident occurred between 12.30 am and 4.30 am. "A few labourers, who were awake, caught Khan, and tied him to a pole and thrashed him before letting him off. A few minutes later, Khan returned to the same spot and got into an argument with the accused who again assaulted him. After the incident, he spotted two of his friends nearby and told them he had met with a minor accident," a police official said. Khan's family found him unconscious in a parked autorickshaw close to his home on Sakharam Buva Patil Marg, said police. He was taken to Bhabha Hospital, but declared brought dead. "Khan succumbed two hours after he was attacked. He was booked earlier in cases of theft in Santacruz and Khar," said senior inspector Shriram Koregaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-six-arrested-for-lynching-30-year-old-cellphone-thief-in-santacruz-park/articleshow/79983964.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
December 28, 2020||Thane||Thane: Teen drowns in quarry trying to save mother, sister||KALYAN: A 16-year-old girl is believed to have drowned while trying to rescue her mother and four-year-old sister from drowning in a water-filled quarry in Dombivli on Sunday. Till Sunday night, a rescue team was unable to find her. Fire brigade officials said the incident took place on Sunday at 11am in Kolegaon, Dombivli (east). Geeta Shetty (36), had gone to the quarry to wash clothes with her daughters Pari (4), Lavanya (16) and her son Bablu (6). Pari lost her balance and fell into the water. A fire brigade official said Geeta jumped into the water to save her daughter. Geeta, who does not know how to swim, started drowning. Seeing her mother and sister drowning, Lavanya jumped into the water to help. Geeta and Pari managed to rescue themselves. Unfortunately, Lavanya was not able to get out of the water and drowned. Locals informed Manpada police and the fire brigade department. They used a boat to look for Lavanya. Late on Sunday night, the search operation was called off due to darkness. Chief fire officer Dilip Gund said: "On Monday, our team will start searching for her again."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-teen-drowns-in-quarry-trying-to-save-mother-sister/articleshow/79983965.cms||Pradeep Gupta
December 28, 2020||India||‘Hurt at treatment meted out to farmers; won’t join Congress’||Claiming that the three farm laws were enacted without taking farmers into confidence, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) leader and Lok Sabha MP from Nagaur in Rajasthan Hanuman Beniwal, says his fight will continue in favour of agitating farmers. A day after walking out of NDA, Beniwal spoke to TOI’s Akhilesh Singh and said he has quit NDA but is not going to join any other political alliance as Congress has been his main rival. Excerpts: You won from Nagaur as NDA candidate. What forced you to quit the alliance? When farm bills were discussed in Parliament, I couldn’t participate as I was down with Covid. PM and home minister keep saying that NDA is a family but no one spoke to us about them. I repeatedly said that all three bills should’ve been passed with the consent of farmers. In a meeting with Shah recently, I raised this issue but nothing followed. I was left with no other alternative but to quit NDA. Let me clarify that I am not going to join Congress. I am hurt at the treatment meted out to farmers. It was self-respect which forced me to walk out of the alliance. So the BJP leaders were unable to convince you? Yes I had a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, who gave me assurance to initiate dialogue with the farmers and resolve their grievances. That did not happen. I travelled through 17 districts in Rajasthan, and found that farmers are angry. Soon BJP will be able to feel the wrath of the farmers. Swaminathan Commission’s report should be implemented and the three laws should be repealed. I have no other agenda. I will fight panchayat elections alone in Rajasthan. There wasn’t much opposition in Rajasthan to the three farm laws. So why this big step? In Rajasthan, BJP leaders from the farming community are far removed from the real tillers of the land. The so-called farmer leaders in Congress are deadwood. They tried to stage agitations but those fizzled out. I have solemnly declared that I am behind Punjab and Haryana farmers. What is your next course of action? We are going to continue our relay sit-in at Shahjahanpur border. Everyday 2,000-3,000 people will sit. Yesterday there were 60,000-70,000 people here with us. The youth were very angry. We counselled them and sent them back for now. The government should be more sensitive. We stopped the youth yesterday because they wanted to go to Delhi and if that had happened, the law and order situation would’ve been in crisis. But the government should take this as a final ultimatum and end the deadlock. Is a return to the NDA possible? I have said before that I am not going to Congress. I joined NDA upon the insistence of Modi and Shah. This alliance was not easy for me as I had massive differences with regional BJP leaders like Vasundhara Raje. Still, we joined the alliance and played a key role in winning all 25 seats from Rajasthan. I haven’t yet thought if we will return or not but our fight right now is for farmers and we will continue our struggle steadfastly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hurt-at-treatment-meted-out-to-farmers-wont-join-congress/articleshow/79983944.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||How professionals turned their passion into rewarding side hustles||BENGALURU: The pandemic pause prompted many to add creativity to their hours by dusting off old skills or immersing themselves deeper into active interests. A number of Bengaluru professionals, including techies, turned their passions into rewarding side hustles while handling the demands of their full-time careers and families. Side hustles and freelance gigs are growing as more people look for a new stream of daily motivation, purpose or extra income amid self-reflection and uncertainty. Sneha Chakrabarty works at a global communications firm. A few months ago, she started creating resin art and promoting it on the Instagram handle @299_artstreet. “Earlier this year, I came across acrylic pouring and a couple of months ago, I discovered resin art. After weeks of self-learning and practising on a budget, I opened for commissions within my closed circle,” she says. More than money, the joy of learning something new drives Sneha. “I have this curiosity about different styles and techniques that makes me try everything. I have done mandalas, illustrations, murals, digital art, caricatures and decoupage,” she says. “I was inspired by the wonderful pieces of resin art that artists were making, and I was curious to see how creatively I can use the medium to translate my ideas into tangible products.” The project also helped Sneha cope with the pandemic: “This year was anything but normal. Learning a new artform has helped me declutter my brain, fight anxiety and relax.” Working full-time and developing a side hustle require energy and planning. “It’s not easy. I always wanted to have a side career in art, but I could never wrap my head around it as arranging capital is a challenge. Remote working allowed me to save up on travel, and I invested that allowance in buying quality art supplies. Professional and personal commitments and a side hustle are not the most comfortable combo. The key for me is prep and a strict to-do list. I have a supportive husband, who takes care of the household on most days,” she says. Smriti Raj is a senior engineer (experience design) at Brillio, a digital technology consulting and solutions firm. Her side hustle — @thebakechemistry on Instagram — seeks to “dutifully sweeten everybody’s life”. “I have always loved baking. I started doing it when I was a kid, learning things from my mother. Motivation from family and friends and the lockdown period helped me grow my hobby into a passion and a business model,” she says. She bakes for co-residents of her society on weekends, and her themed cakes are quite popular. “It is challenging to handle multiple commitments. When I have orders, I bake in the evening after finishing my office work. I plan things properly,” says Smriti. Running any business, even a small one, requires one to absorb shocks. “Issues with sourcing and a messy delivery were some of my difficult moments. But appreciation from clients makes you forget such problems,” she says. Neha Shetty’s side hustle gave her a new life direction. The 26-year-old was working as a copywriter at an ad agency in March when her illustrations and stickers began gaining attention. Through Instagram (@that.zany.martian), she also started taking up projects on commission. The response was so great — she received enquiries from an international audience — that she quit her day job in September to pursue a full-fledged career as an artist. She’s still trying to process her work’s early popularity, especially because she has no formal training in arts. She majored in history, economics and political science. “I’ve been drawing since I was a kid, but I didn’t think of it as a vocation. After people became interested in my art and asked for merchandise, I thought about what I wanted as a purpose. Do I want to work in a place where one is replaceable or do I want to do something I love?” she says. “The side hustle was a channel for me to exhibit my talent and I realised it could also support me financially.” Neha plans to expand her product range and ship internationally. “There’s a market for it, so why not go for it. Recently, I attended a workshop to understand what goes into turning your side hustle into a full-time gig. I see a lot of female artists getting into it,” she says. Shalaka Kulkarni handles global communications and employer branding at Brillio. She took up painting last year and during lockdown, she decided to build a side hustle. “I paint and promote my work on social channels. I painted for 31 days straight as part of the Inktober challenge and raised Rs 1 lakh for an initiative to feed poor kids,” she says. Shalaka, who works on customised orders, believes strategising is crucial. “For 31 days of Inktober, I planned my office calls and maintained an excel sheet with perspectives on what I can paint based on the prompts,” she says. Shalaka thinks women must carve out an independent identity. “It ignites a sense of confidence to change the game,” she adds. Tulsi Khemka, a partner at ARTH & Associates, began side hustling much before it became a trend. She co-founded SpiceSafari, which curates hundreds of spices from across the country and supplies them to a diverse clientele, including markets abroad. Not the one to slow down, she has spent the past few months learning how to set up a website, which she hopes will help her venture. “Yes, it’s a lot of work — attending to your primary career, running the house and managing a side business. But it’s very fulfilling; it’s something that constantly motivates you,” she says. In a difficult year, SpiceSafari reassured Tulsi that she had something to fall back on. “Financially, it’s a good contributor. It’s emotionally comforting, too; knowing there’s a venture that can survive the pandemic. Online ordering has increased, especially since people are cooking more at home now,” she says. According to Nisary Mahesh, founder of HerMoneyTalks, a platform that works for the financial empowerment of women, many people are currently looking for part-time opportunities, be it a small business which can be run from home or freelance assignments. It’s not just working professionals who are exploring options, a plan B. Even entrepreneurs from sectors that have suffered because of Covid-19 disruptions are scouting for part-time gigs. “We have conducted workshops to advise people looking to get started, especially women who want to become homepreneurs. Some of the common questions are: how will I find time for the activity, what will be the initial investment, how will I price the product, and how will I find time to sell the product,” says Nisary. “Making a capital investment is a challenge for many women. They find side projects convenient.” Anu Seth, co-founder of Pay It Forward, an organisation which creates financial awareness among women, says side hustles, as alternative sources of income, can help navigate financial uncertainty. “Financial stress among women may be higher because of a greater burden of domestic care, childcare, and higher rates of job loss. In these situations, alternative sources of income can serve as a safety net,” says Anu, who is also a financial wellness coach. “Side hustles add to personal growth and entrepreneurial creativity while alleviating financial stress. And if it can be done from the comfort of your home, it’s a win-win.” How to start a side projectTulsi Khemka, a partner at ARTH & Associates and co-founder of SpiceSafari, shares some tips for women who want to start a side business. *If you’ve an idea for a viable product or service, go for it. Don’t try to be a perfectionist. Your product, or brand, will go through iterations. It’s a process. *You may feel you’re not devoting enough time to your family. Don’t feel guilty about being busy. You are trying to create something that’ll give you long-term motivation. *Don’t overstock supplies; plan according to your orders. *The amount of capital needed for starting the side hustle depends on the type of your product or service. Start small and invest more later. *Time management is key. You’ll have deadlines for both your primary job and side hustle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/how-professionals-turned-their-passion-into-rewarding-side-hustles/articleshow/79983960.cms||Harsh Vora
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||P Chidambaram, Ashok Chavan counter Shiv Sena's attempt to prop up Sharad Pawar||MUMBAI: Veteran Congressmen have once again refuted the Shiv Sena and NCP's criticism of their party's leadership and the demand to vest Sharad Pawar with an organisational role in mobilising the UPA. Maharashtra's public works minister Ashok Chavan targeted Sena MP Sanjay Raut for comments on the "ineffective" role of Rahul Gandhi and the need to strengthen the Opposition by mobilising allies under the stewardship of Pawar. Within the UPA, the leadership of Sonia Gandhi is undisputed, said Chavan. Former union cabinet minister P Chidambaram said there was "no such thing" as the chairperson of the UPA and it was unlikely that Pawar would want such a position. "When these parties meet, the natural person to extend the invitation and the natural person to preside over the meeting will be the leader of the largest party; we are not selecting a Prime Minister," Chidambaram said, according to an ANI report. The former finance minister said if the Congress calls for a meeting of the alliance, "it is only natural that a Congress leader will preside over the meeting". Chavan said, "Sonia Gandhi is instrumental in holding the constituents of the UPA together. As for the question of Pawar taking over the reins of UPA, none other than he himself has denied such reports." Sena's mouthpiece Saamna, which is edited by Raut, had said the absence of Trinamool. BSP, Akali Dal and YSR Congress from UPA has hobbled the opposition to the BJP. Roping in Pawar would help to reinvigorate it, it said. "In my opinion, Raut's comments on Gandhi and UPA are uncalled for, particularly when Shiv Sena is not part of the UPA," said Chavan. He made it clear that the alliance with Sena was limited to Maharashtra and it would be wrong to say that the tie-up was at a national level. "After assembly polls, since no party could get a clear majority, Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP joined hands to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. We have limited alliance in Maharashtra,'' Chavan said. Chavan said the three parties drafted a common minimum programme (CMP) and it would be the responsibility of all three constituents to implement it in letter and spirit. Another senior NCP leader said it was time that a code of conduct was drawn up for senior leaders of the MVA. "We should not comment on the leadership of other parties. Instead we should concentrate on the CMP," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/p-chidambaram-ashok-chavan-counter-shiv-senas-attempt-to-prop-up-sharad-pawar/articleshow/79983978.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 28, 2020||Nagpur||Population rose by 5L, crime declined 15%: HM||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh claimed in a press conference on Sunday that city’s crime rate declined by 15% despite increase of 5 lakh population in the police jurisdiction due to inclusion of Kamptee and Hingna. He was speaking about the controversy over National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data of 2019, when the state was under BJP chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. The state home minister also extolled the city police for creating benchmark in disposing off 8,000 cases in just two months. “Women are safer in Nagpur with cases of rape and molestation going down,” he said. Deshmukh, flanked by CP Amitesh Kumar and Addl CP Navinchandra Reddy, said release of inmates from prisons due to Covid guidelines on parole had led to rise in crime to some extent in Maharashtra. He called it a necessary step to prevent spread of corona inside jails. In response to the controversial figures of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), regarding crime rate on the basis of 2011 population census, Deshmukh said the glitch would be pointed out to the agency to correct the compilation. “We had 25 lakh population before the expansion of the commissionerate and now another 5 lakh have been added, which NCRB has to consider,” said Deshmukh. “The latest NCRB figure is of 2019 when the situation was somewhat aggravated too. This year, city police made a turnaround by pulling back crime rate,” said the home minister. He pointed out total offences in 2019 were 7,734 but they had come down to 6,191 this year. Deshmukh also said most serious offences, including murder, have declined this year. “There was a statewide rise in cybercrimes during the pandemic lockdown but our state’s special cell has done well to tackle them too,” said the home minister. Deshmukh extolled city police’s strategy of tracking criminals, activation of crime intelligence units, zeroing down upon criminals using weapons, and targeting nuisance at public places like consuming liquor in open and sale of Chinese arms. “City police are taking special measures like combing operations in slums, following up on cases of serious offenders and so on to keep crime under check,” said Deshmukh. He also said Rs85 crore would be spent on the revamp of the over century-old police headquarters at Takli. Referring to statistics, Deshmukh also said strict policing would be adopted to ensure average crime rate of last 22 years is improved in the coming days. “The average crime has remained more or less the same, but the strategy to control it further is being worked out,” said Deshmukh. “We have slapped MPDA, MCOCA on many goons and more proposals are underway,” he said, adding that illegal activities like cricket betting have been strongly dealt by CP Kumar. He added that police are also going after drug peddlers. “We have already sanctioned 200 body cameras for cops and would give 2,000 in phases,” he said. “Horse mounted police on the lines of Kolkata would soon be brought to the city,” said Deshmukh. The home minister also said the government would ensure local body elections in Gadchiroli are conducted in free and fair condition without fear. BOX CRIME STATISTICS Murder 2019: 90 2020: 88 Dacoity 2019: 15 2020: 19 Robbery 2019: 147 2020: 127 Housebreaking 2019: 801 2020: 658 Motor vehicle theft 2019: 1,384 2020: 1,120 Rape 2019: 163 2020: 152 Kidnapping 2019: 536 2020: 320||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/population-rose-by-5l-crime-declined-15-hm/articleshow/79981872.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||Now, ED summons wife of Shiv Sena spearhead Sanjay Raut||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate has issued summons to Varsha Raut, wife of high-profile Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, in connection with a Rs 55-lakh transaction at the Punjab Maharashtra Cooperative Bank between her and an associate. The move, coming on the back of similar action against BJP-turned-NCP leader Eknath Khadse, has sent shock waves in the ruling MVA coalition comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. Invoking the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, the ED has asked Varsha to appear before it on December 29 with relevant papers pertaining to her accounts in the PMC Bank, which is under a moratorium. No notice yet, but couldn’t care less, says RautThe ED is investigating a Rs 4,355 crore scam involving PMC Bank and the Wadhawans of Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) who defaulted on loans. ED is believed to be probing a Rs 55 lakh transaction between Raut and Madhuri, wife of Praveen Raut, an associate of Sanjay Raut. Praveen was arrested in a case connected to property development, but was later granted bail. The Rs 55 lakh transaction was cited as a loan/advance in the affidavit filed by Sanjay Raut for his nomination to the Rajya Sabha in 2016. “Mrs Raut has not received the notice. Even if we receive it, we do not care at all,” Sanjay Raut said in a text message to TOI when asked for his reaction. After Eknath Khadse, Raut is the third such individual with political connections in the recent past to get an ED summons. Khadse was asked to be present before the ED on Wednesday. Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik and his two sons too are under the ED’s scrutiny. NCP spokesman and skill development minister Nawab Malik described the summons to Varsha Raut as “politically motivated” and driven by vendetta. “First it was Eknath Khadse and now Varsha Raut. Opposition leaders, who have taken a clear stand against Prime Minister Narendra Modi are being targeted by central agencies. This is gross abuse of power by the BJP,’’ Malik said. Within the MVA, Sanjay Raut has been among the most vocal critics of the NDA government. He is also seen to have played a key role in stitching together the Sena-Congress-NCP coalition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-ed-summons-wife-of-shiv-sena-spearhead-sanjay-raut/articleshow/79983984.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Realty sops to benefit select builders, says Devendra Fadnavis||MUMBAI: Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis has accused the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of offering huge sops to a preferred set of developers under the garb of boosting demand in the economy. Fadnavis said the Deepak Parekh panel's recommendations, which were discussed at the last Maharashtra cabinet meeting, would result in a "windfall" of as much as Rs 2,000 crore in the specific projects of five developers. Fadnavis also referred to the wide circulation of the cabinet note, which is meant to be a confidential document, and said developers were rumoured to be on a "resource collection spree" to reap the benefit of the decision. The proposal to clear the sops was put on hold after a section of Congress cabinet ministers sought a review. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday, Fadnavis warned that if no corrective action is taken, he would be compelled to file a public interest litigation before the Bombay high court. The government's move, he said, while benefitting large developers would adversely hit mid-size builders and turn slum rehabilitation schemes financially unviable. In his letter "purposefully written in English", Fadnavis alleged a substantial decrease in Ready Reckoner Rates such that it benefitted certain plot holders to the extent of a 70% reduction in payment. These plots are owned by developers in the western suburbs by the seafront, in the eastern suburbs and in the island city, he claimed. In addition to the reduction in RR rates, Fadnavis said government was further proposing to decrease premiums, levies, cess imposed by the municipal corporations. Referring to a specific case in the western suburbs, Fadnavis said under the new policy, the city survey number of a large land parcel was recently sub-divided into three zones. One of the land parcels, spread over 20 lakh sq feet and by the sea, has benefitted by a 72% reduction in RR rate. It has come down from Rs 1.2 lakh per sq metre to Rs 35,000 per sq metre, he alleged. While the developer can avail of various floor space index benefits (FSI) such as Fungible FSI, Transfer of Development Rights, taking the built-up area to 5 lakh sq feet, the reduction in RR rates ensures the premium payment reduces to Rs 390 crore which in the normal course would have been Rs 1,393 crore. "With the government considering 50% reduction in premiums this would further reduce to Rs 180 crore. The developer's gain goes up to Rs 1,185 crore. He also gains Rs 602 crore as the premium on fungible FSI would have reduced by 50%. His gain is now Rs 1,805 crore. There are many such cases that have been brought to my knowledge," said Fadnavis in his letter. The opposition leader said while he was not against the rationalisation of charges to boost demand, his worry was the blatant misuse of power under the garb of reforms. "I am sure you will take corrective action and not allow state resources to be exploited and squandered for private gains, especially when government is worried about its financial position. It is surprising, on one hand we are unable to help our farmers and on the other, are allowing windfall gains to private people," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-realty-sops-to-benefit-select-builders-says-devendra-fadnavis/articleshow/79983985.cms||Clara Lewis
December 28, 2020||Delhi||Send your experts for debate with farmers: CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday challenged the Centre to send its ministers who were experts on the new farm laws for a public debate with the leaders of the farmers’ unions so that it became clear how beneficial or dangerous the legislation were. Kejriwal addressed the protesting farmers, who have been camping at Singhu border for more than a month, after joining the Safar-e-Shahadat Kirtan Darbar organised by Punjabi Academy of Delhi government at Guru Tegh Bahadur Memorial in memory of the martyrdom of the four Sahibzaade and Mata Gujri Kaur. “Today, through this platform and at such a sacred place, I want to appeal to the central government with folded hands to repeal the agri laws. These are our people, our brothers, sisters, mothers and elders. These are the people of our nation. Listen to them and end their struggle here. How many lives will you take?” asked Kejriwal. He added that farmers from across the nation had gathered at the border, were sleeping on the road in the biting cold and 40 people had lost their lives. Requesting the Centre to repeal the farm laws as soon as possible, guarantee MSP, and end the struggle of the farmers, Kejriwal said, “I want to challenge the Centre to send in their experts on these farm laws and have a public debate with the leaders of the farmers’ unions. I have seen videos of these leaders and they know the entire Constitution and all the laws. I’m sure the extent to which they know these laws, even central ministers won’t.” The chief minister had last visited Singhu border on December 7 and reviewed the arrangements made for the farmers by Delhi government. “Various things are being alleged. I believe things like these have always been a weapon for all governments. I remember, during the Anna Andolan we were also defamed. Our farmers are being called terrorists and anti-national. But I want to ask if they become terrorists and anti-national, who will feed you?” he asked. “The farmers of our nation have been betrayed for the past 70 years by all the leaders and political parties. The promises of waiving loans and giving employment to farmers’ children were never fulfilled. Now, through the farm laws, the government wants to take farming away from farmers and hand it over to big corporates,” claimed Kejriwal. Asking what would farmers do if farming was taken away from them, Kejriwal said, “The farmers sitting on the borders today with their elders and children are fighting for survival. If big companies take over farming, farmers will be left with nothing.” “The Centre is busy justifying the farm laws by saying that land won’t be taken away from farmers and MSP and mandis will not be revoked instead of telling the benefits. The only benefit they have been telling is that farmers will be able to sell their produce anywhere in the country outside of the mandis,” said the CM. Claiming that benefit was not being given to the farmers, but to big companies and the rich, Kejriwal said, “If a crop is being sold at Rs 800 per quintal in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh where there are no mandis and the MSP is Rs 1,850 per quintal, where will the farmers sell at a higher price? They cannot even get 50% of the price outside of the mandis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/send-your-experts-for-debate-with-farmers-cm-arvind-kejriwal/articleshow/79983972.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Vadodara||40% prefer home treatment||Vadodara: ‘Stay home, stay safe’ is a slogan that most are well-versed with by now and even follow to avoid a novel coronavirus infection. But when it comes to Covid-19 many are preferring to stay home not only to stay safe against the virus, but also even if they have been infected by the dreaded virus. If hospitals in the city are breathing easy, a major contributor to this is also the fact that many are choosing home stay over hospitalization. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) data reveals that over 40 per cent of patients prefer staying home for treatment. Sources said that a major reason for people staying at home was that they were either asymptomatic or had only mild symptoms. The reluctance to go to a government hospital and inability to foot the bills of treatment at private facilities if people did not have sufficient medical insurance were other contributors to the trend. Officials point out that while home-based Covid-19 treatment may be preferred by many, they should be careful and consult a doctor during the period. “The monitoring of vitals and telemedicine should be taken up regularly,” said a VMC official adding that they had come across several cases in the past when Covid-19 patients went under home isolation only to land up in hospitals for intensive care. “Our teams also monitor those under home isolation regularly and keep in touch with them. Aged persons and those with co-morbidities should ideally get treated in a hospital,” said VMC medical officer health Dr Devesh Patel. VMC had earlier issued an advisory regarding home-based Covid care and asked doctors to follow it strictly. This was done as it had come to light that some patients who were aged or had co-morbidities were being treated at home and had to be rushed to a hospital when their condition worsened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/40-prefer-home-treatment/articleshow/79980937.cms||Sachin Sharma
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Three killed after fire breaks out in Kandivali temple||MUMBAI: Two persons were charred to death after a fire broke out in a roadside temple in the early hours of Sunday at Bandar Pakhadi, Charkop, Kandivali west. A third victim succumbed to burns at Sion Hospital. Locals said the three youths were asleep in the temple, which was locked from outside as a safety measure, and, hence, could not be rescued in time. While Subhash Khode (25) and Yogesh Pawar (25) were declared brought dead at Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivali, Manu Gupta (26), suffered about 95% burn injuries. He, too, was rushed to Shatabdi, but later shifted to Sion Hospital where he passed away around 3.30 pm. Fire Brigade officials said a short circuit caused the fire, which spread rapidly as there was cloth and other inflammable material lying around. "A call was received at 4.15 am and fire engines reached the spot by 4.30 am. The fire was put out by 4.39 am. However, two persons died on the spot on account of burn injuries," said an official at the fire brigade control room. While local residents broke the lock before the fire brigade arrived, they were unable to save the three youths. The temple abuts Patil Nagar slum. Locals said they were to celebrate the third anniversary of the temple on Monday. As part of the celebrations, we organise a 'bhandara' where everyone is invited for a meal after the 'palkhi' procession. Foodgrains and other items for cooking had been stored at the temple. Khode, who was president of the temple's governing body and, Pawar, who was the secretary, were overseeing preparations. They would sleep at the temple to keep guard, said a resident. Charkop police have registered separate cases of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-three-killed-after-fire-breaks-out-in-kandivali-temple/articleshow/79984011.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Delhi||One dead, two hurt as tempo rams truck on south Delhi flyover||NEW DELHI: A 55-year-old man was killed and two others injured when their goods tempo rammed into a wrongly-parked stationary truck on the Nehru Place flyover on Sunday morning. The deceased, identified as Subedar, was declared dead on arrival at AIIMS. The injured — Jaichand and Shamsher — are recuperating at the hospital. “A PCR call about an accident was received in Kalkaji police station. Staff immediately rushed to Nehru Place flyover towards Kalkaji Temple and found a tempo and a truck in accidental condition,” a senior official said. One person, cops said, was found stuck in the damaged cabin of the tempo. He was taken out and taken to a hospital. Two others were also trapped. They were extricated and sent to AIIMS. “Spot inquiry and scene-ofcrime examination revealed that the truck driver had parked his vehicle on road in a negligent manner, resulting in obstruction in the line of navigation that led to the collision,” DCP (South East) R P Meena said. Cops have filed an FIR under sections 304A (causing death due to negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the IPC and are investigating the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/one-dead-two-hurt-as-tempo-rams-truck-on-s-delhi-flyover/articleshow/79983973.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Business||Govt to launch new quarterly jobs survey from March 2021||NEW DELHI: The government will launch a new quarterly employment survey from March next year that will amalgamate two existing surveys; the Quarterly Employment Survey (QES) and the Area Frame Establishment Survey (AFES). A more expansive version of the existing enumeration exercises, the new survey is likely to be christened the All India Quarterly Base Establishment Survey (AIQBES), and is aimed at plugging the assessment gaps in understanding the real employment situation in the country. A senior labour bureau official, who will lead the efforts, said existing surveys had a limited scope in that they only covered a few formal sector establishments and were restricted to covering those that employed more than 10 persons. In contrast, the new survey seeks to include informal establishments, cover those with less than 10 employees, and effect a 10-fold increase in sample size. “The government thought it prudent to scale up the sample size so that a comprehensive employment survey is conducted and which reflects the correct picture of employment in the country,” said D P S Negi, chief labour commissioner. The Quarterly Employment Survey was halted in 2017 when the National Statistical Office launched the first Periodic Labour Force Survey. However, the S P Mookherjee-led expert group roped in to launch the AIQBES, is understood to have argued that a quarterly, establishment-based survey, rather than an annual, household survey will be more effective in ascertaining the employment and unemployment situation in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-launch-new-quarterly-jobs-survey-from-march-2021/articleshow/79983982.cms||Swati Mathur
December 28, 2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protests: Youths bank on pedal power to send their message across||NEW DELHI: Neither harsh cold nor long distance could dampen the spirit of around 30 youths who have made multiple rounds on bicycles from Punjab’s Rupnagar district to Singhu and Tikri borders to make people aware about the farmers’ protests. These youths, who are travelling in groups, are meeting people at villages and dhabas on their way to Delhi and distributing pamphlets. Each cycle has green flags and placards stating “No Farmers, No Food, No Future — Respect Farmers”. Gurveer Singh, a 20-yearold college student, started his journey from his village located 305km from the Singhu border on December 21. “We came in a group of six, travelled 120km each day on cycles and reached the Singh border on December 23 afternoon and came to Tikri the next day,” Singh said. “My studies are not getting affected as I complete my work before taking this week-long break. My parents also allowed me to participate in this movement. We drove in the day and took rest at night,” he said. Ajmer Singh, a former martial arts coach who had lost his right arm in an accident, is also part of this group. “I didn’t know cycling, yet I chose to participate in the event. It is a proud moment for me to contribute in this mission. On our way, people came forward to help us with food, beds and made whatever arrangement they could, making the journey easier.” Ajmer said he was shattered after the accident and took a break for two years. “These years have taught me that nothing is impossible if we make up our mind. Now I am aiming to participate in the Paralympics.” Most of these participants aren’t even from farmer families. “Most of us are into various other professions. But we decided to get associated with the protest for the sake of farmers. If they won’t succeed or survive, where will we go? We request youths from other states to join the cause,” said Narender Singh, who runs a tour and travel company in Rupnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/youths-bank-on-pedal-power-to-send-their-message-across/articleshow/79984028.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai-Dubai, Delhi-Dubai now among busiest international routes||MUMBAI: Mumbai-Dubai and Delhi-Dubai have now emerged among the busiest international routes in the pandemic world. According to the UK-based air consultancy firm OAG, Delhi-Dubai is the fifth and Mumbai-Dubai 10th busiest air route this month in terms of seat capacity deployment by airlines operating on various routes. The busiest international route is Dubai-London Heathrow (1.7 lakh seats) followed by Orlando-San Juan (1.6 lakh seats) and Cairo-Jeddah (1.4 lakh). Delhi-Dubai has 1.1 lakh and Mumbai-Dubai over a lakh seats this month, according to OAG. While scheduled international flights remain suspended, foreign travel by eligible categories of people is currently happening to and from countries with which India has created air bubbles and on Vande Bharat Mission flights. Domestic air traffic, on the other hand, is reviving steadily albeit with the pandemic leading to new travel trends. Christmas saw a higher number of domestic flyers at over 2.5 lakh, since scheduled flights within the country were allowed to resume on May 25. In a statement, online travel firm Cleartrip said: "The uncertainty caused by the pandemic has resulted in travellers preferring to book their travel close to the travel date. In (pre-pandemic) January-March, 51% of the trips were booked within two weeks of the travel date. However, trips booked within two weeks before travel increased to about 81% in April-September. We have seen this trend reverse to an extent in Q4 (67%)." Similarly, in January-March, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Goa, Kolkata and Hyderabad as the top booked cities by travellers from Delhi. The lockdown months of April-June saw Patna at the top spot followed by Kolkata, Srinagar, Ranchi and Bengaluru. This trend was due to people returning to their home cities once domestic air travel was allowed to resume, Cleartrip data shows.In July-September, the top five cities booked to travel to from Delhi were: Mumbai, Patna, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kolkata. And in October-December, the five cities were: Mumbai, Goa, Bengaluru, Patna and Kolkata. "The (April-June) quarter saw Patna, Srinagar, and Ranchi feature in the top destinations with Mumbai and Goa not being present. This indicates a shift away from business destinations and implies that travellers were returning to their hometowns in the north and east after the pandemic. In July-September quarter, we saw some confidence come back with the return of Bangalore and Hyderabad in the top five booked destinations. In the (October-December) quarter, easing of restrictions coupled with the onset of festive seasons has led to a preference towards leisure destinations as evidenced by Goa being among the top-ranked destinations booked in the quarter," Cleartrip data shows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-dubai-delhi-dubai-now-among-busiest-international-routes/articleshow/79984035.cms||Saurabh Sinha
December 28, 2020||Delhi||Invited CM Arvind Kejriwal to clear doubts, he did not show up: BJP||NEW DELHI: Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari on Sunday said they had invited chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to clear doubts on the three farm laws, but he didn’t show up. The BJP functionaries challenged Kejriwal to tell a time and place, as per his convenience, and they would apprise him about the benefits of the Acts. Gupta said that on November 23, Delhi government had notified one of the three laws and now the chief minister is trying to be farmer-friendly by opposing these laws. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has explained in detail that the new Acts will not end the system of MSP or mandi system and there will be no danger of farmers losing land. Instead, their income would double and they will have the right to sell their crops anywhere for higher profits,” he added. The Delhi BJP chief claimed that for publicity stunt, Kejriwal tore the copies of the new laws in the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/invited-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-clear-doubts-he-did-not-show-up-bjp/articleshow/79983975.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||Five UK flyers who arrived in Mumbai last week test positive for Covid-19||MUMBAI: Five flyers who landed in Mumbai from the UK on December 21 and 22 and were placed in 'hotel quarantine', have tested positive for Covid-19. Their swab samples will be sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for genetic sequencing to check for the highly contagious mutation called B.1.1.7. The mutated virus has been in circulation in the UK since September and has emerged as the dominant strain that accounted for 70% of the cases since then. Test reports of more passengers are awaited, said BMC officials late on Sunday. While 180 of the UK-returned passengers were tested early on Saturday, BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said 738 passengers who have completed five days in hotel quarantine have been tested so far. These passengers have been kept in hotel quarantine following a central government directive issued on December 20 to check for the mutated virus among flyers arriving from the UK, South Africa and the Middle East (flights from the UK are banned till December 31). As per the government directive, these flyers could undergo an RT-PCR test after completion of five-day quarantine. "Apart from these five flyers, the others who tested negative will complete seven days of institutional (hotel) quarantine before leaving for home with a stamp for seven more days of home quarantine," said BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. The five Covid positive passengers are asymptomatic, but will be admitted to the BMC-run SevenHills Hospital in Marol for observation, said civic officials. Earlier in the day, the BMC revised quarantine guidelines for passengers arriving from Europe, South Africa and the Middle East. "The amendment is as per Maharashtra government's directive of 14 days compulsory quarantine for all travellers," said a BMC official. The new directive states that passengers who test negative after five days will be allowed to go home after completing seven days of quarantine, but they have to give an undertaking to complete the remaining seven days of quarantine at home. "If the result is positive, passengers will be shifted to designated Covid-19 hospitals-SevenHills for passengers from the UK, and GT Hospital for travellers from other countries," said the directive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/five-uk-flyers-who-arrived-in-mumbai-last-week-test-positive/articleshow/79984042.cms||Clara Lewis
December 28, 2020||Goa||New specifications for shacks at Mandrem, Morjim turtle nesting sites||Panaji: The Centre for Environment Education (CEE), engaged by the state to draw up a turtle site management plan, has given new specifications for the erecting of temporary beach shacks in the CRZ zone of the Mandrem and Morjim beach stretches. “Shacks on stilts with minimum clear height of 1 metre between underside of the floor and ground level to be permitted. A mandatory distance of 20 meters must be maintained between each shack in Morjim and 30 meters in Mandrem,” the management plan drawn up under the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority states. As per the guidelines, no levelling of sand should be done while positioning the stilted structure. The structure has to be sufficiently raised from the ground so that sand beneath remains in a relatively undisturbed state except for the pillars. “The main structure maybe of timber, bamboo or metal. It is important that the construction methodology followed should be such that the structure can be dismantled easily. The roof structure may be made of timber or bamboo. This structure would be covered with thatched roof or terracotta tiles (such as Mangalore tiles),” the guidelines for serecting the temporary shacks state. Externally, only thatched roof or a terracotta tile roof appearance is desired in keeping with the local context, the rules state. “The roof shall be a pitched roof with no portion as a flat terrace or flat roof with a minimum slope of 15 degrees. Wall panels shall be made of timber, thatch or any other alternative material such as WPC or fibre cement sheets. Railings if any shall be made of timber or bamboo,” as per the new specifications. A water supply and sewage system layout must be included as part of the design proposal to the CRZ authorities and no masonry shall be used in the construction of the plinth or any part of the sub and super structure, according to the turtle nesting site management rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-specifications-for-shacks-at-mandrem-morjim-turtle-nesting-sites/articleshow/79982432.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 28, 2020||India||Try out farm laws for 2 yrs, Rajnath appeals to farmers||SHIMLA: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday urged farmers to “try” the new farm laws for two years and engage in a dialogue with the Centre for amendments in the Acts if they do not turn out to be beneficial. Addressing a function virtually from Delhi to mark the third anniversary of the Jai Ram Thakur government in Himachal Pradesh, the Union minister said the three agri-marketing laws would only help supplement farmers’ income. Accusing Congress of trying to mislead farmers, the minister said once agriculturists understood the merit of the new laws, they would steer clear of those trying to misguide them. He added that the Centre government is willing to clear the doubts of protesting farmers. Rajnath said the new laws have given farmers the freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the country and assured that the mandi system would continue. He said uncertainty is being deliberately created on the future of minimum support price (MSP) while the fact is that MSP would continue and there were no plans to end it. He said the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi implemented the MSP formula recommended in the Swaminathan report. He also dismissed any possibility of acquisition of farmers’ land saying that the new laws have put strict provisions in place to protect far mers’ interests. Under contract farming, he said, the contract with farmers will only be for their crop and not for their land. The Centre government, he said, is going to constitute 10,000 farmer producer organisations in the country to ensure that farmers and horticulturists are able to sell their produce in the market on their own with some value addition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/try-out-farm-laws-for-2-yrs-rajnath-appeals-to-farmers/articleshow/79984041.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Goa||Coronavirus in Goa: 37 UK travellers and their contacts isolated at ESI||PANAJI: A total of 37 people who travelled to Goa from the United Kingdom (UK) and a few of their contacts have been isolated at ESI hospital in Margao after they tested positive for Covid. Only two are reported to be on oxygen while the others are recovering well. Around half a dozen of those isolated in the hospital came in contact with the travellers and tested positive. Majority of them are from South Goa and were transferred to the hospital from their homes where they were undergoing home isolation. The first six were transferred to ESI from the South Goa district hospital on December 25. The patients are currently being isolated on one floor of the hospital. TOI reported on Sunday that 16 travellers who arrived in Goa after December 8 tested positive when they were subjected to fresh RT-PCR tests since December 24. A total of 979 travellers arrived in Goa from the UK since December 9. The state’s first designated Covid hospital that treated over 2,600 patients over the past nine months had stopped admissions and was referring patients to the South Goa district hospital and GMC. It began new admissions on December 25 to isolate travellers who returned from the UK as per the Centre’s standard operating procedures (SOPs). According to the SOP, the contacts of these travellers must also be placed in the isolation facility identified by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/37-uk-travellers-and-their-contacts-isolated-at-esi/articleshow/79982442.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Goa||72 new infections, but no Covid deaths on Sunday||Panaji: There were no Covid deaths on Sunday. A total of 72 new infections were reported, taking the cumulative Covid cases to 50,667 and active cases to 944. Forty patients were hospitalised while 15 opted for home isolation. A total of 79 people recovered from Covid over the past 24 hours. The state has a recovery rate of 96.69 per cent. Marago health centre continued to report the highest active Covid infections at 86 followed by Ponda at 74, Panaji at 58, Povorim at 55 and Vasco at 41 and Chimbel at 40. Health centres at Valpoi, Cansarvanem, Mayem, Chinchinim and Dharbandora reported under 10 active cases each. The health department said Covid care centres in North Goa are empty and those in South Goa are half full. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/72-new-infections-but-no-covid-deaths-on-sunday/articleshow/79982447.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Goa||Objection to GoaMiles justified: Lobo||Calangute: Minister for ports Michael Lobo said recently that it is the government’s duty to help self-employed Goans in the tourism sector who are going through a tough period during the pandemic. Citing the recent clashes between taxi owners and GoaMiles operators, Lobo said taxi owners are justified in objecting to the app-based operators taking away their business. He said the state government should step in at the earliest to resolve the matter. “Taxi owners who are attached to taxi stands outside hotels and resorts are bound to object to others coming and taking away their business,” said Lobo. He said it is a misconception that taxi owners are overcharging. “In fact, for their survival they are now even charging less than the fixed rate. Installation of digital meters will help them and tourists will not feel cheated,” he said, adding that the government needs to find solutions to these problems. “This is our duty because the government also earns in taxes and GST,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/objection-to-goamiles-justified-lobo/articleshow/79982451.cms||---
December 28, 2020||India||Louis Kahn’s kin ask IIM-A to rethink dorm demolition||AHMEDABAD: Celebrated American architect Louis Kahn’s daughters Sue Ann Kahn, Alexandra Tyng and son Nathaniel Kahn have written to IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) director Prof Errol D’Souza on December 22, requesting India’s premier Bschool to reconsider their plan to raze the dormitories, part of the larger ‘heritage campus’ designed by Kahn. The institute has been in the eye of the storm for the past few days after it sent a letter to the alumni informing them about the decision to demolish 14 of 18 dormitory buildings. Kahn’s children termed the destruction of the dormitories a “disaster” for their father’s legacy, adding that they were shocked and dismayed to learn of the abandonment of the conservation plan and issuance of expression of interest for the demolition. “The buildings in question are the heart of our father’s universally acknowledged masterpiece at IIM-A. We urge you in the strongest possible terms to reconsider this decision,” stated the letter, adding that the action would unleash powerful reactions not only from architects but also from alumni, leaders of culture, business and industry. The letter added that the demolition move is more shocking in the light of restoration of Vikram Sarabhai Library, which even received the Unesco Asia-Pacific Award for Cultural Heritage Conservation in 2019. It mentioned a meeting with Prof D’Souza at the University of Pennsylvania in the summer of 2018 — “As you recall, the purpose of the visit to Richards (Medical Research Laboratories) was to see first-hand how a great Kahn building could be reimagined to suit changing needs. We might add that the Richards Building was also at one time in peril of demolition. It is now considered a very useful structure and a desirable address on campus,” said the letter, drawing parallels with the current discussion around the 14 dorm buildings. IIM-A officials on Sunday confirmed receipt of the email and said that Prof D’Souza, in his response, wrote: “We are thinking along the lines you hint at which is to redesign the buildi ngs to provide new functionalities whilst preserving the grammar that your father had visualized for the campus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/louis-kahns-kin-ask-iim-a-to-rethink-dorm-demolition/articleshow/79984048.cms||Parth Shastri
December 28, 2020||Goa||Santas ride on cycles to South Goa||Panaji: This Christmas brought a special sight to the people of South Goa as dozens of Santas came riding, not on sleighs, but on cycles. In a rare celebration, 75 cyclists took to the road on Saturday evening to celebrate the Xaxti Riders Christmas Ride 2020. Clad in cheery-red clothing and riding the glowing wheels, the cyclists roamed the streets lined with Christmas lights, Christmas trees, and cribs, delighting watchers and passers-by. The Christmas ride, winding through Curtorim, Macazana and Chandor, with a brief refreshment halt at Chandor Monte, ended a couple of hours later. “The ride was the perfect finale to the immunity-boosting and stress-busting rides we had throughout the year,” Xaxti Riders president Sameer Nadkarni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/santas-ride-on-cycles-to-south-goa/articleshow/79982456.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bengaluru||More cheer: Case fatality rate among seniors dips in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) among seniors in two groups — aged above 60 years and above 100 — in Karnataka has decreased, although the number of infections among those in the category increased in the past month. Of the 12,051 Covid-19 deaths in Karnataka as of December 26, 59.7% were seniors, even as this age group accounts for only 15% of the 9.1 lakh cases, reiterating the high vulnerability of people in this category. Comparatively, as of November 28, seniors accounted for 61% of the nearly 11,800 deaths. CFR among four of the five age groups seniors are grouped under has fallen compared to November-end and the overall CFR rate too has seen a marginal decrease to 4.9% from 5.1%. Given that this group of people were expected to be the most vulnerable, experts say that decline in CFR is encouraging. Analysis of data shows that among the 1.4 lakh seniors infected (as of December 26), the youngest (in their 60s) and the oldest (centenarians) have the lowest CFR. While CFR has reduced in both categories compared to last month, the trend is similar to what was seen in November. Doctors told TOI that even those who have died in these categories are those with comorbidities. While access to healthcare and early detection may have helped those in their 60s, low fatality rate among centenarians is attributed to good genes and mild infection among other things. Data shows patients in their 60s continue to account for about 63% of cases among senior citizens but now account for only 46.8% deaths, compared to 49% of the deaths among seniors in November. Centenarians account for 0.04% of both number of cases and deaths. Although the number of infections increased to 63 from 60, the number of deaths remained constant at three. Those in the 70-99 years group account for 37% of cases among seniors and 53% deaths. Groupwise, those in their 90s have the highest CFR at 11.3%, which is marginally lower compared to November. Patients in the 80s have a CFR of 9.4%, the only one to have seen an increase from 9% in November, while those in their 70s maintained the same CFR at 6.2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/more-cheer-case-fatality-rate-among-seniors-dips-in-karnataka/articleshow/79984053.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 28, 2020||Goa||With fewer tourists visiting, jeep rides reduce at Dudhsagar falls||Ponda: With every tourist season a large number of tourists visit Dudhsagar waterfalls at Collem which led to jeep owners who are authorised to ferry tourists to the falls to demand for an increase in the number of jeeps from the current 240. However this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, business has gotten affected and at times even 200 jeeps find it difficult to get business as per records maintained by Dudhsagar Tourist Operators’ Association (DTOA). Association chairman Dilip Mairekar said, “We miss the rush of tourists visiting Dudhsagar as the number of jeeps that get business in a day is now unpredictable.” On December 21, 240 jeeps ferried 1,200 visitors. The following day, the number of jeeps that made the rounds of the falls was 218. On December 23, only 203 jeeps ferried tourists and the number of tourists again rose to 240 on Thursday, said Mairekar. Dudhsagar falls which translates into ‘a sea of milk’ is a four-tiered waterfall located in Collem, and is equally popular among domestic and foreign tourists. Hordes of locals and tourists flock here to get a glimpse of the falls and to enjoy a swim in its water at the foot of the falls. “With the ongoing pandemic, no foreign tourists have visited the falls even after three months of start of the season. Mostly domestic honeymoon couples visit the falls in large numbers. Such couples form 90% of the visitors received here this year”, Mairekar said. Currently 431 jeeps are registered with the state wildlife board to ferry passengers to the foot of the Dudhsagar falls. The Goa state Wildlife Board has however restricted the number of jeeps that can operate to only 240. The jeeps help ferry the visitors to the scenic waterfall via a kutcha road deep into the forest of Bhagwan Mahaveer sanctuary in Collem village of Dharbandora taluka. The report prepared by a forest department appointed committee has mentioned that the carrying capacity of the site is 240 jeeps per day. The report states that increased number of vehicles would disturb the wildlife, a forest official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-fewer-tourists-visiting-jeep-rides-reduce-at-dudhsagar-falls/articleshow/79982475.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
December 28, 2020||Gurgaon||Farmers vow to stop toll collection in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) have decided to not allow the authorities to charge any toll on highways in the state until the government comes up with any concrete steps to end the deadlock. Earlier, the outfit had given a call for making the toll plazas free for all vehicles for three days from Friday. Gurnam Singh Charuni, the state president of BKU, said the decision to extend the protest at toll plazas indefinitely was taken by the national executive committee after talking to members of the outfit. Farmers have been protesting at toll plazas since Friday and have not allowed the authorities to collect toll from any vehicle. “On Friday, we had visited several toll plazas in the state and the farmers protesting there had suggested that we should make it toll-free for all vehicles until the government listens to our demands. We discussed the issue with our national executive committee and decided to go ahead with our protest at the toll plazas of the state,” Charuni told TOI. The farmer leader, however, assured that the agitations at the toll plazas would not be violent and a committee had been formed to ensure that. “A district-level committee of five to 15 farmers has been formed to manage and run the protest at the toll plazas. We will talk to the officials if needed and focus on Gurgaon and Faridabad too,” he added. Several outfits of farmers have been protesting at toll plazas and stopped collection at all major highways. Some of the protest sites are at the Makdoli toll plaza on the Panipat-Rohtak-Delhi highway, Rohtak-Hisar highway in Madina village, Rohad toll plaza at Rohtak-Delhi highway, Rohtak-Jhajjar-Delhi highway toll plaza at Dighal village in Jhajjar, Bastara and Panipat toll plazas on Delhi-Chandigarh highway and Peont toll plaza on Assandh-Karnal highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmers-to-stop-toll-collection-on-highways-till-deadlock-ends/articleshow/79982472.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
December 28, 2020||India||Maha, UP, MP recorded most Pocso cases in 2017-19: NCRB||MUMBAI: Maharashtra is the state where the maximum number of cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act were registered in the country during 2017-2019. Of this number, 8,503, in nearly 50% of the cases minors were lured online into meeting people who then subjected them to sexual abuse or entered into sexual relationships with the promise of marriage. In law, maintaining a physical relationship with someone below the age of consent is statutory rape. On the list of states, Maharashtra is followed by UP with 6,978 cases, MP (5,348), Karnataka (4,339) and Gujarat (4,228). The three-year data was released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), 2019 being the last year for which NCRB statistics are available. In Maharashtra, it was found that cases of abuse of minors has been on the rise, going up from 2,398 cases in 2017 to 2,944 in 2018 to 3,161 in 2019. The report has been classified into offenders’ relation to the victim. While the worst perpetrators are ‘online friends’, the report showed that minors are at risk even at home or in the neighbourhood from friends and family. The most vulnerable underage persons are between 16 and 18 years old, followed by 12-16 years, 6-12 years and then even those aged below six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maha-up-mp-recorded-most-pocso-cases-in-2017-19-ncrb/articleshow/79984056.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
December 28, 2020||Goa||Chicalim’s waste collectors feel the Christmas spirit||Vasco: It was a different kind of Christmas celebration at the local church at Chicalim as the parish priest, parishioners, citizens and village development committee of the area got together to honour over 30 door-to-door garbage collectors for their service during the pandemic. The workers engaged with the Chicalim panchayat were in for a surprise when they were called to the SFX Church venue on Saturday evening. Members of the village development committee of Chicalim, the Parish Social Apostolate Forum and the Chicalim Bio-Crusaders joined hands to organise the ‘Christmas Fellowship’ programme, honouring the unsung Covid warriors. These warriors included the garbage collectors, class ‘D’ workers of the Chicalim panchayat and migrant fish workers. “The garbage workers are one of the most vulnerable sections of society, who face a direct threat of infection during the pandemic. But, without fearing for their lives, they have served society in every village of Goa clearing the garbage that also included medical waste,” said parish priest Fr Bolmax Pereira. He said neither the government nor any other organisation has acknowledged the workers’ efforts. Youth of the parish entertained their special guests by singing carols and Filumena Monteiro played Santa Claus to the workers, distributing sweets to the attendees. As the workers come from different states of India, Fr Peter Fernandes, assistant parish priest, came in to address them in different Indian languages, giving the workers another pleasant surprise. Bolmax’s song and dance show was, however, the highlight of the evening as he got the workers to join him. The villagers presented Chritmas hampers to the workers, purchased from contributions by locals. Besides, sweets, shirts, towels, bed covers, hygiene products etc, the package presented to the workers also included safety gear like gloves, masks, sandals to be used at work. Five buckets, 10 litres sanitisers and detergent powder were also presented to the workers. Feroz Khan, a worker from Kolkata, thanked the villagers of Chicalim, narrating his life story. “While most people are sympathetic to our work, there are many who despise us and ill-treat us with insults and bad words. Today will be a memorable day for each of us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chicalims-waste-collectors-feel-the-christmas-spirit/articleshow/79982597.cms||Ruvina Khan
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||At Nadda rally venue, Abhishek ends silence, returns Suvendu’s fire||KOLKATA: Breaking his silence on the Suvendu Adhikari defection episode and his “tolabaj bhaipo” (extortionist nephew) barb, Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee — alluding to Suvendu’s alleged Narada-Saradha links — on Sunday retorted with “tolabaj toh tumi” (you are the extortionist). He also dared BJP – and all central agencies at its disposal – to prove any allegation against him. Abhishek likened Suvendu’s own admission of his links with BJP leader Amit Shah since 2014 to be an “asymptomatic virus” in Trinamool whose going away would only make the party “virus-free.” Abhishek held the public meeting at Diamond Harbour’s Kellar Math, the very venue where BJP national president J P Nadda had addressed a rally on December 10. The events leading up to that rally have now snowballed into a Centre-state stand-off over allegations that Nadda, a Z-category protectee, was attacked. “In which VIP convoy do you see a minibus with people? Where do you see 150 motorbikes? Why was the person who is accused in the May 2019 desecration of Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar’s statue part of the convoy? People can have anger, complaints and pain. But I would urge you to vent that through EVMs,” Abhishek said. “There is one leader who has sold his spine and treacherously somersaulted to BJP. He referred to me as ‘tolabaj bhaipo’. Who was seen accepting wads of cash in the Narada tapes? It was you. Whose name surfaced in Narada and Saradha? It was yours. I have not been named in either. Tolabaj toh tumi (You are the extortionist),” Abhishek alleged. “Since he now calls Amit Shah his elder brother, is he referring to another nephew?” the Trinamool MP added. “If you notice, Covid spreads very quickly since there are people infected with the virus but show no external symptoms. These are such asymptomatic leaders. Their going away will make the party virus-free,” he said. Continuing to target Suvendu, Abhishek said: “He speaks about handing over Bengal to Narendra Modi. He speaks about BJP winning in Bengal. Why is his father and brother with Trinamool then? Let him first convince his family and then he can speak of Bengal.” “Like Sachin Tendulkar, if Mamata Banerjee remains firmly in the non-striker’s end, a few wickets falling will have no impact. People vote for Mamata Banerjee. And let us talk about Bengal later, let him come and win one of the seven assembly segments in Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha constituency,” Abhishek further said. “When Mamata Banerjee was with BJP, there was no blood on the party’s flag; BJP meant Atal Bihari Vajpayee then,” he added. Slamming Suvendu’s statement on links with Shah since 2014, Abhishek said: “When I was made the party observer in Bankura and Purulia in 2015, the party first won municipal polls. We won 15 of the 21 assembly seats in these districts in 2016. And now Saumitra Khan (BJP’s Bishnupur MP) says he was helped to win the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Need I say more.” “People are seeing everything. They know what to do with those who sell their spine, who do treachery with people’s belief. Till a few days back, they spoke against BJP and now they speak for it. Don’t people understand?” Abhishek said. Referring to BJP’s allegations, the Trinamool MP said: “They refer to cattle smuggling, coal scam. Where does cattle smuggling take place? On the borders. Who guards the borders? BSF. Whom does BSF report to? The Union home minister. A BSF commandant has also been arrested. Who guards ECL? CISF. Who does CISF report to? The Union home minister. If BSF and CISF were to act at my behest, what is the home minister doing?” “I dare them to prove a single allegation against me. I will not wait for ED or CBI to act; I’ll go away on my own. That is my word to you,” Abhishek told the gathering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-nadda-rally-venue-abhishek-ends-silence-returns-suvendus-fire/articleshow/79983427.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Sourav meets Bengal governor in ‘courtesy call’||Kolkata: BCCI president Sourav Ganguly on Sunday met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in Raj Bhavan for nearly two hours but urged reporters “not to speculate” over a “courtesy call”. Dhankhar said he had an interaction with Dada “on varied issues.” Speaking to reporters, Sourav said: “The governor has been in Bengal since July but has never visited Eden Gardens. He also wanted to meet me, so I had gone to Raj Bhavan. We had discussions on sport. He wants to visit Eden, but that can be arranged only during daytime when the practice is on.” Asked whether they discussed anything apart from cricket, he said: “Nothing else was discussed.” On being asked when the governor planned to visit Eden Gardens, Sourav said: “I’ll soon be leaving (Kolkata) for some work. We will finalise it later.” Dhankhar later posted photographs on his Twitter handle of his meeting with Sourav. He even posted a short video. Dhankhar also wrote: “Accepted his offer for a visit to Eden Gardens, oldest cricket ground in the country established in 1864.” The meeting comes at a time when the governor is locked in a bitter war-of-words with the Mamata Banerjee administration. Sourav this August had met chief minister Banerjee and termed it a “courtesy call”. Both Trinamool Congress and Bengal BJP refused to comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sourav-meets-bengal-governor-in-courtesy-call/articleshow/79983309.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Ostracism to acceptance: Covid survivors look back at a T20 year||KOLKATA: Nine months ago, Monami Biswas and her family had overnight turned pariah in their neighbourhood, as did Sarika Meghani and her kin in their upscale New Town housing complex. Techie Srijani Majumdar needed police protection to enter her home, while a Salt Lake resident had his picture, and that of his house, circulated on WhatsApp groups. Their crime: testing positive for Covid-19. The worst backlash, perhaps, was faced by a 19-year-old Oxford University student who had the misfortune of becoming the city’s first reported Covid patient. Testing positive after returning from the UK, he faced immense flak on social media, where insensitive memes on him and his parents were widely circulated. Today, as crude ostracisation gives way to acceptance of Covid patients and social stigma is replaced by empathy, these early survivors recall the trauma of being shunned by society. Many say it has left them scarred for life. Monami, the third person in Bengal to test positive, recalls she was blamed for “bringing the virus to the city” when she returned late March from Scotland, where she is a management student at the University of Edinburgh. “I had reported my illness and got myself admitted to a hospital immediately, but still there were people who blamed me and stopped all contact with us. Since then, many of them have also contracted Covid-19 and I believe deep down they understand what they had done then was wrong,” says Monami, who returned to Scotland in September. Sarika remembers how, back in April when she and her husband were about to get admitted to a government hospital after testing positive, the residents’ welfare association had asked her daughter and elderly mother-in-law, who were both negative, to leave. “The issue was resolved, but that conversation broke my heart,” said Sarika. “Those were the initial days and we didn’t know much about the disease. As if the disease weren’t scary enough, the social ostracisation was difficult to accept. Now, every month there are multiple patients in the complex, but the RWA no longer stigmatises them,” she said. Srijani, who was almost forced out of her Jagaddal home by neighbours after she returned from Finland and whose plight TOI carried in an article on March 21, says she was recently stunned when she saw the same set of neighbours posting photographs of their vacation in crowded Mandarmani. “I feel pity for them. Today they are moving around as if the disease doesn’t even exist,” she said. When TOI got in touch with the family of the city’s 17-year-old first victim, his bureaucrat mother refused to speak, saying they were “yet to get over the trauma”. The student has now returned to the UK. Supriyo Dutta, a post-graduate media student who had then shared multiple memes on the boy, now regrets having done so. He himself contracted the disease two months ago. “I feel foolish and sorry to have ostracised that young boy on social media and sharing his photographs across platforms. No one knew anything about the disease back then. But now as I look upon what I had done, I feel ashamed,” said Dutta. Doctors and psychologists say more than the disease, the fear of social ostracisation had bothered patients during the early days of the infection. “My initial days of Covid counselling was all about trying to pacify patients and make them understand that they would be accepted back in society. Such was the fear of social stigma that many people even stopped visiting doctors after getting fever. I am glad the situation has changed now,” said psychiatrist Siladitya Roy. With the coronavirus leaving hardly any family untouched, not only are patients no longer hiding their condition but many are posting social media status messages immediately after diagnosis. “The day after I tested positive last month, the local club sent a packet of essentials to my doorstep. My neighbours checked on me multiple times and even offered to deliver home-cooked meals during my quarantine days,” said Puja Sengupta, a resident of Kasba, showing how far the city has travelled since March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ostracism-to-acceptance-cov-survivors-look-back-at-a-t20-yr/articleshow/79983552.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal run by only a few from Kolkata: Suvendu Adhikari||DATAN (West Midnapore): In his third rally since joining BJP, Suvendu Adhikari set the tone by alleging that villages and districts were being ignored and West Bengal was being run by only a few people from Kolkata. “Ei lorai gramer lorai, ei lorai jelar lorai (This is a fight of the villages; this is a fight of the districts),” he said at Datan in West Midnapore on Sunday evening. “Of the 22 Trinamool Congress MPs, 11 are from Kolkata, and of the 40 ministers, 18 are from the city. Then what are we for? Are we children of lesser gods (Amra ki baner jole bhese esechi)? There are four or five people from south Kolkata who run the show. What did north Kolkata and Howrah get?” the former Bengal transport minister said. “There is only one post, the rest are lampposts,” Suvendu said at Saraibaazar in Datan after a 3.2km road rally from Datan Petrol Pump. The Trinamool rebel turned BJP leader alleged that the state government was changing names of central projects and running them as state-funded schemes. “They are calling Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana the Bangla Awas Yojana. I was in the government and so I know,” he said. “If someone asks why I am telling now, this is the right time to say it,” he added. Since Suvendu’s first meeting in Midnapore, Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee has been an easy target for the former Trinamool leader. In his 10-minute speech, Suvendu’s tirade against “bhaipo” took the lion’s share. “In Diamond Harbour subdivision (which is Abhishek’s Lok Sabha seat), no opposition (candidate) was allowed to file their nominations. Some ‘jihadis’ were deputed to stop them from filing their nominations,” Suvendu alleged. He also iterated his “tolabaj bhaipo” (extortionist nephew) allegation. “Some people are saying Midnapore is a land of traitors. Let me remind them it is the land of Vidyasagar, Khudiram Bose and Matangini Hazra. They have sacrificed their life for the country,” Suvendu said and claimed that Trinamool could not have made an impression in the two Midnapores without their active participation. “Before 2009, TMC could not win any election in Midnapore,” he said. “I have resigned from all government and party posts before joining BJP. As a common and responsible citizen, don’t I have the right to choose a political party in a multi-party democratic system?” Suvendu said. “They are saying I have a relationship with BJP from 2014. I was an MP and a public servant. I had to speak to a lot of people, including BJP leaders. What is wrong in that?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-run-by-only-a-few-from-kolkata-suvendu/articleshow/79983312.cms||Sujoy Khanra
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Sovan made Bengal BJP observer for Kolkata zone||KOLKATA: Bengal BJP on Sunday appointed former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee the party’s observer for Kolkata zone, 16 months after he defected to the saffron party from Trinamool Congress. Baisakhi Banerjee has been made co-observer for Kolkata zone. Sovan will now oversee party affairs in seven Lok Sabha seats, which include the all-crucial Kolkata South. Speaking to reporters, Baisakhi indicated that Sovan and she were “grateful” to BJP for giving them such a “challenging responsibility”. She indicated they would wait for the directives of “party leadership” on the way forward. Her statements left enough indication that Sovan was willing to take the plunge into the 2021 assembly poll battle. “There is a tough battle ahead. This is a new challenge,” Baisakhi said. Sovan, along with Baishaki, had met Union home minister Amit Shah on November 5. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh also appointed Debjit Sarkar as the party’s observer for Kolkata zone, along with Chatterjee. Shankudeb Panda was appointed the party co-observer for Kolkata zone along with Baisakhi. Ghosh also appointed new presidents to the party’s five organisational districts. Bengal BJP sources indicated that Sovan returning to mainstream politics would help the party. Sovan, who was part of the Trinamool core-leadership team that assisted chief minister Mamata Banerjee, had also held several key portfolios in the state cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sovan-made-bengal-bjp-observer-for-kolkata-zone/articleshow/79983420.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara cop ‘loots’ cash, IMFL from tippler||VADODARA: A police constable with Manjalpur police station was booked for extortion and corruption as he forcibly took away cash, a smartwatch and a mobile phone from a Mumbai resident who he had caught carrying liquor bottles in his car. Constable identified as Ramesh Galsar had stopped the man last month while he was on his way to Udaipur. On checking the car, Galsar found two liquor bottles inside the car. But instead of registering a case under prohibition Act, Galsar took Rs 5,000 in cash from the man’s wallet, then his smartwatch, besides his mobile phone and another stack of Rs 15,000 cash from the man’s bag. The extortion didn’t end there. Galsar then took the man to a petrol pump, where he made him swipe his credit card for Rs 10,000 and, in return, took the cash of same amount from the pump attendant. That wasn’t all. Before allowing the man to leave, Galsar also took away the two liquor bottles from the man’s possession!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cop-loots-cash-imfl-from-tippler/articleshow/79981063.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kolkata||Intellectuals protest ancestral link charges against Amartya||KOLKATA: Several intellectuals gathered at Bangla Akademi here on Sunday to protest the “deliberate insult” to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen. Painter Jogen Chowdhury, who also lives and works in Santiniketan and is a former faculty of Kala Bhavana, said: “I wonder when Visva-Bharati University will return to its normal. There is so much politicisation on the campus. We see authorities move about with BJP heavyweights, who have nothing to do with the university.” Painter Suvaprasanna said: “To bring this dishonour on Sen means to deny the contribution of (Sen’s maternal grandfather) Kshiti Mohan Sen, who worked alongside Tagore towards building the campus.” Poet-singer Kabir Suman called it a ploy to “unsettle” the balance the Mamata Banerjee government had brought to West Bengal. Bengal science and technology minister Bratya Basu said: “They are making such allegations against Sen because his ideology does not match that of BJP, and this is a simple plot to malign and humiliate him. Even Tagore did not agree with the British and gave up knighthood. What if the British decided to uproot Tagore from Uttarayan? It’s just as absurd.” According to poet Subodh Sarkar, “we can’t even imagine that someone can insult Amartya Sen like this. We are on the streets to protest it”. Poet Joy Goswami said: “I strongly condemn Visva-Bharati and the Centre’s insinuations against Sen.” Chief minister Banerjee, who is likely to reach Bolpur on Monday for a two-day visit, had on Friday written to Sen expressing her “surprise and anguish over some recent developments” reported in the media alluding to his ancestral links in Santiniketan. Media reports had said that VB had written to the Bengal government on land encroachment, including a land parcel of several decimals belonging to Sen’s Santiniketan home. Saying Bengal would not tolerate attacks on its icons, the CM had apologised to Sen and appealed to Bengal’s intellectuals to rise in protest against the “disrespect and lies” being peddled against people “who are revered in every Bengali household”. Asked about the intellectuals’ protest, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said: “Whenever Trinamool is in trouble, they reach out to the intellectuals. But these intellectuals should also realise Trinamool is a sinking ship. They need to abandon it, or they will drown.” State education minister Partha Chatterjee said: “What can you expect from a half-literate party? They should understand and learn about Bengal before speaking.” Left Front chairperson Biman Bose urged the state government to “clear the issue” with Visva-Bharati. “This needs to be resolved. The state should engage with VB. Amartya Sen is not an ordinary person. His work and writings have made an impact across the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/intellectuals-protest-ancestral-link-charges-against-amartya/articleshow/79983296.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Flying to US and Canada becomes expensive for Chennai passengers||CHENNAI: Flying to the US and Canada has become expensive as passengers from Chennai have to transit via Dubai or Abu Dhabi, the only two international hubs that are operating flights after flights were suspended to Europe and to the UK. As options are fewer, fares are up by almost 50%. Travellers are forced to shell out close to Rs 1 lakh for oneway tickets from Chennai because choice of flights is fewer. The ticket cost is usually around Rs50,000 to 65,000. Passengers from Chennai have to depend on flights via Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Doha for economical tickets with a good baggage allowance. However, these routes from Chennai to the Middle East are full because of travellers heading to Dubai and Abu Dhabi for the New Year weekend. Basheer Ahmed, of Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI), said: “The only option is to fly via Delhi by direct flights operated by Air India. But the number of seats is fewer on these flights. This is causing inconvenience to the passengers who are headed to the US before New Year.” He also said that airlines like Emirates have reduced the frequency after the ban of flights to Europe and the UK. “The airlines have cancelled a few flights from December 29 onwards. This is also a reason for reduction in the number of seats from Chennai to the Middle East and onwards towards the US or Canada.” Though demand for travel is high, the airlines are not able to accommodate all passengers on the flights. “The airlines are using big planes but they carry only around 60 passengers per flight. This is a drawback. This also leads to a hike in air fare,” he added. The Air India flights from Delhi may not be able to handle the demand from other cities of the country. Nevertheless, passengers can fly down by Hong Kong also. Similar is the situation for those flying down from the US as they have to wait for tickets to be confirmed on Air India. Travel and tour operators hope that the suspension of flights will be lifted on January 1 as a number of students, family members have scheduled travel plans in the first week of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/flying-to-us-and-canada-becomes-expensive-for-chennai-passengers/articleshow/79984073.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: In blunt message to BJP, AIADMK rules out sharing office||CHENNAI: The ruling AIADMK launched its campaign for the forthcoming assembly election in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, using the occasion to send out a clear message to the BJP that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will be the CM candidate and it will not share power with any party if it wins the election. Addressing the gathering, AIADMK deputy coordinator and Rajya Sabha MP K P Munusamy hit out at the BJP, without mentioning it, over its stand on EPS as the CM candidate. "Our chief minister Palaniswami will be the CM candidate in the ensuing assembly election. AIADMK will lead the alliance. It will come to power. AIADMK will not share power with anyone. Any national party or a regional party that wants to join hands with us with such an aspiration is not needed," Munusamy said, setting the tone for the party's campaign and sending a clear message to the BJP, whose leaders have been maintaining that the party will decide the CM candidate of NDA. On its part, the PMK has been upping the ante by reportedly seeking a power sharing agreement with AIADMK. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who is also the party coordinator, and CM Palaniswami, who is the joint coordinator of the party, too chose not to mention anything about the alliance or likely allies, including the BJP. Both the leaders targeted the DMK and its president M K Stalin. In his speech, Panneerselvam asked party cadres to reach out to every household and highlight the achievements of AIADMK rule and remind them of the perils of having voted for the earlier DMK regime in the state. "Let us work as one unit. People have only good things to say about our government. Work hard to convert that positive perception about us into votes," Panneerselvam told the cadres, addressing the AIADMK election campaign launch meeting held at YMCA grounds, Royapettah in Chennai on Sunday noon. “DMK was in power at the Centre for 16 years, but failed to get even a single project to Tamil Nadu. Whereas, we do not even have a minister in the Union cabinet, but have brought the AIIMS to Madurai, besides 11 new government medical colleges to Tamil Nadu. During the earlier DMK regime, Tamil Nadu was reeling under a 60% power cut and lakhs of workers were rendered jobless due to power shortage,” Panneerselvam said. Chief minister Palaniswami expressed confidence that AIADMK will return to power for a third successive time. "We work for the people of this state, unlike DMK leaders who work for the people in their households. As in parliamentary elections, DMK and its president M K Stalin will make false promises. But they will not implement it. Our cadres should tell the people not to fall prey to such falsehood. People know how to differentiate the Lok Sabha and assembly elections," Palaniswami said. “DMK president Stalin has met the Tamil Nadu governor and handed over a petition alleging irregularities committed by me and other ministers. They are all false allegations. Stalin is complaining about rain water stagnation in Chennai. Was he sleeping for five years, when he was elected Mayor of Chennai Corporation and later when he became the deputy chief minister and local administration minister? Against 3,000 areas that reported water stagnation earlier, only 17 places faced that problem now. People know how we work,” Palaniswami said, hitting out at Stalin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-edappadi-k-palaniswami-is-cm-candidate-and-no-power-sharing-says-aiadmk/articleshow/79984083.cms||D Govardan
December 28, 2020||Goa||Oranje, football and memories as Sporting Clube owner Peter Vaz is laid to rest||PANAJI: Amidst the black and white, suddenly there was a flurry of orange. This was Peter Vaz’s favourite colour; he chose it personally for his team, telling everyone just how good it looks. It’s a colour of joy and warmth. But at his Caranzalem residence, the mood was anything but that. Everyone was in tears. The Sporting Clube owner and chairman of the Models Group who proved that you don’t really need the big bucks to take on the best in football – in Goa and beyond – passed away on Thursday, and as his body was brought home on Sunday morning, nobody could hold themselves back. Ministers, MLAs, prominent doctors, high-ranking officials and citizens from all walks of life came home to pay their last respect. That these are times of Covid-19 didn’t matter. They all spoke in glowing terms: Of what Vaz did for themselves, Goan football and the state. It was the arrival of the Sporting Clube players, though, that remained significant. Dressed in the club’s traditional bright orange and led by captain Marcus Mascarenhas, the players wore jerseys with ‘Adeus Sir Peter’ boldly written in front. At the back, the number 53 was unmissable. It was their patrao’s age, having celebrated his 53rd birthday last month. Except for a handful of seniors, most players from the current team are just kickstarting their careers. They have been with Sporting Clube’s junior teams, and it was Vaz’s belief that these youngsters can rub shoulders with seniors. They were given a chance and proved him right, leading ‘Flaming Oranje’ to the Goa Professional League title, shared with Churchill Brothers SC due to a season that ended abruptly. “Peter did all he possibly could to ensure that the players were happy and gave their best to the club. Given a choice between players and officials, he would side with the players,” said Angelo Albuquerque, the club’s manager since inception in 1999. There was a hearse van parked outside the house, but the players had other ideas. Once the casket was draped with the Sporting Clube flag – there was a football too at the side – the players carried his casket from the residence to the Our Lady of the Rosary Church. On the way they were joined by Welvin Menezes and Victor Fernandes, current and past CEOs of the club. Right ahead were Vaz’s three children – Danira, Diogo and Dionne, taking turns to carry a football along with them. “He has done so much of good to the church,” said parish priest Fr Rosario Oliveira. Fr. Avin Carvalho, rector at Don Bosco, delivered the homily telling everyone “Peter had a duplex apartment in his heart for those in need.” In the end, it was Vaz’s daughter Danira who summed up her father the best. “A trusted friend and champion of the underdog.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oranje-football-and-memories-as-sporting-clube-owner-peter-vaz-is-laid-to-rest/articleshow/79984093.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Rajinikanth discharged from hospital, advised complete bed rest by doctors||CHENNAI: Actor Rajinikanth, who was admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad due to severe fluctuations in the blood pressure on December 25, was discharged on Sunday. While he has been advised complete bed rest for a week, Rajinikanth, accompanied by his daughter, returned to the city by evening. “In view of his post-transplant status, labile hypertension and age,” the hospital said it has given the actor postcare advice to be followed in addition to the medication and diet. He has been advised complete bed rest for one week with regular monitoring of blood pressure, minimal physical activity and to avoid stress, Apollo Hospitals Hyderabad said in a statement. “In view of his condition, he has also been counselled to avoid any activity that increases the risk of contracting Covid-19,” the hospital said. The hospital’s advice to Rajinikanth immediately put a question mark on the actor’s pre-announced plan about making an announcement on December 31 about launching his political party next month. While the actor did not talk to reporters either in Hyderabad or in Chennai, there has been no communication from his office too. But the actor’s close confidante Tamilaruvi Manian, who has been given the responsibility of coordinating the party work along with A Arjunamurthy, did not think the developments would alter the planned announcement on December 31. “I hope he will still go ahead and make that announcement. But I will have clarity only after I speak to Rajinikanth once he returns to the city,” Tamilaruvi Manian told Times Now on Sunday noon. “I have been speaking to him regularly and Rajinikanth is keen on launching his party and fielding candidates in all 234 assembly constituencies. Any speculation otherwise will be the handiwork of a few political parties, whose prospects could be hampered by Rajinikanth’s entry into politics,” Manian added. Another source, who has access to Rajinikanth said, the announcement of December 31 could still happen. “Of course there is the advice from the hospital. He will surely launch his party. But to go alone or with an alliance is what needs to be decided. The announcement, if he decides to make it, can still be made through the social media,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-rajinikanth-discharged-from-hospital-advised-complete-bed-rest-by-doctors/articleshow/79984097.cms||D Govardan
December 28, 2020||India||Centuries-old star mystery gets deeper||BENGALURU: An international team of astronomers led by India’s Physical Research Lab (PRL), has discovered that CK Vulpeculae, first seen as a bright new star in 1670, is approximately five times farther away than previously thought. This makes the 1670 explosion of CK Vulpeculae much more energetic than previously estimated and puts it into a mysterious class of objects that are too bright to be members of the well-understood type of explosions known as novae, but too faint to be supernovae. The team was led by PRL’s Dipankar Banerjee. According to Isro, 350 years ago, French monk Anthelme Voituret saw CK Vulpeculae flare into life. Over the following months, the star became almost as bright as Polaris (North Star) — and was monitored by some of the leading astronomers of the day like Hevelius and Cassini — before it faded from view after a year. The faint hour-glass nebula around CK Vul imaged in the red light of Hydrogen H-alpha emission. The central star cannot be seen either in the optical or in the infrared as it is enshrouded by dense layers of dust [courtesy: Gemini Observatory/ NOIRLab/ NSF/ AURA]. “CK Vulpeculae was long considered to be the first documented example of a nova — a fleeting astronomical event arising from an explosion in a close binary star system in which one member is a white dwarf, the remnant of a Sun-like star. However, a string of recent results have thrown the longstanding classification of CK Vulpeculae as a nova into doubt,” Isro said. While astronomers are familiar with and have basic understanding of the two most common types of violent stellar explosions — novae and supernovae — CK Vulpeculae explosion, considered for a long time to be a nova outburst, is one of the very few in the Milky Way Galaxy that does not fit into either category. In 2015, a team of astronomers suggested that CK Vulpeculae’s appearance in 1670 was the result of two normal stars undergoing a cataclysmic collision. In 2018, the same astronomers further proposed that one of the stars was in fact a bloated red giant star, following their discovery of a radioactive isotope of aluminium in the immediate surroundings of the site of the 1670 explosion. Complicating the picture even further, a separate group of astronomers proposed that the sudden brightening in 1670 was the result of the merger between a brown dwarf — a failed star too small to shine via thermonuclear fusion that powers the Sun — and a white dwarf. Now, adding to the ongoing mystery surrounding the star, new observations from the Gemini telescope reveal that CK Vulpeculae is farther away and ejected gas at much higher speeds than previously reported, Isro said about the PRL-led team’s findings. “The team initially planned to confirm the 2018 detection of radioactive aluminum. After realizing that detecting this in the infrared would be far more difficult than they originally thought, astronomers improvised and obtained infrared observations across the full extent of CK Vulpeculae, including the two wisps of nebulosity at its outermost edges,” Isro said. The key to the discovery was the spectroscopic measurements obtained at the outer edges of the nebula. The signature of red-shifted and blue-shifted iron atoms detected there shows that the nebula is expanding much more rapidly than previous observations had suggested. The gas was found to be traveling at the unexpectedly high speed of about 7 million km/hour – hinting at a different story about CK Vulpeculae than what had been theorized. By measuring both the speed of the nebula’s expansion and how much the outermost wisps had moved during the last decade, and accounting for the tilt of the nebula on the night sky, which had been estimated earlier by others, the team determined that CK Vulpeculae lies approximately 10,000 light-years distant from the Sun — about five times as far away as previously thought. That implies that the 1670 explosion was far brighter, releasing roughly 25 times more energy than previously estimated. This much larger estimate of the amount of energy released means that whatever event caused the sudden appearance of CK Vulpeculae in 1670 was far more violent than a simple nova.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centuries-old-star-mystery-gets-deeper/articleshow/79984104.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Rajinikanth discharged after BP stabilises||HYDERABAD: Actor Rajinikanth was discharged from the Apollo hospital, Hyderabad after his blood pressure stabilised and was under observation for two days. He was admitted to the hospital on December 25 with severe hypertension and exhaustion and was kept under close medical supervision by a team of doctors. An official statement issued by the hospital on Sunday evening read, “His blood pressure has stabilised, and he is feeling much better. In view of his improved medical condition he is being discharged from the hospital today. In view of his post-transplant status, labile hypertension and age he has been advised complete bed rest for one week in addition to the medications and diet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rajinikanth-discharged-after-bp-stabilises/articleshow/79984114.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Woman dies after sari catches fire in kitchen||CHENNAI: A 63-year-old woman died in Avadi after her sari caught fire from a stove. Police said Hamsaveni was preparing tea on Saturday morning when the accident happened. Hearing her cries for help, neighbours rushed in and saw the woman engulfed in flames. They tried to put out the fire by throwing water on her. They rolled a bedsheet around her. Police said the sari Hamsaveni was wearing caused severe burns. The woman was rushed to a hospital with 85% burn injuries. After her condition grew critical, she was shifted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital where she succumbed to injuries later in the evening. Police have registered a case of accidental death and her body has been sent for postmortem. "She did not notice the fire until it spread on her entire body," said an investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-woman-dies-after-sari-catches-fire-in-kitchen/articleshow/79984129.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Pune||705 recover from Covid in Pune metropolitan region, 14 succumb||PUNE: More than 700 patients recovered from Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region till 8pm on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries in the region to nearly 3.5 lakh. In the same 24-hour window, PMR recorded 564 fresh cases, taking its progressive tally to 3,60,758. Fourteen people succumbed to the contagion on Sunday. The region’s death toll now stands at 8,777. Pune Municipal Corporation areas reported 292 cases, while the rural areas, with 128 cases, were second. Ninety-four people tested positive in Pimpri Chinchwad, as per data released by the district health office. Municipal council limits and cantonment areas in the district reported 33 and 17 cases, respectively. PMC limits also accounted for the highest number of recoveries, with 470 people getting discharged. Pimpri Chinchwad (104), rural (107), municipal councils (12) and cantonments (12) made up the rest. As of Sunday, there were 7,240 active cases in PMR — 2,105 patients were being treated in hospitals, while 5,135 were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/705-recover-from-covid-in-pune-metropolitan-region-14-succumb/articleshow/79984092.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
December 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Painted storks arrive at Vedanthangal||CHENNAI: The last to build their nests at the Vedanthangal, painted storks have begun to arrive at the sanctuary. A senior wildlife official said more than 16,000 migratory birds -- including open-billed storks, spot-billed pelicans, glossy ibis, white ibis, cormorants, darters, egrets, night herons, pond herons -- have colonized the trees in the tank. At present, the number of open-billed storks is the highest followed by glossy and white ibises. One can see about 200 spoon-billed storks in the sanctuary, he said. When the painted storks start roosting, the arrival season is complete, he said. The official said with the tank full, birds have come in big numbers to roost compared to 2018 when only 2,000 birds had come as the tank was near-dry after a drought. The official said the sanctuary remains off limits for visitors. "Entry of visitors has not been approved by wildlife officials yet," he said. In the nearby Karikili sanctuary, where the tank is brimming, ducks have come in small numbers. Not many visit the sanctuary as it is far from Vedanthangal. The tank attracts migratory ducks which fly for thousands of kilometres nonstop to reach Karikili. "We expect that wildlife authorities will allow visitors in the coming weeks," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-painted-storks-arrive-at-vedanthangal/articleshow/79984131.cms||P Oppili
December 28, 2020||India||Yogi: Sacrifices of Sikh Guru’s sons to be part of UP syllabus||LUCKNOW: UP CM Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the supreme sacrifice made by the four sons of the 10th Sikh guru, Guru Gobind Singh, should be included in UP’s school curriculum. Speaking at a programme on Sahibzada Diwas, organised at his official residence, Yogi said their sacrifice to save Hinduism and the country would inspire future generations to work towards nationbuilding. Hailing the Sikh community as the “protector” of Hinduism, he said future generations should be told that Hindus and the country were safe because of Khalsa Panth. “I suggest that the education minister should include this in school curriculum. We celebrate Sahibzada Diwas on December 27, but I feel that this day is actually children’s day as the Sahibzadas made the supreme sacrifice at such a tender age,” he said. “The sacrifices of Baba Ajit Singh, Baba Jujhar Singh, Baba Zorawar Singh, and Baba Fateh Singh is something that everyone should know,” he added. He said schools should organise programmes as a mark of respect to the four brothers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/yogi-sacrifices-of-sikh-gurus-sons-to-be-part-of-up-syllabus/articleshow/79984174.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Virus grips 199 more; every fifth case in UP from Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The city continued to record the highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the state on Sunday. While 199 more persons were infected by novel coronavirus in the past 24 hours, three patients succumbed to the disease. The new infections accounted for 21% of the total number of cases (959) in the state on Sunday, which means every fifth case in UP was from Lucknow. Similarly, every fifth Covid-19 death in UP occurred in Lucknow. The city’s toll accounted for 23% of the total casualties (13) in the state. The biggest contributors in Lucknow’s Sunday tally were Gomtinagar and Indiranagar with 23 and 21 cases respectively. The city’s case count reached 77,659.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-grips-199-more-every-fifth-case-in-up-from-lucknow/articleshow/79984181.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: ‘Aarogya Vatika’ for every area||LUCKNOW: Every area in the city will have ‘Aarogya Vatika’. Parks where Navbharat Times team won’t be able to reach but the residents wish to set up one, Lucknow Municipal Corporation will come for aid. This was stated by mayor Sanyukta Bhatia during NBT’s Aarogya Vatika event under which a medicinal plants ‘vatika’ was set up at a park in C-block in Indiranagar on Sunday. PK Trivedi, director, Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic plants, said the institute has always been promoting Ayurveda and has made people aware about the several health benefits of medicinal plants.” Happy with Aarogya Vatika, the residents of Indiranagar said it is a boon for them in the pandemic. “We were not aware that there are so many health benefits of plants like aloevera, tulsi, giloi and others which are easily found in every household. The Vatika will not only make medicinal plants available to us but will also make people aware of the wonderful benefits of these plants,” said Indiranagar resident Palakh Sen. NBT is setting up Aarogya Vatika in different parts of the city. If you are interested in getting one set up in your locality, send mail to nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-aarogya-vatika-for-every-area/articleshow/79984191.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: 26-year-old woman jumps to death with infant daughter||GHAZIABAD: A 26-year-old woman held her two-year-old daughter in her arms and jumped from the 4th-floor corridor outside their flat in Shalimar Garden on Saturday evening. The child died on the spot while her mother, Preeti, succumbed to her injuries in hospital after an hour. Preeti’s family has lodged a police complaint, accusing her husband, Amit, of pushing her and their daughter to death. They alleged that Amit, a constable with Delhi Police, had been harassing her for a few months over dowry. The couple lived on the 4th floor of Delhi 99, a highrise in Shalimar Garden. A resident of the housing society said he came to know about the incident from the security guards. “I rushed to the tower where the couple lived and found the woman and her daughter lying face down. There was blood all over. We informed police and a team arrived in the society within 10 minutes,” he added. Alok Dubey, the circle officer of Sahibabad area, said it was around 7pm that Preeti jumped along with the little girl. “The guards saw them first and informed her husband, Amit. They were rushed to a nearby hospital. The 2-year-old child was declared dead on arrival while her mother died during treatment after an hour,” he said. “At the time of the incident, her husband was inside the flat. We have received a complaint from the woman’s family. They have alleged that the husband killed her and their daughter over dowry,” the officer added. Preeti’s brother Manoj, who is also a constable in Delhi Police, said the couple got married in 2018, but ties between them soured recently over dowry. “There was a fight between them on Friday night. Amit would torture my sister over dowry. The matter was, however, sorted on Friday night after my father spoke to Amit over phone and even met him at his sister’s place,” Manoj said. “That was not the first time that Amit had harassed her over dowry. He had been doing so for several months,” he added. On the basis of a complaint lodged by Preeti’s family, an FIR has been registered against Amit under the sections 304B (dowry death) and 302 (murder) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Dowry Act. “We had sent a police team to arrest the accused, but he is absconding at the moment. A search is on for him,” Dubey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-26-year-old-woman-jumps-to-death-with-infant-daughter/articleshow/79984202.cms||---
December 28, 2020||India||What triggered funding crisis for SC scholarship scheme||NEW DELHI: The revision of the Post-Matric Scholarship scheme for Scheduled Castes with a 60:40 fund sharing between the Centre and states has been forced by a 2018 formula authored by the social justice ministry that triggered a crisis, putting a question mark on BR Ambedkar’s personal initiative heading into independence to encourage education among the most disempowered social group. While the Centre and states have constantly played a cat and mouse game on funding, there was a virtual stand-off when social justice ministry stopped clearing the arrears. The outstanding ballooned to around Rs 9,000 crore in 2017. Till 2017, the PMS followed the “committed liability” (CL) formula by which the state’s annual share was the amount it spent in the last year of a five-year plan period. As arrears grew, there was grumbling in Delhi that states were depressing their demand in the last plan year to keep their burden low. Around 2018, the PMS crisis came to a head. Then secretary, social justice and empowerment, told the parliamentary standing committee that the 2018-19 budget of Rs 7,750 crore for the ministry, as against its demand of Rs 11,027 crore, will badly affect the PMS since it was already reeling under accumulated arrears of Rs 8,600 crore till 2017-18. When the Centre chose to clear the arrears, it made the “CL formula” more strict — shifting CL from “last year of a plan period” to the “highest expenditure in any of the five years”. As a result, the financial burden overwhelmingly fell on states. Sources said as many as 15 states stopped getting central funds for the scheme while the Centre’s total annual share in PMS dropped to Rs 1,100 crore (10-11%) between 2017-2020. In contrast, till 2017, the Centre’s share was roughly 60%. This pushed the states to the wall, resulting in a question mark on the PMS, the most sought after scheme among Dalits that has played a key role in increasing the community’s enrolment in higher education post-independence. Insiders and experts argue that making the CL formula stricter in 2018 was a wrong move that was bound to fail if the PMS was to be kept afloat. Now, the revision to peg 60% of the PMS cost on the Centre is a bid to return to a balance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/what-triggered-funding-crisis-for-sc-scholarship-scheme/articleshow/79984121.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
December 28, 2020||Amritsar||Fazilka lawyer ends life at farmers’ protest site in Haryana||BATHINDA: A lawyer from Punjab’s Fazilka district allegedly consumed poison at farmers’ protest site in Bahadurgarh on Sunday morning. He was taken to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, where doctors declared him dead on arrival. Amarjit Singh (63), from Mahalam village was a resident of Jalalabad and had been at the protest site for a week. In a purported suicide note, dated December 18 and addressed to Prime Minister Narenda Modi, Singh wrote that he was sacrificing his life in support of the farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws so that the government is compelled to listen to the voice of the people. “…After Independence, the people expected better future in you as Prime Minister. But with great sorrow and pain, I have to write that you have become Prime Minister of a special group,” he wrote. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said, “It is happening due to the Centre’s anti-people attitude. The government should provide financial assistance to the bereaved family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/fazilka-lawyer-ends-life-at-farmers-protest-site-in-haryana/articleshow/79984205.cms||Neel Kamal
December 28, 2020||Delhi||PM Modi inaugurates country’s first-ever driverless train operations on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated India’s first ever driverless train operations on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden) as well as the fully operational National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) services on the Airport Express Line, via videoconferencing, on Monday at 11am. The prime minister said the inauguration of the first driverless metro train shows how fast India was moving towards smart systems. Next-generation infrastructure for Delhi. Watch. https://t.co/LK789BkE3x— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1609134270000"The first metro in Delhi was started with the efforts of Atal Ji. When our govt was formed in 2014, only five cities had metro services while today 18 cities have the services. By 2025, we will take this to over 25 cities," said PM Modi. The PM said his govt had worked to unify services to help people. "Make In India' is very important for the expansion of metro services. It reduces cost and provides more employment to Indian people," the prime minister added. “With the commencement of driverless trains on Magenta Line, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will enter the elite league of 7% of world’s Metro networks, which can operate without drivers,” a DMRC spokesperson said. After starting driverless services on the 37km-long Magenta Line, another major corridor of Delhi Metro, the 57kmlong Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) will also have driverless operations by mid-2021. After this, DMRC will have a driverless network length of about 94 kilometres, which will be approximately 9% of world’s total driverless Metro network. Delhi: PM Narendra Modi & Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal attend inauguration programme of India’s first driverless train… https://t.co/7KSvn5DYfR— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609134121000The common mobility card, which will be fully operationalised on the Airport Express Line, will allow anyone carrying a RuPay-Debit card issued recently in the last 18 months by 23 banks. The driverless train operations on the Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line as well as the fully operational National Common… https://t.co/cNgyFzhc47— Delhi Metro Rail Corporation I कृपया मास्क पहनें😷 (@OfficialDMRC) 1609081584000The same facility will become available on the entire Delhi Metro network by 2022, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pm-modi-inaugurates-countrys-first-ever-driverless-train-operations-on-delhi-metros-magenta-line/articleshow/79984215.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers' protests: Over 1,300 telecom towers damaged in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Despite Punjab CM Amarinder Singh’s appeal to protesting farmers to not damage telecom infrastructure, more than 150 signal transmitting sites were vandalised across the state in the last 24 hours. So far, farmers protesting against the Centre’s agri laws have either damaged or snapped power lines of over 1,330 telecom towers in the state. Amarinder had on Friday urged the farmers to exercise restraint as forceful disruption of telecom services due to snapping of power supply to mobile towers was affecting the studies of students, who are dependent on online education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/over-1300-telecom-towers-damaged-in-punjab/articleshow/79984229.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Business||‘Delhi-Dubai 5th busiest global air route in Dec’||NEW DELHI: Delhi-Dubai and Mumbai-Dubai have now figured among the busiest international routes in the pandemic world. According to the UK-based air consultancy firm OAG, Delhi-Dubai is the fifth and Mumbai-Dubai the 10th busiest air routes this month in terms of seat capacity deployment by airlines. These two have historically been the busiest international routes for India. The busiest international route is Dubai-London Heathrow (1.7 lakh seats) followed by Orlando-San Juan (1.6 lakh seats) and Cairo-Jeddah (1.4 lakh). Delhi-Dubai has 1.1 lakh and Mumbai-Dubai over a lakh seats this month, as per OAG. While scheduled international flights remain suspended, foreign travel by eligible categories of people is currently happening to and from countries with which India has created air bubble and on Vande Bharat mission flights. Domestic air traffic, on the other hand, is reviving steadily. Christmas saw higher number of domestic flyers at over 2.5 lakh since scheduled flights within the country were allowed to resume on May 25 (with day one seeing about 30,000 flyers). In a statement, online travel firm Cleartrip said: “The uncertainty caused by pandemic has resulted in travellers preferring to book their travel close to the travel date. In (pre-pandemic) January-March 2020, 51% of the trips were booked within two weeks of travel date. However, post lockdown, the share of trips booked within two weeks before travel increased to about 81% in April-September 2020. We’ve seen this trend reverse to an extent in Q4 (67%).” In January-March 2020, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Goa, Kolkata and Hyderabad were the top booked cities by travellers from Delhi. April-June saw Patna at the top spot followed by Kolkata, Srinagar, Ranchi and Bengaluru. In July-September, the top five cities booked to travel to from Delhi were Mumbai, Patna, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kolkata. In October-December, the five cities were Mumbai, Goa, Bengaluru, Patna and Kolkata. “The (April-June) quarter saw Patna, Srinagar and Ranchi feature in the top destinations with Mumbai and Goa not being present. This indicates a shift away from business destinations and implies that travellers were returning to their hometowns right after the pandemic. In the (July-September) quarter, we saw some amount of confidence come back with the return of Bengaluru and Hyderabad in the top five booked destinations. In the (October-December) quarter, easing of restrictions coupled with the onset of festive seasons has led to a preference towards leisure destinations as evidenced by Goa being among the top-ranked destinations booked in the quarter,” the Cleartrip data shows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/delhi-dubai-5th-busiest-global-air-route-in-dec/articleshow/79984227.cms||Saurabh Sinha
December 28, 2020||Noida||Property sales in NCR down by 51% in 2020||NOIDA: Property sales in NCR declined 51% in 2020 compared with 2019. A year-end report released by property consultants, Anarock, revealed that compared to 46,920 units sold in NCR during 2019, only 23,210 units have sold in 2020. Nationally, the decline in unit-wise sale of property has been marked at 47%. Anarock’s data indicates that the top seven cities saw total home sales of over 1.3 lakh units in 2020 against approximately 2.6 lakh units in 2019 – a decline of 47%. In addition to the drop in sales, new housing supply in 2020 has also declined by 46% against the preceding year – from approximately 2.4 lakh units in 2019 to 1.3 lakh units in 2020. Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock Property Consultants, said, “This year has been an unprecedented one due to the pandemic, causing all-round upheaval. However, the residential segment was quick to pick up momentum in the last two quarters of 2020 on the back of growing homeownership sentiment - catalysed by the exigencies of the pandemic. This pent-up demand was accelerated by the discounts and offers.” “Anarock data reveals that the festive quarter (October-December period) stood out among all four quarters in 2020, witnessing maximum sales due to multiple offers and discounts, low interest rates and limited-period stamp duty cuts in states such as Maharashtra. Buoyed by the rising sales, developers also saw it fit to unleash ample new supply into the market, leading to a 2% y-o-y jump in Q4 2020 against the same period in 2019. The new supply was dominated by strong branded developers. This strong growth in Q4 has set the stage for revival of residential activity in 2021 as well,” Puri added. Nationally, the top seven cities saw housing sales of approximately 1,38,350 units in entire 2020 as against 2,61,370 units in 2019, declining by 47%. Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) saw housing sales of approximately 44,320 units in 2020, reducing yearly by 45%. Last year, the city saw total sales of nearly 80,870 units. In Bengaluru, housing sales touched 24,910 units in 2020 against 50,450 units in 2019 – a decline of over 51%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/property-sales-in-ncr-down-by-51-in-2020/articleshow/79982461.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ghaziabad||Fire at Maruti showroom, 26 cars damaged||GHAZIABAD: A massive fire broke out at a car showroom at 10am near Delhi Public School on Meerut Road on Sunday, police said. The cops added that there were no injuries in the incident. The fire department took over an hour to control the situation, but four cars were completely burnt. The fire department suspect short circuit to be the reason behind the blaze. Chief fire officer (CFO) Sunil Kumar Singh said three fire tenders from several areas were initially sent to the Maruti Suzuki showrrom. “It took a total of 10 fire tenders an hour to douse the flame,” he said The firemen said four cars — parked in the car showroom — were completely destroyed. Twenty-six cars were damaged, an official said, adding that the firm suffered a loss of over Rs 1 crore. “We have saved 150 cars in the showroom. At the time of the incident, some employees were inside the showroom,” he added. An employee said the fire broke out at the second floor. “Documents kept on the second floor have been damaged,” he added. In a similar incident last week, a blaze was reported from a paint manufacturing factory in an industrial area on Meerut road. Though no causality was reported, goods worth lakhs were gutted. According to the fire officers, it took eight fire tenders to douse the flames that started around 2pm. Hundreds of drums filled with thinner were kept at the factory and a blast occurred after the fire surrounded the drums and they exploded one after another. Officers said the flames were more than 20-metre-high which could be seen from around a kilometre. Even the employees of the factory didn't dare to douse it when it started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/fire-at-maruti-showroom-26-cars-damaged/articleshow/79982664.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 28, 2020||Noida||RWA body drops key members, deputy registrar seeks response||NOIDA: More than 20 founder and life members have objected to Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association (FONRWA) doing away with their membership. They are also joined by some residents welfare associations (RWAs) questioning FONRWA’s new rule of no additional social or honorary post to be held by any RWA member. After lifetime members complained to Office of Deputy Registrar Firms Societies and Chits, Meerut on December 11, a reply was sought by Meerut deputy registrar from FONRWA on December 21 on the matter. “The meeting which was organised by the FONRWA on December 6 was against the bylaw rules of the organisation when they removed the founder and life membership rules of the parent RWA body of the city,” said P S Jain, the former life member of FONRWA. According to Jain, the proposal to terminate the membership of the founder and life members was neither passed in the meeting of the executive body nor was it placed in the agenda of the FONRWA general board meeting. “Therefore, the move is illegal and cannot be considered,” he said. Meanwhile, K K Jain, the secretary-general of FONRWA told TOI that they received a letter from deputy registrar of Meerut on Saturday and a due reply will be sent as the complaint holds no ground. “The queries raised are of a generic kind and hold no merit. All rules were followed in the GBM meeting and we will give a due reply to it this week,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/rwa-body-drops-key-members-deputy-registrar-seeks-response/articleshow/79982492.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
December 28, 2020||India||2 of 15 most-destructive 2020 climate disasters impacted India, says report||NEW DELHI: A new global report in its analysis of 15 most destructive climate disasters of 2020 has found that nine of these extreme events, including two in India, caused damage worth at least $5 billion. Though hurricanes in the US and central American countries turned out to be the most expensive ($41 billion), floods in India during June-October period caused the loss of highest number of human lives. In fact, India’s floods, which killed 2,067, caused loss of more human lives than casualties in all other 14 destructive climate disasters put together. Floods in Pakistan which claimed 410 lives figured at second spot followed by the US and central American countries (400 lives lost in hurricanes) at the third position in the list of 15.  On cost of these financially devastating events, the report, ‘Counting the Cost 2020: A Year of Climate Breakdown’, prepared by the UK based non-profit organisation Christian Aid, said, “Most of these estimates are based on insured losses so the true figure is likely to be much higher.” The compilation, released on Sunday, noted that the cyclone ‘Amphan’, which struck the Bay of Bengal in May, had caused financial losses valued at $13 billion in just a few days in India and Bangladesh and caused loss of 128 human lives. Other events unfolded over months, like floods in China and India, had an estimated cost of $32 billion and $10 billion respectively. The report shows five of the ten most costly events took place in Asia. As far as displacement/evacuation of people due to disasters is concerned, Cyclone ‘Amphan’ caused displacement of the highest number of people at 4.9 million in India and Bangladesh, followed by floods in China (3.7 million) and Japan (3.6 million). “The Covid-19 pandemic has understandably been a major worry this year. For millions of people in vulnerable parts of the world, climate breakdown has compounded this. The good news is that, like the vaccine for Covid-19, we do know how to fix the climate crisis. We need to keep fossil fuels in the ground, boost clean energy investment and help those who are suffering on the front line,” said Kat Kramer, Christian Aid’s climate policy lead and author of the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-of-15-most-destructive-2020-climate-disasters-impacted-india-says-report/articleshow/79984276.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 28, 2020||Noida||Lessons From An Out-Of-Syllabus Year||When the pandemic hit, classrooms were among its first casualties. Online learning had existed before, but overnight became the primary mode of teaching and learning, testing and stretching the limits of students and teachers alike. Just as each student in a classroom is different, the impact of learning from a screen has played out unevenly. Some have discovered the wealth of time, some feel robbed of a year of campus life, and some find themselves in an unending battle with social isolation and a general atmosphere of uncertainty, write Sharmila Bhowmick & Abhijay Jha Riya Singhal, MBA (finance) Batch | 2021Amity Business School We are practically going into jobs without classroom exposure The biggest change for me | Over the past nine months, I have learnt to adjust and hone my communication skills. Everything now is via screens or over calls. To be able to communicate properly has become the biggest task. Slowly, I have learnt to be succinct and clear in what I am trying to say, either while answering questions or interacting in class. What I gained | With a reduction in commute time, I have had hours to dig into the online reading resources of our library. My research skills developed a lot over the past nine months and the quality of my study has improved. What I lost or missed the most | The greatest loss has been the lack of social contact. We are practically going to get into jobs without classroom exposure. We might get just one semester, but there is no guarantee. Interactions have majorly been on screens, so we missed a lot in terms of group cohesiveness. While education did not suffer, we lost a lot in terms of socialising and campus life. Anjali Jha, Class X (CBSE), Vishwa Bharati School, Noida We are 3 siblings. Simultaneous classes not only fun but also challenging The biggest change | Staying at home round the clock has been depressing and has also affected my studies as I had the habit of exchanging notes with my friends in school. But online classes have their own advantage. I have become more more responsible about my studies. What I gained | I received the support of my friends and family at this time. They have helped me understand and access gadgets. Eventually, things became easier and I got used to the new normal. I have two siblings at home, and we all have our online classes at the same time, which is both fun and a challenge. What I lost or missed the most | As this was the last year of secondary school, I missed the feeling of being physically present in the classroom. Class 10 is special. Many of us will go to other schools after this. Shivangi Mishra, BA (Hons)Batch | 2021 | Amity University Got time to read. I am more focused now The biggest change for me | I was not that tech-savvy, but ever since online classes began, I gradually learnt how things work and now I am quite comfortable with it. Earlier, I was hesitant about clearing doubts in a class of over 100 students. But now, there is no pressure of classmates watching me when I ask a question. What I gained | I am more focused now. Since I am a student of English language, I have the luxury of devoting more time to reading classics. What I lost or missed the most | I miss the company of friends the most. I had enrolled myself in dramatics and was also rehearsing for plays but the lockdown has put a stop to it all. Snigdha Basu, MBBS first year | Vardhman Mahavir Medical College (One of the top scorers in CBSE IN Noida, 2020)For medical students, the online curriculum will not work The biggest change | Online classes did not affect me as my exams were over. But I have not been able to join the MBBS classes. For medical students, the online curriculum will not work. This year has brought about a change in our approach. What I gained | Exams kept me busy in the last few years. I have started reading non-academic books too. What I lost or missed the most | I certainly miss my friends. Social media sites have helped us to stay connected. Krishna, Class IX |Gurukul - The School Miss the competition. It improved performance The biggest change for me | Online classes have made me a bit lethargic, which is reflecting in my daily chores. Earlier, there was a sense of urgency due to a routine. One needed to follow a few things like getting up at a fixed time, dressing up and having breakfast. But now, all we have to do is get presentable and sit before the laptop to attend classes. What I gained | Time that would otherwise go in commuting and other things is now being used to further our knowledge without breaking the continuity. For example, if I have a problem in understanding a concept, I immediately refer to books as soon as online classes end. What I lost or missed the most | Competition with classmates always improved my performance, but with online classes, we get to see very little of it. I have no clue about what they have learnt in the last few months. I also miss their company. Prem Gautam, Class X (UP Board), St Paul’s School, Gzb No online classes as I didn’t have a mobile The biggest change for me | The change was not positive because my studies got completely disrupted. During the lockdown, I was not able to go out. I could not attend online classes — no one in my family has a smartphone as they can’t afford it.What I gained | After the lockdown was lifted, I started visiting a friend who had an Android phone. I realised the importance of technology. By now, I have become well-versed in handling it.What I lost or missed the most | I miss my regular routine and the classroom environment. At home, it is very difficult to concentrate because I don’t have a personal space. Since my board exams are scheduled for next year, I’m worried about my studies. Vaishnavi Jha, Class V | DPS IndirapuramWhat if my friends forget me?The biggest change for me | I am more disciplined now. Also, I have gained more focus, my parents have pointed out.What I gained | My parents pay attention to my online classes and ask me questions and try to clarify doubts.What I lost or missed the most | I miss my friends and the physical activity in school. What if my friends forget me?Sanjay Mishra | a ParentWhen kids return to school, re-adjusting may be a problem It was the exigency of the situation that forced us to adopt the online education system. With time, students have become more attuned to it, but when theygo back to their classrooms, I think they might have a problem re-transitioning and re-adjusting. Asha Prabhakar | PrincipalBal Bharati Public School, NoidaWonder about the impact on continuity, kids’ emotional abilitiesThe primary wing students have not attended school. I wonder when they’’ll start attending school, and what it will do to their academic continuity. It will also affect their emotional abilities. Students have lost the feel of pen and paper, but it has proved to be a boon because they now know the concept of hybrid class.Navya Paithania, Class XII SHIV NADAR SchoolNot just studies all the time, we have virtual games and dance classes tooThe biggest change for me | When the classes went virtual, we were not used to studying on laptops for this long. Initially, it was slightly difficult for us to follow. Now, the screen is our school and we have learnt how to adjust with it. Earlier, as there was not much clarity, my brother and I had to share and put in place a routine for our respective classes on laptop and phones. Also, our teachers have changed the entire teaching methodology. Our classes are more interesting. Our school has set aside time for games and dance classes in the virtual schedule, so it’s not just all about studies online. What I gained | When we talk about saving time on commute, it does not make too much of a difference. As it is, after attending our school online, we are so exhausted that we cannot do anything productive for an hour or so. However, I have learnt to manage my time. I do get more hours to study. Also, I feel our teachers are now more connected to us, in the sense, we can always ping them if we have any doubts.What I lost or missed the most | We miss all the fun, especially since it’s our last year in school. As we are the senior-most batch, we could have enjoyed a lot this year. Besides, I miss the time spent in the school bus that was like a stress buster.Kanchan Prajapat, Class XIAMITY INTERNATIONAL SCHOOLMy father lost his job; my brother and I struggled to take online classesThe biggest change | The entire year was about adapting to the disruption and learning to move on with life in the face of challenges. The initial months were difficult; classes went online and we had only one smartphone at home. My brother and I struggled to take classes. My father worked as a driver, but lost his job. My perspective towards life changed. Also, not having teachers and friends around was a big change. What I gained | I was never tech-savvy. I was unaware of the possibilities of online communication. But now, I am fluent in using apps, emails, and accessing online material. This will help me in the future too.What I lost or missed the most | I miss my friends and teachers. Although classes are going on and learning isn’t impacted, studying online just isn’t the same. I keep longing for the classroom humour. I also miss playing football in school.Areeba Khan, BSc (Hons) (First year) SECTOR 14 GOVERNMENT COLLEGEI gained self-confidence, respect and recognitionThe biggest change | I got an opportunity from the district education officer to be a local change-maker and be part of a landmark initiative in the field of education. I became a sikshadoot and started taking classes at my home.What I gained | Self-confidence, respect in my community, and recognition of a local change-maker. I secured 90% in boards. Also, people in my locality respect me and students look up to me now as their mentor. I also became better at time management and multitasking.What I lost or missed the most | This year, I entered college and like everybody, I too had dreamt about campus life. I miss that experience. We make new friends, attend seminars and develop peer groups to help shape our careers.Chetna Negi Class IXPRESIDIUM SCHOOLIt’s led to self-discipline and better time managementThe biggest change for me | There has been a change in interpersonal communication and socialisation. I don’t exchange food with my friends anymore. Learning too has seen some changes. I have to study without much guidance now.What I gained | I have become conscious of my role in society. I practise healthy social habits. Moreover, the online classes have induced self-discipline and better time management in me. My technological skills have improved.What I lost or missed the most | I miss the outings with my friends. I also miss the events at school. This Christmas wasn’t the same as before.Sonali Gowrammagari, UG 2021, Psychology ASHOKA UNIVERSITYMiss the classroom debates & discussionsThe biggest change for me | For me, learning has become far more individualised as there is decreased interaction during classes. The silver lining of this circumstance would be my own enhanced engagement in terms of understanding and critiquing the content that helped me become more self-aware. The biggest challenge is to be able to sustain my concentration for the entire duration of online classes.What I gained | With time, I have learnt to keep a tab on my screen time and ensure mini breaks. I have learnt to manage time and resources. I also get to spend time with my family despite the heavy workload. Besides, I have discovered new hobbies.What I lost or missed the most | The massive shift has taken a while to get used to and I can’t help but reminisce the offline college days. I miss my classes that were structured with an emphasis on debate and discussion. Pooja Tobo Class XIIgovt senior sec schoolI miss sense of purpose cricket gave meThe biggest change for me | Struggling with online classes due to lack of access to smartphones to missing out my cricket training sessions, there were many changesI gained | I have realised how schools provide girls like me an agency to exercise our freedom of mobilityWhat I lost or missed the most | I miss the time spent on cricket field that gave me a sense of purposeManoj Manglani | a ParentMy kids have gained technical knowledge that I never hadWe had to adjust our work schedule as schools haven’t opened yet. However, online education has its benefits. My children, aged four and nine, already have the technical knowledge that I did not have. Discipline is an issue with virtual learning but not a major problem. Johannes Burgers Asst Prof ashoka universityNo clear sense of how learning outcomes are changingIt is too early to say how learning has changed. There is no shortage of anecdotal evidence about the positive and negative experiences students and teachers are having, but there is no clear sense of how this might be changing learning outcomes more broadly. Whether in India or elsewhere, crafting policy and guidelines this early on seems ill-advised, especially since we do not know the possible knock-on effects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/lessons-from-an-out-of-syllabus-year/articleshow/79982857.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
December 28, 2020||Noida||Noida’s water table fell 17 metres since 2016||NOIDA: The water table in Noida has depleted by around 17 metres since 2016. A government report has revealed that the level of groundwater has slid from 9.9 metres in 2016 to 26.7 metres this year. Greater Noida, in comparison, is better off. The water table here has depleted by around 6 metres. Officials said increasing population, industrial demands and rapid urbanisation have taken a toll on extraction of groundwater. During the survey, it was found that multiple spots have gone “dry” in Noida, which means the water table is below the testing limits here. The average depletion rate in both cities has been around 1.5m every year. The falling water table suggests that water is being extracted at a much faster rate than it is being recharged. Wetlands and ponds, which play a crucial role in recharging the water table, are mostly polluted and open grounds have given way to concrete jungles, causing more extraction of groundwater. “In comparison, Greater Noida is better off. The main reason for the drop in water table is the increasing population, which has automatically created a pressure on the water demand. Secondly, infrastructure development, construction and industrial growth have added to this pressure. The amount of rain is also going down over the years,” said Dev Sharma, an engineer with the groundwater department. In Noida, Mamura was found to have the lowest water table at 38.8m. But the water level has revived here because Mamura had gone dry in 2017. In Greater Noida, at least five spots have gone dry since 2016 and the water table here has gone down from 6.6m to 12.8m.The ground water department has digitally tested the water table at 35 spots in Greater Noida and 36 in Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noidas-water-table-fell-17-metres-since-2016/articleshow/79982449.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Noida||Did online classes help schools tide over enrolment fears?||Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, in his book The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, says: “There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact.” The pandemic outbreak and the mass exodus of migrant workers during the lockdown together had the potential to wreak havoc on school enrolments and eventually lead to the closure of the institutions. However, true to Doyle’s line, the facts turned out to be counter-intuitive. While hundreds of workers lost their jobs and left the NCR cities for their hometowns, enrolments in primary as well as higher secondary levels were barely affected in Noida and Ghaziabad. Initially, the education department said there was trepidation that classrooms might go empty, with migrants leaving the cities and factories and businesses pulling down shutters. But against all apprehension, there was a marginal increase in the figures as compared to the same period in 2019. After an initial lull, the enrolment numbers picked up after June and, by September, recovered to as old students returned. The schools also saw some new admissions as well even as classes remained online. The education department in Ghaziabad said that in comparison to 2019, when 10,19,259 students were enrolled in the primary section (Class 1-8) in UP Board schools, this year, a total of 10,17,257 kids were enrolled. “In the primary section, the enrolments saw a marginal dip, which is a bit surprising because we were under the impression that the enrolment would fall considerably as families had left the district due to the lockdown. However, when we analysed the data, we found that enrolment has fallen short by just 2002, which obviously means that families have returned,” said BB Choudhary, Basic Siksha Adhikari, Ghaziabad. In Noida, the enrolment for the same category in 2019 was 86,651 and this year, it was 86,489 – showing an insignificant drop of 162 students. “While there was no rise in enrolments this year, there was an insignificant drop in the numbers. Given the Covid situation, I think it is a very healthy sign,” said the district inspector of schools (DIOS), Dhirendra Singh. For classes 10 and 12, enrolments increased marginally as compared to 2019 in Ghaziabad. This year, for Class 10, the district schools enrolled 29,009 students while last year, the enrolment figures were 28,348. In Class 12, 25,365 students were enrolled while in 2019 it was just 23,887. “The online classes and the changes we made in the system due to the lockdown may have helped put us in good stead. This could also be the reason why enrolments in classes 10 and 12 have increased in comparison to last year,” said Ravi Dutt, the district inspector of schools, Ghaziabad. Similarly, Noida saw a rise in enrolments in the higher classes. In 2019, for Class 10, the district schools enrolled 20,680 students, which rose this time to 22, 210. For Class 12, the 2019 enrolment figures of 17,699 increased to 18, 692 in 2020. “Online classes have surprisingly had a positive impact on higher classes and the lockdown did not have any effect on them,” said Neeraj Pandey, the Basic Siksha Adhikari of Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/did-online-classes-help-schools-tide-over-enrolment-fears/articleshow/79982909.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
December 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Asked to pay for snacks, youths push man into hot oil||LUCKNOW: An eatery owner and his son suffered burns after being pushed into a pan of boiling oil by a group of youths, who were offended when the victims asked them pay for samosas and puris. According to police, Ramnath Yadav runs a shop under Takhwa flyover in Gomtinagar and is assisted by his sons Pradeep and Ranjeet. “Around 8pm on Saturday evening, one Mukul, his friend Abhishek and few others reached the shop and asked to serve puris and samosas,” said station house officer, Gomtinagar, Dheeraj Kumar Singh. They were offended, when Ramnath asked them to pay and attacked the trio, the SHO said. During the brawl, they pushed Ramnath and Pradeep towards the pan of boiling oil. The pan overturned and they suffered burns. Seeing nearby shopkeepers rushing towards them, the accused managed to escape. The victims were later rushed to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. “An FIR under the charges of punishment for voluntarily causing hurt, criminal intimidation and provocation has been registered against the accused,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-asked-to-pay-for-snacks-youths-push-man-into-hot-oil/articleshow/79984300.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Business||Vaccine boost for travel and retail sectors||NEW DELHI: After receiving a debilitating shock treatment at the hands of Covid, several industries in India across retail, FMCG and automobile are set to get back on their feet in 2021. Sectors like entertainment, travel and retail are expected to receive a boost once public confidence in vaccines kick in. Most retailers said they have recovered 70-80% of pre-Covid annual sales on the back of a bullish festive season. “A lot, however, will depend on further lockdowns due to the new strain of the virus,” said Rajat Wahi, partner at Deloitte India. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesThe auto sector, too, is expected to rebound by mid next year, after facing the longest slowdown in two decades. New model launches, replacement demand and a supportive financing environment are expected to drive growth, according to Morgan Stanley. FMCG displayed strong signs of recovery in the third quarter of 2020 with a 1.6% growth (versus Q3 of previous year), after an unprecedented decline of -19% in January-March. “There may be less money in consumers’ hands, which may impact discretionary spending,” said Arvind Singhal, founder, Technopak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vaccine-boost-for-travel-and-retail-sectors/articleshow/79984317.cms||John Sarkar
December 28, 2020||Bhopal||Less than 1K new Covid cases in MP after 40 days, recoveries rise||BHOPAL: On Sunday, it was nearly 40 days that less than 1,000 cases were reported in the state in a single day. A total of 946 new cases were reported in the state, taking the total number of cases to 2,38,352. Also, once again, more people recovered from Covid-19 than testing positive in a single day. Against 946 new people testing positive, 1,160 patients recovered in the state. With these new patients recovering, the total number of recoveries so far in the state reached 2,24,692. As on December 27, the overall recovery rate for Covid-19 in the state was 94.26%. Apart from the fresh cases, 18 casualties were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 reached 3,563 in the state on Sunday. Districts where these casualties were reported include 2 deaths each in Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior and Raisen, and one death each was reported from Jabalpur, Khargone, Ratlam, Dhar, Betul, Barwani, Chhindwara, Harda, Guna and Ashok Nagar districts. On Sunday, fresh cases were reported from 45 of the total 52 districts of the state. The districts where no new cases were reported include Harda, Datia, Seoni, Bhind, Ashok Nagar, Dindori and Burhanpur districts. New cases were reported in double figures from 20 districts. Maximum cases were reported from Indore where 286 new patients were found on Sunday, followed by Bhopal where 194 new patients were found, then Jabalpur where 47 new patients were found and Gwalior where 42 new patients were found. A total 26,845 samples were tested on Sunday, out of which 946 tested positive. Thus, the positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Sunday stood at 3.5 per cent. As on December 27, there were a total of 10,097 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/less-than-1k-new-covid-cases-in-mp-after-40-days-recoveries-rise/articleshow/79984330.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||Three more traced UK returnees in Mumbai found infected with virus||MUMBAI: Three more Mumbaikars who returned home from the UK between November 25 and December 21 have tested positive for Covid-19. With this, six out of the 1,765 UK returnees tested in Mumbai are positive so far, said BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani. These six are asymptomatic and are admitted to SevenHills Hospital, Kakani said. Their samples have been sent to NIV, Pune, for genome sequencing. The corresponding number in Maharashtra is 23. Although the state government update on Sunday evening stated that 21 among 2,935 traced passengers have tested positive, TOI found two more cases-one each in Nashik and Nagpur. The state breakup is: six in Mumbai, five in Nagpur, three in Thane, two each in Pune, Nashik and Buldhana, and one each in Nanded, Raigad and Aurangabad. In Nashik, a 25-year-old and a 20-year-old tested positive. Their mothers first showed symptoms and tested positive for the virus. It is not yet clear if the youths had infected their mothers or vice versa. In Nagpur, one more resident who returned from Europe tested positive on Sunday. The patient, a 35-year-old man, his wife and six-year-old boy, are residents of Ireland. They reached Raipur in Chhattisgarh for a wedding on December 14. They returned to Nagpur a couple of days ago and were asked by the municipal corporation to get tested after their name was found in the list sent by the Bureau of Immigration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-more-traced-uk-returnees-in-mumbai-found-infected-with-virus/articleshow/79984337.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Indore||No all-night New Year party in Indore||Indore collector has banned DJ parties or any special events on New Year’s Eve in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We will not organize any event on New Year’s Eve.  All hotels and restaurants will serve food till midnight as permitted under Shops & Establishments Act,” said Sumit Suri, president of Indore Hotelier’s Association. The collector revoked an earlier order to keep shops closed from 10pm to 6am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/no-all-night-new-year-party-in-indore/articleshow/79984349.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Business||Rise and reset: Rebuilding economy in face of uncertainty||NEW DELHI: The swift recovery displayed by the economy after the bruising impact of one of the strictest lockdowns in the world to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 infection has surprised many. It has also brought some cheer for policy makers in an otherwise gloomy year. Never before has so much attention been devoted to the gross domestic product (GDP) growth figures as has been for June and September quarters. The June quarter data may have plunged the country into gloom, as the economy had slumped nearly 24%. But the sharp rebound and narrowing of the contraction to 7.5% in the three months to September triggered hope and optimism. Read AlsoIndia to become 3rd largest economy by 2030: ReportIndia will regain its position as the fifth-largest economy by 2025 and emerge as the third-largest by 2030 in dollar terms and remain in that position until 2035 while China is now forecast to overtake the US economy in 2028, five years earlier than in 2033 as previously forecast, estimated theHowever, most economists reckon that it will be a long road to recovery before the economy gets back to the 7-8% growth trajectory. Several recent economic indicators have pointed to the fact that some sectors may be running out of steam after the festival and pent-up demand push. Still, other sectors have held up, and offer hope. While the low base will lead to a significant improvement in the numbers next year, experts call for a close vigil as several risks lurk along the path to recovery. First, the fresh wave of infections and lockdowns in the UK and Europe as well as the US do not augur well for the country’s exports, which had shown some signs of getting back on track. Read AlsoIndian economy recovering fast, growth to turn positive in Q3: RBIAs economic activities gather momentum and strive to get back to pre-Covid levels, Reserve Bank of India has said that the Indian economy is reflating at a pace higher than most predictions. The monthly bulletin of the central bank for Dec said more evidence has emerged since the last bulletin whichThe building of inflationary pressures also poses a significant risk and will act as an obstacle for the Reserve Bank of India’s efforts to help boost growth by cutting interest rates. Further, the high fiscal deficit is a significant challenge, although some experts reckon that the target should be relaxed to provide the government headroom to help with a bounce-back. The engines for the revival will be in the farm sector as well as in manufacturing and construction. Additionally, the raft of reform measures unleashed by the government will help boost the economy, with the infrastructure sector attracting fresh interest from overseas funds. The production-linked incentive schemes to boost ‘Make in India’ products have drawn interest from investors and should act as a growth enabler. The Budget, to be unveiled in February, is also likely to have more steps to help sustain the momentum and aid recovery. Already, the finance minister has promised a “Budget like never before”. Government spending has been key to aiding the rebound and will be vital again in the 2021-22 fiscal year. As the world bids goodbye to a dismal year like never before, there is hope and optimism about the economy’s ability to come back roaring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rise-reset-rebuilding-in-face-of-uncertainty/articleshow/79984342.cms||Surojit Gupta
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||New Covid cases and deaths increase in Maharashtra; Mumbai fatalities drop below 10||MUMBAI: As new Covid-19 cases in the state and city registered a slight increase on Sunday, public health officials said it would take three months of a decline for the Covid-19 curve to drop to near-negligible levels. The state recorded 3,314 new cases on Sunday while the number had been 2,854 cases on Saturday. The tally was 19.2 lakh. New cases in the city were 578 on Sunday while the figure had been 536 on Saturday. The tally was 2.9 lakh cases. The number of deaths in the state rose to 66 from 60 on Saturday. The toll was 49,255. In the city, deaths dropped below 10 after 10 days, with eight fatalities on Sunday taking the toll to 11,076. Active cases in the state and city continued to rise. Active cases in the state numbered 59,214, including 8,355 such cases in the city. Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell in the state public health department, said: "Unless we see an extreme weather pattern, the present downward trend will continue to gradually drop till February and March." While it will not reach zero cases any time soon, the number of cases could become negligible. "Viruses continue to infect for a long time. Even 11 years after it first appeared, we continue seeing a few cases of H1N1 even now," Dr Awate said. Even if the vaccine becomes available soon, the state trend will take until March to reach the lowest number of cases. "This is because it takes a month after the vaccination to develop antibodies," he said. The third sero-survey of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) that is being conducted in six districts of the state will end on Monday. "We are taking samples of 400 people and 100 healthcare workers from each zilla. In all, we will have 3,000 samples for this sero survey," Dr Awate said. The six districts are Beed, Parbhani, Nanded, Sangli, Ahmednagar and Jalgaon. The ICMR sero survey will cover 70 districts nationwide. Kalyan-Dombivli on Sunday reported 107 cases and a death, taking the tally of patients to 57,173. In Thane, 98 new cases were reported on Sunday, taking the tally of infected people in the city to 54,976. As no Covid death was reported in Thane on Sunday, the virus toll remained at 1,241. In Navi Mumbai, 65 positive cases and a death were reported on Sunday, taking the tally to 50,742 and toll to 1,045. Panvel reported 38 new cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 27,359. With a death, the toll was 597.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-covid-cases-and-deaths-increase-in-maharashtra-mumbai-fatalities-drop-below-10/articleshow/79984360.cms||Malathy Iyer
December 28, 2020||Bhopal||UK-returned NRI tests positive in MP's Gwalior||BHOPAL: Yet another UK-returnee in Madhya Pradesh has tested for Covid-19 during screening for the superspreader strain. The 35-year-old is an NRI engineer from Gwalior. He came three days ago and was found positive on Sunday, said officials. He has been shifted to an isolation ward in Gwalior district hospital and his contacts are also being traced. Doctors say he is asymptomatic. “We don’t know about the type of strain yet. Samples are being sent to Pune for gene test,” said Gwalior collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh. Samples sent to check virus strainThe genome test report is expected on Monday, said sources. Three persons with recent UK travel history have now tested positive for Covid. The other two are in Indore — one had visited London and the other Scotland. Their samples, too, have been sent to be checked for the superspreader strain. Officials in Gwalior said they had received a list of nine persons who had returned from UK recently and eight of them have been found negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/uk-returned-nri-tests-positive-in-mps-gwalior/articleshow/79984369.cms||---
December 28, 2020||World||Trump signs pandemic aid and spending bill, averting government shutdown||PALM BEACH/WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Sunday signed into law a $2.3 trillion pandemic aid and spending package, officials said, restoring unemployment benefits to millions of Americans and averting a partial federal government shutdown. Trump, who leaves office on Jan. 20 after losing November's election, backed down from his threat to block the bill, which was approved Congress last week, after he came under intense pressure from lawmakers on both sides. The Republican president, who golfed on Sunday and remained out of public view even as the potential government shutdown loomed, had demanded that Congress change the bill to increase the size of stimulus checks for struggling Americans to $2,000 from $600. It was not immediately clear why Trump changed his mind as his resistance to the massive legislative package promised a chaotic final stretch of his presidency. White House officials have been tight-lipped about Trump's thinking but a source familiar with the situation said some advisers had urged him to relent because they did not see the point of refusing. "Good news on Covid Relief Bill. Information to follow!" Trump said in a cryptic message on Twitter earlier on Sunday evening. But he offered no explanation. Democrats are on board with the $2,000 payments but many Republicans have opposed it in the past. Many economists agree the financial aid in the bill should be higher to get the economy moving again but say that immediate support for Americans hit by coronavirus lockdowns is still urgently needed. Unemployment benefits being paid out to about 14 million people through pandemic programs lapsed on Saturday, but will be restarted now that Trump has signed the bill. The package includes $1.4 trillion in spending to fund government agencies. If Trump had not signed the legislation, then a partial government shutdown would have begun on Tuesday that would have put millions of government workers' incomes at risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-signs-pandemic-aid-and-spending-bill-averting-government-shutdown/articleshow/79984367.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||477 flyers placed in quarantine in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A total of 477 passengers arriving from Europe and West Asia were quarantined in the city. In all 868 passengers arrived on 11 flights on December 26. Of these 385 were from other states and were allowed to go to their respective states. Six were exempted from quarantine, said a BMC press release issued late on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/477-flyers-placed-in-quarantine-in-mumbai/articleshow/79984395.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Nine MLAs test positive, MP winter session cancelled||BHOPAL: With nine MLAs and a whopping 75 government staffers at the MLA guest house testing positive for Covid-19 in the last 48 hours, the government decided to cancel the winter session of assembly that was due to start on Monday. Initial reports said five MLAs had been diagnosed with Coronavirus, but officials put the number at nine on Sunday night. “An MLA who is already undergoing treatment is also considered Covid-positive,” said principal secretary of Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly secretariat, Awadhesh Pratap Singh. An all-party meeting was convened by the pro tem Speaker on Sunday to take a call on the House session. “It was unanimously decided to cancel the winter session of assembly. As the leader of opposition has said, the government will form legislative committees to discuss issues raised by MLAs,” legislative affairs minister Narottam Mishra told TOI. On Saturday, three MLAs had tested positive during mandatory screening, as did 40 staffers of capital project authority (CPA), who manage the MLA guest houses. A few days prior, Indore MLA Malini Gaud had tested positive. On Sunday, pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma said: “So far, five MLAs have been found to be infected by Coronavirus, plus 67 employees and officials. We had requested all the MLAs to submit their Covid reports 72 hours ahead of the assembly session. Till now, test reports of 20 MLAs have been received.” By late evening, the numbers had risen. New MLAs to take oath in Speaker’s chamber todayThe MP Religious Freedom bill — or ‘love-jihad’ bill — was supposed to have been tabled in the House in the winter session. Officials said the newly elected members will take oath in the Speaker's chamber on Monday morning. The House will resume in February-March for the budget session, which is expected to be rather lengthy to adjust for the loss of business due to the Covid postponement. A Covid-clear report had been mandatory for all those who enter Vidhan Sabha or come in contact with legislators during the three-day session. The assembly secretariat had made arrangements for virtual conferencing for Covid-infected legislators. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also got tested for Coronavirus and came negative. CM Chouhan, leader of opposition (LoP) Kamal Nath, ministers Narottam Mishra and Bhupendra Singh, former Speaker NP Prajapati, and Congress leaders Sajjan Singh Verma and Govind Singh attended the all-party meet called by Sharma. The Congress members demanded that the government form committees to discuss queries raised by the members in the House. “After discussions, pro tem Speaker decided to cancel the winter session. But, we want that legislative committees be formed to discuss issues related to the public apart from crucial matters raised by members of the House,” said Nath. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-nine-mlas-test-positive-mp-winter-session-cancelled/articleshow/79984407.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Western Railway introduces e-patrolling and beat management app||MUMBAI: Western Railway has introduced an e-patrolling and beat management app for RPF personnel management and security monitoring in Mumbai division. This system ensures effective supervision and real-time monitoring of on-duty staff for systematic coverage of duty beats. Staffers log in by scanning the QR code at the duty spot. They can then be directed to attend any unforeseen events through group messaging and e-notice board. The system will soon be extended to all WR divisions. WR chief spokesperson Sumit Thakur said 2,600 CCTV cameras with artificial intelligence, advanced video analytics capabilities and machine learning are being set up on stations. This year, the RPF detected 21 cases, including robbery and molestation, using CCTV footage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-western-railway-introduces-e-patrolling-and-beat-management-app/articleshow/79984429.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Night temperature shoots up to 10.8°C, but dip likely in two days||BHOPAL: There was a rise in the day and night temperature in Bhopal on Sunday. Temperatures marginally went up in other parts of the state too. But the respite from the cold would not last for more than two days. Officials of the meteorological department, Bhopal circle, said the rise in temperature was due to an induced cycer over southwest Rajasthan. It led to blowing over of the southerly winds in the state that led to rise in the temperature. But the temperature is set to dip from Tuesday onwards, the officials added. Day temperature in Bhopal on Sunday was recorded at 28.7 degree Celsius, three degrees above the normal mark, while night temperature in the city was recorded at 10.8 degree Celsius, which was at the normal mark. Wind direction in the city was southwesterly with an average speed of 10 kmph. A day earlier, minimum temperature in Bhopal was recorded at 8.9 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature was recorded at 26.8 degrees Celsius. Lowest temperature in the state was recorded in Umaria at 4 degrees Celsius. Close to 25 places in the state recorded night temperature between 4 degrees and 10 degrees Celsius. In the forecast for Bhopal on Monday, the meteorological officials said there will be clear sky and dry weather will prevail in the city. Day and night temperature will be respectively at 28 degrees Celsius and 10 degrees Celsius and average wind speed will be 12 kmph. In the forecast for the state, meteorological officials said dry weather would prevail and there would be no major change from the existing weather conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-night-temperature-shoots-up-to-10-8c-but-dip-likely-in-two-days/articleshow/79984433.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Business||‘Covid to boost share of insurance to GDP’||With the pandemic increasing the demand for protection, the share of insurance to GDP is expected to increase. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, which completes two decades of operations this year, has also gained in terms of efficiencies. With Rs 2 lakh crore of assets under management, the company has brought down costs without cutting jobs and has hired 7,500 agents during the year. MD & CEO N S Kannan speaks of the lasting changes the pandemic has brought about... How has Covid hit businesses and ICICI Prudential Life?Life industry has held up well in the pandemic. While GDP declined 16% in the first half, life premiums have been flat. This would result in life insurance penetration going up. ‘Sum assured’, which is the real metric of protection, has gone up by 5-6% in the first half. Claims have been low, which is also due to underpenetration of insurance. Life industry also has held well in terms of asset quality. We have maintained our zero-NPA (non-performing asset) track record. How has the pandemic changed your operations?We now have 4,000 people coming to work out of 13,000 on a rostered basis. We expect this hybrid working to continue. It gives tremendous flexibility to employees to manage priorities and increase productivity. We have also found a sweet spot in terms of productivity and engagement with regulators and business partners. Every quarter this year we have added a large bank as a partner, which took place virtually. Do you see a change in the shares of different distribution channels?Customers are adopting digital more than before for self-service. However, they still want agents. So, we are giving them more tools. Bancassurance currently has a share of 42% of our sales. Agents account for around 25%, corporate ones and brokers about 10% and the balance is direct and other channels. We would like to maintain this ratio and perhaps increase the share of agents to about 30% and find an equilibrium around this level. There are many life insurers on the block. Are you looking at acquisitions?We will always look at acquisition opportunities, provided it adds to our distribution capability and the valuation is acceptable to us||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-to-boost-share-of-insurance-to-gdp/articleshow/79984435.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||22 patrons, 11 staffers booked as cops raid hookah parlour in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The shutters were down and front-facing lights switched off at Oshiwara Link Plaza on Link Road, when a police team decided to check on the La Habibi Cafe & Lounge in Andheri (east) early on Sunday. They walked in through the kitchen and found at least 22 patrons, including four women, having hookah. In the raid carried out around 1.10am, Oshiwara police booked the 22 patrons and 11 staffers, after the establishment was found running beyond the stipulated time of 11.30pm that is permissible during the pandemic. The 29 men were released on bail, while the four women were served notices under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). The owner of the hookah parlour is wanted in the case. This was the second raid carried out in the western suburbs in a week after the state imposed night curfew a week ago. The raid was carried out after additional commissioner of police (west) Sandip Karnik supervised a special team led by assistant inspector Girish Chavan. "The team found students and officegoers with herbal hookahs. BMC officials will be informed for further action," said an officer. Meanwhile, Sahar police registered an FIR against former India cricketer Suresh Raina, singer Guru Randhawa, model-actor Zulfikar Syed and interior designer and actor Hrithik Roshan's ex-wife Sussanne Khan, and 30 others, for alleged violations of Covid-19 protocols at a birthday party celebration at an Andheri club. The women were let off with notices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/22-patrons-11-staffers-booked-as-cops-raid-hookah-parlour-in-mumbai/articleshow/79984473.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
December 28, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaipur & Jodhpur’s collective Covid case count breaches 1-lakh mark||JAIPUR: Collective Covid cases in Jaipur and Jodhpur have breached the 1-lakh mark. Out of 3,05,360 cases in the state, both these districts have reported 1,00,271 cases, accounting for 33% of the infections. However the situation in Jaipur and Jodhpur has been contantly improving since December 15. The share of both these districts on December 10 was 43.1%. But, it has now reduced to 23.2% as both districts reported 196 cases out of 843 reported in the state. On December 15, Jaipur had reported 375 cases, but since then it has been reducing. A health department official said the state government had instructed the district administration of the two districts to take measures to bring down the cases. In the last 24 hours, six persons died while 843 tested positive taking the overall casualty count to 2,670 and cumulative tally to 3,05,360. Districts which reported new cases Jaipur (130), Alwar (83), Kota (76), Udaipur (67), Jodhpur (66), Dungarpur (62), Nagaur (48), Ajmer (46), Baran (38), Bhilwara (31), Banswara (23), Bundi (20), Pali (17), Sirohi (14), Bharatpur (14), Sriganganagar (12), Rajsamand (11), Jalore (10), Jhalawar (10), Churu (10), Barmer (9), Pratapgarh (7), Sikar (6), Dausa (6), Jaisalmer (5), Dholpur (4), Sawai Madhopur (4), Tonk (4), Bikaner (3), Karuali (3), Chittorgarh (3) and Jhunjhunu (1). Jaipur reported its 497th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 285th , Ajmer 219th , Bharatpur 119th , Sriganganagar 42th and Jhalawar reported its 23rd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaipur-jodhpurs-collective-covid-case-count-breaches-1-lakh-mark/articleshow/79984486.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur & Jodhpur’s collective Covid case count breaches 1-lakh mark||JAIPUR: Collective Covid cases in Jaipur and Jodhpur have breached the 1-lakh mark. Out of 3,05,360 cases in the state, both these districts have reported 1,00,271 cases, accounting for 33% of the infections. However the situation in Jaipur and Jodhpur has been contantly improving since December 15. The share of both these districts on December 10 was 43.1%. But, it has now reduced to 23.2% as both districts reported 196 cases out of 843 reported in the state. On December 15, Jaipur had reported 375 cases, but since then it has been reducing. A health department official said the state government had instructed the district administration of the two districts to take measures to bring down the cases. In the last 24 hours, six persons died while 843 tested positive taking the overall casualty count to 2,670 and cumulative tally to 3,05,360. Districts which reported new cases Jaipur (130), Alwar (83), Kota (76), Udaipur (67), Jodhpur (66), Dungarpur (62), Nagaur (48), Ajmer (46), Baran (38), Bhilwara (31), Banswara (23), Bundi (20), Pali (17), Sirohi (14), Bharatpur (14), Sriganganagar (12), Rajsamand (11), Jalore (10), Jhalawar (10), Churu (10), Barmer (9), Pratapgarh (7), Sikar (6), Dausa (6), Jaisalmer (5), Dholpur (4), Sawai Madhopur (4), Tonk (4), Bikaner (3), Karuali (3), Chittorgarh (3) and Jhunjhunu (1). Jaipur reported its 497th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 285th , Ajmer 219th , Bharatpur 119th , Sriganganagar 42th and Jhalawar reported its 23rd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-jodhpurs-collective-covid-case-count-breaches-1-lakh-mark/articleshow/79984483.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Gurgaon||Parking boost for affordable housing in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: With the Haryana government deciding to include car parking space in affordable housing projects, city-based developers expect a surge in demand for such low-budget flats in Gurgaon and Sohna. As per the latest amendment to Affordable Housing Policy 2013, one car parking space for each dwelling unit is now free, which means a buyer gets the additional facility at no extra cost. President of Credai-NCR Pankaj Bajaj said, “It is a good amendment as parking is an essential requirement. The existing affordable projects in Haryana would have faced parking shortage just like DDA projects of the 70s and 80s. The amendment will help create more parking in such projects.” Mani Rangarajan, the group chief operating officer of Housing.com, said that the inclusion of one car parking space per flat will increase the affordable housing segment’s popularity. “Many who invest in real estate assets will now opt for affordable housing as well as it comes with minimum investment.” Moreover, the developers feel that the increase in project area limit would also lead to many reputed real estate players to come forward and develop affordable houses that have always been in demand. Another boost to the sector is the increase in the commercial area in a project, which means more margins to developers struggling with low profits. Nagaraju Routhu, CEO of Hero Realty, said the previous permitted size of affordable housing projects deterred many reputed developers to come forward as the margins were not good enough. “In the Haryana cabinet’s latest decision, the size of a project can now be up to 30 acres from 10 acres earlier. It is now a big enough size to come up with more units and work speedily towards achieving the target of housing for all. The provision that allows the inclusion of car parking space in the project will make more buyers come forward, thereby increasing the chance of acceptability by one and all,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/parking-boost-for-affordable-housing-in-gurgaon/articleshow/79983307.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
December 28, 2020||Mumbai||'Like Russia', country will disintegrate into several states: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena politician and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut, who is the executive editor of the party mouthpiece Saamna, has cautioned that it would not take long for the country to break into separate states, the way it happened "with the states in Russia", if the Narendra Modi government does not realise that ultimately it is the people who suffer when there is a political battle between the Centre and states. Raut most likely meant the Soviet Union, which disintegrated into Russia and several other independent republics in the early 1990s. In his weekly column Rokhthok, Raut said the relationship between the state and the Centre was deteriorating. He cited the state, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar as victims of intervention by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/like-russia-country-will-disintegrate-into-several-states-sanjay-raut/articleshow/79984489.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Gurgaon||JMD Gardens residents camp at gatefor a week ‘to ward off forced entry’||GURUGRAM: For the past one week, several residents of JMD Gardens have been camping in the cold at the front gate. This, they say, is part of a 24/7 vigil. The builder, they allege, has posted about 20-25 people, including bouncers and security guards, outside the main entrance. The residents, wary they could create nuisance, have been taking turns to keep an eye on ‘unwanted’ entry. On Sunday, the standoff between the two sides intensified, with the residents filing a complaint at Sadar police station against the builder claiming potential threat of forced entry into their society. The developer, on its part, alleged that the residents had roughed up their security personnel last week, following which it had complained to the assistant commissioner of police. Residents of the society, which is situated on Sohna Road, have been at loggerheads with the developer for a while now. After numerous complaints of safety concerns and poor facilities poured in, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) had on December 19 directed JMD Group to hand over the maintenance to the residents’ welfare association (RWA). While the residents took over the society’s management a week ago, the builder has not shown any intention of complying with the DTCP order, said RWA president Raj Kumar. “We have been demanding a handover of the society for the past two years. On Saturday, a few residents received an email from JMD Group raising questions about the takeover of management by the RWA and the legality of the DTCP order,” said Kumar. “We have every reason to believe that the builder may try to send some miscreants into our complex and indulge in violent and unlawful activities,” he added. Dinesh Yadav, SHO, Sadar police station, said, “I am aware of the matter and will look into the residents’ complaint. All necessary action will be taken if it is required.” RWA joint secretary Arun Ambar said the residents were continuously manning the gate. “We are completely fed up with management by the builders, and they are holding on to it illegally. They are being arbitrary and have no contract of maintenance since it expired long ago,” he added. At present, about 2,000 people are staying in the society that has more than 600 flats. Residents claimed even after completing the project, the builder did not hand over the society for 10 years. “There was no maintenance at all. There were several issues, including security, frequent lift malfunction, poor upkeep and continuous seepage in the basement, but the builder did not pay heed to our concerns despite multiple complaints. Even after DTCP has permitted the RWA to take over, we are being harassed. The builder is holding our deposits of interest-free maintenance security (IFMS) funds amounting around Rs 11 crore,” said Ashish Jain, a resident. R K Badalia, facility manager, JMD Gardens, said the RWA had filed a complaint against the group with the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission seeking handing over of maintenance. “The matter is sub judice and listed for final arguments on January 13, 2021,” he added. Badalia further claimed that on December 21, the RWA had “forcefully taken over maintenance by beating and threatening security personnel without following the due process of law”. A complaint in this regard, he added, was submitted with the ACP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/jmd-gardens-residents-camp-at-gatefor-a-week-to-ward-off-forced-entry/articleshow/79982165.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Mayor election to be held today||KOCHI: Elections to decide who should head Kochi corporation and 13 municipalities in the district will be held on Monday. It is expected that M Anil Kumar of CPM may be elected as the mayor of Kochi corporation. The LDF has decided to field K M Ansiya of CPI as the deputy mayor candidate. At the same time, the UDF has decided to field Antony Kureethra as mayor candidate and Seena Gokulan, who won from Puthukkalavattom division, as deputy mayor candidate. For the first time in the history of Kochi corporation, BJP also will be fielding its candidates for mayor and deputy mayor posts. Sudha Dileep Kumar will be BJP’s mayor candidate while Priya Prasanth, who won from Amaravathy division, will be the party’s deputy mayor candidate. In the corporation council with a strength of 74, LDF has 36 members, including two independents who support the front. UDF has 31 councillors while BJP has five members in the council. The voting for electing mayor will be held at 11am while election for deputy mayor will be held at 2pm. Given the fact that the LDF has the support of 37 councillors, the front’s candidates are expected to win the elections to mayor and deputy mayor posts. The UDF parliamentary party meeting held on Sunday selected Kureethra as parliamentary party leader. So, Kureethra will be the opposition leader if LDF wins the mayor and deputy mayor elections. M G Aristotle has been selected as the parliamentary party secretary of UDF. Antony Painumthura and Malini Kurup are expected to head two standing committees. Given the narrow margin for LDF, the opposition may be able to head at least two standing committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mayor-election-to-be-held-today/articleshow/79984507.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Gurgaon||22 returnees from UK yet to be traced in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: The health department on Sunday received a second list of residents who have returned from the UK after December 8 and are yet to complete two weeks in home isolation. So far, the department has received a list of 1,240 such passengers. During scrutiny, the department found that there were 526 duplicate entries and three passengers were from other districts of Haryana. Of the 711 city residents who have returned from UK, 296 have been tested till now at government hospitals and private labs. Eight UK returnees refused to go for RT-PCR testing. Around 22 passengers are untraceable due to incomplete address or incorrect mobile number. The list also included details of other 108 passengers, who landed in Delhi IGI and travelled to other states. The health department has shared these passenger details with the respective states. “We have shared a list of the untraceable residents list with the police department. We have received 247 reports so far and all are negative. We are also working on contact tracing of these people. Our teams have been facing many hurdles when it comes to tracing these UK returnees as several didn’t have a complete address when we got the list. Also, our teams are counselling people who refused to take the test,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav. According to the guidelines, the district surveillance officer will facilitate sample collection, irrespective of previous testing at the place of origin or on arrival at the airport. In case passengers have moved to locations outside the city of arrival, intimation should be sent to the concerned district or state. If genome sequencing indicates the presence of the new variant of Sars-CoV-2, the patient will continue to remain in a separate isolation unit and tested on the 14th day again. If the result is positive, further samples may be taken until the two consecutive ones taken 24 hours apart return negative. Positive samples of UK returnees from Haryana and other north Indian states will be sent for genome sequencing to the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi’s Sukhdev Vihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/22-returnees-from-uk-yet-to-be-traced-in-gurgaon/articleshow/79983319.cms||Ipsita Pati
December 28, 2020||Gurgaon||Family, mechanic mowed down by canter||GURUGRAM: A family of four were among five people mowed down by a canter near Tauru on Saturday night, police said on Sunday. Bablu (34) was heading home with his wife and their two children after visiting their relatives when their car broke down. He called up his friends and asked them to send a mechanic to the spot. After some time, a mechanic, Mohammad Arif, came to fix their car with his brother. The couple, their kids and Arif were standing by the roadside when they were suddenly hit by a canter. Arif’s brother, an eyewitness, informed the police. He later submitted a complaint against the canter driver at the Tauru police station. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem, an officer said, adding that a case has been registered in the matter under sections 304a and 279 of the IPC accounting for causing death by negligence and rash driving or riding in a public way. The canter driver is said to be absconding. “The accused is yet to be identified,” added the officer. Several road accidents have been reported from Tauru area in the past. Last year, in a similar accident, four of a family, including an infant, were killed by a long platform truck. The accident took the lives of a family from Mevli village. The victims were identified as Arif (33), his mother Zuben (60), his wife Taranum (29) and a three-year-old child. The accident happened when the family was heading home from Imam Nagar. They were standing on the roadside when the truck ran mowed them down near Mohamad Nagar village. The driver fled the spot. While two of them died on the spot, the other two died on their way to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/family-mechanic-mowed-down-by-canter/articleshow/79982201.cms||Shubhra Pant
December 28, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Ex-min Rajendra Rathore ineligible for Covid vaccine trial||JAIPUR: Former health minister and BJP leader Rajendra Rathore, who had gone to volunteer himself for a trial dose of Covid-19 vaccine, was found ineligible for getting it. Rathore showed willingness to participate in the clinical trial of Covid vaccine. “It is disheartening that I will not be able to take part in the trial. But I appeal to people to come forward and take part in it,” said Rathore. Rathore had contracted the virus in September. “A person who suffered from Covid is not eligible for the trial,” said Dr Manish Jain, principal investigator of clinical trial. The trial had started on December 17 and by December 27, as many as 950 received the dose. It is the first Covid vaccine trial happening in the state, in which people have shown great enthusiasm and got themseleves registered for trial dose. Under phase-3 trial, the principal investigator of the clinical trial had to enroll 1,000 people in the state, which may exceed later. The volunteers will receive two doses of the trial vaccine, 28 days apart. Among those who received the trial dose are IAS officers, RAS officers, judges and journalists. Even people from Indore are coming to Jaipur to get the trial dose of vaccine. The phase-3 trial of country’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine - Covaxin prepared by Bharat Biotech - was launched in Jaipur on December 17. As many as 1,000 people in the age group of 18-65 years got themselves registered for trial dose. The trial is funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research in cooperation with National Institute of Virology, Pune. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is among the front runners in Covid vaccine race in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rajasthan-ex-min-rajendra-rathore-ineligible-for-covid-vaccine-trial/articleshow/79984532.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ex-min Rajendra Rathore ineligible for Covid vaccine trial||JAIPUR: Former health minister and BJP leader Rajendra Rathore, who had gone to volunteer himself for a trial dose of Covid-19 vaccine, was found ineligible for getting it. Rathore showed willingness to participate in the clinical trial of Covid vaccine. “It is disheartening that I will not be able to take part in the trial. But I appeal to people to come forward and take part in it,” said Rathore. Rathore had contracted the virus in September. “A person who suffered from Covid is not eligible for the trial,” said Dr Manish Jain, principal investigator of clinical trial. The trial had started on December 17 and by December 27, as many as 950 received the dose. It is the first Covid vaccine trial happening in the state, in which people have shown great enthusiasm and got themseleves registered for trial dose. Under phase-3 trial, the principal investigator of the clinical trial had to enroll 1,000 people in the state, which may exceed later. The volunteers will receive two doses of the trial vaccine, 28 days apart. Among those who received the trial dose are IAS officers, RAS officers, judges and journalists. Even people from Indore are coming to Jaipur to get the trial dose of vaccine. The phase-3 trial of country’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine - Covaxin prepared by Bharat Biotech - was launched in Jaipur on December 17. As many as 1,000 people in the age group of 18-65 years got themselves registered for trial dose. The trial is funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research in cooperation with National Institute of Virology, Pune. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is among the front runners in Covid vaccine race in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-ex-min-rajendra-rathore-ineligible-for-covid-vaccine-trial/articleshow/79984519.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Ex-min Rajendra Rathore ineligible for Covid vaccine trial||JAIPUR: Former health minister and BJP leader Rajendra Rathore, who had gone to volunteer himself for a trial dose of Covid-19 vaccine, was found ineligible for getting it. Rathore showed willingness to participate in the clinical trial of Covid vaccine. “It is disheartening that I will not be able to take part in the trial. But I appeal to people to come forward and take part in it,” said Rathore. Rathore had contracted the virus in September. “A person who suffered from Covid is not eligible for the trial,” said Dr Manish Jain, principal investigator of clinical trial. The trial had started on December 17 and by December 27, as many as 950 received the dose. It is the first Covid vaccine trial happening in the state, in which people have shown great enthusiasm and got themseleves registered for trial dose. Under phase-3 trial, the principal investigator of the clinical trial had to enroll 1,000 people in the state, which may exceed later. The volunteers will receive two doses of the trial vaccine, 28 days apart. Among those who received the trial dose are IAS officers, RAS officers, judges and journalists. Even people from Indore are coming to Jaipur to get the trial dose of vaccine. The phase-3 trial of country’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine - Covaxin prepared by Bharat Biotech - was launched in Jaipur on December 17. As many as 1,000 people in the age group of 18-65 years got themselves registered for trial dose. The trial is funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research in cooperation with National Institute of Virology, Pune. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is among the front runners in Covid vaccine race in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rajasthan-ex-min-rajendra-rathore-ineligible-for-covid-vaccine-trial/articleshow/79984536.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Ex-min Rajendra Rathore ineligible for Covid vaccine trial||JAIPUR: Former health minister and BJP leader Rajendra Rathore, who had gone to volunteer himself for a trial dose of Covid-19 vaccine, was found ineligible for getting it. Rathore showed willingness to participate in the clinical trial of Covid vaccine. “It is disheartening that I will not be able to take part in the trial. But I appeal to people to come forward and take part in it,” said Rathore. Rathore had contracted the virus in September. “A person who suffered from Covid is not eligible for the trial,” said Dr Manish Jain, principal investigator of clinical trial. The trial had started on December 17 and by December 27, as many as 950 received the dose. It is the first Covid vaccine trial happening in the state, in which people have shown great enthusiasm and got themseleves registered for trial dose. Under phase-3 trial, the principal investigator of the clinical trial had to enroll 1,000 people in the state, which may exceed later. The volunteers will receive two doses of the trial vaccine, 28 days apart. Among those who received the trial dose are IAS officers, RAS officers, judges and journalists. Even people from Indore are coming to Jaipur to get the trial dose of vaccine. The phase-3 trial of country’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine - Covaxin prepared by Bharat Biotech - was launched in Jaipur on December 17. As many as 1,000 people in the age group of 18-65 years got themselves registered for trial dose. The trial is funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research in cooperation with National Institute of Virology, Pune. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is among the front runners in Covid vaccine race in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rajasthan-ex-min-rajendra-rathore-ineligible-for-covid-vaccine-trial/articleshow/79984531.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Gurgaon||Woman on way to market molested, hit with weapon||GURUGRAM: A 19-year-old woman was allegedly molested by two unidentified men on Sunday evening when she was headed alone to a vegetable market near her house. In her complaint, the woman said she was headed towards Ravi Nagar mandi when the two men started following her. She told them to leave her alone, but they persisted. At one point, she alleged, they touched her inappropriately. “When she resisted them, they injured her face with a sharp weapon,” said a police officer in the know of the matter. When the woman shouted for help, the men fled. She then informed her family members about the incident and later complained to police. A case has been registered under IPC sections 323 and 354-A accounting to voluntarily causing hurt and sexual harassment at the Sector 9A police station. Police said they are still trying to ascertain the identity of the accused. The incident has again highlighted concerns about women safety in the city. In October, a woman had been allegedly harassed and threatened by two men on her way back from office near New Colony. The accused had tried to grab her hand and when she tried to free herself, he allegedly threatened to kill her. A case of sexual harassment had been registered in the matter at the New Colony police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/woman-on-way-to-market-molested-hit-with-weapon/articleshow/79982234.cms||---
December 28, 2020||Gurgaon||Residents seek ‘wetland’ tag for Jhajjar village||JHAJJAR: Residents have demanded a ‘wetland’ status for a Jhajjar village, where around 150 species of migratory birds have been spotted recently. The nearly 1,000-acre wetland is located in Mandothi village and was discovered by birders recently. The area has been attracting so many birds every year that the residents have raised the demand for a wetland status because they fear encroachments due to gradual urbanisation. At present, a new road is being constructed that will connect the village with the Delhi-Rohtak road. “We are witnessing more than 150 species of migratory birds every year. This is crucial for us and we have been protecting the area over the years. This is all private land which belongs to our village. This land is in a low lying area and thus it is covered under water for the majority part of the year,” Sonu Dalal, a resident of Mandothi village, who is also a bird enthusiast. Another resident, Sachin Dalal, said, “We want the government to protect this area and ensure that this marshland gets wetland recognition before it gets disturbed by development projects.” According to birdwatchers of the Delhi Bird Society, this wetland comprises an integrated network of scrub land, fallow and reeds, flooded zones that support a variety of bird species. The tree cover is primarily provided by Acacia and small shrubs. In addition, this wetland has rich reed beds of Typha, Phragmites and water hyacinth. It is a destination within the Central Asian flyway which is one of the major migration routes for birds flying from Europe, Central Asia to the Indian subcontinent during winter. It is located on a larger wetland complex comprising Najafgarh (Sahibi river basin) and Sultanpur National Park along with wetlands in Jhajjar district (Dhigal village) and wetland in Mandothi village (Jhajjar), which together is a part of the large ecosystem for migratory birds. “It is a very important ornithological hotspot in NCR. It has become one of the new birding sites in NCR in the past four years. It attracts birds of various categories as the habitat consists of reeds, swamps, trees, grassland which makes it ideal for ducks, warblers and other bird species,” said Panjak Gupta, a birder from the Delhi Bird Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/residents-seek-wetland-tag-for-jhajjar-village/articleshow/79983335.cms||Ipsita Pati
