December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Asked to pay five times college fee as fine, CET students protest||BENGALURU: Hundreds of CET candidates and their parents staged a protest outside the Karnataka Examinations Authority office in Malleswaram on Monday after they were asked to pay a hefty fine — five times the college fee — for surrendering seats late. The students said they were unaware that the second extended round was the last round of counselling. They were hoping another mop-up round would be conducted, by which time they could surrender the seats. They also pointed out that ComedK results for the third round came out only on Sunday, leaving them with no option but to surrender them late. “ComedK results were announced on Sunday. How are we supposed to surrender our seats before that? I have got a better seat through ComedK but I am unable to avail it because of the fine I have to pay here,” rued a student. Last year, the fine for surrendering seats was only Rs 5,000. This year, however, the government decided to increase it to stop the rampant practice of seat blocking, through an amendment of Karnataka Selection of Candidates for Admission to Government Seats in Professional Educational Institutions Rules, 2006. Engineering fee is between Rs 58,808 and Rs 65,360. So, the fine could be Rs 3 lakh. TOI had reported the change in October. “I am a single mother with two children. How does the government expect me to pay Rs 3 lakh? In this Covid year, we are struggling to pay tuition fee, let alone such fines,” said a mother. “I didn’t know about the fine. The KEA website should have displayed the new rules boldly,” said a student. The students said they won’t be able to pay the fine in view of the crippling financial situation due to Covid and the seat allotment for Ayurveda being incomplete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/asked-to-pay-five-times-college-fee-as-fine-cet-students-protest/articleshow/79998855.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Vajra AC bus fares to be slashed by 20%||BENGALURU: In a New Year gift to passengers, BMTC will reduce Vajra AC bus fares by 20%. “BMTC has decided to reduce fares, daily and monthly pass rates of Vajra AC services from January 1. There is no change in fares of ordinary buses and Vayu Vajra airport services,” said a spokesperson on Monday. Officials said the revised fare structure and new routes of Vajra buses will be released on Tuesday. Currently, BMTC is operating only 70 of its 860 AC buses due to low demand, thanks to the virus scare and most professionals working from home. The number of AC buses will be increased to around 150; those plying on tech corridors will be re-routed to other areas. Techies were regular passengers on Vajra buses, which were mainly running on IT corridors, but now a majority of them are working remotely due pandemic restrictions. With no clarity on when most offices will resume, BMTC officials said buses can’t be kept idle for more months. Officials said the transport corporation’s daily ridership is around 20 lakh now, compared to 36 lakh before Covid. In January 2018, BMTC reduced fares of AC buses in the range of 5-37%, but the decision was reversed seven months later due to soaring operational costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vajra-ac-bus-fares-to-be-slashed-by-20/articleshow/79998878.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Another instant loan app firm raided, 3 held||BENGALURU: Sleuths from Central Crime Branch (CCB) probing the alleged extortion and blackmail racket run by companies promising instant loans through mobile apps have arrested three staffers of one such firm in the city and recovered incriminating material, including 35 laptops and 218 mobile phones. Preliminary probe revealed the apps were handled by Chinese citizens with servers based in China. Besides deducting nearly one third of the loan upfront, the racketeers charged exorbitant interest rates and harassed borrowers by hacking their phones. They also formed WhatsApp groups by adding the contacts of their customers and posted defamatory content against them. Last week, CCB and CID had registered more than five cases regarding the racket. CID had raided four firms and arrested two persons. Officials from Intelligence Bureau have now joined the probe. Of the four firms raided, three were run by Chinese citizens. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said, “As of now, we have arrested three men from the city. We have definite clues and evidence against two Chinese involved in the alleged racket. We shall arrest them soon.” On Sunday, CCB sleuths raided Acepearl Services Ltd with an office in Koramangala VII Block and arrested Syed Ahmed, 33, of Shamanna Garden in Hosaguddadahalli, Syed Irfan, 26, of EWS Colony, BTM Layout II Stage and Aditya Senapati, 25, of Ramagondanahalli in Varthur Kodi. CCB police said the accused ran the racket through seven apps owned by Chinese citizens. “During the raid, it was found that other firms dealing in instant loans through apps — Higeki service Pvt ltd, Eceedwell Service Pvt Ltd, Mascotstar Sevice Pvt Ltd and Aqua Service Pvt Ltd — were also working from the same premises,” an investigator said. Further investigation revealed the accused shared customer data with app-running firms like Money Day, Paisa Pay, Loan Time, Rupee Day, Rupee Kart and In cash. Staff from call centres, outsourced by these firms, were contacting customers. “Prime accused Syed Ahmed mainly targeted the victims and directed Irfan and Senapati to harass them so that they can get more interest on loans,” police said. “The laptops and smartphones used by the trio will give us more information about the racket. They have deleted many messages and voice recordings. However, we will retrieve them soon,” a senior investigating officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/another-instant-loan-app-firm-raided-3-held/articleshow/79998881.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Offered nurse’s job, Bengaluru man loses 10 lakh||BENGALURU: A 33-year-old male nurse from Whitefield lost Rs 10 lakh to cybercriminals who promised him a job in London. Praveen Kumar had applied online for a nurse’s job recently. On October 23, he received an email informing him of a vacancy in London. Kumar replied, expressing interest in taking up the offer. Later, he received a call from a man who identified himself as Jason. “Jason asked Kumar to pay money under various heads, including processing fee, insurance fee, basic travelling fee, empty drug fee, empty terrorist fee, gate pass fee and fee to open a bank account at Royal Bank in London. Kumar paid nearly Rs 10 lakh between November 16 and December 17. When he was asked for more money and the offer didn’t materialise, Kumar realised he had been cheated,” a police officer said quoting from Kumar’s complaint. Whitefield CEN Crime police have registered a case of cheating under IPC section 420 and various sections under Information Technology Act against Jason and others. Further probe is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/offered-nurses-job-man-loses-10-lakh/articleshow/79998882.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Retired deputy SP found hanging at home||BENGALURU: A retired deputy superintendent of police was found hanging at his house in Vijayanagar on Sunday. Hanumanthappa, 65, had retired in 2015, having worked in several places like Bengaluru and Mysuru. His wife peeped through his bedroom window and found him hanging, police said. There was no suicide note. Family members said he was depressed after being diagnosed with blood cancer some months ago. An officer said Belakavadi police from Mandya district had been trying to get in touch with Hanumanthappa over the suspicious death of a woman earlier this year. “Initially, Belakavadi police thought it was a suicide case, but postmortem revealed it was murder. Hanumanthappa knew the woman when he was ACP in Mysuru,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/retd-dysp-found-hanging-at-home/articleshow/79998884.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Heart attack on duty is injury caused during work: Karnataka court||BENGALURU: The fatal heart attack suffered by a driver of a state-owned transport corporation while on duty is an “accident as well as personal injury caused to him during the course of employment”, the high court observed. It dismissed an appeal filed by the North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), challenging the April 5, 2017 verdict of the 2nd Additional Senior Civil Judge & Commissioner for Employees Compensation, Kalaburagi, directing it to pay Rs 22 lakh with 12% interest to the family members of Vijayakumar, the deceased driver. A division bench comprising Justices S Sunil Dutt Yadav and PN Desai noted that Vijayakumar left for duty at 6am on September 5, 2012, and was working non-stop for 11 hours till he died at 5pm. “The very nature of work — driving heavy vehicles continuously for more than 22 years — definitely causes stress and strain, which is incidental to the nature of employment. It is not the case of the appellants (NEKRTC) that he had any other disease or died due to some other reason. The medical reports indicate the driver died while on duty due to a heart attack,” the bench observed, while directing the corporation to immediately disburse the compensation. The family members had first moved the commissioner for employees compensation for relief. However, NEKRTC claimed it was a natural death and it is not liable to pay relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/heart-attack-on-duty-is-injury-caused-during-work-court/articleshow/79998883.cms||P Vasantha Kumar
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man loses Rs 70,000 he hid under bed to burglars||BENGALURU: A 29-year-old electrical engineer who had saved Rs 70,000 over six years and hidden it under his bed lost the money after his house was burgled at Vinayakanagar near HAL. Balaji T told police the incident may have happened on December 21 or 22 when he had gone to Tamil Nadu to see his wife and newborn. Alerted by neighbours about the burglary, Balaji returned on December 23 to find his house ransacked. “I came to Bengaluru in 2014 and was saving money for my family. I always kept it under my bed. On December 21 or 22, burglars broke open the door and ransacked the house. They were probably searching for the cupboard key and looked under the bed to find the cash. They fled with Rs 70,000, ignoring other valuables and my laptop,” he said. “I keep travelling to Tamil Nadu and Delhi on work. Someone has watched my movements and stolen the money,” he told police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-loses-70k-he-hid-under-bed-to-burglars/articleshow/79998885.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka cops assaulted me, had my hair trimmed over Facebook post: Teen||A teenager has accused cops attached to a police station in Chikkamagaluru Rural district of assaulting him and forcibly trimming his hair after he remarked on the photograph of a gram panchayat candidate on Facebook. Sunil, 16, currently undergoing treatment at the district hospital, said a comment he made on the photograph posted by Shekhar, a GP contestant, created controversy. “The candidate filed a complaint at Mallanduru police station, following which the sub-inspector called me to the station on Sunday,” Sunil said. The 16-year-old said on going to the station, he apologised for his remark. “I did not think twice before throwing myself at the SI’s feet. But the cops took me to a place behind the building, where there were no CCTV cameras, and thrashed me. Then they took me to a hairdresser close to the station where my long hair was trimmed. Police even demanded money from me,” Sunil alleged. Mallanduru police station sub-inspector Renuka, however, said she was unaware of the entire incident. “I was part of the security cover for Datta Jayanti celebrations on Sunday,” she said. Chikkamagaluru SP HA Machhindra said the teenager’s allegations will be looked into.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/teen-cops-assaulted-me-had-my-hair-trimmed-over-fb-post/articleshow/79998891.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka needs Rs 10 lakh crore by 2030 to meet development goals||BENGALURU: In a rather dreary picture painted by the state planning department, Karnataka is in a precarious situation with regard to financial allocation for achieving 16 sustainable development goals set by Niti Aayog in the country and prescribed by the United Nations. This is despite chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s assurance of a sizeable increase in budget allocations in 2021-22. As of March 5, 2020, excluding the supplementary budget approvals secured by the government in the last two months, Karnataka has a budget outlay of around Rs 2.4 lakh crore. This is inclusive of no less than 15 per cent of the expenditure, or Rs 53,000 crore, towards debt servicing. However, as per the planning department’s estimates, to achieve the SDG, Karnataka will require a budget of Rs 10 lakh crore by 2030. And even here, considering the uncertainty of revenue generation and expenditure, the state is expected to fall short of Rs 2 lakh crore by 2029-30 fiscal without considering the inflation in the next 10 years. Extrapolating the present situation, wherein Karnataka is short by over Rs 6,000 crore to meet today’s targets, the vision plan of the state government suggests its social welfare and minority welfare departments apart from the primary and secondary education sector will be the worst hit. As per data published by the government, by 2030, the scheduled caste welfare department will be short by Rs 50,000 crore and the primary and secondary education department by Rs 31,832 crore. The other major departments that will see a huge gap in allocation and requirement in 10 years will be urban development (Rs 15,198 crore), minority welfare department (Rs 12,342 crore), skill development department (Rs 12,446 crore), women and child welfare department (Rs 9,748 crore) and agriculture department (Rs 9,237 crore). Result: Karnataka will fall way short in achieving the targets of reducing inequality, ensuring inclusive education, ending poverty, achieving food security and improving nutrition by promoting sustainable agriculture. Government officials said the state is already in a debt cycle and things may worsen if it does not rationalise its expenditures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-needs-10l-cr-by-2030-to-meet-development-goals/articleshow/79998813.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Why BJP and JD(S) may stick to poll bonhomie instead of merger||BENGALURU: The new-found bonhomie between the BJP and JD(S) has given way to talks about both parties sinking their mutual differences and becoming one entity ahead of the 2023 assembly polls. But experts and senior functionaries of both the parties have dismissed the possibility of merger despite the similarity of their political agendas. “It makes sense to support the BJP on an issue-by-issue basis but the question of merging with them looks very unlikely at this stage. There may be electoral accommodations for the next assembly elections to minimise splitting of vote, but not merger,’’ said a senior JD(S) functionary. He said an alliance like the one they have now would be more workable than a merger. The chances of MLAs and other leaders of JD(S) getting any significant positions in the saffron party are also bleak. If a merger should happen, JD(S) face HD Kumaraswamy would not accept anything less than the CM’s position. Not just him, leaders of the two parties, from the grassroots to the highest levels, would have to give way to one another. “So I don’t see it happening. After a merger, there would be fights over party positions and seat allocations, from the top to the bottom,” said another JD(S) functionary. Kumaraswamy would want to keep focus on consolidating his position as the CM by retaining JD(S ) identity. If a merger were to happen, he added, BJP would be at the losing end because grassroot workers would be more inclined towards their leaders than the party. It’s not that the BJP is keen either, mainly because the JD(S), which had an alliance with both BJP and Congress since 2004 under different governments, has never been sincere to its partners. “State BJP veterans would not want a merger as their positions in a merged party would be at risk. So, they are likely to oppose such talks for now. In future, this might change,” said a BJP old-timer. But some feel the parties can form a strong political force that will be strong enough to form the government on its own. As the two parties have a foothold in two different regions, it would prove a death-knell for the Congress, which is increasingly looking to eat into the vote share of JD(S). “This also seems to be the aspiration of the people as it will produce a good mix of most competent candidates and will not divide votes between three political parties,” said another BJP figure. BJP also wants to end the dominance of JD(S) in Old Mysuru region, especially Mandya, Hassan and Ramanagara districts. A merger would make sense for BJP, as the stakes are particularly higher for the party. The party has failed to win a simple majority in the last three assembly polls. “By accommodating JD(S) functionaries, it can get experienced and mass leaders to form “a highly competent government”,” said some party members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/why-bjp-and-jds-may-stick-to-poll-bonhomie-instead-of-merger/articleshow/79998808.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BBMP banks on software to make realistic budget||BENGALURU: Financial prudence and realistic estimations of expenditure have been promised for the city as Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials have started preparing the civic budget for 2021-22 in the absence of an elected council. The highlight this time is the use of a new software to curb unrealistic proposals. The BBMP budget has time and again been criticised for unscientific outlay and inflated expenditure estimates disproportionate to actual revenue. Recently, civic agency administrator Gaurav Gupta had asked officials to cut the budget size from Rs 10,899 crore to Rs 8,000 crore. But the effort was unsuccessful as officials could hardly prune it by Rs 100 crore since job codes were already issued for works and funds allocated to them could not be taken back. To avoid such a bizarre state of affairs, the administration has introduced a software, Budget Information and Disbursal System (BIDS), and directed the drawing and disbursing officers (DDOs) of all divisions and other authorities to upload their proposals on the portal powered by it. “The idea is to bring in fiscal discipline. It is mainly to ensure the projected expenditure is matched with actual revenue,” said Thulasi Muddineni, special commissioner (finance). The budget may be presented under the aegis of the administrator since BBMP polls are unlikely before the end of the financial year as the case is pending in the Supreme Court. The government has sought eight months to conduct the elections. Civil society groups have urged the government to implement the Karnataka Local Funds Authorities Fiscal Responsibility Act-2003 to ensure fiscal responsibility and public participation. “The rules should be notified forthwith so that the Act is applicable to the budget being prepared,” said Srikanth Viswanatha, CEO of Janagraha, which is partnering with BBMP in My City My Budget campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-banks-on-software-to-make-realistic-budget/articleshow/79998955.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Garbage dumping, sewage choking Harohalli Lake||BENGALURU: Harohalli Lake, situated on Kanakapura Road, is facing a slow death, thanks to unchecked sewage inflow and garbage dumping. As the lake is maintained by the local gram panchayat, Balaji Doraiswamy, a citizen who owns a farm about 10km from the waterbody, tried to take up the issue with the panchayat development officer many times, besides writing to the deputy commissioner of Ramanagara. “When I spoke to the PDO, he said they have no other choice but to dump waste near the lake. He, in fact, offered me money to take it away. I am just a commoner and the government should intervene and help the panchayat sort out this mess,” Balaji said. Lake experts point out that most lakes on the city’s outskirts are victims of garbage dumping and sewage inflow due to multiple reasons. Nagesh Aras, a lake expert, said: “Most areas that were recently developed have no sewerage network. As a result, residents have to dump sewage in the open, which just follows the gradient of the ground and flows into the lake, because it is naturally the lowest point in the terrain.” In an ideal village set-up, garbage collection doesn’t happen and it is either converted into manure or biogas. He added, “Earlier, villagers would generate very little wet waste, which was consumed by their own cattle. But with changing lifestyle, residents of villages on the outskirts of the city produce a large volume of garbage, including dry waste, but the gram panchayats do not have the infrastructure to process that volume.” Harohalli Lake draws over 87 different species of birds, besides having a verdant aquatic life and biodiversity. At any given point, at least a 100 lotuses dot the lake. “This is the right time for them to intervene and save the lake. Otherwise, restoration work will only get costlier,” said Balaji. The lake’s buffer zones are being used as landfills, which is bound to kill the waterbody as leachate flows into it. In addition to this, non-biodegradable material tend to harm aquatic life in many ways. “Any town or rural planning should mandatorily include solid and liquid waste management area in their land-usage plan and strictly adhere to it... Waterbodies like Hennagara Lake and Chikkabanavara Lake are in the panchayat’s jurisdiction. Better planning and specific allotment of land for solid and liquid waste management at all local governance levels is the need of the hour. As per laws and court orders, such activities which pose a threat to the waterbodies can be considered criminal acts,” said lake expert V Ramprasad. The PDO was not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/garbage-dumping-sewage-choking-harohalli-lake/articleshow/79998960.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||five days of event management course at Don Bosco college||The Department of Business Administration, Don Bosco College, organised a lateral course for second-year students to explore the avenue of event management from December 14- 18, 2020. Each day saw a different resource person captivate the students about the varied aspects of the event management industry.  Pravin Sabnis, Life Coach and Founder of Unlearning Unlimited spoke about the role of an event manager and shared how branding works. Day two saw Jerry Pinto of Buzz Events delve into the intricacies of how one can successfully plan and execute an event.  On day three, Barbara Lornei, personality enhancement trainer spoke about how to deal with high-end clients, and the essential aspects of grooming one should always maintain.  Day four saw emcee and event organiser Elias Fernandes sharing how hosting events demands a certain skill. On day five, founder of BIZZNBUZZ Inc. Sameer Kapadi went in-depth into the topic of outdoor advertising and promotions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/five-days-of-event-management-course-at-don-bosco-college/articleshow/79998961.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Mangaluru||100 beaches to get international status soon: Minister||UDUPI/DELHI: The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) has identified 100 beaches across India and plans to make them neat and clean in the next phase. With people’s participation, the ministry, with help from Society of Integrated Coastal Management (SICOM), aims to upgrade the beaches to international standards in the next five years, said Prakash Javadekar, Union minister for environment, forest and climate change. Hoisting the international Blue Flag at eight beaches, including Padubidri in Udupi and Kasarkod in Uttara Kannada virtually on Monday, Javadekar said: “It is a proud moment for India that all the eight beaches which were showcased have been awarded the coveted Blue Flag. I compliment and congratulate the state governments, officials and people for this feat.” Five of these eight beaches are on the west coast and the remaining three on the east. People come to beaches to enjoy with their families. It is important to maintain beach equipment properly and provide tourists with sustainable modes of transport. “With 100% results in India’s first attempt to get the coveted Blue Flag, we are now looking at increasing this number,” he said, adding that cleanliness and good facilities enhance the feel-good factor and promote tourism. Kasarakod beach open nowKasarakod beach in Honnavar taluk was formally dedicated to the nation by Harish Kumar K, deputy commissioner of Uttara Kannada, on Monday. Hoisting the Blue Flag at the beach, the DC said meeting cleanliness standards has played a pivotal role in getting the coveted status. It is the duty of tourists and locals to maintain the Blue Flag tag, the DC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/min-100-beaches-to-get-intl-status-soon/articleshow/79998838.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||CM BS Yediyurappa’s lunch diplomacy sparks rumours||BENGALURU: Amid talks of leadership change, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday took the luncheon-diplomacy route to break the ice with his cabinet colleagues. Soon after the cabinet meeting, Yediyurappa hosted the lunch and held an informal meeting with ministers. His adversaries are, however, questioning the time and intentions behind the CM’s move to host a lunch. A minister, who attended the meeting, said the CM sought the opinion of ministers about his decision to appoint P Ravi Kumar, additional chief secretary, as the new chief secretary after incumbent TM Vijay Bhaskar retires on December 31. Majority of the ministers concurred with him. It is also said that Yediyurappa has taken up an image-building exercise ahead of the visit of BJP national general secretary and Union home minister Amit Shah to the state next month to present the positive face of the administration and highlight that he has been playing a proactive role in governance. Yediyurappa has convened a meeting with party MLAs and cabinet ministers on January 4-5 to discuss inputs for the state budget. “The idea is to take them into confidence and extend financial assistance,” party insiders said. Senior MLA and former Union minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who had claimed that Yediyurappa would not remain in the CM’s chair for long, later said there will be “historic changes” in the state after Sankranti on January 15. ‘BSY will float new party in Jan’KPCC spokesperson and former MLA Belur Gopalakrishna said there is a possibility that Yediyurappa may float another party after January 15. He claimed Yediyurappa will step down in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cms-lunch-diplomacy-sparks-rumours/articleshow/79998853.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru district administration gets ready to restart classes||MYSURU: With the New Year just days away, the Mysuru district administration is pulling out all stops to restart Vidyagama for students from classes VI to IX, while government and government-aided schools and pre-university colleges are engaged in readying classrooms to welcome class X and II PU students. Interestingly, the government’s order mandates teachers’ attendance at schools, while students still have the option of continuing with online classes. Mysuru zilla panchayat chief executive officer BA Paramesh, said, “Only 15 students will be allowed in a classroom. Additional classrooms will be requisitioned if more students turn up. All teachers must have a medical certificate confirming that they do not have Covid-19, while it is optional for students.” Paramesh added the guidelines prescribed by the health and family welfare department would be adhered to strictly. “ASHA workers, among others, will be pressed into service to ensure that there are no problems when the schools are reopened,” he said. Deputy director of public instruction, Mysuru, Panduranga said each school would have a dedicated isolation room. “Any student displaying symptoms of Covid-19 will be housed in that room. Lions’ Club has organised a two-day Covid-19 camp at JK Grounds from Tuesday. Students and teachers can visit the camp and get tested there,” Panduranga said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-district-administration-gets-ready-to-restart-classes/articleshow/79998981.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Business||India is at forefront of fighting money laundering, says Suresh Prabhu||NEW DELHI: India is the forefront of fighting the menace of money laundering, which has a direct link with terrorism, India's Sherpa to G20 and G7 Suresh Prabhu said on Monday. Addressing a virtual 'AML/CFT Conference 2020', Prabhu said that criminally-minded people use terrorism, and by and large, the kind of terrorism the world is facing is motivated by ideology. "India is at the forefront of fighting money laundering. It is possible to stop terrorism by stoping money laundering... there is a direct link between money laundering and terrorism," he said. Prabhu, a Rajya Sabha member and a former Union minister, also pointed out that the money that goes into terrorism is laundered money created from illegal sources. "... the entire activity of converting bad money into clean money is called money laundering activity," he said, adding that many countries have globally acted against it. He noted that India has also taken several measures to deal with money laundering activities and that it is cooperating with other countries to curb such activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-is-at-forefront-of-fighting-money-laundering-says-suresh-prabhu/articleshow/79998908.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Going out on New Year’s Eve? Party safely & responsibly amid pandemic||NCR restros and pubs say that they will be extra vigilant on NYE, but that guests will also have to take precautions and be responsible while partyingAs restaurants and nightclubs gear up for the biggest celebration of the year, the focus is on responsible and safe partying amid the pandemic. In the last one month, around eight nightclubs were sealed in Delhi for not following District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) guidelines. Overcrowding, not following social distancing norms and people not wearing masks – these were the main reasons behind the sealing. Apart from these, some outlets were sealed for serving liquor in places other than permitted areas. An excise official tells us, “We have been sending enforcement teams in the field and if restaurants are found violating guidelines issued by DDMA, they are fined and areas are sealed.” While restros and clubs assert that they would be following COVID norms strictly on New Year’s Eve, they add that guests need to do their bit and be responsible towards their own and other’s safety. Guests should remove their masks only while eating and drinkingStay away from the dance floor, maintain social distancingOvercrowding on the dance floor is something that even diners who plan to go out on New Year’s Eve are worried about. Sushmita Mehra, a software engineer from Vasant Vihar, shares, “Last weekend, I went out with my friends to a lounge bar in Gurgaon. The moment the DJ started playing music, people forgot all about social distancing. They were dancing in close proximity, their carelessness was shocking.” She adds, “I plan to go out with my friends on New Year’s Eve, but we are yet to decide on the place. We do not want the same experience we had on our last outing.” To ensure that there is no overcrowding on the dance floors, lounges and clubs are taking strict measures. Umang Tewari, founder, Local, Junkyard Café and Key Nightclub, says, “We will make sure that there is continuous supervision by our staff to ensure that people dance next to their tables only, so that one group is restricted to one area and social distancing is maintained. We have instructed our DJs to keep announcing every few minutes that guests should not come on dance floors. We will have additional bouncers around the dance floor.” Dinesh Arora, founder, Unplugged Courtyard (in Delhi and Gurgaon), and La Roca, adds, “We’ll have DJs, but we’ll be advising people to maintain social distance and stay away from the dance floor.” Make a reservation in advanceIf you have already made up your mind to go out on New Year’s Eve, it’s essential to make a reservation in advance. As all restaurants and bars are currently allowed to operate at 50% of their occupancy, making a reservation becomes all the more important this year. “We won’t be seeing packed dance floors or crowded bars this year. Keeping the headcount to 50% will be a colossal task. We are promoting advance bookings and discouraging across-the-counter sales to reduce overcrowding on NYE,” says Akshay Anand, co-founder, Ophelia. “Our seating plan ensures safe distance from other tables. We are recommending pre-booking to our guests to ensure a smooth and safe experience,” adds Avantika Sinha Bahl, founder, Kampai. Wear your masks at all timesThere will be strict checks to ensure that guests wear masks at all times, apart from when they are eating or drinking. Restaurateurs, bar owners and even diners feel that people take the mask rule very casually once they enter the restaurant. “I once had an argument with a couple at a restaurant. They were sitting at a nearby table and one of them was coughing and was not even wearing a mask. I complained to the staff and the couple started arguing because I had objected,” shares Sukanya Sharma, an entrepreneur and a Model Town resident. To avoid such situations, restaurateurs say that they will be ensuring that guests take off their masks only when eating or drinking. “Our staff has been briefed to ensure that guests don’t remove their masks if they are not consuming food and drinks. We have already been following this rule, but we will be extra vigilant on New Year’s Eve,” says Mayank Bhatt, Brand Head, Social. — With inputs from Niharika Lal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/going-out-on-new-years-eve-party-safely-responsibly-amid-pandemic/articleshow/79997046.cms||Divya Kaushik
December 29, 2020||Delhi||Going out on New Year’s Eve? Party safely & responsibly amid pandemic||NCR restros and pubs say that they will be extra vigilant on NYE, but that guests will also have to take precautions and be responsible while partyingAs restaurants and nightclubs gear up for the biggest celebration of the year, the focus is on responsible and safe partying amid the pandemic. In the last one month, around eight nightclubs were sealed in Delhi for not following District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) guidelines. Overcrowding, not following social distancing norms and people not wearing masks – these were the main reasons behind the sealing. Apart from these, some outlets were sealed for serving liquor in places other than permitted areas. An excise official tells us, “We have been sending enforcement teams in the field and if restaurants are found violating guidelines issued by DDMA, they are fined and areas are sealed.” While restros and clubs assert that they would be following COVID norms strictly on New Year’s Eve, they add that guests need to do their bit and be responsible towards their own and other’s safety. Guests should remove their masks only while eating and drinkingStay away from the dance floor, maintain social distancingOvercrowding on the dance floor is something that even diners who plan to go out on New Year’s Eve are worried about. Sushmita Mehra, a software engineer from Vasant Vihar, shares, “Last weekend, I went out with my friends to a lounge bar in Gurgaon. The moment the DJ started playing music, people forgot all about social distancing. They were dancing in close proximity, their carelessness was shocking.” She adds, “I plan to go out with my friends on New Year’s Eve, but we are yet to decide on the place. We do not want the same experience we had on our last outing.” To ensure that there is no overcrowding on the dance floors, lounges and clubs are taking strict measures. Umang Tewari, founder, Local, Junkyard Café and Key Nightclub, says, “We will make sure that there is continuous supervision by our staff to ensure that people dance next to their tables only, so that one group is restricted to one area and social distancing is maintained. We have instructed our DJs to keep announcing every few minutes that guests should not come on dance floors. We will have additional bouncers around the dance floor.” Dinesh Arora, founder, Unplugged Courtyard (in Delhi and Gurgaon), and La Roca, adds, “We’ll have DJs, but we’ll be advising people to maintain social distance and stay away from the dance floor.” Make a reservation in advanceIf you have already made up your mind to go out on New Year’s Eve, it’s essential to make a reservation in advance. As all restaurants and bars are currently allowed to operate at 50% of their occupancy, making a reservation becomes all the more important this year. “We won’t be seeing packed dance floors or crowded bars this year. Keeping the headcount to 50% will be a colossal task. We are promoting advance bookings and discouraging across-the-counter sales to reduce overcrowding on NYE,” says Akshay Anand, co-founder, Ophelia. “Our seating plan ensures safe distance from other tables. We are recommending pre-booking to our guests to ensure a smooth and safe experience,” adds Avantika Sinha Bahl, founder, Kampai. Wear your masks at all timesThere will be strict checks to ensure that guests wear masks at all times, apart from when they are eating or drinking. Restaurateurs, bar owners and even diners feel that people take the mask rule very casually once they enter the restaurant. “I once had an argument with a couple at a restaurant. They were sitting at a nearby table and one of them was coughing and was not even wearing a mask. I complained to the staff and the couple started arguing because I had objected,” shares Sukanya Sharma, an entrepreneur and a Model Town resident. To avoid such situations, restaurateurs say that they will be ensuring that guests take off their masks only when eating or drinking. “Our staff has been briefed to ensure that guests don’t remove their masks if they are not consuming food and drinks. We have already been following this rule, but we will be extra vigilant on New Year’s Eve,” says Mayank Bhatt, Brand Head, Social. — With inputs from Niharika Lal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/going-out-on-new-years-eve-party-safely-responsibly-amid-pandemic/articleshow/79996942.cms||Divya Kaushik
December 29, 2020||India||Govt calls farmers for talks on 4-point agenda on Dec 30||NEW DELHI: Responding to the agitating farm unions’ proposal for talks on a four-point agenda, the Centre on Monday invited them for a discussion on all issues on December 30, saying it was committed to find “logical solutions” to relevant matters that could be acceptable to all. Though the group of 40 unions found the content of the invitation “vague”, saying the Centre was being “clever with words” and its letter didn’t include the full agenda, they “unanimously” decided to resume the talks that had broken down on December 9 in the wake of the government’s proposal to amend, and not repeal, the three prickly farm laws. “In the context of your proposal, a detailed discussion will be held on matters relating to three farm laws, procurement mechanism at minimum support price (MSP), ordinance on air quality management in NCR and adjoining areas and Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2000,” said agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal in his letter, even as agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar expressed confidence the new farm laws will be implemented and the government will succeed in explaining its benefits. The brief letter to the group of 40 unions, however, does not get into the specific points of protesting farmers’ agenda such as “modalities to repeal" the three farm laws and mechanism to ensure a higher “legally guaranteed” MSP, prompting unions to get into the huddle before formally announcing their acceptance to the talks’ offer. “Though we have certain reservations, we have unanimously decided to join the talks on Wednesday. The farmers’ unions will formally announce the acceptance on Tuesday,” said a union leader after the meeting on the government’s offer. The unions in their proposal for talks had on December 26 asked the government to include four specific points in the agenda as a condition to go ahead with the next round of talks. They wanted repeal of the three farm laws, mechanism for higher MSP, keeping farmers outside the penalty provision on stubble-burning and changes in the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill to protect interests of farmers to be included, in that order, as conditions for talks. Though the agriculture secretary’s letter, the fourth one from the Centre, on Monday did not get into details, it referred to these issues while urging farm unions to join the talks with a Group of Ministers at 2 pm in Vigyan Bhawan on December 30 to find acceptable solutions. Tomar will lead the government side during the talks. “You informed (on December 26) that the farmers’ unions have always been ready and will be ready for talks with an open mind. The government of India is also committed with open mind and clear intention to find logical solutions to relevant issues,” said Agrawal. Expressing its reservations, the farmer groups’ umbrella body, AIKSCC, on Monday said, “The government’s letter indicates that it is being clever with words and not willing to discuss agenda proposed by farmers’ organisations…The reply is woefully short of any attempt to resolve issues. While the farmers want meetings on four specific agenda items, the government has used vague and non-specific language.” Meanwhile, Tomar while addressing representatives of 11 farmer organisations which have supported the farm laws said, “I am confident that with your support, positive attitude and understanding, these laws will be implemented and we will succeed in explaining (its benefits) to the farmers. A new path will be created and India’s agriculture will prosper.” He said the government was also discussing the issues with protesting farmers. “We are making efforts to find solutions to these issues after discussion,” said Tomar. Speaking at the same function, minister of state for agriculture, Kailash Choudhary, while referring to the upcoming talks with protesting farmers’ unions said, “I hope this would be the final round of talks and the problem would be resolved.” Watch Farmers' protest: Centre calls for meeting over farm laws on December 30 in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-calls-farmers-for-talks-on-4-point-agenda-on-dec-30/articleshow/79999522.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 29, 2020||India||1st time since Covid outbreak, weekly cases fall in all states||NEW DELHI: For the first time since the Covid-19 virus spread through the country in March, all states and Union Territories (UT) registered a week-on-week decline in fresh cases last week, indicating that the pandemic was receding across India, at least for now. The only exception was the UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, which reported all of nine cases through the week (December 21-27), two more cases than the count in the previous seven days. Meanwhile, just 16,143 fresh cases were reported in the country on Monday, the lowest single-day count in more than six months since June 23. Deaths too dipped to 251, the lowest daily toll from the virus since June 2, nearly seven months ago. While weekly cases have been falling for the past seven weeks and in 14 of the last 15 weeks, this was the first time that all states had registered a decline. In the previous week (December 14-20), Kerala had seen a surge in infections, logging an increase of more than 3,300 cases over the week before. Overall, cases had risen in six states/UTs during that week, although the surge was marginal in most. The week gone by, however, saw cases fall in Kerala by nearly 1,900. The state still recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the country at 34,647, at an average of close to 5,000 per day. Maharashtra logged the second-highest case tally at 23,032, followed by Bengal (10,615) and Chhattisgarh (7,930). Bengal recorded the sharpest week-on-week fall in cases as the state's numbers dropped by 4,418, a decline of nearly 30%. Weekly cases have steadily fallen in the state from a peak of 27,950 eight weeks ago. The decline was equally impressive in Delhi, which reported just 5,846 fresh cases in the week, down by 3,705 from the previous week. The capital's weekly count had peaked at 46,876, at the daily average of nearly 6,700, seven weeks ago. Other states that showed a sharp fall in weekly cases include Maharashtra (-3,288), Chhattisgarh (-2,269), Haryana (-1,989) and Uttar Pradesh (-1,684). Among big states, the lowest drop in cases were recorded in Bihar (-245), Telangana (-241) and Odisha (-205), all states that have anyway been reporting very low numbers of new cases in the past few weeks. Meanwhile, the tally of new infections dropped to 16,143 on Monday, that day of the week when cases fall sharply due to lower testing and staff shortages over the weekend. However, even by those standards, this was the lowest daily count reported on any day since 15,689 cases were recorded on June 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1st-time-since-covid-outbreak-weekly-cases-fall-in-all-states/articleshow/80000450.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
December 29, 2020||India||Metro services in 25 cities in next 5 years: PM||Inaugurating India’s first driverless train operations at Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh station on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted that Metro services will be extended to 25 cities by 2025 from the current 18. He said driverless trains show how fast India is moving towards a smart system, adding that from 248km of operational Metro lines in 2014, the number has gone up to more than 700, which is being tried to expand to 1,700km by 2025. “These are not just infrastructures made from brick stones, concrete and iron, but evidence of the realisation of the aspiration of citizens and the middle class of the country,” he said. Modi also launched the National Common Mobility Card on the Airport Express Line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/metro-services-in-25-cities-in-next-5-years-pm/articleshow/80000970.cms||---
December 29, 2020||India||PM, Shah pay homage to Jaitley on his birth anniversary||NEW DELHI: "When I was passing through a crisis, a big crisis at that, then Arun Jaitley was among those who helped me. He acted like an elder brother and it will not be proper for me not to acknowledge this publicly," said Union home minister Amit Shah as he paid tribute to the late senior BJP leader and former finance minister on the latter's 68th birthday. Shah, who was speaking after unveiling the statute of Jaitley at the cricket stadium named after the former Union minister, said though the BJP functionary was conscious of his image, he disregarded any fear about adverse public perception and came out in my support. "He maintained that one who is not guilty should come out and spoke in my favour both in Parliament and outside it." The home minister's remarks were being read as related to the period when he was incarcerated under UPA in a case from which he was discharged later. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also warmly recalled his association with Jaitley. “Remembering my friend, Arun Jaitley Ji on his birth anniversary. His warm personality, intellect, legal acumen and wit are missed by all those he closely interacted with. He worked tirelessly for India's progress," Modi tweeted. BCCI chief and former India captain Sourav Ganguly was present at the function at DDCA grounds to mark the unveiling of the statue of Jaitley, a decision which was objected to by former Indian spinner B S Bedi. Shah spoke about Jaitley's love for cricket and said the former finance minister had dispelled many of the apprehensions about the launch of IPL.“Jaitley ji was instrumental in match rights’ commercial sale and also in introduction of the IPL in the country,” he said. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP chief J P Nadda also praised Jaitley and his contributions to BJP and the Modi government. In the evening, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman presided over the ceremony to name the Panchsheel Park near Siri Fort after Jaitley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-shah-pay-homage-to-jaitley-on-his-birth-anniversary/articleshow/80001004.cms||---
December 29, 2020||India||BJP in damage-control mode as JD(U) expresses ‘anguish’||PATNA: In less than 24 hours after JD(U) publicly expressed its “anguish” over BJP inducting six of its seven MLAs into the party in Arunachal Pradesh, the saffron party on Monday went on a damage-control mode to ward off any threat to the continuance of the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar. “The BJP-JD(U) alliance is ‘atoot’ (unbreakable) in Bihar. We have firm belief that the NDA government will work for its full five-year term under the leadership of Nitish,” BJP veteran and Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) said on the sidelines of a function to unveil the statue of former Union finance minister Arun Jaitley in Patna. Nitish is leading the NDA government of four parties — BJP, JD(U), Hindustani Awam Morcha- Secular and Vikassheel Insaan Party . Earlier, Nitish led the NDA government of JD(U) and BJP in Bihar for 11 of the last 15 years with SuMo as his deputy. Nitish on Monday relinquished the post of JD(U) national president and installed RCP Singh at the post, ostensibly to make it clear that he had no more stomach left to handle the differences that might crop up between the two parties in the future and, in that situation, it would be the responsibility of Singh to do it. Asked if the level of coordination between BJP and JD(U) has suffered due to his being elected to Rajya Sabha and consequent shift to Delhi, SuMo said, “No, there is no lack of coordination between the two parties. Even in the past (when he himself was deputy CM), there had occurred some differences on occasions, but the leadership of the two parties always resolved them.” Congratulating RCP on his appointment as JD(U) president, SuMo hoped the “coordination between the two parties will become stronger”. All this notwithstanding, sources said the developments in Arunachal Pradesh had left Nitish “anguished” and “personally fuming”, as it had happened just a day before the start of JD(U)’s two-day national executive meeting in Patna from December 26. As an immediate fallout, Nitish disclosed at the JD(U) national executive meeting that given his party’s 43 seats compared with BJP’s 74 in the recently-held assembly elections, he had desired not to become the CM and it was under “pressure” from BJP’s top national and state brass that he agreed to hold the post, again. “No, the reference to the ‘pressure’ meant that he did not want to become the CM, but BJP told him that the party had decided that Nitish will be the CM because the mandate the NDA had received was in his name,” SuMo said. As to the confusion caused by the developments in Arunachal, SuMo said the “JD(U) people” have clarified that these will have “no impact” in Bihar. “We don’t have information as to what all happened in that state. Therefore, we will not comment on it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-in-damage-control-mode-as-jdu-expresses-anguish/articleshow/80001109.cms||Abhay Singh
December 29, 2020||India||Arnab paid BARC ex-CEO to rig Republic TRPs: Cops||MUMBAI: In their remand application seeking further custody of arrested former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), Partho Dasgupta, the Mumbai police said Arnab Goswami of Republic TV had paid Dasgupta to rig the channel’s TRPs since its launch in 2017. On Monday, a metropolitan court extended Dasgupta’s police custody till December 30. He was arrested on December 24. Assistant police inspector Sachin Waze, who is heading the probe into the TRP scam, claimed the police have obtained evidence of a number of payments. “In 2017, Goswami paid him 6,000 US dollars at a star hotel in Lower Parel and sponsored a trip for Dasgupta and his family to Switzerland and Denmark; in 2018, he paid Rs 20 lakh in cash; and in 2019 he paid Rs 10 lakh at a hotel near the airport,” Waze alleged. Read AlsoTRP scam: No.1 channel Times Now deliberately pushed to No.2 spot, says Mumbai PoliceMUMBAI: In a major development in the TRP manipulation scam, Mumbai joint commissioner (crime) Milind Bharambe said Friday that ratings were manipulated to push English news channel Times Now from the top slot to No. 2 and make Republic TV No. 1. Times Now was No. 1, but within a week of RepublicThe crime branch of the city police is probing the TRP manipulation scam where viewership figures for some channels were artificially inflated by bribing people involved in the process. BARC India measures viewership of TV channels, which is crucial for broadcasters to decide on advertising. Waze said that when Goswami launched Republic TV in 2017, he sought Dasgupta’s help in manipulating ratings and took the channel to the No. 1 slot. They knew each other from 2004, Waze said. The remand application said Dasgupta used BARC’s measurement science analytics division — used to track viewership of TV channels — to manipulate TRPs. Read AlsoMumbai: ‘Channel gave BARC ex-COO holiday packages’The city crime branch, probing the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation scam, on Friday said that Romil Ramgarhia, former chief operating officer of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), was offered holiday packages and shopping coupons by a TV channel for sharing confidential“Those who helped Dasgupta in his office were handsomely rewarded with cash, gifts and promotions. Initially, they adopted a simple modus operandi wherein during BARC sampling, the raw data gathered was edited and fed to obtain a favourable output,’’ Waze said. Waze claimed Dasgupta has told the police he invested the money in immovable properties as well as ornaments. Police have seized Dasgupta’s laptop, cell phones, a watch, and silver jewellery. While Dasgupta’s lawyer Kailash Gumre was not available for comment, Goswami did not respond to emails. One of Goswami’s lawyers, Sanket Shukla, said he would get back but he had not responded till the time of going to press. Waze said the police have also stumbled upon certain email exchanges and WhatsApp chats between Dasgupta and arrested COO of BARC, Romil Ramgarhia, discussing TRP manipulations. The development comes two days after joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe said ratings were manipulated to push English news channel Times Now from the top slot to the No. 2 position and make Republic TV the No. 1 news channel. Similarly, another news channel, CNN-News 18 (formerly CNN-IBN) was pushed to the third slot from its second position, Bharambe had said. Read AlsoChargesheet of 1,914 pages filed against Arnab GoswamiMUMBAI: Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and two other businessmen delayed payment to or failed to pay interior designer Anway Naik’s firm, thus crumbling his financial position which led him to commit suicide, Alibaug police said in their chargesheet filed on Friday in the abetment to suicide caseThe crime branch is probing the role of six channels for inflating viewership figures: Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema, News Nation, Mahamovies and Wow music channel. Police have made 15 arrests in the case so far and accused the arrested persons of conniving with each other. Police registered an FIR in the case on October 6 and filed a chargesheet in court on November 24 naming the six channels. Watch Ex-BARC CEO got lakhs to manipulate TRPs: Mumbai Police in remand note||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arnab-paid-barc-ex-ceo-to-rig-republic-trps-cops/articleshow/80001135.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 29, 2020||India||Car designer Dilip Chhabria arrested in cheating case||MUMBAI: The Mumbai police on Monday arrested Dilip Chhabria, India’s top car designer and founder of the car modification studio ‘DC Design’, in a cheating and forgery case pertaining to a multiple car registration racket. Police have seized a high-end sports car worth around Rs 75 lakh, which is registered in the name of Indermal Ramani with the Tamil Nadu Regional Transport Office, from him. Police said they have registered an FIR of cheating, forgery, breach of trust and criminal conspiracy in the case and more arrests are likely soon. Sources said that police are probing a racket where the registration documents were forged and used to register multiple vehicles. Chhabria has designed and modified the vanity vans of several celebrities. In fact, one of the five complainants is an actress who has accused him of cheating and forgery. Joint commissioner of police Milind Bharambe late Monday confirmed the case, but declined to provide details as the probe was at preliminary stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/car-designer-dilip-chhabria-arrested-in-cheating-case/articleshow/80001145.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 29, 2020||Goa||Short pre-season and quarantine are no excuses, says Churchill coach Varela||PANAJI: Churchill Brothers FC have already landed in Kolkata along with other teams for the upcoming edition of the I-League which will commence on January 9. The Goan side play their opening game on against Indian Arrows on January 10, and even though head coach Fernando Varela will be running out of time to get his team back in shape after undergoing mandatory quarantine, the Spaniard is up for the challenge. “I think it is not best option to be ready in one week or two weeks. Pre-season could be better, and we could be here early in Kolkata. We must be competitive, but the condition is for all teams and there are no excuses. We have to show mentality is ready to play in these conditions,” Varela told TOI in an online interaction arranged by the All India Football Federation (AIFF) on Monday. Goa’s only representative in the I-League are chasing their third I-League crown. They last won the title in 2013 and it’s been a long wait since then. Last season’s champions Mohun Bagan are not around to defend their title. They’ve switched over to Indian Super League after joining hands with ATK. Their fierce Kolkata rivals, East Bengal, have also made the move. But Varela knows he still faces a formidable challenge. “There are other teams, coaches and players. Challenge is for all teams. Not thinking it will be easy to win the title in absence of East Bengal, Mohun Bagan. We respect all teams and matches. “We must show we are ready to fight for the title. Whatever the situation, we must show our mentality. Focus has to be on the next game, no matter who you play against,” said Varela. Varela is not new to Indian football having coached Gokulam Kerala FC last year. He won the Durand Cup at the beginning of the season. Varela believes Indian Arrows can be very competitive as they have youngsters who want to prove their potential to suitors in the ISL. Even though Churchill are challenging for the title, their main aim is to develop local talent. Even as ISL clubs are loaning out players, Varela believes they will not need any new signings in the January transfer window. “I am very happy with the squad because we have a mix of youth and experience players. Young players are ready to play their first I-League. We want to help Goan players and focussing on them. “Will do everything to help them to grow. Like I showed last year, for me, more important thing are players who are inside the team. I will do everything to help them,” said Varela. Churchill are preparing the players mentally as well to cope up inside a bio-secure bubble. New signing and experienced goalkeeper Shilton Paul has already played in the Second Division league which was held in a bio-secure environment. He is now passing on his experience to his new teammates. “It will be little difficult as we are without our families. There will be no spectators. Mentally we must be focused and prepared. We have to be motivated for everything,” said the former Mohun Bagan goalkeeper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/short-pre-season-and-quarantine-are-no-excuses-says-churchill-coach-varela/articleshow/80001148.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
December 29, 2020||India||Prevailing situation in India like during British rule: Sonia||NEW DELHI: In a sharp attack on the Modi government, Congress president Sonia Gandhi Monday said that the prevailing situation in the country was akin to the one during the British rule, as she urged party workers to unite and fight against “dictatorship”. Recalling that Congress was born out of a people’s movement and made sacrifices in fighting the British empire, Sonia Gandhi, in a video message on the party’s 136th Foundation day, said, “Today, once again, the circumstances are similar to those existing before independence. The rights of people are being crushed, there is dictatorship everywhere, democratic and constitutional institutions are being finished. Unemployment is at its peak, farms and fields are being attacked and black laws are being imposed on the country’s ‘annadata’.” “We will have to unite to save the pride and honour of the tricolour, under which we achieved our nation's freedom. We have to win over the hearts of people,” she said. Congress Monday celebrated its 136th Foundation Day, holding online campaign “selfie with Tiranga” and events at state and district level across the country. Sonia Gandhi, who has been avoiding public appearances owing to health issues, skipped the function while Rahul Gandhi is on a personal trip abroad. In their absence, Congress leader A K Antony unfurled the party flag at the AICC headquarters. Among those present were senior leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Rajeev Shukla, Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev. Defending Rahul’s foreign trip, Congress general secretary K C Venugopal said, “BJP is indulging in low-level politics and hitting out at Rahul Gandhi because they want to target only one leader. Rahul Gandhi has gone to see his grandmother. Is it wrong? Everybody has the right to undertake personal visits.” AICC spokesman Randeep Surjewala said Rahul had gone to meet a family member who is unwell and his trip is not a vacation. Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “The Congress has been committed from the beginning to raise its voice in national interest. Today, on the foundation day of the Congress, we reiterate our pledge of truth and equality. Jai Hind!” Criticising the Modi government over the ongoing agitation by farmers, Priyanka Gandhi said, “Farmers are food providers of the country while their sons stand guard on the borders. It is a sin to use the kind of words they are using for farmers. Government is answerable to farmers. Government should listen to them and take back the farm laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/prevailing-situation-in-india-like-during-british-rule-sonia/articleshow/80001106.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||Birmole gets coaching role with elite boxers||PANAJI: Goan boxing coach Santosh Birmole is part of the India men’s elite coaching team for the upcoming national camp at Bellary in Karnataka. Birmole has been involved with the national campers for eight years, mostly with the men’s youth squad. The former international boxer is employed with Goa Police and is posted at the Indian Reserve Battalion. He is awaiting clearance from his department to join the India camp, headed by high performance director Santiago Nueva. The AIBA 2-Star coach will train select elite boxers who will participate in the forthcoming World Championships and final qualifiers for the Tokyo Olympics. “I was with the India youth team and it was not so difficult because of the age, it was easily manageable. Senior boxers are different. Every day it is a different experience with Santiago. I will be learning a lot from him,” Birmole told TOI. The call-up to coach the elite boxers came as a surprise for Birmole when he was with the youth team in Ireland before the coronavirus pandemic. Birmole was part of the earlier camp but did not travel with the team that took part in the Asian boxing Olympic qualifiers in Amman, Jordan. Five boxers - Amit Pangal, Manish Kaushik, Vikas Kishan, Ashish Kumar and Satish Kumar -- have already booked their berth for the Olympics which will be held next year in Japan. Mohammed Hussamuddin, 2018 Commonwealth Games gold medallist Gaurav Solanki, World Number four Kavinder Bisht and former youth world champion Sachin Siwach are also expected to make the cut in the next qualifiers. “We are new to the seniors. Some of them have moved up from the youth set up. Vikas, Amit Pangal are already seniors, so we have a good relation. After training they come and ask us for feedback. They are much experienced but still we give them advice and they are happy with the reviews,” said Birmole, who is part of the seven-member coaching team. It will be quite a task for Birmole who was preparing the blueprint for Goan boxing ahead of the oft-postponed National Games. “We have good talent but need proper infrastructure. In Goa, we have only one hall in Peddem and that’s not enough. “Khelo India has decided to give boxing five academies in Goa and we are putting three academies in South. They have good potential. We have to ensure that we capitalise,” said Birmole. Attachments area||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/birmole-gets-coaching-role-with-elite-boxers/articleshow/80001156.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
December 29, 2020||Business||No info on nation-specific bar on flyers: Puri||NEW DELHI: After some airlines claimed they had been informally advised not to fly Chinese nationals to India, aviation minister Hardeep Puri on Monday said there is no move to restrict people from arriving here on the basis of where they are coming from. “It is wrong to make suggestions as to citizens of which country should come. There is no such information from our side,” Puri told the media. While flights between India and China are currently suspended, Chinese nationals eligible to travel as per current norms for foreigners have been doing so by first flying to a third country with which India has a travel bubble before flying to India. In addition, Chinese nationals living in air bubble countries have also also been flying to India from there for work and business. Some airlines said they had over the weekend been informally told not to fly Chinese citizens to India. In early November, China had suspended entry of foreign nationals holding valid Chinese visas or residence permits from some countries, including India, due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-info-on-nation-specific-bar-on-flyers-puri/articleshow/80001243.cms||---
December 29, 2020||India||Karnataka cabinet OKs ordinance on cow slaughter||BENGALURU: The Karnataka cabinet on Monday decided to soon promulgate an ordinance against cow slaughter, but clarified that there will be no curbs on consuming beef in the state. Sources said the ordinance will be sent “within a day” to the governor to seek his approval and take effect immediately after being ratified by him. The BJP-led government was forced to take the ordinance route as the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill 2020, passed by the legislative assembly earlier in the month in the winter session, did not win the approval of the council as JD(S) backed out in the last minute. According to law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy and animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan, the earlier law banned slaughter of cows till age of 13. “We have extended it with an intention that older cows should not be left out. Since the prohibition does not extend to buffaloes aged above 13, there is no ban on beef consumption,” they said. The move to ban cow slaughter has already created ripples among farmers, meat traders and in the neighbouring state of Goa. Karnataka and Maharashtra have been the biggest meat suppliers to Goa. A delegation of meat traders recently met Goa CM Pramod Sawant in this regard. Animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan said the new law will go a long way in improving the cow population. Citing the 2019 cattle census, Chauhan said 2.4 lakh cows are slaughtered every year in the state. “Stopping illegal transportation and slaughtering is our priority,” he said. The government is also considering building cow shelters to ensure aged animals do not become a burden on farmers. The new law proposes up to seven years in jail and a fine of Rs 5 lakh for offenders. It proposes stringent punishment to those who indulge in smuggling, illegal transportation, atrocities on cows and slaughtering them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-cabinet-oks-ordinance-on-cow-slaughter/articleshow/80001210.cms||---
December 29, 2020||India||Women docs sexually harassed during e-consultations, websites try to hide it||Websites offering consultations with doctors 24x7 have become sites for sexual harassment of women doctors, with ‘patients’ flashing, masturbating or making lewd conversation in the guise of seeking consultation. Instead of reporting such incidents to the police and ensuring that action is taken against the sexual harassers, websites have tried to keep it under wraps while putting in some measures to check such incidents, with little success. Regulations notified in May this year stipulate that in telemedicine consultation “both patient and the registered medical practitioner (RMP) need to know each other’s identity”. This is not followed by most websites. In fact, most boast that within seconds or minutes of registering and paying, you can be put through to a doctor for consultation. Patients register with several different ID numbers and use those to harass women doctors. Male patients register as female and the doctors often realise this only after they start attending to a call. If the ‘patient’ gets blocked after harassing one doctor, he moves on to target other doctors on the site as the sites have done little or nothing to identify such callers and block them or lodge formal complaints of sexual harassment. With a monthly plan of just a few hundred rupees depending on the app and the kind of service you have chosen, most websites offer unlimited free consultations or a limited number of free consultations per day. “It’s very traumatising, especially the first time when it happened. Most of these calls happen at night and so now we have requested the company to have mostly male doctors on call at night. They have also stopped allowing unlimited consultation calls for a monthly subscription. That has brought down the number of such calls we face,” said a doctor. Whether Practo, one of the early entrants in the teleconsultation field, or a later entrant like Dhani, a teleconsultation company started by India Bulls, doctors working for these companies have been facing sexual harassment from patients on a regular basis. Though doctors are assured that identification documents have been made mandatory for patients seeking to use teleconsultation services, there seems to be no scrutiny of what is being uploaded and none of the websites reflect norms for consultation being made stricter. There have even been instances of groups of men calling up a woman doctor and talking inappropriately or making vulgar gestures. In some cases, the harassers have gone on to stalk them on social media like Facebook and Instagram, sending friendship requests and asking for personal numbers, forcing them to change the privacy setting of their accounts. “This cannot be normalised as part of our job. We are more careful now and can sense when a person is not a genuine patient and cut the call immediately, block the person and inform the company. But we should not have to put up with this. For a call that does not translate into a prescription, we don’t even get paid any commission,” said a doctor working for Dhani. Dhani pays doctors monthly salaries of Rs 40,000-45,000 plus commissions for every consultation that generates a prescription. In Practo, doctors are paid Rs 64 for every consultation. A Dhani spokesperson said Dhani healthcare is a new product and things would fall in place in a month, but expressed inability to issue a formal statement on the issue. Practo responded to TOI’s queries stating that it has a zero-tolerance policy towards misbehaviour and harassment of any nature and that “all patients’ accounts are OTP verified, and that the app has a built-in feature to ensure abusive patients are flagged immediately by the doctor”. OTP verification merely confirms that the number given by the patient is accessed by the patient, but doesn’t confirm the identity of the person, pointed out a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/women-docs-sexually-harassed-during-e-consultations-websites-try-to-hide-it/articleshow/80001279.cms||Rema Nagarajan
December 29, 2020||India||ED notice a bid to topple Maha govt: Raut||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena MP and chief spokesperson of the party Sanjay Raut described the Enforcement Directorate’s notice to his wife Varsha as “political vendetta” and a “pressure tactic aimed at toppling the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra” and said the Sena would respond to it in a political manner. He alleged that BJP was misusing Central agencies like the ED, CBI and the income-tax department for political purposes. The ED has summoned Raut’s wife on Tuesday to record her statement in a money laundering case related to HDIL promoters in connection with the PMC Bank scam. Addressing a press conference on Monday, Raut said his wife had received a notice but added that the family had already provided the requisite information to the agency. He also said his wife had borrowed a Rs 50 lakh loan some 10-12 years ago, and the same has been revealed in an election affidavit when he filed his nomination for the Rajya Sabha in 2016. “We have not done anything wrong as we are lawmakers and respect the law,” Raut said. He alleged, “Our wealth has not increased by 1,600 times in a year. The ED should probe a BJP leader’s family member whose wealth has increased by 1,600 times in just a year.” He also said he had a list of 120 BJP members who are “fit for an ED probe”. He claimed “prominent BJP members and those connected to the party have been constantly trying to meet me and telling me not to prop up the MVA government as they have decided to topple it”. Raut said “these people” had told him that “they had a list of prominent people close to Thackeray and 22 MLAs from the Sena, NCP and Congress who would be pressured by the Central agencies to resign, and (Sena MLA) Pratap Sarnaik was one of them. But they have failed to do so. So they have started harassing people who are supporters of MVA and their families.” He reiterated that there was no threat to the MVA government. Meanwhile, Aaditya Thackeray termed the notice to Raut’s wife as “political”. Watch PMC Bank Fraud: ED summons Sanjay Raut’s wife on December 29||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-notice-a-bid-to-topple-maha-govt-raut/articleshow/80001288.cms||Vijay Singh
December 29, 2020||India||Raut must explain how he got the funds: BJP||MUMBAI: BJP member Kirit Somaiya on Monday asked how and why Sanjay Raut’s family had received Rs 54 lakh from HDIL and added that the money belonged to PMC Bank depositors. “Stolen money has made its way into Raut’s account. He must explain how the money came into his account,” Somaiya said. Reacting strongly to the Sena spokesperson’s statement that Central agencies were being used to target political opponents, BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said if Raut considers the notice has been wrongly issued, he should approach the courts. “Instead of claiming political conspiracy, Raut should satisfactorily respond to the ED’s notice. If he considers the notice wrongly issued, it can always be challenged in court,” said Upadhye. BJP’s civic election in-charge Atul Bhatkhalkar said listening to Raut’s press conference “gave the impression that he is not even taking medicines from his compounder”. “I would advise him to take medicines not from a compounder but from an MD,” said Bhatkhalkar. He also demanded Raut be booked for sedition for suggesting that India like Russia would split into different nations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/raut-must-explain-how-he-got-the-funds-bjp/articleshow/80001283.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Rachakonda cops to finish collecting data of Rohingyas||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda cops are expected to soon complete the process of collecting bio-metric data of all Rohingya in Rachakonda PS limits in coordination with intelligence sleuths. There are 4,500 Rohingya refugees residing in Rachakonda. Rachakonda commissioner of police Mahesh Bhagwat said this during the annual press meet on Monday where he answered questions on the Rohingya community in the city. Two days ago, two Rohingya were arrested by police for illegally entering into the country. “Bangladesh has started to send members of the Rohingya community into India through an island. We came to know that there might be movement of more Rohingyas who are entering India and some of them might even enter Hyderabad,” Bhagwat told reporters. As per the guidelines given by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the Rachakonda police have collected biometric data and other details of Rohingya residing in Rachakonda police station limits. The exercise was undertaken by Rachakonda police in coordination with counter-intelligence sleuths. So far, police have registered 66 cases against members of the Rohingya community for different violations. In two cases, local courts had convicted the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-to-finish-collecting-data-of-rohingyas/articleshow/80000255.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Business||Bad loan provisions to be half of what was thought earlier: Icra||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Rating agency Icra has said that bank provisions for bad loans arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic are likely to be half of what it originally estimated. As against its initial estimates that 5-8% of banks loans may need restructuring, the rating agency now expects this number to in the range of 2.5% to 4.5%. According to Icra, stress on loans is likely to moderate by end of FY2022 with net non-performing assets (NPAs) declining to 2.5% for banks as against 3.1% estimated for March 2021 and 2.2% for September 2020. In the near term, the gross NPAs and net NPAs for the banks are likely to rise to 10.1-10.6% and 3.1-3.2% respectively by March 2021 from 7.9% and 2.2% respectively as of September 2020. This is because the current level of NPAs is downplayed due to a Supreme Court interim order holding banks from classifying Covid-hit businesses as defaulters. “With expectations of sustained collections and lower restructuring, the asset quality is expected to improve further with net NPA declining to 2.4-2.6% by March 2022. This will lead to lower credit provisions and better profitability in FY2022,” said Anil Gupta, sector head (financial sector ratings), Icra. The report by the rating agency said that low interest rates, improved business volumes, better job prospects and income levels could also stimulate credit demand next year. This, coupled with better competitive positioning of banks vis-a-vis other lenders driven by a steep decline in cost of deposits could improve bank credit growth to 6-7% in FY2022 from an estimated 3.9-5.2% in FY2021 and 6.1% in FY2020. The loan-restructuring requests are much lower than previously estimated, which has been supported by sharper than expected improvement in economic activities as well as liquidity support through the emergency credit line guarantee scheme. “However, net NPAs and credit provisions will subsequently trend lower in FY2022 as banks have reported strong collections on their loan portfolio with most at over 90%,” said Gupta. “Public banks will need to raise additional capital of up to Rs 430 billion next year as they have call options falling due on the AT-1 bonds totalling Rs 233 billion during FY2022. Capital will also be required to support credit growth as their internal capital generation could remain weak even next year. The ability of public banks to raise capital from markets will be critical to reduce the government’s recapitalisation burden next year,” added Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bad-loan-provisions-to-be-half-of-what-was-thought-earlier-icra/articleshow/79999797.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 29, 2020||Business||Covid-19 boosts number of mobile subscribers ; helps telecom revival||Chennai: The pandemic has managed to boost prospects of the telecom sector, which had been facing sluggish growth in subscriber base. The addition of new mobile subscribers has been on a rise since July across almost all telecom circles, and for the top two service providers (Jio and Airtel). Industry executives and analysts TOI spoke to said a surge in use of OTT entertainment platforms, the need to keep personal and official mobile connections separate during remote work, and a requirement for additional smartphones at home for kids’ online learning needs has helped increase telecom subscriber base. Around 3.23 million net mobile subscribers were added in October with the total user base of the country reaching 1.15 billion compared to 0.7 million users added in September, as per industry regulator Trai. The monthly growth rates of mobile subscriber base was 0.3%, 0.33%, 0.06%, and 0.28% in the months of July, August, September and October respectively.Prior to July, the mobile user base followed a declining trend with rate of monthly net additions at -0.24%, -0.71%, -0.49%,and -0.28% in March, April, May and June respectively. The proportion of active mobile users hovered at around 84% of total base across 2020. “Like any other sector, the telecom industry was also impacted by the pandemic with a sharp fall in the number of subscribers inMarch and April. However, business and individuals adopted digital ways, the telecom industry emerged as a savior,” SP Kochhar, director general of Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) said. “The growth of data services was primarily triggered by the use ofOTT platforms for voice communications, chat, online meetings, webinars,entertainment and more,” he added. “With things rebooting and movement of app-enabled workers like riders etc, there is a replacement of workers in many cases which means many wanting to subscribe to a new sim. I think up till March 2021, we should continue to see this [trend],” Faisal Kawoosa, founder of telecom research firm techARC, said.The number of mobile data users too has been rising continuously with increase in the mobile subscribers. Around eight million new mobile data users were added in October with total users now reaching 713 million as of October 31. Analysts at Motilal Oswal said in a recent note that growing steadily from 64% of total active subscribers in Oct 2019, mobile data users as of October 2020 stood at 74%. Telco Bharti Airtel led the pack in subscriber count in October, adding higher gross, active, and 4G subscribers compared to rival Reliance Jio.Airtel's data subscriber base has grown almost 9% in the past two quarters from around 149 million in the March 2020 quarter to 162 million in the quarter ended September. Data usage per subscriber has also grown from around 14,900 MBs per month in March to 16,360 MBs in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-19-boosts-number-of-mobile-subscribers-helps-telecom-revival/articleshow/79998063.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 29, 2020||Pune||PMC to draft separate DP after 23 villages’ merger||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will prepare a separate development plan (DP) once the remaining 23 villages are merged in the civic limits. The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) is in the process of drafting the development plan for villages in its jurisdiction. “The civic body has the rights and power to prepare the DP for areas under its jurisdiction. We will use it and draft the plan for 23 merged villages,” said Ganesh Bidkar, leader of the house in PMC, while addressing a news conference. The draft notification for merger of these villages has been issued and suggestions and objections sought. The area of PMC is likely to increase to 480sqkm with this merger. A decision to merge 34 fringe villages in civic areas was first taken in 2013-14. The civic body merged 11 villages - two fully and remaining partly in PMC areas in 2017. BJP will retain power in PMC: Bapat Member of Parliament from Pune Girish Bapat on Monday said that the BJP will retain power in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). “Many projects our party promised have been delivered. The citizens’ mandate will be on our side,” Bapat said while speaking to reporters. A meeting of BJP corporators was organised in PMC where Bapat reviewed the work of the elected members. The BJP had emerged the single largest party in the municipal elections in 2017 with 98 corporators. The next election is likely in February 2022. “We will repeat the past performance even in the upcoming elections, rather perform even better. The development work carried out by our corporators will be rewarded by voters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-draft-separate-dp-after-23-villages-merger/articleshow/79998787.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New facility for man’s best friends after death||KOLKATA: The pet cemetery in New Town Action Area III, which opened in February last year with about 150 pits, is running out of space. With over 140 pits used up at the facility, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is now planning to set up an electric crematorium on the lines of the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA)-built animal and pet crematorium that was opened last week in the Pramod Nagar area off Belgharia Expressway. A site near the Pass Khal (link canal) at the western boundary of New Town has been identified for this purpose and further details will be worked out if the plan is technically feasible. NKDA engineers have been asked to hold talks with their KMDA counterparts to discuss the proposal. The authorities recently held a meeting over the issue of limited burial space. At present, only one corner of the New Town facility remains available and this is also expected to be filled up in a month or so, officials said. This month alone, there have been 10 burials. The facility in New Town doesn’t just cater to locals. Many from across the city, too, have used the burial ground for their pets. The pet crèche and clinic attached to it has also received clients from across Kolkata. Pet lovers have welcomed NKDA’s initiative, agreeing that it is indeed needed to meet the requirements. “We had a golden retriever whom we cremated at the New Town pet crematorium in August. We have to pay to retain the spot if we want to visit and have a look next year. Having an electric crematorium would definitely cut down on expenses,” said Aditi Chakraborty, a resident of New Town. “An electric crematorium is needed as the existing space at the pet burial ground has almost been filled up,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a local NGO. “The pet cemetery and clinic in New Town have been very useful as there weren’t many such facilities earlier. An electric crematorium for pets will help sort out the space problem,” said Bidhannagar Kennel Club president Tapas Sengupta. Officials said that an electric crematorium would be little costly for use as the furnace would have to be kept over 500°C. It would take several hours for the furnace to attain the temperature required while arrival of animals for burial is not very regular. “However, the idea will be explored in consultation with KMDA engineers,” said an official. There is already a rule in place that the burial pits would be reprocessed for fresh use after a year. The authorities at the New Town facility will now ask pet owners to take away the burial plaques placed on the pits a year after a service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-facility-for-mans-best-friends-after-death/articleshow/79998743.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 29, 2020||Patna||Antique idols stolen from Patna temple||PATNA: Two antique idols of Lord Shiva and goddess Parvati were stolen from a temple at Belwarganj under Alamganj police station area in Patna City Sunday night, triggering protest by some local residents on Monday. The incident came to light on Monday morning when some devotees reached the temple for worship. The theft of over a century old idols from Radha Krishna Thakurbari spread like wildfire in the locality. A group of residents later blocked Ashok Rajpath and disrupted vehicular traffic demanding action against the police officers on night patrolling, whose negligence led to the theft of the idols. The police had to face the ire of the protesters. Alamganj police station SHO Sudhir Kumar said police swung into action after receiving information about the theft. “Efforts are on to identify of the gang involved in the crime,” he said. A local resident, Manish Kumar alleged that the police officials posted at the Alamganj police station didn’t pay heed to the complaint about lax policing, which forced the residents to come on the streets to register their protest. The residents reiterated to launch an agitation if the stolen idols were not recovered soon. The police have registered a case against unidentified persons in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/antique-idols-stolen-from-patna-city-temple/articleshow/79997631.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Business||Tata Trusts can enjoy tax exemption: ITAT||MUMBAI: A high-profile Mumbai bench of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) on Monday quashed the revisionary orders passed by the commissioner (exemptions), which would have resulted in three Tata Trusts having to bear taxes running into several lakhs. Now, the original assessment orders of the income tax (I-T) officer (known as the assessing officer), which had upheld the tax-exempt status of these trusts, will apply. The ITAT is the final fact-finding authority. An appeal can be filed with the courts only if a question of law is involved. Thus, it is likely that these Trusts can finally heave a sigh of relief. Interestingly, the ITAT bench also frowned upon the action of Cyrus Mistry, who soon after being removed as chairperson of Tata Sons, had handed various documents to the I-T department that he had obtained in a fiduciary capacity. In a boldly worded statement, the ITAT order stated, “This kind of conduct is unheard of in the civilised corporate world. The inputs from those engaged in a rivalry with an assessee should be taken with a reasonable degree of circumspection and should not be placed on such a high pedestal so as to relegate all other material facts and accepted past assessment history of the case into insignificance.” The returns filed by Dorabji Tata Trust, Ratan Tata Trust and JRD Tata Trust, claiming the tax exemption benefits under section 11, were accepted by the respective I-T officers. Subsequently, the commissioner of I-T (exemptions) served notices under section 263, seeking to revise the orders of the I-T officers. The notices were on the grounds that adequate verification had not been undertaken by the officers concerned and the assessment orders were prejudicial to the interest of the revenue. A key common ground in all the notices was these Trusts controlled Tata Sons and hence they were not eligible for the tax exemption. Saddled with unfavourable revisionary orders, the Tata Trusts filed an appeal with the ITAT. In the lead case of Dorabji Tata Trust, the ITAT bench comprising president P P Bhatt and VP Pramod Kumar observed, “The concept of control over a company, in which investment is made by the trust, is completely alien to the scheme of the Income Tax Act, so far as taxation of charitable institutions is concerned… Merely because the trust has control over the investee company, the benefits envisaged for charitable institutions, which meet other statutory requirements, cannot be declined.” A similar observation was made by the bench in the case of the other two trusts. The ITAT also held that the Trusts validly hold shares in Tata Sons and other group companies. Tax experts explain that restrictions for investment in shares apply to a trust which seeks tax-exempt status. If a trust wishes to be tax-exempt, shares can be held by it only if these shares form part of the corpus of the trust as on June 1, 1973. The Tata Trusts provided the requisite details and submitted that any subsequent accretions after this date were by way of bonus shares. All shares were held in compliance with the provisions of the Act. The ITAT bench noted the unique business model of ownership of Tata Sons, a holding company, which has investments in Tata Group companies. It added that majority shareholding in Tata Sons is “collectively” in the hands of various Tata Trusts. The rights, granted under the Articles of Association of Tata Sons, are granted to the charitable institutions on a “collective” basis and not an “individual” basis. An individual trust cannot be said to be having control over the affairs of Tata Sons, held the ITAT. The show-cause notice seeking to revise the favourable order of the I-T officer had questioned the sum of Rs 91 lakh paid to A N Singh, managing trustee of Dorabji Tata Trust. This sum was reimbursed by the trust to Tata Services. According to the commissioner (exemptions), the trust deed entitled him to a remuneration of Rs 1,000 only. The trust submitted that the deed entitled the trustees to appoint a managing trustee and fix his remuneration. As regards another issue that was raised, the trust pointed out that during the year covered under litigation, it had not reimbursed any sum to Tata Sons for services rendered by R Venkataramanan. Lastly, regarding the allegations about trustees receiving certain benefits from Tata Sons, the ITAT held that these are as consideration for services rendered to the company (as directors or employees) and has nothing to do with their role as trustees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-trusts-can-enjoy-tax-exemption-itat/articleshow/80000515.cms||Lubna Kably
December 29, 2020||Patna||Girl gang-raped, 4 killed in Bihar||PATNA: A 16-year-old girl was gang-raped while four people, including a poultry trader, were murdered in separate incidents in the state in the last 24 hours. The girl was raped by three youths in an area under Dehri-on-Sone police station in Rohtas district when she, along with her elder sister, had gone to a nearby shop to purchase goods late Sunday evening. Her father said the youths waiting near a turning held the girls captive and took them to a nearby room and raped the younger one. The girls narrated the ordeal to their mother after reaching home. Raja Kumar, Vicky Kumar and Shahid have been named as accused in the FIR lodged with the Dehri Town police station, which forwarded it to the district women’s police station. Women’s police station SHO Ananta Kumari said the victim was sent to the hospital for medical examination. “Raids were on to nab the offenders, who were known to the victim’s family,” she said. Meanwhile, four people were killed in separate incidents in Begusarai, Siwan, Gaya and Samastipur districts. One Golu Kumar (22) was shot dead by an acquaintance at Hemra village under Mufassil police station in Begusarai district on Monday. Police said the deceased, a resident of Harerampur village under Chhaurahi police station area in the district, had come to the village from Begusarai where he was enrolled in a college. Golu had an altercation with one Nitish Kumar, a native of Pasraha under Navkothi police station area in the district. Further investigation was on. In Samastipur, poultry trader Kedarnath Jha (45) was shot dead by three unidentified bike-borne criminals outside his residence at Bhojpur under Sarairanjan police station area late Sunday evening. Previous enmity is stated to be the reason behind the incident. No one was arrested in the case. In Siwan, one Bhagwan Prasad (65) was killed by his younger son Kanchan Prasad and his wife at Nathupur Chhap village under Siwan Mufassil police station area late Sunday night. Property dispute is stated to be the reason behind the incident. A report from Gaya said that a 25-year-old man was murdered and his body was dumped into a well at Mathachak village under Imamganj police station area on Monday. The deceased was yet to be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girl-gang-raped-4-killed-in-bihar/articleshow/79997170.cms||Ramashankar
December 29, 2020||Business||High liquidity helps cos get record Rs 1.8 lakh crore in equity market||MUMBAI: The onset of the Covid-19 pandemic and a sharp slide in the stock market in the early months of 2020 notwithstanding, companies raised a record amount of money through equity and quasi-equity routes this year. Nearly Rs 1.8 lakh crore was raised during the year through a combination of initial public offerings (IPOs), qualified institutional placements (QIPs), offers for sale (OFSs) and follow-on public offerings (FPOs), data published by Prime Database showed. The year’s figure is higher than the Rs 1.6 lakh crore raised in 2017 and more than double the Rs 82,241-crore amount for 2019. According to Pranav Haldea, MD, Prime Database Group, contrary to the despondency witnessed due to the pandemic, 15 mainboard IPOs came to the market. These collectively raised a little over Rs 26,600 crore — more than double the Rs 12,362 crore raised through 16 IPOs in 2019. Strong retail participation in the IPOs, huge listing gains and highest-ever amount raised through QIPs and InvITs/ReITs were the other key highlights of the year, Haldea said. Top merchant bankers said that the fund-raisings during the year could be divided into two distinct parts. First till August, when companies mostly took the secondary offering route. Then several IPOs hit the market since September, starting with Happiest Minds Technologies. Between March and August, only one IPO — by Rossari Biotech — was closed successfully. Soon after the pandemic set in, swift actions by governments and central banks to pump in a record amount of liquidity at ultra-low interest rates gave investors the confidence to buy into risky assets, including equities. “Capital markets rebounded faster than anticipated after the outbreak of the pandemic. Leading corporates like Reliance Industries, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank and Axis Bank, among others, were in the forefront raising large sized follow-on equity,” V Jayasankar, senior executive director & head of equity capital markets, Kotak Mahindra Capital, said. Top industry executives also said that the current trend of companies raising money through IPOs would continue in 2021. “A combination of good liquidity, issuances by several quality companies with strong management track record and good business models makes the IPO pipeline for 2021 a robust one,” Jayasankar said.“Promoters, large shareholders and private equity investors too monetised their holdings through large block sales and OFS. IPO launches picked up momentum from August. Investors benefited significantly from the strong listing gains, ending a great equity fund-raise for the year.” On the other side, during the initial months of the pandemic, companies also recognised the looming uncertainty and “moved rapidly to raise defensive capital with differing objectives — deleveraging capital, insurance capital, confidence capital, opportunistic capital — to deal with near-term uncertainty,” said Ravi Kapoor, head of corporate & investment banking, Citi India. “Investors, driven by healthy liquidity, attractive valuations relative to the long-term outlook, have been highly supportive of capital-raising by high-quality companies, which are likely to create significant opportunities from this crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/high-liquidity-helps-cos-get-record-rs-1-8l-cr-in-equity-mkt/articleshow/80000437.cms||Partha Sinha
December 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 309 new Covid cases||PATNA: The daily number of new Covid-19 cases has been falling in state, which reported only 309 cases on Monday compared to 545 cases on Sunday. The state’s tally was 2,51,304. Officially, three deaths were reported as the toll mounted to 1,386. However, the recovery rate was 97.61% with only 4,611 active cases in state. As per the health department’s data, all three deaths were from Patna, taking its toll to 377. Patna also had the maximum 121 cases, followed by West Champaran (20), Gaya (16), Muzaffarpur (14), Saharsa (14). Lakhisarai (13), Arwal (11) and Saran (11) districts. AIIMS-Patna reported four deaths, including a 55-year-old male of Maroofganj and a 74-year-old male from Biscuit Factory Mor area in Patna. The other two were a 70-year-old male of Sonepur and a 71-year-old male of Sitamarhi. As per the information shared by hospital’s nodal in charge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nine patients were admitted and seven were discharged on Monday. There were 122 patients in the hospital. Those admitted were also from different localities of Patna like Jakkanpur, Boring Road, Kankarbagh and Phulwarisharif. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital did not report any death. While four patients were admitted, one was discharged as there were 20 patients in the hospital. As per the tweet shared by health minister Mangal Pandey, 617 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and 97,814 samples were tested during the same period in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-309-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79997579.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Business||Sensex ends above 47k pts for 1st time||Mumbai: A presidential nod to the new stimulus package in the US, a Brexit deal before Christmas and optimism about the vaccine led to renewed buying on Dalal Street on Monday, which took the sensex past 47,400 points — a record high. It closed above the 47k mark for the first time at 47,354, up 380 points. The day’s rise got a boost from a Rs 1,589-crore foreign fund inflow, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-ends-above-47k-pts-for-1st-time/articleshow/80000463.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||78-year-old man dies, 20 positive||COVID-19Ludhiana: After many months, the district recorded a low number of Covid-19 positive cases. On Monday, 20 residents tested positive and one succumbed to the virus. The 78-year-old deceased, a resident of Daba Colony, had hypertension, diabetes and coronary artery disease.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said to date 5,31,362 persons have been tested.Of the 20 new cases, 11 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), three positive cases’ contacts, one from OPD, four through tracing process, among others. On the day, 10 outsiders were confirmed to have contracted the disease and one succumbed.The local health department officials said the district case count was 24,669 and that of outsiders 3,670.The district toll tally was 959 and that of outsiders 444.So far, 23,343 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.62% of the total cases.There are 364 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,481.On Monday, 90 persons were quarantined and 1,367 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four of government at CMCH. Three patients, including one of the district, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/78-year-old-man-dies-20-positive/articleshow/79997606.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar man forced to spit and lick, hangs self||SASARAM: A 22-year-old man committed suicide after he was made to spit and lick by an otherwise ‘kangaroo court’ for allegedly having an affair with a girl in Kaimur district late Sunday night. His body was found hanging in his bedroom on Monday morning. The incident took place under Chainpur police station area. SHO Uday Bhanu Singh said a named FIR against five persons has been lodged on the written statement of Rajesh Gupta, the father of the deceased. According to the FIR, Shiv Shankar Gupta was caught by the family members of the girl at her residence on December 24 night. He was badly assaulted and accused of sexually harassing her. After getting information, the police reached the spot and freed the man from the clutches of the girl’s family members. Treating the mater as a love affair, the police suggested the family members to solve the matter amicably. “The girl’s family and a group of locals assembled in the village on December 26 and the man was summoned. In the meeting, he was assaulted again. Later, the ‘panchayat’ ordered him to spit on the ground and lick it. When the man and his father’s requests failed to dissuade the ‘panchayat’ from asking him for that, Shiv had to spit and lick it publicly,” SHO Singh said. The FIR further stated that Shiv could not digest the humiliation and committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling fan of his room on Sunday night. “On Monday, his younger brother Rajan Gupta found his body hanging from the fan. He was brought to a local nursing home, where he was declared brought dead,” the SHO said. “Stern action would be taken against the culprit who forced the man to commit suicide,” the SHO added. The body was handed over to the family members after postmortem at Bhabhua Sadar hospital on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kaimur-man-forced-to-spit-lick-hangs-self/articleshow/79997034.cms||Alok Chamaria
December 29, 2020||Patna||When coronavirus turned lives upside down in Bihar||PATNA: The year 2020 will be remembered in the history for Covid-19 pandemic and how the virus changed lifestyle of people. Like the other parts of the world, Bihar too faced several challenges owing to Covid-19. While it managed to tackle the situation, poor health infrastructure was also exposed in the process. So far, over 2.5 lakh people have tested positive for the virus in the state and 1,386 lost their lives due to it. The state government had sounded an alert in January and asked all the civil surgeons to form district surveillance units and sample collection teams to tackle the virus. The first three Covid-19 cases and a death were reported by the state health department on March 22. All the three Covid positive patients had a history of foreign visit. As per the central government’s instruction, only people returning from foreign countries with Covid symptoms were to be tested then. However, former state health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar had asked the officials concerned to trace and test all foreign returnees. It led to identification of large number of infected people. In March, the government declared NMCH a dedicated Covid hospital of the state. Gradually, more hospitals, including AIIMS-Patna, were designated for treatment of Covid patients. Beds for treating Covid-19 positive people were also earmarked in other health institutes. While the cases were slowly surging, it was with the return of migrants that the state recorded exponential rise in Covid cases. The virus even reached the rural areas. Till mid-April, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Saharsa, Madhepura, Supaul, Purnia, Katihar and Kishanganj districts, were in the red zone. However, influx of migrants from May onwards led to Covid-19 cases even in villages. From July, the Covid-19 cases started rising and August witnessed the peak. To curb the situation, the health department started random test of migrants in the camps. Those coming from places like Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai and Ahmedabad were given priority. However, a central team which visited Bihar on July 20, expressed unhappiness with contact tracing and testing mechanism. Within a week, the state government appointed 1991 batch IAS officer Pratyaya Amrit as the principal secretary of health department in place of Udai Singh Kumawat, who was roped in on May 20. Monthly break-up showed August reporting maximum Covid-19 cases with over 85,000 people testing positive for the virus in the month. People had to struggle in getting beds in Covid dedicated hospitals, especially at AIIMS-Patna, which was the first choice for all. ICUs were full to capacity and there were lack of cylinders at the hospitals. AIIMS-Patna cardiac surgery head Dr Sanjeev Kumar, who was made Covid-19 incharge during the pandemic said, “It was a challenge for us and we are proud that we handled it well.” Dr Kumar recalled the pressure they had to face in July and August when cases were at the peak and there was shortage of beds. “Patients were dying outside the hospital, in the ambulance or just after entering the emergency,” he said. Doctors even recalled the death of their colleagues on the line of duty. State IMA senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar, who had also contracted the virus, said 39 doctors have so far lost their lives due to Covid. “This year was challenging for us. However, it has been proved that modern medicine is ready to accept challenges,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/when-coronavirus-turned-lives-upside-down-in-bihar/articleshow/79997596.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 29, 2020||Patna||Patna parks, zoo brace for revellers on New Year||PATNA: As 2021 approaches, the city is gearing up to celebrate the New Year in wide expanse of open, green and hygienic places, such as botanical garden and parks, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We will go on picnic at the zoo to celebrate the New Year day,” said 49-year-old Bibha Sinha, a resident of Buddha Colony. Pre-booking of tickets in major parks managed by the forests, environment and climate change department commenced on Saturday to avoid overcrowding at the ticket counters. “Extra ticket counters have been opened and more workforce has been placed at all the major parks in the city. The workforce has been briefed and positioned at proper places to ensure smooth operation on the New Year,” said Shashikant Kumar, district forest officer (parks), Patna. Deepak Anand, director of Bihar Museum, said special measures have been taken to ensure safety of people visiting the state- of-the-art museum on New Year ’s day. “Limited number of people will be allowed inside the museum at any given time. The gallery employees have been briefed to ensure adherence of all safety protocols, including compulsory face mask and physical distancing,” he said. Shankar Suman of Patna Museum said, “Although we are expecting fewer people this time due to the pandemic, yet the entire building is being sanitized everyday and we are strictly adhering to all the Covid prevention guidelines.” Patna zoo has also taken distinctive measures with regard to the ongoing pandemic. Boating, toy train ride and visiting the fish house will remain prohibited and separate new ticket counters for females and extra police force will be warranted. Meanwhile, after months of staying indoors, some people may opt for small excursion to places such as Bodh Gaya, Rajgir and Vaishali this year. “After a difficult year, my family and I are looking forward to a relaxing getaway of two nights and one day to Rajgir, to celebrate the New Year together,” said Mehul Singh of Kankarbagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/parks-zoo-brace-for-revellers-on-new-year/articleshow/79997542.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Patna||Doctors’ strike in Bihar: Private hospitals not an option for many||PATNA: The ongoing strike by junior doctors in government hospitals for their stipend hike notwithstanding, private hospitals do not seem be an option for majority of the helpless patients, mostly the poor. It became evident as there has not been any significant increase in the number of patients in private facilities due to the junior doctors’ strike in government hospitals. Paras HMRI regional director (east) Dr Talat Halim said there was only marginal increase in the number of patients due to the ongoing strike. “Our Darbhanga centre is providing free medical care under AAYUSH scheme of the government,” he said. Dr Satyajit Singh, managing director of Ruban Hospital said: “There is no noticeable difference in patients’ number, but we do not refuse medical care to anyone just because s/he cannot afford our services. We treat people with reduced charges but do not advertise it.” Dr Sunil Kumar Singh, secretary of Bihar Ophthalmological Society, said private sector is being considerate towards those affected due to the strike and the patients with low paying capacity. “Naturally, when the government sector is on strike and the patients are denied care, the load on the private facilities increases,” he said. Only emergency cases and corona patients are mainly being tended to in government hospitals as the strike is severely affecting the impoverished patients who cannot afford private healthcare services. “I went to PMCH to get my stomach ache checked, but they are not admitting patients, So I had to get an ultrasound from a private diagnostic centre,” said Jairam Arya, a resident of Kumhar Toli. Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president, IMA (Bihar), said although strike is never welcomed, but the demands of the junior doctors is genuine. “It’s unfortunate that the poor patients suffer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctors-strike-private-hospitals-not-an-option-for-many/articleshow/79996983.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Nitish Kumar’s decision takes many in JD(U) by surprise||Chief minister Nitish Kumar took everyone by surprise by relinquishing the post of JD(U) national president and making his close confidant Ram Chandra Prasad Singh (RCP) the party chief on Sunday. The members of JD(U) national executive committee as well as its national council were taken aback when Nitish announced his decision at the meeting as he still had two years left as the party president’s three-year term. Only time will tell how politically prudent was his decision. It is believed that Nitish took the decision in the backdrop of his party’s unsatisfactory performance in the state assembly elections. JD(U) could win only 43 seats compared to 74 bagged by its ally BJP and 75 by the main opposition party, the RJD. Nitish, perhaps, was toying with the idea of relinquishing the party post to give more attention to the administration to keep his ‘Sushasan Babu’ image intact. This is more so because soon after his assuming power for the fourth term on the trot, the crime graph in the state started rising, much to the chagrin of the state government. The huge anti-incumbency factor which JD(U) faced with much difficulty in the assembly elections might have prompted Nitish to inject some fresh air in the party by appointing a full-time president and RCP suited him as he was the party’s general secretary (organization). Nitish, during the JD(U) national executive meeting tried to send a strong signal by saying that he had “no desire” for the chief minister’s chair, which he accepted only on the insistence of BJP and his own party leaders. Nitish sent a message that he was not power hungry as alleged by the opposition in the run-up to the polls. RCP, a second-term Rajya Sabha member, is from the same caste and district Nitish belongs to. Since RCP, as a bureaucrat and later a politician, has been associated with Nitish since he was a central minister. RCP’s tenure in Parliament for the past 10 years also provides him a good insight into the party. That way, RCP is considered a wise choice at a time when defections took place in Arunachal Pradesh JD(U) and party’s state chief Bashishtha Narayan Singh is not keeping well. But RCP is not a mass leader and has not contested any direct election so far. His elevation to the party’s top post is only because of his proximity with Nitish. His main job will be now to stop any attempt of defections, both in Bihar and outside and expand the party at the grassroots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitishs-decision-takes-many-in-jdu-by-surprise/articleshow/79997120.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Business||WFH works, but offices will reopen cautiously||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: The concept of work-from-home (WFH), which served India Inc meaningfully during the lockdown, is expected to morph into a more robust hybrid model in the new year. This would particularly be the case as the availability of Covid-19 vaccines becomes prevalent and a credible shield starts building up against the dreaded virus. Most organisations believe that a hybrid work model, which is a mix of physical and remote working, will be the flavour of 2021. When the lockdown was announced in March this year, organisations were forced to quickly deploy WFH, in whichever manner possible, as they scrambled to cover against the spread of the virus. After a brief struggle, the entire process has now led to a permanent shift in mindsets about how work can happen more productively. “The Covid-19 pandemic has nudged us towards a transformation we never knew could be achieved in such a short span of time. It has completely changed the way we live and how we work,” said Keshav Murugesh, group CEO, WNS. “Our organisational culture has always been people-centred, and yet, we realised that these extraordinary times called for even more extraordinary measures,” said Murugesh. From a location perspective, WNS has put in place a hybrid work model that will be called the ‘hub, spoke and edge’. This will be a blend of work that will be done in the office (hub), from home (edge), and satellite offices where employees will meet to discuss key agenda/bond with colleagues and keep the organisational fabric alive (spoke). Amit Prakash, CHRO, Marico, said, “As we move into 2021, we at Marico will slowly begin working from offices across the country during the first few months, while following the strictest social distancing and hygiene norms set out by the government.” This would be undertaken in conjunction with Marico’s business continuity teams, wherein the firm will take into account transportation and other constraints of members. In the interim, said Prakash, Marico has begun exploring and implementing a hybrid WFH and work from the office model. Infosys, too, has reportedly said they will follow a hybrid model. A hybrid model offers employees the choice of work option. Such empowerment, said HR experts, would enable a more agile workplace culture, leading to better productivity. “Our members will have the liberty to choose the rotations with which they would like to work from the office, and we aim to continue this further in the coming year. We believe that, by offering our members the flexibility in work, we would be able to offset any potential fatigue that could arise while working from home on a prolonged basis. Hence, we are quite optimistic about the hybrid way of working,” said Prakash of Marico. In alignment with the new normal, WNS has also introduced a hybrid people model — with full-time, temporary contract and gig workers. “A different approach and mindset to workforce operations will be called for in the unfolding 2021 — a flatter and more empowered hierarchy,” said Murugesh. Is it time to bid WFH goodbye?Not everyone is in a hurry to ask employees to start getting back to the office, even though the willingness to get back to their office desks is equally strong among a section of the people. Many employees of RPG Enterprises are keen to get back to the workplace. This is mainly to interact with colleagues. “When we’re convinced that getting back will not compromise on their safety in any way, we shall open up. At that time, our earlier announced WFH policy will continue to apply as a choice given to employees to work remotely if they wanted to,” said Supratik Bhattacharyya, chief talent officer, RPG Enterprises. From September 1 this year, RPG Enterprises came up with a WFH policy for employees across locations and geographies, spanning offices, IT campuses, manufacturing locations, project sites, plantations, estates and any other work locations of all RPG Group companies. Sumit Mitra, head-group HR and corporate services, Godrej Industries Limited and Associate Companies, said remote working will continue for jobs that can be fully accomplished from home. “For other essential roles, our team members continue to work from our manufacturing units and offices following all safety protocols. We will closely follow and review the government guidelines across states in India, and will be flexible to change our policies based on how the situation unfolds,” said Mitra. At Tech Mahindra, associates currently have the freedom to work from home (almost 90% currently do) or work from office/client location. “In the long term, we expect 25-30% associates continuing to work from home, on an ongoing basis,” said Harshvendra Soin, global chief people officer & head of marketing, Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Siemens has established mobile working as a core component of its ‘new normal’ and will make it a permanent standard, both during the global pandemic and beyond. “The aim is to enable employees worldwide to work on a mobile basis for an average of two-three days a week, whenever reasonable and feasible,” said a Siemens spokesperson. Here, mobile working explicitly means more than just working from home. Instead, employees — in consultation with their supervisors — are to choose the work locations where they’re most productive. Work-in-person at the office is to supplement mobile working as appropriate. “The forward-looking mobile working model will be associated with a leadership style that focuses on outcomes rather than on time spent at the office,” said the spokesperson. Worldwide surveys of Siemens employees confirmed their desire for greater flexibility and for personalised solutions when it comes to deciding where they work. Bhattacharyya of RPG said, the firm has adapted these lessons to the way people work, both digital and behavioural. “As an organisation ethos, we’ve always laid emphasis on output, which hasn’t dipped at all. In fact, we’ve often been pleasantly surprised on how much our people have delivered during these difficult times,” added Bhattacharyya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wfh-works-but-offices-will-reopen-cautiously/articleshow/80000372.cms||Namrata Singh
December 29, 2020||Allahabad||Officials review measures to curb Covid at Magh Mela||PRAYAGRAJ: Additional chief secretary, medical health and family welfare department, Amit Mohan Prasad visited the Magh Mela area on Monday. He held a meeting in the ICCC auditorium with the officials while reviewing the preparations for compliance of Covid-19 protocol and organising the mela. At the meeting, chief medical officer (CMO), Prabhakar Rai, detailed the health department’s compliance with the Covid-19 protocol to organise the fair and prepare the general health system. He informed about the 40 ambulances at the fair, out of which a few ambulances will be specially allotted for Covid-19 patients if any. He added that in connection with Covid-19, separate arrangements are being ensured in Dufferin and SRN hospital so that persons infected with Covid-19 can be admitted to the designated hospitals in the fair area. The CMO also informed that arrangements are being made to make 16 entry points in the mela area. He further said that necessary action is being taken about arranging a thermal screening at the entry points so that people coming to the mela area can be checked. He said that necessary arrangements are being ensured for sanitation too. District magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami informed the additional chief secretary that extensive arrangements are being made in the Mela area to comply with the protocol of Covid-19. He said that action is being taken about contacting institutions and preparing a list of people coming to Kalpavas and uploading them on the portal. He also informed that arrangements are being made to send the list related to Kalpavis from the institutions to the respective districts so that the system of testing can be ensured by the health department of the respective districts. The DM also informed that mobile vans are being arranged for testing in the fair area. While directing the health department and other concerned officials, the additional chief secretary said that all necessary arrangements should be fully ensured to ensure compliance of the protocol of Covid-19 in the Mela area. The official also reviewed the preparations for vaccination of Covid-19. He directed the health department officials that all necessary arrangements for immunisation should be ensured in advance so that there is no problem at the time of vaccination. He has instructed the CMO to train the health department employees by forming teams at the block level and administering the vaccination. He said that on the arrival of the vaccine, necessary action should be taken to ensure CCTV cameras at the storage site, transportation, and where the vaccination will occur. At the same time, security arrangements should also be ensured. While reviewing the action being taken to stop the spread of Covid-19 in the district on normal days, the additional chief secretary has asked for the service team's special attention for contact tracing. While providing detailed information about prevention and investigation and home isolation of Covid-19, the DM said that the process of checking and preventing the spread of Covid-19 in the district is being done regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/officials-review-measures-to-curb-covid-at-magh-mela/articleshow/79998333.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Patna||Patna’s air quality dips to ‘very poor’ category||PATNA: With a slight rise in temperature and calm wind, the air quality in the state capital deteriorated on Monday to the ‘very poor’ category. The Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) recorded the average air quality index (AQI) of Patna at 357 at 4pm, as against 329 the previous day. Data from individual areas having continuous ambient air quality monitoring station showed four in the ‘very poor’ category. They were DRM office Khagaul (368), Eco Park (344), BIT Mesra (333) and Patna City (323). The planetarium station recorded AQI at 417, which is in ‘severe’ category. The monitoring station at the SK Memorial Hall was not functioning. The ‘air quality early warning system’ of the ministry of earth sciences has predicted that the overall AQI of Patna will further deteriorate on Tuesday and Wednesday. The air quality is likely to slip into the severe category during the next 48 hours, owing to unfavourable meteorological conditions for dispersion of pollutants. The weathermen at Patna Meteorological Centre are expecting further reduction in wind speed during the next 24 hours, which may lead to some deterioration in air quality. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51-100 ‘satisfactory’, 101-200 ‘moderate’, 201-300 ‘poor’, 301-400 ‘very poor’ and 401-500 ‘severe’. Above 500 is the ‘severe-plus or emergency’ category. The very poor situation can cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure. Ashok Ghosh, chairman of Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB), told this newspaper on Monday that there were three factors behind the rise in air pollution — climatic conditions, increase in vehicular movement on roads in view of festive season and New Year and increase in construction activities, including roads and buildings. “To work on different factors responsible for air pollution, we have expedited the work on our Comprehensive Clean Air Action Plan, which was released in 2019. We are conducting meetings with various department and stakeholders for its implementation as it had been slowed down during the pandemic. The ultimate objective of the action plan is to reduce the air pollution over a period of time,” Ghosh said. He added: “In the Indo-Gangetic plain, the positive side is that the effect of the pollution is not throughout the year. It is only during the winter season, from November to January, when we see the increase in air pollution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patnas-air-quality-dips-to-very-poor-category/articleshow/79997489.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 29, 2020||Patna||Nitish and RCP meet JD(U) functionaries at party office||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar and the newly appointed JD(U) national president R C P Singh on Monday visited the party headquarters and interacted with the present and former MLAs and other party functionaries for over four hours. They had come on a courtesy visit. Among those who also met the duo were the JD(U) executive committee and national council members, who had come for the party’s two-day meeting on Saturday and Sunday when Nitish relinquished the party president’s post and made RCP the JD(U) national chief. Later, the party’s executive committee and national council members left for their destinations from Patna. Both Nitish and Singh arrived at the venue separately, JD(U) state general secretary and incharge of the party’s state headquarters, Navin Kumar Arya said. Ministers Vijay Kumar Choudhary and Ashok Choudhary, as well as Sanjay Kumar Jha and Lok Sabha member Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh also joined them. Arya said around 300 party functionaries, besides listed leaders like present and former MLAs, met CM, Singh and other senior leaders. The members from JD(U) students and youth wings revved up the atmosphere by shouting slogans in favour of Nitish and Singh. The joyous scene was in sharp contrast to the tense and sombre mood witnessed on Sunday, when Nitish made the dramatic announcement of his decision to step down from the post of the party president, while the Arunachal Pradesh developments and the party’s line against ‘love jihad’ loomed large on the national executive meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-and-rcp-meet-jdu-functionaries-at-party-office/articleshow/79997051.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Patna||Talks fail, junior doctors continue stir||PATNA: The junior doctors’ indefinite strike in government medical colleges and hospitals in the state, demanding hike in stipend, entered the sixth day on Monday even as patients bearing the brunt of the agitation. A meeting was held between Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) administration and representatives of junior doctors on Monday. PMCH Junior Doctors’ Association (JDA) president Dr Harendra Kumar said though the hospital administration has assured the junior doctors of a solution, they want it in writing,” Dr Kumar said. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) JDA president Dr Ramchandra Kumar also demanded a written assurance from the hospital administration. “We will not withdraw strike on verbal assurance,” he added. Another junior doctor, who did not want to be named, said, “Cost of living has increased manifold. We are finding it difficult to make our ends meet with such a meagre income. There is no need to shower flowers on us and praise us as a corona warrior. We should be given proper stipend so that we can lead a decent life.” Even on Monday, while OPDs remained overburdened, emergency services were also affected at PMCH, NMCH and other medical colleges and hospitals in the state. PMCH administration has urged the civil surgeon to provide them at least 50 doctors from other health institutes. PMCH principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary said 18 junior doctors have resumed work at the hospital. Meanwhile, CPI-ML’s Paliganj MLA Sandeep Saurav visited PMCH on Monday and expressed solidarity with the junior doctors. He held the state government responsible for the troubles being faced by the patients as well as junior doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/talks-fail-junior-doctors-continue-stir/articleshow/79996943.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 29, 2020||Business||RBI deputy guv argues for 4% cap on inflation||Mumbai: A paper published by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and co-authored by its deputy governor and member of the monetary policy committee (MPC), Michael Patra, has argued for retaining the inflation target at 4%. The paper has pointed out that this is the pre-Covid trend inflation and this concept is central to the monetary policy. The paper’s argument gains significance in light of the fact that inflation has been out of bounds for several months. At the same time, the government has been backing softer rates in order to stimulate demand, support businesses and also to keep its cost of borrowing under check. “Central to monetary policy is the concept of trend inflation to which actual inflation outcomes are expected to converge after short-run fluctuations die out. Accordingly, the inflation target needs to be fixed in alignment with trend inflation to avoid unhinging inflation expectations and flattening the aggregate supply curve or imparting a deflationary bias to the economy,” a summary of the paper said. The paper quotes former Fed chief Ben Bernanke to state that if the inflation target is fixed too much higher than trend inflation, observed inflation would run higher and become more volatile. “This could unhinge inflation expectations and risk premia in financial markets would rise,” the paper said. Several commentators have been arguing in favour of “looking through” the current round of inflation or even tolerating higher inflation to ensure that demand is not stifled in light of the Covid crisis. “It could also increase price dispersion, flatten the aggregate supply curve and amplify the impact of monetary policy shocks, squandering hard-won inflation credibility. Should trend inflation itself rise because of the central bank persisting in setting a target higher than trend, monetary policy can become less effective in stabilising the economy,” the paper said. While all the MPC members want inflation to be kept within the trendline, they have taken a stance that liquidity can be kept easy for now. “We believe that there is a case for maintaining easy liquidity and financing conditions well beyond Q1FY22, but only if the MPC delinks it from rate guidance, which needs to move to neutral,” said Abhishek Upadhyay, economist, ICICI Securities PD (primary dealership) in a note last week. “However, with RBI members worried about inflation risks, and likely assuming potential GDP has been significantly eroded as well amid the pandemic, MPC meetings may turn more contentious,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-deputy-guv-argues-for-4-cap-on-inflation/articleshow/80000404.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Business||Mumbai Metro One seeks fresh loan rejig||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Mumbai Metro One (MMOPL), the joint venture between Reliance Infra and state government entity MMRDA, will be approaching lenders for a fresh restructuring plan after an earlier proposal aimed at getting back on the rails was foiled because of the lockdown. Canara Bank is the lead banker to the project (after acquiring original lender Syndicate Bank). Bankers said that the project could not be restructured under the special one-time restructuring scheme for Covid-hit businesses as it was already a delinquent borrower before the lockdown. Earlier too, lenders had sought to restructure their loans in terms of the June 7, 2019 circular, which allows a recast if all creditors agree. However, even before the proposal could be fully implemented, the lockdown dried up cash flows. The outstanding loans are estimated to be in the region of Rs 2,000 crore. Brickwork Ratings, which has a ‘D’ rating on the company for its Rs 1,650-crore loan, has categorised it as a non-cooperative borrower for not sharing information material to its rating. According to Brickwork, Syndicate Bank (now part of Canara Bank) has a Rs 650-crore share in the term loan followed by Indian Bank (Rs 500 crore), SBI (Rs 200 crore), Bank of Maharashtra (Rs 200 crore) and IDBI Bank (Rs 100 crore). India Infrastructure Finance (UK) has $63 million of external commercial borrowings outstanding. The JV was incorporated in December 2006, as a special purpose vehicle for development, construction and operation of the envisaged MRTS Project Phase-I. The company is promoted by Reliance Infra, [erstwhile Reliance Energy — belonging to Reliance Group], Transdev lle de France (earlier Veolia Transport, France) and Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mumbai-metro-one-seeks-fresh-loan-rejig/articleshow/80000396.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 29, 2020||Chennai||Ramky Enviro bags tender to manage north Chennai’s waste||CHENNAI: Ramki Enviro Engineers that earned a lot of flak in its previous tenure of solid waste management in south zones is now back to the job as the Greater Chennai corporation has awarded the tender to them for north zones. From February, the company will be in-charge for collection and transportation of waste in Thiruvotriyur, Manali, Madhavaram and Ambattur zones. These zones generate about 780 tonnes of waste every day. The compnay was earlier handling the waste collection and transportation in Adyar, Kodambakkam and Teynampet zones after winning the seven year contract in 2012. Their contract got extended until the new contractor Urbaser-Sumeet took over this year. However, both the corporation and the residents were extremely unhappy with their performance as they neither achieved 100% door to door collection nor cleanliness of streets. The road side garbage bins were always overflowing in the ir zones and residents complained about their inefficiency almost every day. The civic body also held their payments several times. Infact, there were a lot of allegations on them for mixing debris with household garbage as they were paid on the quantity of waste collected. They handled 1950 metric tonnes of garbage in these three zones with just 700 garbage bins. The new contractor has placed 2000 bins more now. Ravi Shanmugham, project head of Ramky Enviro Engineers said they wanted to redeem their name and that’s why they participated in the tender. “We have helped the civic body get through the 2015 floods, 2016 Vardah cyclones and several other difficult times. We are a reputed company and we wanted to prove to the people that we will do a good job this time. Moreover, we will be handling lesser waste with better infrastructure this time,” he said. He added that they will recruit 4500 workers for door-to-door collection, purchase 1200 bins and 810 battery operated vehicles this time. apart from using existing national urban livelihood mission workers. “It will be different this time as the contractor will be paid based on its performance and not quantity of waste. We will ensure that they ensure segregation and proper transportation,” said a corporation official when asked how they awarded a contractor already known for poor performance. The official also added that no one else participated in the tender. S Sudharshan, DML MLA from Madhavaram said issuing the contract to a poor performer shows how the corporation functions. “When they couldn’t handle waste and educate people in zones that are highly educated then how will they manage that in zones where the slums are in high number? They will fool the people there and do not do their duties. The civic body should review this decision immediately,” he said. Vamsi Sankar Kapilavai of Citizen consumer and civic action group who is a waste management expert said form their studies they have found that in north zones the compost yards were functioning well with the centres treating 200 tonnes of garbage every day due to the previous regional deputy commissioner, Divyadharshini. “However, this decision to award contract to Ramky is shocking to us. These zones will be extremely challenging in terms of information, education and communication activities and an experienced contractor with good track record should have been given this responsibility.” Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam said the entire tender though claimed to be on performance based is again on transportation and collection of waste. The contractor Urbaser-Sumeet earns between 4500-5500 per tonne transported and Ramki will not get 3300 per tonne. Earlier the maximum civic body paid was 2600 per tonne. “The entire tender document doesn’t have a single condition that they should segregate or treat or dispose the waste. There will be no change in the ground,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ramky-enviro-engineers-contractor-known-for-poor-performance-is-back-to-handle-waste/articleshow/79998791.cms||Komal Gautham
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cloud over airlines’ ops as union issues ultimatum on staff layoff||KOLKATA: Flight services of two airlines could face major challenges at Kolkata airport on Friday unless the impasse over the future of 380 contractual staffers engaged with outgoing ground handling agency (GHA) Bhadra International is resolved. The employees’ union has threatened to intensify their agitation and even disrupt services at the airport if all the workers are not engaged by Air India Air Services Ltd (AIASL) that will now provide ground handling services to airlines that are being serviced by Bhadra. “Unless AIASL issues a written assurance of engaging each and every contractual staffer, we will not allow the airport to function normally after Bhadra International’s contact expires on December 31. In the past, AIASL had taken over the ground handling of GoAir, but refused to engage the 152 people who were doing the job for another private agency till then. We will not let the layoffs happen again. In Bengal, companies can change, as can contractors. But there is no way workers can be laid off,” union leader Barun Natta told TOI on Monday evening after he and MP Saugata Roy held a meeting with airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee on the issue. Roy will submit a letter with the names of all people currently working with Bhadra to the airport director on Tuesday. Ground handling services include guiding aircraft into and out of parking position, towing with push-back tractors, lavatory drainage, water cartage, airstart units, luggage handling, ground power, passenger stairs, wheelchair lifts and hydraulic mules, which are critical to passenger services and airline operations. While the protests have not directly affected flight services yet, officials of Vistara and AirAsia India, two domestic airlines serviced by Bhadra, are on tenterhooks about timely operation of their flights if the situation remains unresolved by Thursday. AIASL has to provide the ground handling. But to do so, it needs to ramp up manpower and equipment. That can happen only if it can engage the services of some of those who are currently working for Bhadra. Among the international carriers, the switch will currently affect FlyDubai. On Monday, agitators stopped a section of workers who have been offered jobs from completing the formalities. The workers demonstrated before the office of AIASL located in the Air India New Technical Area on the airport premises. Sources said AIASL had offered to engage 184 of the 380 current workers and was open to engaging a few others if required at a later date when the flight count goes up. But the union representing the Bhadra workers insisted that all of them be engaged now. “AIASL can engage the number of workers it requires at present. A tender has already been floated to engage another GHA for Kolkata that will require more workers. But one cannot force AIASL to take on more people than it needs,” said an airport source. AIASL provides services to GoAir, Emirates, Singapore Airlines, Etihad Airways and Biman Bangladesh. From Friday, it will have to provide ground handling services to Vistara, AirAsia India and FlyDubai as well. Thai Airways, Cathay Pacific and other carriers that are also serviced by Bhadra International are yet to restart operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cloud-over-airlines-ops-as-union-issues-ultimatum-on-staff-layoff/articleshow/79998731.cms||Subhro Niyogi
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Buoyed by Christmas success, Kolkata clubs plan scaled-down NYE parties, slash charges||KOLKATA: The successful Christmas lunches have shown the way and now, city clubs, like Tolly Club, Saturday Club, RCGC and CC&FC, are going ahead with their New Year’s Eve party plans, though with all precautions in place. Only 200 to 250 members and their guests will party at the clubs, albeit without dances, with a much slimmer menu and without crowding at the buffet counter or bar. All clubs have also slashed their prices this year, since it’s a much scaled-down affair. The parties will be more about celebrating togetherness. Most clubs said that since they will not be bringing in bands from outside or celebrity performers this year, they have saved a lot, which has allowed them to scale down the charges. Bookings have been closed early, too, because of the restriction on number of guests. “The success of our Christmas parties gave us the confidence. The members behaved responsibly, waving from a distance, with full respect for the new rules,” said Anil Mukherji, the CEO of Tolly Club. For the New Year’s Eve party, the club has decided not to allow “floaters” or those who would just drop by for drinks and snacks. Only the first 200 who wished to book tables for dinner have been allowed. The party will be held on the main lawns and the south verandah with tables spread out and local bands Blue Mist and DJ Happy providing the music. The charge has been slashed to Rs 1,000 from last year’s Rs 1,500 for members. In all the clubs, members are requesting the ones who could make it to the Christmas parties not to book tables for the New Year’s Eve do and give others a chance. “It’s fair. All of us need to get a chance to be at the club and sit down and dine. It can be such a relief after this long period of staying in touch virtually,” said Titu Baweja, a member of RCGC. The club has arranged for a distance of eight feet between the tables and the bar service will be at the tables. “The table service needs to be speedier and we have arranged for multiple stewards. There will be tables and cabanas and the latter will have their own bar. The buffet dinner will also have multiple counters to avoid crowding,” said Devrishi Singhal, CEO of RCGC. The club has slashed its party price to Rs 1,000 from Rs 1,800 last year. Saturday Club will charge Rs 300 from members and will have just 150 people on the lawns. Only club food will be served since outside counters, which were a huge draw, have not been allowed. “You cannot compare previous years to this year. We have had people like Shankar Mahadevan and Remo Fernandes for our parties last year. This year we don’t even have a dance floor,” said president Dipu Doshi. This is the first time that only local bands — Dimension and DJ Ritzze — will perform. Even CC&FC will allow just 150 people. “There will be no special décor and only a local band will perform. Instead of keeping a party price, the club has decided to serve an a la carte menu on spaced out tables and members can pay for what they want to eat or drink,” said president Dinyar Mucadum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buoyed-by-christmas-success-city-clubs-plan-scaled-down-nye-parties-slash-charges/articleshow/79998747.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 29, 2020||Patna||Libraries in Bihar on verge of closure due to shortage of funds||PATNA: In what appears to be a sad commentary on the functioning of library and information centres in the state, more than 500 public libraries have vanished in five to six decades. According to library professionals, there were nearly 540 public libraries in the state in the fifties, but only 38 are left now. Similarly, there were over 4,000 village libraries in the state till the 1970s, but the number has shrunk to 1,004 now and even these libraries are struggling to survive due to acute shortage of funds. Former chief of Patna University Central Library D P Singh said public libraries run on government-sanctioned grants that are utilised to buy new books and maintain the old ones. Until 1985, public libraries in the state would get Rs 300 per year from the state government as a grant. But, even that meagre grant was stopped in 1986 which eventually led to the slow demise of about 500 public libraries, he said. Later, in 2012, the state government allotted Rs 1 crore for the remaining libraries to buy books. But this was a small amount as one library would only get Rs 2 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh. Since then no further grant has been sanctioned to any public library by the state government, Singh added. On the other hand, the condition of village libraries is quite appalling. They lack basic reading materials, necessary infrastructure and professionally qualified librarians. Most of them do not have money to purchase even daily newspapers. New books and periodicals are a distant dream, said Patna College’s former principal Nawal Kishore Chaudhary. Chaudhary said the Planning Commission guidelines suggest that there should be at least one village library for a population of 1,000. In Bihar, there is hardly one library for a population of one lakh. “The new-look panchayati raj envisages setting up of one library in every panchayat. This will require opening of at least 10,000 new libraries in the state. One wonders who will take the initiative for setting up such a large number of libraries,” Chaudhary said. Academics say there is direct correlation between the minimal expenditure on libraries and low literacy rate. In Kerala, where literacy rate is more than 95%, over 3% of the education budget is spent on libraries. In Bihar, the ratio of the education budget that goes into libraries is only 0.01%, said PU library professor-in-charge Abhay Kumar. State’s former director of higher education Nageshwar Prasad Sharma regretted that all the libraries opened during the freedom struggle or even later were languishing and many of them were on the verge of closure. He said the internet cannot be an alternative to books, and that the younger generation must know that they can increase their knowledge and acquire balanced information only with the aid of quality books.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/libraries-in-bihar-on-verge-of-closure-due-to-shortage-of-funds/articleshow/79997615.cms||B K Mishra
December 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar should return to Grand Alliance: Congress||PATNA: Bhagalpur MLA and Congress’s legislature party leader Ajit Sharma on Monday said CM Nitish Kumar, who has secular thoughts, should join hands with Grand Alliance instead of working under BJP’s pressure in the NDA. Sharma’s statement came a day after Nitish stepped down from the post of JD(U)’s national president and passed on the party’s reign to RCP Singh. “Six of JD(U)’s Arunachal Pradesh MLAs have been snatched by the BJP. The cabinet has not been expanded in Bihar yet. It indicates that all is not well in the NDA. Nitish should join Grand Alliance and work for the betterment of youths and farmers,” Sharma said. Another Congress leader, Rajesh Rathorre, said the state would see a new CM soon. “When in trouble, Nitish takes big decisions. Six years back, he had made Jitan Ram Manjhi the CM of the state after JD(U)’s poor performance in the Lok Sabha polls. Everyone knows that Nitish does not tolerate insult and BJP is continuously insulting him,” Rathorre added. ‘Tiranga yatra’: The Congress took out a ‘tiranga yatra’ in support of farmers’ agitation to mark its 135th foundation day on Monday. Congress state president Madan Mojan Jha hoisted a Congress flag and handed over the new flag to Seva Dal chief convener Ramanand Singh. Addressing Congress leaders and Seva Dal members, Jha lashed out at the NDA government over various issues, including the plight of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-should-return-to-ga-congress/articleshow/79997063.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 29, 2020||Patna||Truckers in Bihar threaten to go on indefinite strike from January 4||PATNA: Thousands of truck drivers and cleaners associated with the Bihar Truck Owners’ Association (BTOA) went on a daylong strike and staged a protest at Gardanibagh protest site here on Monday against the state government’s new mining policy, which banned the transportation of sand and stone chips on dumpers and trucks having 14 or more wheels. The protest was held across the state, but had minimal impact on the transportation of household goods. However, the members of the association claimed that over 5 lakh truck drivers and cleaners joined the strike. BTOA president Bhanu Shekhar Prasad Singh said all the heavy vehicles, including trucks and lorries, remained off the road. “The representatives of the BTOA submitted a memorandum of our demand to the governor’s office, urging him to intervene in this matter,” he told this newspaper. The association has also given an ultimatum to the state government to go on indefinite strike from January 4, if the ban was not lifted on the transportation of sand and stone chips on dumpers and trucks having 14 or more wheels. Singh said, “The truck drivers and cleaners would go on indefinite protest on the lines of farmers’ protests -- ‘ghera dalo, dera dalo’. We will block the district borders and select four protest sites in four different districts of Patna, Muzaffarpur, Ara and Bhagalpur. Not only the drivers, but their family members will also join the strike.” He added: “Hundreds of truckers would be unemployed because of this new mining policy passed by the state cabinet.” The state government has banned transportation of sand and stone chips on vehicles having 14 or more wheels under the new mining policy to prevent overloading by freight vehicles on the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/truckers-threaten-to-go-on-indefinite-strike-from-jan-4/articleshow/79997166.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||After fighting for nation, ex-servicemen now join farmers’ fight||Times News NetworkLudhiana: Having fought different wars for the country, the ex-servicemen have now taken up cudgels for the farmers protesting against the central agriculture laws. A number of ex-servicemen from Ludhiana on Monday joined their counterparts from various other districts and moved together towards Singhu border, one of the prominent farmer protest sites.The ex-servicemen from the north of Sutlej carrying a flame of solidarity for the farming community stopped briefly at Gurdwara Reru Sahib near Sahnewal, where those from Ludhiana joined the march.Giving details, Brigadier S S Gill (retd) of Ludhiana, who had fought the 1971 war against Pakistan, said about 40-50 ex-servicemen from the north of Sutlej, including from Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur districts, among others, carrying the flame of solidarity passed through Ludhiana on away to Singhu border.“As the main group proceeded towards Singhu, the ex-servicemen from the areas falling on the way kept joining them. The march reached Gurdwara Reru Sahib near Sahnewal at 11.45am and stopped here for about an hour. Later, about 50 ex-servicemen from different parts of Ludhiana joined the march in their own vehicles. The march was led by a Major General (retired),” said Brig Gill. He said the ex-servicemen believe that these laws are not in the interest of farmers and therefore, should be repealed. Besides, the Prime Minister should know that the farmers are an informed lot and know that these laws are not good for them, he added.“The Prime Minister has not seen farming, as he is from trader background, so he wants big traders (businessmen) to benefit. But, the farmers understand the intricacies of farming and selling their produce well, so they know that these laws will impact them adversely. As people from the farming background, we are with the farmers,” said 69-year-old Brig Inder Mohan Singh (retd), who resides near Ferozepur Road and has served the Army for around 36 years and also took part in the 1971 war. The ex-servicemen said since most of the Army men are from the farming background, they empathise with the cause of farmers. “We believe that laws shouldn’t have been brought without proper discussion with all the stakeholders. The farmer leaders are educated and the agriculture minister has failed to satisfy the queries raised by them with regard to the benefits these laws will fetch to the farmers. The least the government can do is to repeal these laws,” said 69-year-old Colonel Jagdish Singh Gill (retd) of New Lajpat Nagar, who served in the Army for nearly 37 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-fighting-for-nation-ex-servicemen-now-join-farmers-fight/articleshow/79997612.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Crime against women up in Rachakonda||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police on Monday said that the overall crime rate reduced by 12% in 2020 compared to the previous year in Rachakonda. However, there has been a rise in crime rate against women by 11%, police said. The rise in crime against women is mainly due to rise in rape cases from 314 cases registered in 2019 to 329 cases in 2020. Similarly, dowry related deaths have gone up from nine cases to 23 cases in 2020. Speaking to reporters at the annual press meet on Monday, Rachakonda commissioner of police Mahesh Bhagwat said that the rise in rape cases are mainly due to the sexual abuse of women by men who cheated them after promising to marry them. Cases pertaining to outraging the modesty of women also went up. “There has been a rise in such cases being recorded as more women are fearlessly reporting incidents of crime against them at the police station. This is due to the confidence the SHE Teams have instilled in women,” he said. In 2020, as many as 20,641 cases of all types of crime were registered, compared to 20,349 cases registered last year. After the outbreak of Covid-19, 1,051 police personnel in Rachakonda commissionerate tested positive and one cop died. Of all the three zones in Rachakonda, LB Nagar has maximum number of cases registered, followed by Malkajgiri and then Bhongir. In LB Nagar this year, 9,119 cases were registered whereas in Malkajgiri 6,014 cases were registered. Meanwhile, due to the impact of lockdown and coronavirus, the total number of road accidents reported this year was 2,047 compared to 2,990 accident last year. Police said that as part of the crackdown against the transportation of ganja into the city, they have registered 25 cases under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act this year. Officials said that this year, cyber crime cases have gone up by 200% in Rachakonda comissionerate. A total of 333 cases were recorded last year and 704 cases were recorded in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crime-against-women-up-in-rachakonda/articleshow/80000265.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Woman accuses 2 cops of torturing her elderly father in illegal custody||Ludhiana: A woman of Khera village has accused two cops of Dehlon police station of beating up her elderly father, a farmer, in illegal custody.The woman, on Monday, gave a complaint to deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezihan, seeking justice. Gurpreet Kaur, 26, said in her police complaint, “My father, Avtar Singh, 65, has a dispute with his brother over a farmland. My father had approached the court, which issued summons to my uncle. My uncle has links with some police personnel. On December 23, when I was alone at home, an ASI and a constable came, asked for my father and misbehaved with me. The two threatened me and asked me to send my father to the police station.”The next day, her father and brother reached the police station where her uncle, their two relatives and two villagers were present.  “The cops pressured my father to withdraw the court case and compromise with my uncle. When my father refused, he was put in the lockup. The cops sent my brother back home. Our other relatives reached the police station, but cops paid no heed. Late night, my uncle brought my father from the police station and threw him outside our house. My father was in a bad condition and said cops thrashed him and made him sign a paper of compromise,” she added.The family took the elderly man to a hospital.  “At the behest of my uncle, some of our relatives and villagers, two cops threatened and tortured my father in illegal police custody. I have given a complaint against the ASI and the constable of Dehlon police station to the DCP,” she said.Refuting the allegations, Dehlon police station SHO inspector Sukhdev Singh said, “Avtar Singh and his brother were called to the police station as the latter had filed a complaint over dispute on watering the fields. Both had agreed to strike a compromise. However, later, Avtar refused. Nobody was beaten up in police custody.”The DCP said he was looking into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-accuses-2-cops-of-torturing-her-elderly-father-in-illegal-custody/articleshow/79997616.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||Anna Hazare to hold stir in Delhi for farmers||PUNE: Social crusader Anna Hazare will start an agitation in Delhi in January to press for the autonomy of the agriculture price commission and minimum support price (MSP) for vegetables, fruits, flowers and milk. A statement issued by Hazare on Monday said he held an agitation for the fulfilment of demands twice in the last three years, but the assurances given by the Union government from time to time were not met. Hazare said after he recently wrote to the Union agriculture minister, leaders, including former speaker of state legislative assembly Haribhau Bagade and MP Bhagvat Karad, were sent to Ralegan Siddhi for discussions. Former state minister Girish Mahajan also visited Ralgegan Siddhi to discuss the issues. “I feel that assurances have been given in writing and discussions have taken place in the last three years. The government should now take concrete step to resolve the problems being faced by farmers, else I am firm on resorting to an agitation in Delhi,” Hazare said in a statement. He stated that though the Union government claimed that the MSP had been announced for farm produce as per the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission, the farmers were not getting the price. The Union government should accept the recommendations of the state agriculture price commission without imposing any cuts and this could happen only when the central agro price commission was given autonomy, he said. The government should also decide on and implement the MSP for fruits, vegetables, flowers and milk to prevent losses faced by farmers. These steps would prevent suicides, Hazare said. In the statement, Hazare reminded the Union government that his first fast to highlight the issues was held in March 2018 at Ramlila ground in Delhi, after which a written assurance was given based on which the agitation was called off. He went on a fast again in January 2019 in Ralegan Siddhi after the Union government failed to honour the assurances, but put it on hold after intervention by Mahajan and then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hazare-to-start-agitation-in-jan-in-delhi-to-press-for-demands-related-to-agriculture/articleshow/79998836.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Rajkot||Three of Morbi family die in Rapar accident||Rajkot: Three persons of a family from Morbi died in an accident on Samkhayali highway in Rapar taluka on Monday morning.Jayantilal Kaila (59), his wife Rekha Kaila (56) and elder brother Lajpatram Kaila (65) were on their way to Palanpur when their car rammed into a stationary trailer at around 9am. They were going to Palanpur to meet Jayantilal and Rekha’s daughter who had got married around 20 days ago. Police said that the victims were taken to a nearby private hospital where they were declared dead before admission. Their hatchback car was completely mangled due to the impact. The three deceased were residents of Usha Kiran Society in Morbi and they owned Maheshwari Medical and General Store in Morbi. Lajpatram and Jayantilal’s younger brother Kiran is the president of Morbi Chemist Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-of-morbi-family-die-in-rapar-accident/articleshow/79998895.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Sedition charge against Ayodhya students dropped||AYODHYA: The Ayodhya police has dropped sedition charges against the students of Saket College who were accused of shouting ‘azaadi’ slogans during a protest to demand students’ union election on the campus. Cops said they did not find any evidence against students to book them for sedition under Section 124A of IPC. Principal of Saket College, ND Pandey, on Saturday alleged that the students shouted anti-national slogans during a protest last week. On the basis of the principal’s complaint, Ayodhya police registered a case against six students booking them under various charges, including sedition. ‘Police did not find any evidence against students’Talking to TOI, deputy superintendent of police, Ayodhya, RK Rai said, “Police had registered a case of sedition against students on the basis of the complaint filed by college principal. However, we did not find any evidence against the students and decided to drop sedition charges against all the six accused. Other charges against the students will remain. We are investigating the matter.” Reacting to the development, the college principal said the dropping sedition charge was the decision of the police and he did not want to comment on it. Six students – Sumit Tiwari, Shesh Narayan Pandey, Imran Hashmi, Satvik Pandey, Mohit Yadav and Manoj Mishra – had been booked on Saturday under Sections 124A (sedition), 147 (rioting) 188 (disobedience of order), 332 (causing hurt to deter public servant from duty), 342 (wrongful confinement), 353 (assault on public servant), 427 (causing damage to property), 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. “They (students) were raising slogans of ‘azaadi’, they wanted to take azaadi by revolt and by violence, by burning the country. It’s my duty to protect the motherland, therefore, I have filed the complaint against them,” the principal had said. However, Abhas Krishna Yadav, the former president of Saket College students’ union said that students were raising ‘azaadi’ slogans as they were seeking freedom from the corrupt principal and anti-student system of the college. They were also demanding that the college administration must hold student union elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sedition-charge-against-ayodhya-students-dropped/articleshow/80000929.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Deadline over, agency yet to repair caved-in road||Ludhiana: Even as the district administration had set a deadline of December 28 for repair of the stretch that had caved in on Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway near Khanna, the road construction agency is yet to complete the work. Commuters will continue to suffer and bear traffic diversion, especially during the peak hours. More than a month ago, the stretch had caved in near Amloh Road and the Khanna police had issued the diversion plan so that the agency could carry out the repair work. With the vehicles diverted to service lanes, traffic chaos ruled, giving a tough time to commuters going from Amritsar, Jammu, Jalandhar and Ludhiana to Delhi and vice versa.Khanna SDM Harbans Singh confirmed that the agency was yet to complete the repairs. “The work is near completion. We will visit the spot and ask the agency to speed up work,” he said. Harsh Kumar Bhalla, a social activist of Khanna who has been highlighting the issue, said, “The agency has missed the deadline set by the district administration and it may not be able to complete the work in the next 20 days. Because of diversions, the traffic has become worse in Khanna.” “Traffic chaos near Khanna makes travel on Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway testing. Not only Ludhiana district residents, but those from other cities travelling to Delhi are also suffering. The authorities should get the stretch repaired soon,” said Narinder Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/deadline-over-agency-yet-to-repair-caved-in-road/articleshow/79997623.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Road fatalities dip but Covid violations pull up crime rate||Vijayawada: Owing to the pandemic, the crime rate within Guntur Urban police unit limits saw a 45 per cent increase in overall cognizable cases this year compared to 2019. Addressing the annual press conference, Guntur Urban SP RM Ammi Reddy said that out of 9,473 cases registered within their jurisdiction, Covid-19 violation cases alone accounted for 57 per cent of all cases. There has been a marginal decrease in rape cases by seven per cent this year. While the total number of property offences came down by 17 per cent, the property lost this year stands at 40 per cent higher compared to 2019. Data released by Guntur Urban police shows that there has been a dip in property recovery rate which stands at 36 per cent compared to 53 per cent in 2019. On the bright side the detection rate of property offences saw an increase to 53 per cent from 45 per cent. For murder cases, there has been a slight drop of nine per cent this year. Once again, owing to the lockdown, the busy region which usually reports an increasing trend in fatal road mishaps saw a significant dip of 27 per cent this year compared to last year. In total, 219 people died due to road mishaps within Guntur Urban limits whereas in 2019, this figure stood at 299. Non-fatal road mishaps too decreased by 22 per cent. Close to 600 persons suffered injuries compared to 750 persons in 2019. Overall, crimes against women dropped by 34 per cent. Crimes against children too saw an eight per cent decline. Cybercrimes saw a decrease as well, by 12 per cent, going against the trend of an increasing trajectory in the past few years. However, detection rate in cybercrime offences dropped by 54 per cent. The number of human trafficking cases saw an increase by 31 per cent this year compared to last year. Police note that this figure is not surprising given that they cracked down on a massive bonded labour racket in which young girls from Srikakulam were sold off to wealthy residents who put them to task as domestic help. As far as enforcement work is concerned, Guntur Urban police saw an increase in the number of sand theft cases by 83 per cent, while cases dealing with smuggling and sales of illegal liquor saw a spike by a whopping 355 per cent. When it comes to disposal of cases by courts, there has been an increase in the conviction rate by eight per cent this year compared to previous years. However, the total number of cases disposed stood at 45 per cent less this year compared to 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/road-fatalities-dip-but-covid-violations-pull-up-crime-rate/articleshow/79997628.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||YAD opens ‘Doodh Da Theka’ at Singhu border||Ludhiana: Using the farmer protests as an opportunity to send out a message that not all the youths of Punjab are into drugs, the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leaders on Monday started distributing milk among the protesters at Singhu border, where a sizeable number of state’s youths are protesting and supporting their elders.The YAD leaders claimed that a section of people has publicised that almost 70% of the youngsters take drugs. But, in this protest many youngsters are actively participating and extending support to their senior family members. They decided to distribute milk to prove the point that most of the Punjabi youths consume milk and other delicacies that Punjab is known for and not drugs, they said.Ludhiana district president of YAD Gurdeep Gosha said, "Earlier, we were distributing medicines, but now we have set up a milk vend here and started serving milk to the people participating in this protest against the farm laws. We will continue to serve milk here as long as we can manage.” Gosha said after the outbreak of Covid pandemic, they had opened ‘Doodh Da Theka’ in Ludhiana and now the same model is being replicated at Singhu border. He said for over a month, the farmers are protesting in the open, but the government is not ready to repeal the laws. Till the time the government rolls back these laws, the farmers would continue to protest and they would continue to serve the farmers, he asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/yad-opens-doodh-da-theka-at-singhu-border/articleshow/79997636.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: On first day of full service, local trains chock-a-block||CHENNAI: Suburban stations in the city saw record rush on Monday after Southern Railway increased the frequency of train services in the city. Railway officials said nearly 2 lakh people travelled on suburban trains on Monday alone, which is close to the daily footfall witnessed before the pandemic. “The entire platform was jam packed with people in the morning. There was hardly any space for us to walk. I thought there would be some safety measures, but nothing was followed,” said T Kuralarasan, who boarded the suburban train for Beach station from West Mambalam on Monday. Most suburban stations on the Beach-Tambaram section were packed with passengers jostling to board trains. Many were seen occupying the floor of the trains, while more than two people were trying to sit on one seat. Not all were wearing masks. Southern Railway began its regular weekday pattern of suburban train services from Sunday. It added 90 more additional services of workmen specials, bringing the total number of trains operated in all sections to 500. The trains will now be running from Monday to Saturday to cater to the extra crowd travelling in workmen specials. However, several commuters said that authorities should have come up with a better plan to manage the crowd while ensuring safety protocols. “They knew there will be more trains running which means there will be more crowd, especially on a Monday. The arrangements should have been made in advance,” said Priyanka Dhingra, a CA student. “I went to Nungambakkam station in the morning and returned seeing the crowd. I then took an auto to go to work because I cannot risk my health,” she said.  A spokesperson for the Railways in Chennai said while RPF officers were checking people for masks, the remaining safety protocols will fall in place once they resume services of other trains. “As of now only 80% of trains are operating, but by January end, the rest 20% will also commence. The situation would then get better.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/on-first-day-of-full-service-local-trains-chock-a-block/articleshow/79998876.cms||Aditi R
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||NY party moves to offbeat places||Ludhiana: With just three days to go for New Year’s eve and no word from the government on lifting night curfew or change in timings, city hoteliers and other hospitality unit owners are now forced to organise afternoon parties, but have failed to draw a good response. Besides, the partygoers are now trying offbeat destinations to celebrate the New Year. According to travel agents, due to expensive packages of hotels in Himachal Pradesh, residents are preferring resorts and camps at offbeat places at 50% cheaper rates. Moreover, there are no restrictions on celebrations within the properties, which is an added advantage.Amarveer Singh, president of hotels’ and restaurants’ association, Ludhiana, said, “Despite our repeated requests to the state government, no announcement has been made to relax the night curfew on December 31. With just three days remaining, there is no hope now of any relief. So hotels, restaurants, bars and other hospitality units are now organising parties in the afternoon of December 31 that will wind up by 9.30pm. Till now there has been a poor response and it is certain that this New Year eve will remain dark for us.”However, some traders have been benefited. GS Chawla, president of Micro and Small Travel Agents’ Association, said, “No relaxation in the night curfew has come as a blessing in disguise for us, as our industry, which was facing a recession since the start of this year, has started getting confirmed bookings for the New Year. Till last week, there were only queries. As the exorbitant rates fixed by hotels in major cities and towns of Himachal Pradesh acted as a dampener, we started marketing offbeat options that were available at 50% cheaper rates. A two-night, three-day package in a four-star hotel in Dharamsala costs about Rs 20,000-Rs 30,000 for a couple, but the same package is available for Rs 8,000-Rs 12,000 in camps and cottages at places like Kareri, Khanyara, Barot that are near Dharamsala. A lot of people are going to places like Jaisalmer in Rajasthan and booking desert camps, where there are no timing restrictions.”According to Jagjit Singh, a resident of Atam Nagar, “With night curfew in place, our family decided to celebrate New Year in Kasauli, but the rates quoted by the hotels were very high, so we booked a five-star property located in Mahiya, near Kasauli, at half the price.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ny-party-moves-to-offbeat-places/articleshow/79997619.cms||Mohit Behl
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC workers accuse pvt firms of cheating, blackmail||HYDERABAD: With the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) outsourcing civic works to private companies, GHMC sanitation wing and urban community development (UCD) wing employees who worked for the companies said that they were cheated by companies and middlemen. However, the agencies have alleged that political interference is affecting their work and that they are being blackmailed by local leaders. Around 30 people gathered at GHMC head office on Monday alleging that they were cheated by the agencies. “A person who claimed to be an agency employee took Rs 30,000 from more than 100 people. He employed us saying we will get a permanent job, irony is we are not even getting our salaries,” said K Ashwini, a GHMC employee. An employee of the UCD wing said that for the past four months they are not being paid their salaries. “I am working as a data entry operator in Secunderabad zone, UCD wing, and for the last four months we have not been getting salaries,” he said on condition of anonymity. A agency looking after sanitation works alleged political interference. “Local leaders of all parties call us, they ask us to employ their staff, if we deny, they resort to blackmailing and heap allegations on us,” said an employee of a private agency. GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar did not respond to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-workers-accuse-pvt-firms-of-cheating-blackmail/articleshow/80000318.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Gang of snatchers busted, 4 held||Ludhiana: The police on Monday claimed to have busted a gang of snatchers, with the arrest of four. Eight stolen cellphones and a motorcycle they used to execute snatchings have been recovered from them.The accused have been identified as Wasim Akram, 22, of SBS Nagar, Pakhowal Road, who is a tailor; Raj Kumar, 25, a labourer of Sham Nagar; Hardeep Singh, 25, also a labourer of Sunet village; and Sooraj Kumar, 19, a painter of Sunet village. Additional deputy commissioner of police-III Sameer Verma said, “Hardeep and Raj have theft cases against them. They were arrested in 2019 and came out on bail after a few months. After coming out of jail, the duo made Sooraj and Wasim join the gang and started executing snatchings.” They committed the eight snatchings in two weeks. “The gang would roam around at night and snatch cellphones from labourers walking on roads,” he added.On a tip-off, a checkpost was set up near Barewal Awana. They were nabbed when they were going to sell the snatched cellphones.A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gang-of-snatchers-busted-4-held/articleshow/79997642.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kanpur||Man nabbed for duping people with Army canteen job bait||KANPUR: In a joint operation, the Special Task Force (STF), Military Intelligence and Cantonment police in Kanpur nabbed a man for duping people by promising jobs in the Army canteen. The accused, identified as Abhay Kumar Soni, a native of Lucknow, used to contact and trap people on Facebook, and swindled them after winning their confidence, said police officials. Deepak Kumar Rathore of Sitapur had filed a complaint with the Military Intelligence after which an FIR was lodged against Soni at the Cantt police station in the city recently. “We were intimated about a complaint from a victim Deepak Kumar Rathore and registered an FIR at the Cantt police station. The accused Abhay Kumar Soni had extracted a hefty sum from him on the promise of providing him a job in the Army canteen. He also handed Rathore a joining letter that later turned out to be fake. The victim then filed a complaint with Military Intelligence, which in turn informed the STF and Cantt police,” said SP (East) Raj Kumar Agarwal. In a joint operation, STF and Military Intelligence teams, in coordination with Cantt police, arrested the accused near the Army canteen on Sunday night. “The accused was booked under relevant sections of the IPC and sent to jail,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-nabbed-for-duping-people-with-army-canteen-job-bait/articleshow/79999017.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Kin of RTC workers who died of Covid await compensation||VISAKHAPATNAM: Families of 90 AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) workers who succumbed to Covid-19 are hopeful that the Centre’s insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh upon death of a frontline Covid-19 warrior will be extended to them. National Mazdoor Unity Association general secretary Y Srinivasa Rao said the department resumed operations on a priority basis in May. All the deceased were breadwinners of the family, which are now struggling from financial issues following their loss, he said. Since then, RTC staff have reported for Covid-19 duties, such as operation of buses as ambulances, ferrying migrant labour from various railway stations to their destinations, including fisherfolk from Gujarat. This apart, RTC staff have assisted the police and health workers. Upon requests and in the government’s interest, the corporation sent a letter to the Centre through the state government, requesting to also include RTC workers who died of Covid-19 as coronavirus warriors, similar to doctors, police and healthcare workers. AP transport department principal secretary MT Krishna Babu, who is vice-chairman and managing director of APSRTC, said while addressing a gathering at an annual blood donation camp by RTC employees in Visakhapatnam on Monday, that the state government has already sent the request of considering RTC workers as Covid-19 warriors. “The Centre may positively respond to our pleas of applying the insurance of Rs 50 lakh to the family of each RTC worker who was infected with Covid-19 while on duty and succumbed to it. We will hopefully get good news in January,” Krishna Babu said. The RTC has nearly 55,000 employees, including drivers and conductors. As many as 5,575 staff were infected with Covid-19 till December 22 of which 122 cases are active. Nellore has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths among RTC employees. APSRTC sent a letter to the Centre, requesting that RTC workers who succumbed to Covid-19 be recognised as coronavirus warriors, similar to doctors and police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kin-of-rtc-workers-who-died-of-covid-await-compensation/articleshow/79997644.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Vigil on KMC’s birth and death certificate wing||KOLKATA: Stung by reports of inordinate delays in issuing birth and death certificates and citizens facing extortion ranging from Rs 7,000-30,000 to get the crucial documents, the municipal commissioner and the chief municipal health officer made a surprise visit to KMC’s birth and death certificate wing on Monday morning and interacted with citizens who had come to collect the documents. On Saturday, KMC board of administrators’ chairman Firhad Hakim and Atin Ghosh, who is in charge of the health department that looks after the wing, had acknowledged receiving multiple complaints on irregularities over birth and death certificates. A probe has been initiated into the alleged involvement of a section of civic employees in the racket that became active during the pandemic. Senior officials had told TOI that there had been multiple complaints about touts charging a hefty premium to expedite the issue of the certificates that had been delayed during the lockdown and subsequent Covid situation. Sources said the surprise visit was intended as a deterrent against touts accessing the counters to manipulate the system. On the way to the counter, municipal commissioner Binod Kumar, CMHO Soumitra Ghosh and senior civic officials spoke to citizens who had come to either submit their applications in the drop-boxes or receive copies of birth or death certificates. Kumar also spoke to a section of the civic staff at the counters to understand the difficulties they were facing in handing over the certificates to citizens on time. Later, in the afternoon, Hakim convened a meeting at his chamber where a retired health department employee, who is known for opposing on touts at the office, was invited to attend. This civic staffer had recently been given an extension after his retirement. However, he had been shifted to a different wing. Hakim asked him to return to his earlier post on Tuesday and start work on taking out the problem. Hakim also had a talk with Atin Ghosh and asked him to ensure a thorough vigil to end the tout menace. Ghosh held a meeting with the senior officials of the health department to formulate a strategy to ensure time-bound delivery of the certificates. However, keeping in mind the pandemic, KMC will continue with the system of drop-boxes for the time being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vigil-on-kmcs-birth-and-death-cert-wing/articleshow/79998887.cms||Saikat Ray
December 29, 2020||Chennai||Engineer fined for not giving info under RTI||Chennai: The state information commission (TNSIC) has imposed a penalty of Rs 25,000 on an executive engineer of the Chennai Corporation for not providing information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. The original RTI application was filed in July 2018 by Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of NGO Arappor Iyakkam. The TNSIC order was passed in August this year, with the commission directing disciplinary action against the appellate authority and superintending engineer (bus route roads department) K Vijaykumar. The fine of Rs 25,000 must be deducted from executive engineer Victor Gnanaraj’s salary, the commission said. Curiously, Jayaram Venkatesan had to file RTI with the TNSIC to obtain a copy of the order passed against the GCC official. TNSIC itself did not provide the order copy to Jayaram after which he had to file a first and second appeal with the commission. According to rules of the commission, order copies should be made available to any applicant. The TNSIC is in-charge of ensuring that the RTI act is implemented properly in the state. G Murugan is the information commissioner who passed the order. The original RTI application pertains to details on a tender package which was won by SP builders. The Comptroller and Auditor General had found a loss of Rs 34 lakh to the exchequer in this particular tender. In November 2019, Murugan directed GCC to give the information to Jayaram, but it was not given. A month later, a showcause notice was issued to Victor Gnanaraj and the appellate authority of the corporation. However, the TNSIC itself did not furnish order copies to Jayaram despite repeated requests, the NGO said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/engineer-fined-for-not-giving-info-under-rti/articleshow/79998907.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Hosiery worker ends life after property row with kin||Ludhiana: Following a property dispute with his family, a hosiery worker committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in New Shakti Nagar, Tibba Road, early on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Idrees Ansari, 37, who hailed from Bihar.Ansari, along with some workers, lived in the hosiery unit.Tibba Road police station SHO inspector Mohammad Jamil said, “When Ansari did not come for work on Monday morning, another worker, who lives in the hosiery unit, went to his room and found him hanging. He raised the alarm and called up the police.” During police questioning, the hosiery workers said that late on Sunday night Ansari was fighting with someone on phone and they thought he was talking to his family.“We scanned the cellphone of Ansari. He had made the last call to his family in Bihar. We contacted his family and found that Ansari was fighting with them over property. Ansari’s family was dividing the property and he had an argument with them over his share. Ansari threatened to commit suicide if he did not get his share,” the SHO added.After the argument, Ansari disconnected the call and took the extreme step. His family is on way to Ludhiana. The body has been kept in civil hospital. The police will proceed further after recording the statements of his kin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hosiery-worker-ends-life-after-property-row-with-kin/articleshow/79997645.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Top officers fan out across Uttar Pradesh over three days, meet farmers||LUCKNOW: Nodal officers appointed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath for inspection of paddy and cane purchase centres, cow shelters and to meet with farmers, panned out across the state between Saturday and Monday. The officials have been asked to submit their reports to the CM by Tuesday. The aim of this exercise, said an official, was to reach out to the state’s farmers amid more than a month-long massive protests by farmers at Delhi’s border against the new farm laws, and convey to them the steps being taken by the state government for their welfare. “Officials were asked to visit paddy and cane purchase centres and inspect their working, ensuring that farmers are not facing any problems while selling their produce. Subsequently, they were to hold dialogues with farmers and understand their problems, inspect the irrigation facilities and power availability and check the functioning of cow shelters. They spent three days in the field and most returned to Lucknow by Monday night,” said the official. Additional chief secretary (agriculture) Devesh Chaturvedi was appointed nodal officer for Varanasi where he inspected paddy purchase centres on Monday and interacted with farmers. ACS (backward welfare) Hemant Rao inspected paddy purchase centres in Auraiya. ACS (sugarcane and excise) Sanjay Bhoosreddy, principal secretary Dimple Verma and Kanpur divisional commissioner Rajshekhar also inspected paddy purchase centres and progress under the ongoing varasat scheme apart from interacting with villagers. ACS (information) Navneet Seghal visited Bareilly where he reviewed the arrangements for Covid-19 vaccination and directed officials to ensure that at least 3,000 persons were tested each day. He also visited the local hospital and met with patients. Sehgal visited a paddy purchase centre in Bahedi and spoke to farmers there. Some farmers complained that their produce was being under weighed. They also said that they were facing problems in getting their produce weighed due to a shortage of purchase centres in Bareilly. Sehgal directed the Bareilly DM to increase the number of centres in the area. He then held a chaupal with villagers of Gurwara and heard out their problems. The villagers asked for construction of drains along a new highway near the village as the area gets flooded in rain. Sehgal has directed the chief development officer of Bareilly to look into the complaints. Subsequently, he also visited a cow shelter in Bahera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/top-officers-fan-out-across-up-over-3-days-meet-farmers/articleshow/80000935.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Rajkot||30 days and counting, lions make Rajkot their new abode||RAJKOT: Final residency settled: Rajkot taluka is new pride abode. After what seemed to be a 4-odd lions’ outing to Rajkot city periphery, experts have now surmised that the cat adventure is likely to be a deliberate inquisition to colonize the area for habitation. The lions have been venturing around areas including Sardhar, Tramba and Kotda Sangani adjoining Rajkot city for more than 30 days which make activists feel they have moved into the new neighbourhood. “We are confident that the lions will colonize this area,” member of state board for wildlife, Priyavrat Gadhvi told TOI. Gadhvi said that the lions must have found the settlement viable in terms of prey base, water body and minimum disturbance. Additionally, there is no territory of other lions which makes it an optimal condition to settle in, he said, adding that “One month period is too early to come to a conclusion that they will stay forever, but when they have spent such a long duration at one place we can say that basic viability is there.” Bhushan Pandya, another member of state wildlife board echoing Gadhvi, said “Lions have stayed for a month which indicates that they are getting enough food and water and there is no disturbance in the area. If they continue to get food and all other requisite factors are fulfilled, they may find this place suitable for habitation.” Along with suitability, the other factor that played a major role in lions’ long stay in the area is awareness among villagers and their cooperation. Deputy conservator of forest, Rajkot, Ravi Prasad Radhakrishna said, “We have deputed a team round the clock in villages nearby where the lions are moving. Regular awareness programmes in villages through volunteers of Wild Saurashtra Group (WSG) as well as speedy release of compensation in case of preying on domestic animals have built confidence among the villagers.” WSG volunteers hold meetings at night in the villages, said Bhavesh Trivedi, one of the team members. “We are not part of the forest department and so, people are comfortable talking to us. We become a bridge between forest officials and the villagers in the awareness programmes. We had night meetings in nearly 12 villages so far,” he said. Sarpanch of Lodhida village in Rajkot taluka, Jagdish Japadiya said, “Initially we were scared of lions’ movement in our area as we had never heard about it in the past. However, now people don’t resist or obstruct the wild cats in doing their activities.” Forest department sources stated that maximum lion location was traced near Bhayasar village which has a vidi nearby. Their movement was also traced to Kotda Sangani, Naranka Rajpara, Lodhida, Suki Sajadiyali and Halenda. They go at night to hunt Nilgai and wild boar as these herbivorous animal in this area are not habituated of predation and fall easy preys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/30-days-and-counting-lions-make-rajkot-their-new-abode/articleshow/79998944.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Rajkot||Four die after car rams into bike in Banaskantha||Palanpur: Four persons, including the driver of a car, were killed in a fatal accident that took place near Bhabhar in Banaskantha on Sunday night. On Monday, police said that three farmers from Khara village In Bhabhar taluka were on their way home from their field on their bike, when a car coming from the opposite direction from Bhahbar to Deesa hit the bike first before it rammed into a tree. The bike riders were killed on the spot while the driver of the car succumbed to his injuries in a hospital in Patan, said sub inspector of Bhabhar police station, PL Aahir. The accident happened at about 9.30 pm on Sunday, he said. The deceased car driver has been identified as Ladubha Parmar (35), a resident of Nani Akhol Deesa. The deceased farmers are Amritbhai Chaudhary (32) Vinodbhai Chaudhary (26) and Prartap Chaudhary (35) all from Khara village. The bodies of the four victims were handed over to the relatives after post mortem, while two injured were people are getting treated in a local hospital. Based on eyewitnesses, cops said that the accident took place because of bad road, which is under repair, and also due to reckless driving by the car driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-die-after-car-rams-into-bike-in-banaskantha/articleshow/79998905.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Three arrested from Delhi for duping Kolkata firm of Rs 82 lakh||KOLKATA: The cyber cell of the detective department has caught three persons from Delhi for defrauding a Kolkata-based firm of Rs 82 lakh. The accused have been booked under various sections of Information Technology Act, 2000, and under the IPC pertaining to cheating and fraud. They used to digitally forge signatures to hack into companies’ accounts and siphon off funds, police said. The accused were produced before a Delhi court that gave transit remand for bringing them to Kolkata. “We produced them at a Kolkata court on Monday and secured seven days’ police custody,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. The Kolkata-based company that has its office on Shakespeare Sarani had filed a complaint with the police on December 11. Acting on it, Kolkata Police officers conducted a raid at a house in west Delhi’s Motinagar and nabbed the trio identified as Chandan Bhatia (43), Suraj Sharma (28) and Amarjeet Singh (28), residents of Rohini and Vikaspuri in west and southwest Delhi. Police said several mobile phones, bank passbooks, digital signature certificates, unauthorized stamps of banks and several companies, routers and dongles were seized from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-arrested-from-delhi-for-duping-kol-firm-of-rs-82-lakh/articleshow/79998904.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 29, 2020||Kanpur||Man dies of horse kick injury, owner accused of poisoning it||KANPUR: A 65-year-old man, who was critically injured after being kicked by a horse in Babupurwa area of the city, died a day later during treatment at Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) hospital on Monday. However, in an even more macabre and bizarre fallout, the owner of the horse brutally attacked it with a stick on coming to know of the death of the senior citizen and then allegedly administered it a poisonous injection leading to its instant death. the body of the elderly man was sent to the district hospital’s mortuary for the post-mortem after his family filed a complaint against the horse owner. The carcass of the horse was also later dispatched to the veterinary hospital for autopsy. Lakshmi Narain Verma, a resident of Naya Purwa in Babupurwa police station, was sitting in front of his house on Sunday afternoon when the incident happened, said police. Verma’s neighbour Satish Pal, who runs a dairy, was going somewhere with his horse when the animal went out of control, managed to free itself and kicked the elderly man leaving him critically injured. Verma’s family members rushed him to Ursula Horsman hospital from where doctors referred him to the Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, where he died on Monday afternoon, said a police official. “On the complaint of family members of the deceased Lakshmi Narain, a case has been registered against the horse owner Satish Pal under relevant sections of IPC at Babupurwa police station. Further investigations in this regard are still under way,” the official added. “Locals of the area told investigators that as soon as the horse owner Satish Pal came to know about the death of Lakshmi Narain, he thrashed the animal severely with a stick and then administered a poisonous injection killing it,” said inspector Babupurwa Janardan Pratap Singh. “No arrest has been made so far. We will take further action against the horse owner for animal cruelty, once we receive the post-mortem report of the animal,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-dies-of-horse-kick-injury-owner-accused-of-poisoning-it/articleshow/79998877.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||Climate change document to be open for periodic updates||Panaji: The Goa State Action Plan for Climate Change (SAPCC) was recently kept open for the very first time, up to December 10, for public suggestions. However, state officials have said that despite closing for suggestions for now, the SAPCC will remain a dynamic document, which will be updated as and when relevant suggestions are received from experts. The SAPCC has been drawn up following meticulous work over a period of two years, with suggestions taken from experts across varied fields and also from common citizens. The total budget required for implementing the SAPCC in Goa has been projected to be Rs 465 crore for a period of 10 years, “which works out to be Rs 46.5 crore per annum and amounts to approximately 0.22% of the annual budget and 0.050 % of the gross state domestic production (GSDP) of Goa”. The SAPCC has suggested that since the talukas of Bardez, Tiswadi, Mormugao and Salcete contain most of the state’s population, economic activity is at the highest risk here due to climate change. As mitigation, it has recommended some adaptation measures for these talukas such as conducting a climate-based infrastructure vulnerability assessment. The plan has called for redesigning of the regional land-use maps of these vulnerable areas by considering climatic factors. It has said that development of a climate-based disaster management plan is required. “Identifying measures such as creating flood control gates, etc, for controlling flooding events due to various aspects like the upward flow of water into the rivers; implementation of a solid waste management plan; enhancing internal waterways for transportation; strategy to relocate/compensate and identify new means or alternate skill for owners of khazan lands as the probability of submergence due to climate change increases,” state suggestions in the SAPCC. It has said that there is a need is to identify and explore natural mechanisms like increased mangroves or sea walls inorder to guard against sea-level rise. Goa State Action Plan for Climate Change has been drawn up following meticulous work over a period of two years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/climate-change-document-to-be-open-for-periodic-updates/articleshow/80000367.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Varanasi||ACS takes farmers’ feedback on paddy purchase process||VARANASI: The additional chief secretary (agriculture, agriculture education and research, agri-marketing, foreign trade and export promotion) Dr Devesh Chaturvedi, took feedback of farmers to check ground realities of the paddy purchase process and to explore the possibilities to increase income of farmers by encouraging them to cultivate new varieties of vegetables and fruits through organic farming. He camped here since Sunday morning till Monday. The process left the officials of agriculture and other departments concerned sweating. The additional chief secretary reached paddy purchase centres at Mirzamurad and Araziline areas for inspection. From the farmers register he chose numbers of farmers and talked to Mansharam of Lachhapur and Tribhuvan Singh of Pratappur village to know their experience of selling paddy at these centres and days taken in clearing their payments. Later, he sought details of paddy purchase at both the centres and expressed unhappiness over payment of only 50% of the farmers who sold their produce at Mirzamurad. He asked to maintain more transparency in distribution of tokens for payments made to the farmers against purchase of paddy. Earlier, while reviewing the progress in paddy purchase in the district on Sunday, Chaturvedi made it clear that the centre should be ready to purchase as much paddy of farmers as they want to sell there on minimum support price. He said the target given to the district for paddy purchase should not be used as a barrier to stop farmers from selling paddy at purchase centres. He also cautioned the officials against delay in clearing payment to farmers. Officials informed Chaturvedi that so far 25,000 metric tonne of paddy, which is 62% of the target fixed for the district, has already been purchased. As many as 5,033 farmers have been benefited in this process and Rs 20.75 crore has been deposited in the accounts of farmers. On Monday, Chaturvedi also met the officials at Indian Institute for Vegetable Research (IIVR) where its director Dr Jagdish Singh informed him that in past three years 2,756 farmers have been given advanced training, while 41 new varieties of vegetables have been developed in past five years. The institute has also signed 43 MoUs with private companies. Chaturvedi also asked the scientists to keep an eye on fast developing market of organic vegetables and fruits and plan accordingly in order to increase the income of farmers of the region. He said that IIVR can play an important role in developing the area as a seed hub.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/acs-takes-farmers-feedback-on-paddy-purchase-process/articleshow/79998366.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Chhota Rajan & Munna Bajrangi on postal stamps; official suspended||KANPUR: Postal stamps with images of mafia don Chhota Rajan and sharpshooter Munna Bajrangi, killed in Baghpat jail in 2018, were found to have been issued under the ‘My Stamp’ scheme from the main post office in the city. The in charge of Kanpur GPO’s philately department has been suspended for the irregularity. These stamps could have been used to send letters anywhere in the country. The request for these stamps were made by an anonymous person who paid Rs 600 for getting pictures of two criminals printed on a postage stamp with the face value of Rs 5. Person manning the ‘My Stamp’ desk didn’t check his identity. One ‘My Stamp’ sheet containing 12 stamps of Rs 5 costs Rs 300. Postmaster General, Kanpur, V K Verma, said a probe has been started into the irregularity and lapses. “Prima-facie, Rajneesh Kumar, in charge of philately department, has been found guilty and has been suspended with immediate effect. We have also issued show cause notice to some other employees in this regard. We are making all efforts to zero in on the person who got photographs of criminals printed under the ‘My stamp’ scheme. We will take measures to ensure such errors are not repeated ever.” Under the ‘My Stamp’ scheme, India Post issues personalized sheets of postage stamps by printing a thumb nail photograph of an individual, logos, artwork, alongside the selected stamp. The scheme was launched to popularize the use of postage stamps and earn revenue through personalised service. The customer has to fill a ‘My Stamp’ order form, produce an ID proof and get a photograph clicked or provide its hard or soft copy. Customers can also provide a copy of family members, friends or relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/chhota-rajan-munna-bajrangi-on-postal-stamps/articleshow/79998619.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 29, 2020||Allahabad||Cong takes out Sandesh Yatra on its 136th foundation day||Varanasi: To mark the party’s 136th Foundation Day, the leaders and workers of Congress party carried out a ‘Congress Sandesh Yatra’ march in the city on Monday. The party workers gathered near Gandhi statue at Bhadau Chungi area under the leadership of the party’s city unit chief Raghvendra Chaubey and other senior leaders. Later, they marched towards Dashaswamedh via Prahladghat, Machhodari, Viseshwarganj, Thatheri Bazar, Chowk, Bansphatak and Godowlia area. Their march culminated at Chitranjan Park where they held a meeting. The speakers paid tributes to the legendary leaders of the party and recalled its history. They also took pledge to take the party’s ideology among people and to expose the anti-people policies of the Bhartiya Janata Party led centre and state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cong-takes-out-sandesh-yatra-on-its-136th-foundation-day/articleshow/79998429.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bhopal||PM Modi likely to inaugurate revamped Habibganj station in March||BHOPAL: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to cut the ribbon of the revamped Habibganj railway station, said West Central Railway (WCR) officials. The tentative date for inauguration is March 31. The station was scheduled to be completed in March 2020, however, faced delay due to Covid crisis. Indian Railway railway has asked the Bhopal division officials to regularly monitor the work. DRM Uday Borwanker has recently inspected the work at the Habibganj station. The renovated Habibganj station is likely to witness average 35,000 to 40,000 passengers everyday. Around 85 pairs of trains will be given a stoppage. Before Covid, 54 pairs of trains operated here everyday and movement of about 25,000 people was being recorded. At present, 22 pairs of trains are operating from here. To implement the project, the railways awarded the prized contract to Bansal Group, which formed a new company in association with Prakash Asphalting and Toll Highways named Bansal Pathways Habibganj Private Ltd to work on the project. Project in-charge, Abu Asif, said, “We will be able to complete the structure work by March 31. It will be functional also, just like how we have done with the subways.” Habibganj is being developed as the first railway station in the country to provide world-class facilities to passengers through the public-private-partnership (PPP) model under the station redevelopment programme of Indian Railways. The revamp work was launched in July 2016 at an estimated cost of Rs450 crore. However, it could take off only in January 2017 with a deadline to complete it in three years. The project is divided into two parts: Rs100 crore were earmarked for facelift of the station while the remaining Rs350 crore was for commercial facilities. The deadline for construction of commercial facilities is 2022. This station is being revamped on the lines of Heidelberg railway station in Germany, which is famous for its airport-like facilities. There will be large LED screens for entertainment and multiple delicious cuisine shops. This Air Concourse Lounge will have space for 700 passengers to sit together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pm-modi-likely-to-inaugurate-revamped-habibganj-station-in-mar/articleshow/79998898.cms||Ramendra Singh
December 29, 2020||Goa||Extended breaks for government, bank employees as one-third of public holidays fall on weekends in 2021||PANAJI: With several public holidays in 2021 falling close to the weekend, government employees and bank employees will benefit from extended weekends while the public will have to carefully plan their work at government offices. Holi, both a public holiday and bank holiday, is on March 29 which is a Monday, while the first day of Ganesh Chaturthi, September 10, and the feast of St Francis Xavier, December 3, are on a Friday. Some public holidays have also fallen on Saturdays and Sundays. Banks will be closed for three Saturdays in May and three Saturdays in October, with May 1 and Gandhi Jayanti, October 2, coinciding with the first Saturdays of the month. Christmas, December 25, is also on a Saturday, while Independence Day, August 15, and Goa Liberation Day, December 19, fall on Sunday. Meanwhile, Eid-Ul Fitr slated for May 14, Friday, and Eid-Ul Zuha (Bakri Eid) on July 21, Wednesday, are subject to appearance of the moon. In total, the state government has notified 17 public holidays, 18 bank holidays, 24 restricted holidays, nine commercial and industrial holidays and two special holidays. All government offices will be functional on special holidays - Mahashivratri on March 11, Thursday, and Eid-e-Milad on October 20, Wednesday. Employees are permitted to avail any two holidays from the list of restricted holidays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/extended-breaks-for-govt-bank-employees-as-one-third-of-public-holidays-fall-on-weekends-in-2021/articleshow/80000377.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Crimes against women rise 24% in Vizag district||VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakha Rural within Visakhapatnam district saw a 24 per cent increase in crimes against women and a 2.35 per cent increase in bodily offences this year compared to 2019, as per latest data by the police. Superintendent of Police (Visakha Rural) B Krishna Rao who addressed the year-ending press briefing said among bodily offences, there has been a marked increase in rioting by 44 per cent and rapes by 42 per cent. He also said that crimes against women increased by 24 per cent in the district in 2020. The police chief started his address by paying tributes to the four police officers who lost their lives to Covid-19 under Visakha Rural this year. 2020 was a challenging year for many people, Krishna Rao said, adding that police personnel were at the forefront to contain the spread of Covid-19 and in the process, 499 police personnel in the district were exposed to the virus. Annual data highlighted that a total of 12,875 incidents of crimes, including 8,235 cases of Covid-19 violations were reported in 2020 while the number of crimes in 2019 was 6,982. Among the 739 bodily offences committed in the district in 2020, 29 murders, 61 incidents of attempt to murder, 42 incidents of rioting, 18 incidents of kidnapping, 64 incidents of rape and 32 incidents of grievous hurt were reported, whereas the number of bodily offences in 2019 was marginally lower at 722. In the crimes against women category, a total of 459 cases were reported in 2020, of which 146 cases were of domestic violence, 29 cases related to false promises of marriage and cheating and 249 incidents were under other harassments. Krishna Rao said that out of all reported rape and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) rape cases in the district, 45 per cent were charged within the stipulated time of 30 days and in one case under the POCSO Act at Kotauratla police station limits, the chargesheet was filed within a week, he added. People-friendly policing, besides moving ahead with the prime objective of maintaining law and order and strict enforcement to check illegal activities are the force’s top priorities during 2021, Krishna Rao added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/crimes-against-women-rise-24-in-vizag-dist/articleshow/79997665.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 29, 2020||Goa||Two accidents in Sakhali, one dead, house damaged||Bicholim: Two major accidents were witnessed at Sakhali, resulting in one fatality. Sanjeev Kamat, 46, from Gaonkarwada, Virdi, Sakhali died on the spot after an oncoming car rammed into his scooter at Vithalapur-Sakhali on Sunday evening. Bicholim police stated that Kamat was heading towards Bicholim. When he reached the stretch near Vagheri Commerce Centre at Vithalapur, the oncoming car rammed into his scooter, seriously injuring him. Kamat was rushed to the community health centre, Sakhali, but was declared dead on arrival by the doctors. The impact of the collision was such that the two-wheeler sustained extensive damage. The deceased, who is survived by two children and his wife, was earning a livelihood by running a vada-pav stall at Virdi. In another accident, the occupants of the house belonging to Sunil Naik at Vithalapur, Sakhali, had a miraculous escape after the driver of a Maharashtra-registered goods truck lost control of the vehicle. The truck turned to its side and rammed into Naik’s house at about 5.45am. The truck was heading towards Sakhali from Bicholim. The driver lost control of the vehicle when it reached the curve along a stretch at Vithalapur, police said. The family was fast asleep when the accident occured. The house owner claimed to have suffered a loss around Rs 15 lakh due to the accident. The injured truck driver who got stuck inside the cabin was pulled out by locals. He was rushed to the nearby health centre and later discharged after treatment. Following the accident, traffic was diverted through an internal Vithalapur road, while heavy vehicles coming from Bicholim to Sakhali were halted for a few hours, leading to a queue of upto 3 kms. The house owner said that this is the third incident where a truck has rammed into his house. He has therefore requested the state authorities to provide financial assistance to him to reconstruct the damaged portion of his house. Meanwhile, in the evening, the truck was moved and debris were cleared from the accident site. The damaged electricity cables were repaired by firemen, thus restoring the supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-accidents-in-sakhali-one-dead-house-damaged/articleshow/80000382.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||BJP Kisan Morcha to tell Oppn workers merits of farm laws||Lucknow: Even as it faces the heat over a raging protest by farmers against the new farm laws, the ruling BJP has decided to expand its outreach from farmers to Opposition parties. The plan is seen as a saffron party move to blunt farmers’ aggression which has been gaining traction following support of Opposition leaders. Sources in UP BJP said that the state Kisan Morcha has been asked to work proactively in dispelling the apprehensions vis-à-vis new farm laws not only among farmers but also the grassroots workers of Opposition parties. This, party sources said, will help the party in reinforcing confidence among farmers, who form a key vote base for any political dispensation. President of UP BJP Kisan Morcha Raja Verma told TOI that the functionaries of the morcha would be holding discussions with Opposition party workers about the misgivings of new farm laws. “We would try to convince them how the new laws are in favour of the farmers. We expect that Opposition party workers would pass on BJP’s perception to their leadership,” Verma said. The move comes after UP BJP started organising farmers’ conventions in various parts of the state, accusing the Opposition of misguiding “gullible farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-kisan-morcha-to-tell-oppn-workers-merits-of-farm-laws/articleshow/80000950.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 29, 2020||Kanpur||SUV owner challenged for displaying his caste on vehicle’s rear windscreen||KANPUR: Following the state governments directives wherein it was stated that displaying caste identities on windscreens and number plates of four and two-wheelers, will invite legal action, in a first case in the city, a man was issued a challan at the Bada Chauraha area as the SUV in which he was travelling, had ‘Kushwaha’ and `Akhil Bharatiya Maurya Mahasabha’ written on it. “Today we issued a challan, the first in the city, to a SUV owner which had ‘Kushwaha’ and `Akhil Bharatiya Maurya Mahasabha’ painted on its rear windscreen. The vehicle, bearing registration number of Kanpur, belongs to one Anil Kumar. We have also fined the SUV owner of Rs 2000,” said inspector Kotwali Sanjiv Kant Mishra. It is to be noted that it has become a fashion to display caste names on windscreens or number plates of vehicles across the state. An order in this regard was issued to all regional transport offices (RTOs) by additional transport commissioner stating that all such vehicles should be seized. The order was issued by the transport department after instructions received from the Prime Minister`s Office (PMO). The PMO had taken cognizance of the matter after a Maharashtra-based teacher--Harshal Prabhu--wrote a letter opposing this culture. Prabhu had made a complaint to the PMO’s integrated system designed for redressal of grievances. He had mentioned that highlighting caste on vehicles was a threat to the social fabric. Taking note of the complaint, PMO officials had instructed the state government after which the latter launched such an initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/suv-owner-challenged-for-displaying-his-caste-on-vehicles-rear-windscreen/articleshow/79998828.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Allahabad||HCBA writes to CJ, seeks actionon cops for thrashing Etah lawyer||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) has written to the Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court requesting him to take suo moto cognizance of the police assault on an advocate in Etah district. In the letter, HCBA secretary Prabha Shankar Mishra has requested the Chief Justice to pass appropriate orders for maintaining law and order in the state. Police had broken the door of advocate Rajendra Sharma’s house in Etah and dragged him out in his advocate’s dress and assaulted him mercilessly. The video of the incident had gone viral on social media. In the letter dated December 27, Mishra said the way in which the lawyer and his family members were beaten up by police, the lawyers are upset and feel neglected. “We are ashamed to call ourselves advocates after this assault incident. The advocate community is angry over the incident and looks up to the high court for justice,” he stated. Earlier, following a call by the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh — the apex body of lawyers in the state — lawyers had staged a protest on December 26, 2020 against the incident. The lawyers in Prayagraj had also organised a meeting in the hall of district court Bar Association. The speakers vehemently condemned the assault and demanded strict action against the guilty policemen. They also demanded that such incidents must not be repeated in future. The lawyers of Prayagraj had also sent a memorandum to the state government through district magistrate demanding action against the policemen who brutally assaulted the lawyer in Etah. Earlier, the Bar Council of India had condemned the assault on the advocate, and urged the Chief Justice of India and Allahabad High Court Chief Justice to take action against the guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hcba-writes-to-cj-seeks-actionon-cops-for-thrashing-etah-lawyer/articleshow/79998344.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 29, 2020||Goa||Beef traders keep fingers crossed over meat supply||Panaji: Beef traders expect regular supply from Karnataka till New Year, but uncertainty prevails as they closely watch the events unfolding in the neighbouring state. The Quraishi’s Meat Traders’ Association of Goa saidthat traders in the state have been receiving regular beef supply and expect this to continue till New Year. They, however, fear the developments after January 1. “Whether supply of meat continues or is stopped, we require the Goa Meat Complex to be operational. The director of animal husbandry has promised us it will be ready for use within 20-25 days’s time. We are ready to bring in live cattle to the complex for slaughter. Goans will benefit from better quality, hygenic and fresh meat,” president Manna Bepari said. “We received full support from the Goa government during Christmas time, but now we require their support to start the meat complex,” he said. The association has decided not to source meat from Tamil Nadu and Kerala because of the long distance and high rate. “If we bring in meat from these states we will have to hike the rate by Rs 100. We don’t want to do this as there are ST and SC people for whom beef is a staple diet. We have strictly told all our traders not to increase the rate. Boneless beef is being sold for Rs 350/ kg and meat with bones for Rs 250/kg,” he said. The association stated that the enforcement of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill 2000 will spell trouble not only for beef traders and consumers, but also for farmers as well as businesses dependent on the animals for leather, medicine and their bones. Meanwhile, cold meat storage owners have also begun receiving regular supply from Karnataka, but due to the uncertainty, are keeping the Delhi avenue open as well. “We should be receiving stock soon, but one never knows what is going to happen. We have to wait and watch the developments over the next 24/48 hours,” president of the All Goa Cold Storage Owners’ Association Vernon Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/beef-traders-keep-fingers-crossed-over-meat-supply/articleshow/80000400.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Zero Covid cases in Vizianagaram for 2nd straight day||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 212 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,81,273. This is the lowest single-day case total in the state since June 13, when 222 cases were reported. Vizianagaram district did not report any new case for the second consecutive day. The toll increased to 7,098 as four more people succumbed to the virus. Two of the deceased are from West Godavari and one each from Guntur and Visakhapatnam. As many as 410 patients were declared cured. There are currently 3,423 active cases in the state, with 8,70,752 cumulative recoveries and 7,098 fatalities. Guntur reported 53 new infections. The remaining 12 districts posted less than 50 new cases. While Vizianagaram remained a green zone for the second consecutive day, six districts recorded single-digit daily case numbers for the first time in months. The active cases are less than 100 in three districts. Five districts have a 99% recovery rate. The state conducted 37,381 Covid-19 tests in the last 24 hours to detect 212 new cases, translating to a positivity rate of less than 0.6, again the lowest in the last six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/zero-cases-in-vzm-for-2nd-straight-day/articleshow/79997679.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Rajkot||More ferry services may set sail, EOIs invited for 13 routes||RAJKOT: The union shipping ministry has invited expressions of interest (EOI) from private players to set in motion the ambitious project to connect various coastal destinations with Ro-Ro, Ro-Pax and cruise services.As many as 13 destinations have been chosen along the Gujarat coast alone. On Monday, at least 88 stakeholders participated in the virtual roadshow organized for operators by the shipping ministry. After the success of Ghogha-Hazira Ro-Pax ferry service, the ministry of ports, shipping and waterways (MoPSW) has directed Deendayal Port Trust (DPT) to provide technical support to operators in the service from Diu and Pipavav, which is expected to commence in a year in the first phase. MoPSW, through it’s own company Sagarmala Development Company Limited (SDCL), has also asked interested firms to submit their EOIs by January 7. The roadshow on Monday was part of the process, said sources. SDCL will facilitate all the interested operators in promoting Ro-Pax and coastal services and also provide equity support. An attendee of the virtual meeting told TOI: “The government is keen on promoting these routes for Ro-Pax and coastal shipping. They will not only provide all possible support to operators but will also open other routes if the companies desire.” The Hazira ferry service saw good success during Diwali and Christmas festivals, garnering average 90% occupancy. DPT chairman, SK Mehta told TOI: “We have to provide all the technical support and other help required for all the proposed destinations in Gujarat.” Mehta further said that Diu and Pipavav services are in advance stage and the service is likely to start within a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/more-ferry-services-may-set-sail-eois-invited-for-13-routes/articleshow/79998979.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||Cops raid 1,534 places during weeklong drive||Nagpur: City police chief Amitesh Kumar has cracked the whip on nuisance-makers at public places. The special drive was initiated on December 20 and concluded on December 26. Police have netted two drug peddlers during the action and seized more than 3kg marijuana. The cops had targeted illegal liquor sellers, bootleggers and also unauthorized food vendors and small eateries encroaching roads and footpaths. Such joints were mostly used by liquor addicts who thronged such roadside vendors for boiled eggs or ‘bhurji’, Chinese food etc. The vendors were also booked for abetting the nuisance and blocking the carriageways. Roadside vendors between Kamal Chowk and Rani Durgawati Chowk were removed and booked under different provisions of law. Police had raided around 1,534 places and 361 cases under Maharashtra Police Act were registered for causing nuisance on roads. Also, the police had nabbed 74 persons consuming liquor in the open. During the drive, police have registered around 70 cases of illegal liquor sale under different police stations and 33 miscreants were slapped with preventive action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-raid-1534-places-during-weeklong-drive/articleshow/80000375.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 29, 2020||Goa||Teen tourist saved from drowning||Calangute: A 13-year-old boy from Gujarat was saved from drowning by a foreigner at Candolim beach Monday afternoon. Drishti Marine stated that the boy along with four others were having a dip in the water when he started getting dragged into deeper waters. A foreigner who was swimming in the vicinity noticing the boy being swept away and grabbed hold of him, while gesturing to the lifeguards for assistance. Lifeguards then brought the boy ashore using a rescue tube. Another tourist was also rescued at Baga on Monday. With tourists thronging the Calangute-Candolim beach stretch, lifeguards have started patrolling the beach till 11pm, and will be deployed till 1am on New Year’s Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teen-tourist-saved-from-drowning/articleshow/80000395.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Allahabad||Kinnar Akhada Mahamandaleshwar Kiran Nand Giri Baba welcomed||GORAKHPUR: Mahamandaleshwar of Gorakhpur Kinnar (transgender) Akhada, Kiran Nand Giri Baba was welcomed by people of Gorakhpur including businessmen and traders of Golghar market, Yuva Darpan organization, Mahila Morcha and trans-gender society with drum beats, flowers and garlands at Chetna Tiraha in Golghar Gorakhpur and on her return journey from Char Dham pilgrimage on Monday. They congratulated her on becoming Mahamandaleshwar. Kiran Nand Giri Baba expressed happiness over her welcome and with the slogan of ‘Har Har Mahadev’, she said, “It is like a dream that I am getting so much respect from people. I prayed for health and prosperity of all the yajmans. Every year I observe Chhat vrat (fast) for my yajmans as for us they are everything.” She presented proposal of associating the members of trans-gender community with Sanatan Dharma. “Mahamandaleshwar Acharya Laxminarayan Tripathi has accepted the proposal of associating the members of trans-gender community with Sanatan Dharma,” she said. “I had a meeting with Mahamandaleshwar Acharya Laxminarayan Tripathi at the ashram of Pilot Baba and after that I met Hari Giri Maharaj and Mela officer for participating in Kumbh fair at Haridwar. Our akhada will participate in the Kumbh fair for the first time,” she said. Kumbh Mela will be held for 48 days in Haridwar instead of three and a half months in view the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kinnar-akhada-mahamandaleshwar-kiran-nand-giri-baba-welcomed/articleshow/79998448.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 28 newly-elected MLAs take oath||BHOPAL: A day after the winter session of state assembly was postponed due to Covid crisis, 28 newly-elected MLAs took oath in the Speaker’s chamber on Monday. Pro tem Speaker, Rameshwar Sharma administered the oath to the new members. The current strength of the 230-member assembly stands at 229. “The winter session was postponed due to Covid-19 situation. It was decided to hold the oath ceremony at the Speaker's chamber in abidance with the safety norms. These 28 members will be able to exercise their constitutional rights in the interest of the public and development of the state," Sharma told TOI. On Sunday, an all-party meeting convened by the assembly secretariat decided to cancel the three-day winter session of the assembly, which was scheduled to begin from December 28. Officials disclosed that total 75 employees and officials of the assembly secretariat and Capital Project Administration (CPA), including nine MLAs, were tested Covid positive. Congress member Mewaram Jatav from Gohad (SC) in Bhind district was the first to take the oath of the House, followed by other members. was accompanied by Former minister Govind Singh Rajput accompanied BJP MLA from Joura Subedar Singh Rajodha to the oath ceremony. Principal secretary of assembly Awadhesh Pratap Singh conducted the proceedings. Of the total 28 members, six cabinet ministers and three ministers of state (MoS) took the oath of the House. Now, the house is only seat short to reach its full capacity. Damoh seat got vacant after the Congress MLA Rahul Singh Lodhi, later resigned to join BJP. The BJP has emerged the largest party in the House with 126 MLAs. The Congress has 96 MLAs while the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has two MLAs. There are four Independent MLAs and one from Samajwadi Party in the House. The 28 members took oath on Monday included, Pradyuman Singh Tomar (BJP) Gwalior, Mahendra Singh Sisodia (BJP), Bamori (Guna), Bisahulal Singh (BJP) Anuppur, Prabhuram Chaudhary (BJP) Sanchi (Raisen), Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon (BJP), Badnawar (Dhar), Brajendra Singh Yadav (BJP), Mungaoli (Ashoknagar), Hardeep Singh Dang (BJP), Suwasra (Mandsaur), OPS Bhadoria (BJP), Mehgaon (Bhind), Tulsiram Silawat (BJP) Sanver (Indore), Vipin Wankhede (Congress) Agar-Malwa, Ajab Singh Kushwaha (Congress), Sumawali (Morena), Rakesh Mawai (Congress), Morena, Ravindra Singh Tomar (Congress), Dimani (Morena), Kamlesh Jatav (BJP), Ambah (Morena), Satish Sikarwar (Congress), Gwalior East, Suresh Raje (Congress), Dabra (Gwalior), Raksha Santram Sironia (BJP) Bhander (Datia), Pragilal Jatav (Congress), Karera (Shivpuri), Jajpal Singh Jajji (BJP), Ashoknagar, Govind Singh Rajput (BJP), Surkhi (Sagar), Pradyuman Singh Lodhi (BJP) Bada Malhera (Chhatarpur), Ramchandra Dangi (Congress), Biaora (Rajgarh), Manoj Chaudhary (BJP), Hatpipliya (Dewas), Narayan Singh Patel (BJP), Mandhata (Khandwa), Sumitra Kasdekar (BJP), Nepanagar (Burhanpur).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/28-newly-elected-mlas-take-oath/articleshow/79998916.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Bareilly man tests positive after 4-hour break in UK||Lucknow: A resident of Bareilly, who returned to India via UK, became the latest addition to the list of Covid-19 positive patients being tested for the mutant coronavirus strain from Uttar Pradesh. As per reports, he had travelled to the Republic of Panama in November and returned via London after December 9. “He took a four-hour halt in UK to change his flight,” sources said. With this, the total number of persons from UP who returned from or via UK reached 10 on Monday. The list includes two patients isolated in Ghaziabad who are actually residents of New Delhi. The others belong to Gautam Budh Nagar (three) and Meerut (four) besides the one from Bareilly. Office of the chief minister is keeping track of every single patient and their contacts. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Alok Kumar expressed concern over lack of support by some of the UK returnees. “Around 500 UK returnees are not available. They have not contacted health officials despite repeated request from our end. We request them to come forward in their individual interest and also in the interest of their families,” he said. Confirming that so far 10 UK returnees have been found positive, Kumar said: “All the patients are under isolation while their contacts have been quarantined and tested. The samples of the positive patients have been sent to ICMR nominated lab Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi for genome sequencing.” Sources said that the report was expected on Wednesday or Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bareilly-man-tests-positive-after-4-hour-break-in-uk/articleshow/80000956.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Maheshwar Reddy elected new SCB VP unanimously at board meeting||Secunderabad: J Maheshwar Reddy, who represented Secunderabad Cantonment ward-I, was on Monday announced the new vice-president of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB). The President Cantonment Board (PCB) Brigadier Abhjit Chandra announced Reddy’s name at a special board meeting held on Monday here. He was elected to the post unanimously by members of the board. A no-confidence motion against former SCB vice-president J Rama Krishna moved by the ward members was passed unanimously on December 19. The VP will continue in the post for 45 days, as the current SCB elected body’s tenure will end by February 10, 2021. “My dream to become vice-president has come true,” Maheshwar Reddy told TOI. Several TRS workers and Maheshwar Reddy’s supporters gathered at the SCB main office to burst crackers. Speaking to reporters, Maheshwar Reddy said that he will strive to get the pending funds that the state government has to pay to the SCB. He criticised ex- SCB VP J Ramakrishna for failing to get service charges to the tune of Rs 650 crore from the Ministry of Defence (MoD) during his tenure. “As a BJP member, he must make efforts to resolve pending service charges instead of organising protests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maheshwar-reddy-elected-new-scb-vp-unanimously-at-board-meeting/articleshow/80000397.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 29, 2020||Goa||Yoga helped people cope, says Shripad||Panaji: Yoga came to the rescue of many people during the pandemic, minister for Ayush Shripad Naik said, while speaking at a virtual meet organised to celebrate 102 years of The Yoga Institute. Naik said that yoga is India’s gift to the world and has helped people manage not only their, but also their mental health during the pandemic. “People are starting to learn about the real value of yoga,” he said. The Mumbai institute served free meals to support frontline warriors and went beyond its call of duty to touch lives during the pandemic, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/yoga-helped-people-cope-says-shripad/articleshow/80000401.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Rajkot||Blue flag flutters high in Shivrajpur beach||It’s officially clean and blue — a recognition that flutters high on Shivrajpur beach in Devbhumi Dwarka — after district collector N K Meena hoisted the Blue Flag on Monday in a virtual ceremony chaired by union minister Prakash Javadekar. Blue Flag was also hoisted in Ghogla in Diu along with eight other beaches of the country. Blue Flag beach is an eco-tourism model in the league of world class beaches for global tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/blue-flag-flutters-high-in-shivrajpur-beach/articleshow/79999030.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||NTCA releases SOP to deal with stray dog menace near parks||Nagpur: For the first time, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), a statutory body under environment ministry monitoring all tiger reserves, released a standard operation procedure (SOP) to deal with feral and stray dogs in and around tiger reserves. The SOP has asked all the reserves to create immunization buffers around tiger reserves to keep wild animals safe from being hunted by feral dogs and to avoid transmission of diseases between them and wild animals. The SOP was released by the minister of state for environment Babul Supriyo on Monday and aims at immunizing them against contagious diseases and controlling their numbers. It is the outcome of photographic evidence during All India Tiger Estimation (AITE)-2018 wherein several tiger reserves dogs were captured on camera traps chasing herbivores. This is the maiden SOP to deal with the problem. Due to many villages inside the tiger reserves, the menace is grave not only at the fringers but also within the reserves. “The aim is to ensure that feral or stray dogs are handled in appropriate manner to avoid disease spread and physical injury to the tigers and other wild animals. They will be treated as equivalent to street dogs as classified in the Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules, 2001,” said NTCA officials. The SOP calls field directors to set up a seven-member committee consisting of local veterinarians and NGOs, animal welfare activists belonging to SPCA, panchayat representatives for technical guidance and implementation of interventions, especially for planning and management of dog control programme. It also asks to delineate areas of feral dog movement and areas vulnerable to stays and map them on the GIS domain and coordinate with the local animal husbandry department. Dr Bahar Baviskar, a wildlife veterinarian and founder of NGO Wild-CER, welcomed the move. “Stray dogs entering the park from fringe villages is common. They can transmit diseases like rabies and canine distemper. There is an urgent need to take up a drive for anti-rabies vaccination and sterilization of dogs and deworming them in vulnerable villages,” said Baviskar. “The threat is both ways from wild animals to domestic and vice-versa. There is recorded evidence of such diseases among wild animals. When an animal is killed by dogs, it is scavenged by wild animals like hyenas or wild dogs increasing chances of disease spread. Vaccination of dogs will reduce the threat of transmission to wild animals. We have implemented such drives around Pench and Navegaon-Nagzira in 2017,” said Baviskar. The SOP has suggested the field directors coordinate with the local authorities to engage competent authorities recognized by the Animal Welfare Board of India (ABWI) to carry out ABC and immunization programmes. It also says that feral or stray dogs captured from tiger reserve areas should not be released and must be rehabilitated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ntca-releases-sop-to-deal-with-stray-dog-menace-near-parks/articleshow/80000379.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 29, 2020||India||Some who recover from Covid get debilitating spine infection||MUMBAI: While post-Covid syndrome is a well-known entity in which some patients continue to experience Covid-like symptoms for months, city doctors have now noticed a debilitating spine infection in some elderly patients hospitalized for the viral fever. At Nanavati Hospital in Juhu, six elderly patients with spine infection or abscess were treated in four weeks. “They needed hospitalization for weeks during their Covid-19 infection,’’ said spine surgeon Dr Mihir Bapat. The infection was so severe that five needed spine surgery plus last-resort antibiotics. “They will take three months to move around normally,’’ said Dr Bapat. For Vasai resident Renold Sirwel, medical bills since he contracted Covid in September were above Rs 15 lakh. The 68-year-old has had four hospitalisations, a spine surgery and a nurse comes home thrice a day to administer IV antibiotics that cost Rs 7,000 daily. “My father never fell ill and would walk 10km daily till he got Covid,’’ said his son Vinit. He was admitted to a local hospital for 10 days and got remdesivir for treatment. Within few days of returning home, he was rushed again to hospital with excruciating lower back pain. Over the next two months, he visited doctors as his pain worsened and started treatment for spine tuberculosis. He was referred to Dr Bapat and a spinal biopsy showed gram-negative bacteria found only in hospital ICUs. Sirwel, who underwent spine operation at Nanavati on December 7 and was discharged a fortnight later, has to take last-resort antibiotics such as colistin and tigecycline for three weeks. While the Sirwels wonder what led to the spine infection, doctors state it is not a Covid-related infection. “It is possibly related to low immunity Covid patients have,’’ said Dr Bapat. Another spine surgeon, Dr Samir Dalvie from Hinduja Hospital, Mahim, also saw cases of spine abscesses in patients who recovered from Covid. “Covid affects the body’s ability to fight infections that could have been latent and flare up,’’ he said. Another doctor said as the spine infections are caused by micro-organisms found only in hospital ICUs, it means the patient got it during his initial hospital stay for Covid treatment. Dr Rahul Pandit, ICU head of Fortis Hospital and a member of the state task-force on Covid, said microbes fester in the spine epidural space (between vertebral wall and membrane). “At Fortis, a patient, after Covid developed an abscess in the area outside the spine,’’ he said. The doctors said there was a need to suspect spinal infections early. “If a recovered Covid patient has back pain that does not improve after bed rest for at least two weeks, further investigations are needed,’’ said Dr Bapat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-who-recover-from-covid-get-debilitating-spine-infection/articleshow/80001344.cms||Malathy Iyer
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: No New Year public revelry on MG Road, Brigade, Church Street||BENGALURU: Party hub for New Year revellers — MG Road, Brigade Road and Church Street — will remain out of bounds for public celebrations with police imposing ban orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code from 6pm December 31 to 6am January 1 in the city. Gathering of five or more people and celebrations on public roads across the city are banned, said Bengaluru City police commissioner Kamal Pant on Monday. However, people with bookings at hotels and pubs in the area will be allowed to enter the three roads, but they cannot step onto public roads to celebrate the New Year, he said. “During a meeting, pubs’ and restaurants’ associations agreed to abide by the restrictions. Advance booking at hotels on these three roads is mandatory and those heading there will have to furnish the booking coupon (including in electronic form). Pubs and restaurants will operate as per their regular time,” Pant said. The move comes due to Covid-19 scare and a deadlier strain of virus that has surfaced in the United Kingdom. No music nights & shows at pubs, clubsThe police officer said that inhouse celebrations in residential complexes and private clubs may be held for residents and members, respectively, without organising special events. Hotels, malls, restaurants, clubs, pubs, club houses and similar establishments holding New Year celebration will not organise any special DJ events, shows, programmes or performances, music nights and musical bands, and dance programmes. However, they may carry on with regular business, including music within permissible decibels, following Covid-19 protocols. Pant said flyovers will be closed and traffic and law and order police will be deployed to nab stunt riders and drunk drivers. “There will be teams keeping an eye on these places. Cases against individuals and pubs will be booked under National Disaster Management Act if they flout rules,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-ny-public-revelry-on-mg-brigade-church-st/articleshow/80001439.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||20 Best Reads of 2020||A) FICTION 1) A Burning — Megha Majumdar. Shortlisted for the Booker, it exposes the intolerant, violent underbelly of today's India through three fascinating voices. A serious talent to watch out for. 2) Shuggie Bain — Douglas Stuart. Winner of this year's Booker prize. A moving, devastating account of a boy’s desperate love for his alcoholic mother in the deprived, post-industrial 80s Britain. 3) Hamnet — Maggie O'Farrell. Winner of the Women’s Prize, it illuminates life and love in the shadow of death in Elizabethan England. Focusing on Anne Hathaway rather than her genius husband, the author channels a family’s grief for a lost (to a pandemic) son, Hamnet. A tale of timeless relevance. 4) Troubled Blood — Robert Galbraith (aka JK Rowling). The latest instalment of the Cormoran/Robin series. A vanished woman, cold trails, red herrings galore. Dame Agatha would've been proud! 5) Moustache — S Hareesh. Set in a farming region on the south-west coast of Kerala, the novel is both a story of this land and its inhabitants. As they navigate the intricate waterscape, stories unfold in which ecology, power dynamics and politics become central themes. 6) Djinn Patrol on the Purple Line — Deepa Anappara. Incredibly moving, inventively imagined, and a triumph of suspense. This novel highlights the warmth, resilience and courage that emerges in times of crises and carries the reader deep within an unforgettable community. 7) The Mirror and the Light — Hilary Mantel. The final volume of the Thomas Cromwell trilogy. Once again conjures a vanished age to such extraordinarily vivid life and reveals profound insights about power, ambition, relationships, and destiny on to the present one. 8) Burnt Sugar — Avni Doshi. A brutal but coolly objective exploration of a toxic mother-daughter relationship in middle-class, urban India. The final betrayal sucks the breath out of the reader. Must for all mothers and daughters. 9) Tyll — Daniel Kehlmann. A dark but delightful picaresque journey through early 17th century Europe. Tracks the evolution of a crazy-normal jester against the bloody backdrop of the thirty years’ war. 10) Utopia Avenue — David Mitchell. Perfectly captures the musical scene of the 1960s. Of course there is also Mitchell's almost predictable foray into the diabolical inferno of ancient mythos. B) NONFICTION 1) A Promised Land — Barack Obama. The ex-President of the US of A writes brilliantly about his journey. His evocative, often lyrical prose raises an extraordinary lifestory to the level of a modern classic. 2) The Commonwealth of Cricket — Ramachandra Guha. One of India's leading historians blends memoir, reportage and political critique to provide a rivetingly readable account of this subtlest of games. A literary sports book! 3) Shakespeare in a Divided America — James Shapiro. The world's most eminent bard scholar alive, professor Shapiro explores what Shakespeare’s plays reveal about a deeply divided land, from Revolutionary times to the present day. 4) The Fury of Covid-19 — Vinay Lal. Investigating numerous patterns and the social, cultural, political, and philosophical implications of the pandemic, Lal evaluates the fate of humankind and the earth in its wake. 5) Azadi: Freedom. Fascism. Fiction. — Arundhati Roy. In a series of hard-hitting essays including meditations on language (public as well as private) and the role of fiction and alternative imaginations in these disturbing times, Roy challenges us to reflect on the meaning of freedom in a world of growing authoritarianism. 6) I Am the People: Reflections on Popular Sovereignty Today — Partha Chatterjee. The renowned critic endeavours to uncover the roots of populism, tracing the twentieth-century trajectory of the welfare state and neoliberal reforms, and reconsidering the concept of popular sovereignty in order to explain the dramatic outburst of movements today claiming to speak for “the people”. 7) Greenlights — Matthew McConaughey. Not a memoir, as the versatile actor assures readers, but an “approach book”. Anecdotes abound about warring parents, fame, films and hedonism. Plenty of inside info on how Hollywood works. 8) Red Comet — Heather Clark. A definitive biography of the doomed poet Sylvia Plath. Includes a treasure trove of never-before-accessed materials, including unpublished letters and manuscripts, court, police, and psychiatric records, and many new interviews. 9) Suppose a Sentence — Brian Dillon. The writer turns his attention to the oblique and complex pleasures of the sentence. In a series of essays prompted by a single sentence (from Shakespeare to Janet Malcolm, Ruskin, Didion and many more), the book explores style, voice, and language, along with the subjectivity of reading. 10) The Battle of Belonging: On Nationalism, Patriotism, and What it Means to Be Indian — Shashi Tharoor. The prolific Tharoor delves deep into contested ideas of nationalism, patriotism, citizenship, and belonging. He also discusses the nature and future of Indian nationhood and who the actual 'anti-nationals' are. (Supantha Bhattacharyya teaches English at Hislop College)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/20-best-reads-of-2020/articleshow/80000398.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Vijayawada||2020: Year of face-offs, widening rift between executive and judiciary in AP||Vijayawada: Year 2020 witnessed an unprecedented face-off between the executive and the judiciary in Andhra Pradesh. A slew of judgements that went against the government widened the gap between the top court of the state and the executive. The situation reached a crescendo when chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote a letter to the Chief Justice of India, levelling specific allegations against some sitting judges of the AP high court and also a senior judge of the Supreme Court. The rift between the high court and the state government started in 2019 itself after the YSRC government came into power. The government’s decision to review Polavaram contract and power purchase agreements ended in litigation and the HC judgements did not go well with the government. 2020 started off with a slew of petitions challenging the government’s decision to trifurcate the state capital. A number of petitions were moved challenging trifurcation and the petitioners got interim relief in many petitions. The high court took up the hearing on a daily basis. There is a status quo order on shifting of the capital. The government’s decision to introduce English medium in all schools starting from the primary level too was set aside by the high court after PILs were moved. Postponement of local body elections became a controversy and the ordinance brought in by the government to replace state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar was set aside by the high court. From the middle of 2020, the high court has come under an unprecedented attack, especially on social media. Even some of those in constitutional positions criticised a few judgements. As the judges were being personally targeted on various social media platforms, the high court took up the matter seriously which again widened the gap between the two institutions. The high court’s orders on Amaravati land scam case too irked the government, with the chief minister alleging that some judges were acting in a biased manner to benefit the opposition. He also alleged that a senior Supreme Court judge was influencing the roster of high court judges. The chief minister, in his letter, also pointed out the observations and serious comments made by the high court in some cases. He even alleged that an attempt is being made to topple the elected government in the state. By making the letter he wrote to the CJI public, Jagan initiated a debate across the country. While some in the legal fraternity condemned his action, others such as Prasanth Bhushan supported him, saying he rightly exposed the judicial overreach of courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2020-year-of-face-offs-widening-rift-between-executive-and-judiciary-in-ap/articleshow/79997703.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 29, 2020||Goa||Blame game among Mandrem’s BJP brass after zilla poll debacle||PANAJI: The infighting within BJP in Mandrem constituency has spilled out in the open following the loss of two seats in the recently-held zilla panchayat (ZP) elections. The bitter fued has emerged after BJP’s Mandrem unit accused former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar of working against the party to defeat its candidates, while Parsekar has advised Mandrem BJP MLA Dayanand Sopte to introspect instead of blaming him for the debacle. BJP won maximum seats in North Goa, but the party failed to notch up wins in Arambol and Morjim, both of which are in Mandrem assembly constituency. The seats were bagged by independent candidates. Speaking to TOI, BJP Mandrem Mandal president Madhu Parab said that they have demanded action against Parsekar for working against the party in the ZP elections. “Parsekar always works against the party. He also worked against the candidate during the Mandrem by-election last year. It is an open secret, and we have proof to back our allegations,” he said. Parab said that they held a press conference to send a message to the party regarding the developments that resulted in the defeat of both candidates. “The party should give justice to us by initiating action against Parsekar,” he said. Arambol’s BJP ZP candidate Anant Gadekar told TOI that when he went to meet the former chief minister before filing his nomination papers, Parsekar termed him as “a good candidate”, but spoke of defeating both the party aspirants due to their allegiance to the local MLA. “I told Parsekar that we will work hard to win because Sopte is a BJP senior leader,” Gadekar said. He also alleged that two days prior to voting, Parsekar held meetings with Goa Forward Party’s Deepak Kalangutkar and Maharastrawadi Gomantak Party’s Jit Arolkar to ensure that the BJP candidates lose the elections. “Looking at the voting pattern for the Congress zilla candidate, I am sure that he could not have garnered so many votes. It is now clear that votes were transferred,” Gadekar said. He also said that tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar also did not help them during the election. “We are hurt, and want action against Parsekar,” the BJP ZP candidate said.  Parsekar said that after polling was held on December 12, Sopte announced that both the BJP candidates in Mandrem assembly constituency will win the elections. “Now that the candidates have lost, Sopte should take responsibility for the defeat,” the former chief minister said. Parsekar said that since the 2017 assembly elections, Sopte has been losing vote share in Mandrem. As a Congress candidate, the latter had pipped Parsekar, who was the incumbent chief minister, for the Mandrem seat during the polls. Sopte subsequently won the seat at last year’s bypoll after joining BJP. The former chief minister said that Sopte himself had selected the candidates for the zilla elections. “He should introspect for losing the ZP elections. Since the past 15 days, he has been forcing others to hold press conferences to speak against me,” former Mandrem MLA said. Refuting allegations of working against the party, Parsekar sought to know why the BJP candidates did not speak out at the time if he had spoke of defeating them. He also said that if the BJP’s Mandrem unit is seeking action against him, the then party MLA should have met BJP state president and chief minister, and submitted a formal complaint against him rather than holding a press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/blame-game-among-mandrems-bjp-brass-after-zilla-poll-debacle/articleshow/80000422.cms||Murari Shetye
December 29, 2020||Goa||Velsao murder cracked, 4 from Assam arrested||Vasco: A group of friends who came down to Dando beach in Velsao on Sunday got into a drunken brawl which led to the murder of one of them. Verna police arrested four of the accused in connection with the incident, even as they were in the process of fleeing Goa. On Sunday, an unidentified male body with injuries was discovered on Velsao beach leading to the murder investigation. Three of the accused - Dulal Das, 25, Manash Das, 24, Ridip Das, 22 - were stopped by Konkan Railway police while trying to escape. The three revealed that another accused Manash Nath, 26, is involved and he was picked up later from Birla. All accused are natives of Assam. The victim, Khagen Nath, 22, is also from Assam. They had been living in Birla, Zuarinagar. The accused said that they had gone to the beach with the intention of drinking there. After they got drunk, all four assaulted the victim after a fight broke out between them. He was assaulted and stabbed with a glass bottle. He was also attacked on the head and chest with stones and wooden log, leading to his death. After the murder, three of them took a Kadamba bus on Sunday night and reached Margao station to catch a train to Assam. South Goa SP, Pankaj Kumar Singh, said they received information at 6pm on Sunday about a body having been found at the beach. Teams were immediately formed and investigations were launched. Police learnt that a group of friends visited the beach on Sunday and the search for these persons began. All accused had come down to Goa some days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/velsao-murder-cracked-4-from-assam-arrested/articleshow/80000412.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Congress tradition to unite cultures and hearts, says Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Congress on Monday morning observed the party’s 136th Foundation Day at the PCC office here. Former chief minister Kamal Nath hoisted the party flag. Addressing Congress leaders, workers and members of the frontal organisations, Nath said: “Not just for this country but for the entire world, today is a historical day because it is foundation day of a party that struggled for the nation’s independence for years. We must pay homage to all the heroes of the independence movement.” The senior Congress leader said that many political parties now give long speeches on nationalism. “I want to ask BJP leaders if there was even a single freedom fighter from their party? Congress has innumerable names of prominent freedom fighters. The Congress party’s tradition has always been to unite cultures, hearts and relations. India is a country where people of diverse religions and communities live. We are members of that Congress party, which kept everyone united under the same flag,” Nath said. Speaking to Seva Dal members, the veteran leader said that the frontal organisation was established in 1923. “After three years, we will celebrate 100 years of Seva Dal. Despite all the diversity, if this nation is still standing under one flag, it is because of the Congress party’s tradition and culture to unite. In the struggle and sacrifice for India’s independence, only the name of the Congress party surfaces,” he said. Nath alleged that efforts are being made to mislead the people and the greatest challenge is to save the country’s tradition and unity. He said that for the past one month, farmers are protesting for their rights and the government is trying to suppress their voice. “Farmers are protesting so that their agricultural fields, produce and they themselves are not made subservient to industrial houses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/congress-tradition-to-unite-cultures-and-hearts-nath/articleshow/79998985.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||BJP contemplates municipality polls on party lines||Panaji: With the municipal elections likely to be held in February, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has started consultations with its MLAs and cabinet ministers to decide whether to hold municipal elections along party lines. Most BJP MLAs who represent municipal areas have said that they are open to either of the options, if the party decides to contest the municipal elections on party lines or not. Urban development minister Milind Naik said that he has told the party that he has no problem if municipal elections are held on party lines. “I am comfortable with both options,” Naik told TOI. BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that BJP is yet to take a decision on the municipal elections. “If the zilla panchayat elections were fought on party lines then the upcoming municipal elections should also be fought along party lines,” Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate said recently. Monserrate had said that conducting civic polls on party lines as is done in larger cities will be beneficial in the long run. “I feel and I just discussed this with the chief minister, if you see other states even panchayat elections are fought on party lines,” Monserrate said, adding, “If we are fighting ZP elections on party lines, why not municipality? I am strongly of the opinion that all should decide that all polls should be fought on the party symbol.” With Covid-19 cases increasing in Goa, the state election commission (SEC) in August postponed polls for the 11 municipal bodies which were scheduled for October 18 by three months. A senior SEC official said, “As of now elections will be held in February and the dates would be finalised after consulting the state government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-contemplates-municipality-polls-on-party-lines/articleshow/80000439.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Banks to get UP 112 security cover soon||Lucknow: Technology will be used to make the banks’ security system more robust. To ensure foolproof security at bank currency chests and ATMs they will be linked with UP 112. For this, banks have been asked to provide a detailed description of the location of their branches and ATMs so that it can be linked to the database of 112 UP. “The facility of newly formed Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPSSF) will be made available to banks on the priority basis by the state government,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. A decision to this effect was taken at the meeting of a state-level security committee set up in the context of security of banks at Lok Bhawan on Monday. Instructions were given to conduct regular fire audits in all the banks. The security of the banks' currency chests will be audited by local police stations and branch managers of banks concerned, said state home officials. Stress was laid on the safe movement of cash, especially to other states and to prevent the circulation of counterfeit notes. Regional director of Reserve Bank of India RL Kanth Rao, home secretary Bhagwan Swarup and additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar also attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/banks-to-get-up-112-security-cover-soon/articleshow/80000972.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Agra||36 secondary schools ‘operating inviolation of norms in Agra division’||AGRA: At least 36 secondary schools in Agra division are "operating in violation of standard teaching-learning norms". Despite several notices, management of these UP board affiliated schools have not responded to the secondary education department. The Secondary Education Council has now ordered the initiating process for cancellation of affiliation to these institutes. These schools lack the required number of qualified teachers and basic teaching-learning infrastructure. According to the secondary education department records, out of the 38 schools of Agra region not fulfilling standard norms, 17 are of Agra district, 10 of Firozabad and nine of Mathura. Majority of these schools are self-financed private centres. Joint director [secondary education] Agra division, Mukesh Agarwal said, “A total of 36 schools of Agra division does not fulfil the standard norms mandated by the state government." "The management of these institutes didn’t respond to repeated notices issued to them. They have not shared details on teaching-learning parameters even after much delay,” Agarwal added. “We are going to issue a final notice to the management of these schools. If no response is received within 15 days, the affiliation of these schools will be cancelled for the session 2021-22," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/36-secondary-schools-operating-inviolation-of-norms-in-agra-division/articleshow/79996924.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||New Motor Vehicle Act in Goa likely from mid-January||PANAJI: Motorists in Goa will now have to think twice before violating any traffic rules as the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, 2019, which will attract larger sums of money as penalties, is likely to be implemented from the second week of January. The state cabinet is expected to take a decision on its implementation on Wednesday. “We will start implementing the new MV Act from second week of January. The proposal will be placed before the cabinet on Wednesday,” transport minister Mauvin Godinho told TOI. The transport department will subsequently hold an exhaustive press conference over the nitty-gritty of the act’s enforcement. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had earlier asked the department to place a proposal of implementation before the cabinet. The new law came into force from September 1, 2019, and all states were expected to implement it. But after some governments, including Gujarat and Uttarakhand, raised concerns about some of the hiked fines, they were permitted to lower penalties for certain traffic violations. Earlier this year, however, the Centre announced that no state could lower traffic penalties below the prescribed level as the act was a parliamentary legislation and state governments could not pass any law or take executive action unless the President’s assent was obtained to the related state law. The central legislation has since been enforced in other parts of the country, but the Goa government deferred it after members of the general public lashed out over the decrepit condition of roads across the state. At many places, roads that were dug up either for expansion of highways or for laying of cables or sewerage lines, were not restored to their original condition. A senior government official said the government will no longer be able to seek another extension to enforce the new MV Act as most of the roads in the state have now been repaired and also because other states have already begun implementing it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-motor-vehicle-act-likely-from-mid-january/articleshow/80000429.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Post infra upgrade, jump in admissions in public schools||Amaravati: Despite the massive disruption created by Covid-19 for the academic calendar, 2020 is going to be a memorable year for public schools in the state. Nearly 15,000 schools were renovated under the Nadu-Nedu programme by adding quality infrastructure. The admissions into government schools went up thanks to improvement in infrastructure. The government has provided colourful desks, green writing boards, lights, fans and drinking water in schools. “Getting textbooks on the opening day of the schools itself has been a dream for children in government schools for several decades. For the first time, we gave cloth for three pairs of uniform, text books, notebooks and shoes to children on the day of schools reopening due to the CM’s determination,” said Vadrevu China Veerabhadrudu, the school education commissioner. Recalling his experience as a student of a government residential school, Veerabhadruru said it was heartening to focus on the education sector. “I have not seen a CM being so particular about delivering goods to children studying in government schools in my three-decade-long career as a public servant,” said Veerabhadrudu. Experts are of the opinion that making government schools compete with private/corporate educational institution will create a level playing field for the poor. “Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has changed the curriculum of academic dynamics,” said education minister Adimulapu Suresh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/post-infra-upgrade-jump-in-admissions-in-public-schools/articleshow/79997725.cms||Samdani MN
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||Students worried as NU yet to declare regular exam schedule||NAGPUR: Nearly six months after the new academic session commenced, albeit online due to Covid-19 pandemic, the Nagpur University (NU) is yet to announce the schedule of its regular semester examinations. According to the students, who’re waiting for the schedule, their papers would have been over by this time in normal circumstances. If those are delayed further, their entire academic year would be stretched further till July-August next year. NU Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable said they were awaiting instructions from the Maharashtra government in this regard. “We’re waiting for directions regarding papers of second, third and subsequent semesters from the state higher and technical education department. The first year exams would be obviously delayed as their academic session commences from September-October due to delay in the admission process on account of pandemic-induced lockdown,” he told TOI. He said there should be a gap of 90 days between the start of academic session and exams as per the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) norms and, therefore, first year exams would be held late. The NU statutory members, however, flayed the administration for waiting for government’s instructions when there were no such conditions imposed by it on conduct of exams. “The university is an autonomous body and should take its own decisions rather than depending on the government. It has statutory bodies like BOEE, Management and Academic Councils to deal with such issues. Ultimately, the students are suffering due to the inordinate delay. After the final year exams, which the government had directed to conduct online, there is no such prohibition on holding regular exams,” Management Council member Vishnu Changde told TOI. A senate member added that NU should go ahead with regular exams as Covid-19 situation was under control. “They can even take online papers if offline mode isn’t possible, but at least conduct them. Else, even the next academic year would go haywire. At least, VC Subhash Chaudhari and pro-VC Sanjay Dudhe should consult education minister Uday Samant and others in the higher education department on this issue rather than blindly following the government’s diktats,” he said. A senior NU official from the exam department charged the government for keeping all Maharashtra universities waiting on whether to conduct the exams in traditional pen and paper way or in the online format on mobile phones like in final year. “Though NU messed up entire online exams with its faulty planning and haste in conducting them, it proved to be a big hit among the examinees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/students-worried-as-nu-yet-to-declare-regular-exam-schedule/articleshow/80000414.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 29, 2020||Goa||Is cannabis proposal part of Swayampurna Goa: GFP||Panaji: The very fact that the Pramod Sawant government has mooted a proposal to allow commercial cultivation of cannabis in the state clearly shows that the government has taken the recent zilla panchayat elections as an endorsement to implement all the anti-people policies in the state, said Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai. “Could Sawant’s Swayampurna Goa be Marijuana Goa?” Sardesai questioned, stating that Goa should instead look into cultivating good productive habits over vices. Sardesai asked whether the cannabis cultivation proposal is a part of the chief minister’s Swayampurna Goa plan. “What assurance would the government give that cultivation of marijuana is for medicinal purposes?” Sardesai said. “Is this needed for the future of our children?” the Goa Forward president asked, slamming the government for the proposal. “For how long should we keep a government like this in power, and at what cost? This is what I want Goans to think about in the future,” he said. Stating that “Sawant never has his priorities catered to the people of Goa”, Sardesai said that Goa has world-class institutions such as the Industrial Training Institute, Goa Pharmacy College, and Goa Institute of Management. “We should look to support them to make our state ‘Swayampurna’ for our future generations and not allow any Delhi intentions to make Goa a vices hub,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/is-cannabis-proposal-part-of-swayampurna-goa-gfp/articleshow/80000445.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Dharani portal still facing issues||HYDERABAD: Dharani portal, the comprehensive all-in-one platform for agricultural and non-agricultural land transactions, which was launched on November 2 is still facing several hiccups. Describing it as a good initiative, experts felt that a few more changes are required to make it more user-friendly. Though the non-agricultural land-related aspects are not operational now, the state government announced that these services would be launched soon. “The idea of having everything on one platform is quite beneficial, but to be successful, there are certain prerequisites like having a land title guarantee law. There is an urgent need to pass a land title Act as suggested by the NITI Aayog and resurvey of the land must be done before converting all transactions into Dharani,” said M Sunil Kumar, land laws expert and adjunct professor with the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (NALSAR). NITI Aayog recently asked all the state governments to formulate the land title guarantee legislations to bring all land-related transactions on one platform as part of a larger exercise of ease of doing business. The draft copies of these legislations have to be sent to NITI Aayog. So far, only Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra have such Acts. In the Dharani portal, data related to seven departments—revenue, forest, Waqf board, endowments, local bodies, survey and settlement —has been merged along with loan, subsidy and court decree details. Reacting to several complaints, the government assured farmers and other owners that corrections will be made in due course. “We are aware of concerns regarding Dharani. We will address all the issues. The idea behind launching this portal is to help the farmers from going through a tedious process of registrations, regulations, etc. Dharani will be a one-stop solution,” said agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dharani-portal-still-facing-issues/articleshow/80000428.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||A month on, UP Police lodged 16 FIRs, arrested 54 under anti-conversion law||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh police has lodged 16 FIRs, booked 86 people and arrested 54 of them ever since the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Law, 2020, was implemented a month ago. Police said they are yet to arrest 31 accused. Maximum 26 people were booked in Etah under the provisions of new law. A senior police official at the DGP headquarters said most of the FIRs were lodged on the complaints of family members of the women kidnapped for forced conversion. “Acting on CM Yogi Adityanath’s directives, clear instructions were issued to cops to act against forced religious conversions,” another police officer said. He added that in many cases people were unaware of the new law and cops counselled the parents of the girl and the boy willing for an inter-faith marriage to seek permission of the magistrate before conversion. In the last one month, two FIRs each were lodged in Bijnor and Shahjahanpur and one each in Firozabad, Etah, Bareilly, Moradabad, Kannauj, Hardoi, Sitapur, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Gautam Budh Nagar. On December 17, a local businessman in Etah district had lodged a case at Jalesar police station against Mohammed Javed for kidnapping and unlawfully converting a Hindu woman to Islam. Police arrested 14 members of Javed’s family while 12 others, including the main accused, are still on the run. In another case in Mau, an FIR was lodged on December 3 at Chiraiyakot police station against 16 people under the new law. Shabab Khan aka Rahul (38) and 13 of his acquaintances were booked for kidnapping. Police said that Khan, who is already married, and his associates, allegedly abducted a 27-year-old woman on the eve of her wedding on November 30 with the intent to convert her for marriage. Later, eight persons were arrested while eight others are at large. At least 12 people in Etah, eight in Mau, five in Shahjahanpur, four in Saharanpur and one each in Sitapur and Muzaffarnagar are still on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-month-on-up-police-lodged-16-firs-arrested-54-under-anti-conversion-law/articleshow/80000997.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
December 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Juvenile among four held for murder of history-sheeter Korada Sai Kumar||VISAKHAPATNAM: Arilova police arrested four persons, including a juvenile (prime accused) in connection with the murder of history-sheeter Korada Sai Kumar (33) alias Sai, who was murdered on Saturday night near TIC Point at Arilova in Vizag city. The arrested have been identified as a juvenile, Khadar Riaz (22), Nammi Srinivas (22) and Sheik Shameer (24), all residents of Arilova Colony in the city and all friends of the victim Sai. The police said the first three accused were assistants of Sai and would help him with his work. However, the three were upset after Sai reprimanded and beat them in front of others, in what they believed were a display of his influence. Suspecting that they may face troubles with Sai, the trio decided to eliminate Sai. On Saturday night when Sai was returning from his mother-in-law’s house on a bike, the trio, along with Sheik Shameer, intercepted the bike and then attacked him with iron rods and slit his throat near TIC Point. Based on a complaint from Sai’s wife, a case was registered and the four persons arrested. The police said Sai, too, was involved in three cases, including a murder, in Vizag city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/4-including-juvenile-held-for-murder/articleshow/79997735.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Cancel Malla Reddy college recognition’||Hyderabad: Members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Monday staged a dharna in front of the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) office demanding that the state cancel the recognition of Malla Reddy College of Engineering, Campus 1 and other campuses. They alleged that not just Campus 1, but all colleges under the Malla Reddy group lack proper infrastructure. They demanded that an enquiry be conducted into all 13 colleges of the group in the state. “When a college itself is submitting fake documents to get accreditation, what is it going to teach students? A college management is supposed to maintain high standards so that students get the best education. What will be the future of students studying in a college blacklisted by NAAC,” questioned P Srihari, general secretary, ABVP, adding that about 50 members participated in the protest on Monday. The ABVP said that the CM should intervene and ensure that students do not face any trouble. “Who will take responsibility if students won’t find placements or internships? The state should cancel the affiliation of the college,”said Praveen Reddy, a protester.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cancel-malla-reddy-college-recognition/articleshow/80000420.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong alleges irregularities in admissions||Hyderabad: AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan on Monday demanded a probe into the alleged irregularities taking place in the admission of students and implementation of rule of reservations in Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences. In a letter to CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, Sravan demanded cancellation of some students’ admissions in the university while responding to reports that gross injustice has been done to students from Telangana as their counterparts from AP were given seats in the university. He further demanded that the government remove the agency involved in the admission process and implement the original rules set for BC quota in allotment of medical seats.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-alleges-irregularities-in-admissions/articleshow/80000443.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||HC restores medical seat to student under convenor quota||Hyderabad: Making it clear that the lapses of the government officials cannot be thrust upon students, Telangana high court on Monday directed the Kaloji University of Health Sciences and Karimnagar-based Prathima Medical College to give admission into MBBS course to C Vikram, a meritorious student, who secured a seat under convenor quota in the medical counselling. A bench of Justice M S Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Amarnath Goud gave this direction after hearing an urgent plea moved by the student when the college was refusing to give him the seat on the ground that he did not produce his original study certificates. The bench said that the college has to give a seat under the convenor quota by Tuesday to the student. The bench directed the student to secure and produce the certificates and pay the required fee by Tuesday. They were held up in a government agricultural college which did not release his original certificates. Instead, it gave a certificate that Vikram’s original certificates are safe in its custody. The college did not accept this assurance certificate. On the other hand, it began saying that since the student did not bring the original certificates on time, the convenor seat was no more there and it was converted into a management quota seat. However, the bench disapproved of this argument.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-restores-medical-seat-to-student-under-convenor-quota/articleshow/80000447.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Nayeem case: More chargesheets being filed||Hyderabad: More than four years after the death of gangster Nayeemuddin in a police encounter, Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat on Monday said that in a few cases police had filed chargesheets and in the remaining cases chargesheets are being filed. Police also cited administrative reasons that are not in their purview for the delay. “We are monitoring these cases constantly,” he said. Following the death of Nayeemuddin, a large number of people came forward and lodged complaints of harassment against Nayeemuddin and his associates. Nayeem’s family members and his gang members who were involved in harassing people have been arrested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nayeem-case-more-chargesheets-being-filed/articleshow/80000433.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Pratyusha weds Charan, KCR extends greetings||Patigadda: The wedding ceremony of Pratyusha and Udumula Charan Reddy was held as per the Roman Catholic tradition at a church in Patigadda village of Keshampet mandal of Rangareddy district on Monday. Pratyusha, the adopted daughter of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, said, “I am so happy today. I am stepping into an important phase in my life. I thank chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and women and child welfare department minister and officials for all the help and support they have been extending to me. It is an arranged marriage,” Pratyusha told TOI. Contrary to expectations, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao did not attend the wedding ceremony but extended greetings. Shadnagar MLA Anjaiah Yadav, women and child development department commissioner D Divya and several residents of Patigadda attended the wedding. One of the cousins of Charan was Pratyusha’s colleague at a private hospital and through him, Charan’s parents came to know about Pratyusha. Charan’s parents said that they have only two sons and that they would look after Pratyusha as their own daughter. “In fact, it is like we are bringing home a daughter,” said U M Reddy, Pratyusha’s father-in-law. Nearly 20 different dishes, including mutton biryani, chicken and fish fry, paneer butter masala, vegetable pulao, kaddu ki kheer, qubani ka meetha and ice-cream, were spread out for lunch at the wedding. Patigadda is the native place of Charan’s grandmother. The couple may move to Charan’s house at Ramnagar in Secunderabad in a day or two. Pratyusha, who was allegedly subjected to torture by her stepmother, was rescued by a child rights organisation in 2015. The chief minister had adopted her after coming to know about her pathetic condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pratyusha-weds-charan-kcr-extends-greetings/articleshow/80000473.cms||Roushan Ali
December 29, 2020||Surat||UK consultant roped in for Tapi riverfront project||Surat: The UK-based consultancy firm Mott MacDonald has been roped in for the development of the ambitious riverfront along the Tapi River.Mott MacDonald will help the civic body get finance for the project and create a model for revenue generation besides lending its technical expertise.SMC has also appointed Ahmedabad based HCP (HCP Design, Planning and Management) which developed Sabarmati Riverfront project in Ahmedabad, for the technical assistance.“The Tapi riverfront development and rejuvenation project has been fast tracked with the appointment of two important agencies. Mott MacDonald is a global agency known for its high quality services and it would help us in providing financial, revenue generation consultancy services as well technical assistance as well,” Banchhanidhi Pani, Municipal Commissioner, Surat, told TOI.“The state government has already given approval for the setting up of a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for this project and we will soon float the same,” Pani added.The British High Commission will be funding professional services to be given by Mott MacDonad and SMC will not incur any expenses on this.SMC officials say that the Tapi is a perennial river which crosses the Surat city and it becomes very dynamic in nature at the end of its course when it meets with the Arabian Sea.“Keeping in view of the flood in Tapi, the barrage discharge capacity has been increased from 10. 52 lakh cusec to 13.79 lakh cusec water. The barrage will help store water and recharge the groundwater along the river,’‘ Pani added.Few months ago, SMC had a meeting with the World Bank officials for the Rs 1500 crore fund for the project.“The World Bank has shown interest in this project and we are hopeful for the fund from it. This finance part of the project will be looked after by Mott MacDonald,’‘ Pani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/uk-consultant-roped-in-for-tapi-riverfront-project/articleshow/79999086.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Wife of ‘paedophile’ engineer held for threats to victims’ parents||LUCKNOW: The Central Bureau of Investigation on Monday arrested the wife of junior engineer held for sexual exploitation of more than 50 children. Durgawati was arrested for allegedly threatening the parents of victims not to let their children depose before the CBI in the case against her husband Ram Bhawan. Bhawan, 40, was posted as junior engineer with the irrigation department in Banda. He was arrested by the CBI last month on the charges of sexually exploiting over 50 children and peddling videos and photographs on the dark web to paedophiles worldwide. CBI counsel in Banda, Manoj Dixit, told TOI that Durgawati was sent to 14-day judicial custody after the arrest. CBI found that Durgawati was hand in glove with her husband in the crime. “She played a vital role in luring the kids to bring them to Bhawan,” said a source in CBI. She will be charged with criminal conspiracy and abetment of the crime, the source added. Meanwhile, CBI plea for taking Bhawan to AIIMS for psychological tests and to Central Forensic Science Laboratory for voice sample examination is pending before a Banda court. Bhawan lived in a rented home where he would lure children by offering them video games. He would offer them sweets, toffees and even cash and exploit them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wife-of-paedophile-engr-held-for-threats-to-victims-parents/articleshow/80001002.cms||---
December 29, 2020||India||Farm reforms taken up after adequate preparation: PM||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the government had taken up farm reforms after adequate preparation while flagging off the 100th run of the Kisan Rail service from Sangola in Maharashtra to Shalimar in West Bengal. Modi said this service opens a huge avenue for lakhs of small farmers of West Bengal and the local small businessman. Citing how the government had made announcements for starting Kisan Rail and Krishi Udaan for faster movement of perishable farm produce in the last budget, Modi said, “We have gone ahead with agriculture reforms only after strong preparation (pukta tayyari)…To ensure more employment in rural areas and better lives of farmers there is a need to have new solutions and new facilities. With this aim we are taking up farm reforms, one after another.” He said experts in the field of agriculture and experiences from other countries and new technology are being incorporated into Indian agriculture. Speaking on the occasion, Union agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar also said while framing new farm laws or amending the existing ones, the government’s intention has been to pursue the aim of doubling farmers income, increase the share of agriculture in country’s GDP, bring private investment and remove legal restrictions on farmers. Modi also said the government is committed to protect the interest of small and marginal farmers as he highlighted how 80% of the beneficiaries of Kisan Rail are from these groups. He said since there is no requirement of minimum quantity to avail this facility, farmers can send small parcels of their produce by the Kisan Rail at subsidised fare. He said the smallest consignment by a Kisan Rail was only 3 kg pomegranate and another was 17 dozen eggs. “This simply proves how our policies and intentions are clean (niyat aur niti saaf hai) to safeguard the interest of small and marginal farmers,” he said. PM said the government was working towards providing the Kisan Rail service across the country to ensure this convenient and cheaper mode of transport provides connectivity to all markets. Highlighting the increasing demand of Kisan Rail, Modi claimed it shows how the government “is on the right track”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-reforms-taken-up-after-adequate-preparation-pm/articleshow/80001347.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||‘Religious, cultural events to boost tourism in Purvanchal’||Lucknow: To develop Purvanchal as a tourism hub, member of the tourism committee of Purvanchal Development Council, Prof Manoj Dixit, has proposed an action plan suggesting that Ayodhya and Gorakhpur should be incorporated in religious tourism circuit along with Varanasi and Kushinagar. Varanasi and Kushinagar, two districts of religious importance for Buddhists, attract about 65% of tourists visiting the state annually. In a presentation to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Prof Dixit, who is also the former vice-chancellor of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh University, Faizabad, said: “Purvanchal has cultural connections with Bihar but there is no event which connects the two. Events like Ayodhya’s Deepotsav and Varanasi’s Dev Deepawali are needed to boost tourism. A city like Kushinagar should have a direct rail link.” Other suggestions made in the presentation included road, rail, water and air connectivity between Awadh and Mithila. “Sawan Jhoola Mela of Ayodhya can be a big draw for tourists like Deepotsav and Dussehra celebrations. UP can run special tourist train, as are currently operated in Rajasthan,” he said. Prof Dixit also proposed a film city in Mirzapur and Sonbhadra. Other suggestions included organisation of fairs, rebranding of Magh Mela in Prayagraj as Annual Kumbh, along with a shorter fair in Ayodhya. He suggested that tourist places in Purvanchal, especially those associated with Lord Buddha, should be connected with Bihar. Small fairs and cultural events of Purvanchal should be organised on a large scale and tourists should be provided easy access to the region,” he added. “Purvanchal has immense cultural and natural wealth but it has not been developed economically nor for tourism. The construction of Purvanchal Expressway and development of tourism will address unemployment and other basic problems and develop the entire region,” a government spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/religious-cultural-events-to-boost-tourism-in-purvanchal/articleshow/80001010.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||20 dishes prepared for over 800 guests||Hyderabad: Nearly 20 different dishes including mutton biryani, chicken and fish fry, paneer butter masala, vegetable pulao, kaddu ki kheer, qubani ka meetha and ice-cream were spread out for lunch at Pratyusha’s wedding on Monday. Bawarchi (cook) Mohammed Iliyas and his 20-member team from Hyderabad was hired to cook the famous Hyderabadi delicacies. “Various dishes sufficient to serve over 800 people were cooked,” said Iliyas. Villagers of Patigadda said it was like a food festival for them as so many varieties of dishes are not a regular feature in marriages held in the village. Charan’s family had invited every member of the village for the wedding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-dishes-prepared-for-over-800-guests/articleshow/80000504.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Child welfare dept employees attend wedding||Hyderabad: Around 100 staff members of the women development and child welfare department including its commissioner D Divya attended the wedding ceremony. Divya was one of the main witnesses at the wedding ceremony. Nearly a dozen priests and fathers from various churches in Telangana and AP, some of whom are relatives of Charan Reddy, attended the ceremony and blessed the couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/child-welfare-dept-employees-attend-wedding/articleshow/80000481.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Chennai||Fraud check begins on docus of 500 properties in city’s south||Chennai: The registration department has begun a check of the documents of nearly 500 properties in south Chennai and suburbs, with a market value of at least Rs 500 crore, following complaints of forgery and fraud. Three district registrars from across the state have been deputed to verify the documents, registered between 2011 and 2018 mostly at the Neelankarai, Kundrathur, Pallavaram and Velachery sub-registrar offices. The 90-day exercise is aimed at authenticating the sale deeds and making the right entry in encumbrance certificates. Notices would be issued to buyers and sellers to prove their credentials. Official sources in the registration department said south Chennai was chosen as it had the highest number of appeals related to property registrations. Of the 1,000 appeals, nearly 500 related to fraudulent registrations. The district registrars will analyse these land documents and conduct an inquiry with the complainants and those staking claims based on documents they produced. “Appropriate changes in the encumbrance certificates will be made based on the inquiry. But, the complainants must approach the civil court to declare fraudulent documents null and void since the court alone has the authority in this regard,” a senior registration department official said. Meanwhile, registration department sources stressed the need to bifurcate the South Chennai district since most of the high value property registrations are recorded in areas falling under its jurisdiction. “It will help us in better monitoring,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fraud-check-begins-on-docus-of-500-properties-in-citys-south/articleshow/79999137.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 5 die, 7 hurt as SUV overturns on NH-27||KOTA: At least five persons were killed and seven others sustained injuries after a SUV they were travelling in overturned after its tyres burst and fell into an agriculture field along NH-27 near Kardiya village under Simliya police station area of Kota district on Monday evening. All of them, aged around 25 to 30 years old, were on their way home to Kaithun town from Baran when one of the tyres of the SUV burst and it plunged into a field after rolling over multiple times killing four persons on the spot and leaving eight injured, Simliya SHO Rampal Sharma said. One of the victims died on the way to hospital, he added. The seven injured, three in critical condition, are undergoing treatment at MBS Hospital, he said. The family members have reached the hospital and details on the deceased and injured persons are being collected, besides enquiring about the mishap from the injured who sustained minor injuries and are in a state to speak, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-die-7-hurt-as-suv-overturns-on-nh-27/articleshow/79999097.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Surat||Lust leads rich men to extortion traps||SURAT: Two intrepid Surtis — a 35-year-old diamond broker and a 42-year-old mechanical engineer — are suffering from the same affliction. Both have lost sleep from fear of ignominy from their voyeuristic adventurism. And there may be many more of them, who ventured far in the dark world seeking pleasure and got entrapped in the digital honey trap. The racket operated by a woman who never meets a man in real but manages to wrangle sufficient information over mobile phone that proves enough to blackmail the client. While the blackmailer demands money daily threatening to share obscene photos on social media, these victims are worried over filing a police complaint fearing social stigma. The digital version of the old modus operandi is more dangerous, said cops. Unlike earlier honey traps with a woman in a gang of thugs, these advanced groups now function digitally with human interaction and also extort money through mobile wallet and online transfer. However, not all fall prey to the e-charms. This 55-year-old technician in a shipping company prevented a similar trap by avoiding repeated calls by a woman. “Initially I was excited that a young woman wanted to become my friend after checking my Facebook profile. But she seemed to be in too much of a hurry to share her obscene photos which made me suspicious,” said the technician, who put down her request to undress. “After chatting over Facebook for a few days the woman asked for my contact number. She later made WhatsApp calls and calls over Facebook and also started sharing obscene photos and videos. After winning my confidence she made me undress and recorded the video call,” said the diamond broker. Within minutes, he started receiving threat calls and a man identifying himself as the husband of the woman started demanding money. The man also sent him grabs of the video as proof and threatened to lodge a police complaint if his demands were not met. The man extorted Rs 25,000 in first two attempts and later raised the amount to Rs 50,000. “Several such cases have taken place, but victims have not come forward to complain. In such cases, the women involved are criminals who don’t fear social stigma,” said R R Sarvaiya, assistant commissioner of police, crime branch. “These crooks operate in gangs and mostly target people with high social status. Victims do not go to the police which spur the crooks to take advantage of posing as cops too,” said Chintan Pathak, a techno-legal adviser. “Police will ensure privacy of such victims and will help them and bust such rackets,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lust-leads-rich-men-to-extortion-traps/articleshow/79999150.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
December 29, 2020||Bareilly||Man recovers charred remains of ‘thief’ from his burnt shop, dumps it believing to be of animal||Bareilly: On Saturday midnight, Mohammed Nayeem had rushed fanatically to his store after he was informed by the police that his mobile phone shop in Roza town of Shahjahanpur had burnt to a crisp. After reaching there, he found ashes of all the items and a charred body. Believing it to be of an animal, Nayeem dumped the body to a nearby place. But during a preliminary probe, the police had found that the charred remains belonged to a man, which was later confirmed by a veterinarian. According to police, the remains are of a thief who was attempting to enter through the roof of the shop which was made of tin sheets. Police suspect that the tin sheet may have touched a power line and the man got electrocuted. Dr Ajay Nagar, a member of the autopsy team, told TOI, “The body was severely burnt, and it was difficult to identify the age of the man. All we can say is that he died of burning as we have recovered soot particles from his trachea which can only reach when the person is alive. He died of burning on Saturday night.” Speaking to TOI, SHO of Roza Police station, Rajendar Bahadur, said, “The body was dumped by the shop owner. He thought that the charred remains were of an animal. But later we suspected that it may be of a human being, hence we went there to recover the body. Prima facie, it appears that he was a thief. So far, no one has contacted us to enquire about any missing person. A locket was recovered from the body. We are also verifying the role of the shop owner and he is also being questioned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-recovers-charred-remains-of-thief-from-his-burnt-shop-dumps-it-believing-to-be-of-animal/articleshow/79844884.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Snowfall disrupts traffic movement in Uttarkashi||UTTARKASHI: The Uttarkashi district received a fresh spell of rain and snowfall on Monday. Layers of snow that accumulated on the roads disrupted vehicular movements in the higher regions of the district, including the Gangotri and the Yamunotri valley. Traffic remained blocked for several hours at the Yamunotri highway as a thick blanket of snow covered the Radi Top region. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “Traffic on the Yamunotri highway was restored soon after the weather got cleared. All other roads are also clear for traffic movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/snowfall-disrupts-traffic-movement-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/79996944.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||‘Make lungs the heart of your health’||Nagpur: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is not one single disease but an umbrella term used to describe chronic lung diseases that cause limitations in lung airflow. The most common symptoms of COPD are breathlessness, or a ‘need for air’, and a chronic cough. However, COPD is not just simply a “smoker’s cough”, but an under-diagnosed, life threatening lung disease that may progressively lead to death. India ranks second in the world, only after China, in terms of number of cases of COPD but when it comes to deaths due to COPD, India has surpassed China and ranks first, according to the 2016 Global Burden of Diseases study. The physical struggle, the breathlessness, fight to move around and to do simple daily tasks can lead to an emotional stirring of self respect, dignity and fear of losing control of once’s life. This is the life of a COPD patient where a daily chore becomes an everyday challenge. The struggle is not only to breathe but it is also to find a way to live a dignified life with COPD. A COPD flare-up happens when COPD symptoms get worse, or when new symptoms develop. Flare-ups are also called exacerbations or “lung attacks”. Left untreated, COPD flare-ups can have deadly consequences. “There are more than 55 million patients in India, making us the COPD capital of the world,” highlights Dr Ashok Arbat, MBBS MD (Pulmonary Medicine). “Long term subjection to risk factors like smoking, exposure to industrial smoke, long term use of fire stoves leads to this progressive condition called COPD, now popularly understood as lung attack,” he pointed out. What worries Dr Akash Balki, MBBS, DTCD, DNB FCCP (USA), is that despite being one of the major killer diseases in India, very little is known in general public about COPD. “By the time I see a patient post lung attack, the lungs are usually substantially damaged. Early diagnosis not only leads to better management of the condition but also improves the quality of life of the patients and the care givers.” He adds, “Lung check-up, like BP and sugar check, should be in the mind space of general public in our country. Developing counties like ours have higher pollution levels and higher chances of exposures to risk factors, which in the long run can lead to lung attack.” COPD compromises lung capacity as well as lung function and it is diagnosed by doing lung function tests. Spirometry is the most common lung function test. It measures how much and how quickly you can move air out of your lungs with the help of a machine called a Spirometer. Many doctors believe, Spirometry is the gold standard for diagnosis of COPD, but is not routinely done and diagnosis is largely based on the doctor’s clinical acumen. But all hopes don’t hinge entirely on early diagnosis. The frequency of lung attack can be reduced with the regular use of inhalers. “Inhalers and it’s delivery system have evolved over years, keeping in mind the number of COPD patients increasing every day. An inhaler with a spacer or a newly introduced Breath actuated inhaler can easily deliver the required drug, in required dosage, directly to the lungs, dilating the airways and reducing the inflammation,” said Dr Ashok Arbat. He also adds, “Yes, in case of severe attack, one has to be hospitalized. But with current development there is a lot that can be done to slow down the progression of this irreversible condition.” Early diagnosis, correct treatment, adherence to treatment and regular assessment of the condition are the non-negotiable steps in keeping the lung attack in check.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/make-lungs-the-heart-of-your-health/articleshow/80010613.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar: Dacoit Keshav Gujjar, accomplices injured in police encounter||ALWAR: Three wanted dacoits were injured in an encounter with the Dholpur police during early hours on Monday. The injured included Keshav Gujjar who is in the list of wanted fugitives in three states including Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. According to the police, following an input stating that Keshav Gujjar along with his men was coming to an under-construction power house 132 KV grid service station (GSS) to extort the contractor, a team was sent to the spot. “At least 60 rounds of fire were exchanged. However, the three dacoits managed to flee from the scene. Thereafter we followed the route and found blood marks. Also, following interception of phone calls we have found that Keshav Gujjar was calling his aides to send a doctor at some location at the ravines,” said Kesar Singh, superintendent of police, Dholpur told TOI. In the morning, police visited the region and traced the way from where the bandits had fled. “There were blood marks up to a distance of almost 3 kms. They have hidden themselves in the ravines,” Singh added. Police have also detained a quack who had gone to treat the injured bandits and have recovered Rs 46,000 from their possession. Senior police officers stated that they had gone at 2am following specific inputs under the shivering cold conditions. “While they were running away amidst firing, they took the public roads where vehicles were coming, thus we had to stop firing to ensure no causality takes place,” Singh added. Late on Monday evening following intense combing operation the dacoit identified as Devendra Gujjar was arrested. “He told us that Keshav Gujjar has been injured on his thigh,” said Kesar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dacoit-keshav-gujjar-accomplices-injured-in-police-encounter/articleshow/79999151.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Severe cold conditions to prevail in Uttarakhand in next 48 hrs following snow, rain activity||DEHRADUN: Several high altitude places in Uttarakhand, especially in the Garhwal region, received snowfall on Monday, while the foothills, including state capital Dehradun, were lashed by intermittent showers. Places like Chakrata, Dhanaulti, Auli, Uttarkashi, Badrinath and other places at altitudes of 2.500 metres and above received snowfall, causing dip in the temperatures, according to the Met office. The regional meteorological centre also issued an orange alert of cold wave-to-severe cold wave conditions at a few places in Uttarakhand during the next 48 hours. Besides, moderate to dense fog is likely to occur in some parts of the plains, especially in Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts of the state. In Dehradun, the maximum temperature was recorded at 18.8 degree Celsius, one notch below normal, while the minimum temperature settled at 9.6 degree Celsius. The maximum temperature in Mukteshwar was recorded at 9.6 degree Celsius, three notches below normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/severe-cold-conditions-to-prevail-in-uttarakhand-in-next-48-hrs-following-snow-rain-activity/articleshow/79996971.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Drive against child beggars, Romeos in UP||Lucknow: As part of the ongoing Mission Shakti campaign, the Auraiya administration carried out a drive against child beggars on Monday. Teams visited the Kotwali Dibiyapur police station area where they identified child beggars. A senior official said that the teams targeted religious spots, tempo stands and railway stations. “During the drive, a child beggar was spotted and after finding out his identity, he was handed over to his parents. His parents were also asked to sign an affidavit with an undertaking that the child will not be forced into begging again,” the official said. Anti-Romeo squads were also active on Monday and reportedly warned “suspects” against indulging in any kind of anti-social activities. In Sant Kabir Nagar, teams formed by women welfare and child development and nutrition departments sensitised women and girls about helpline numbers available for them. In Lucknow, the Panchayati Raj department over the maintenance of a public toilet in Habuapur gram panchayat in Gosainganj block to a women self-help group. On Monday, the department also organised a street play on the theme of female foeticide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/drive-against-child-beggars-romeos-in-up/articleshow/80001014.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: In Covid year, screen is where school is for nursery kids||KOLKATA: This unprecedented year has impacted the education system, toddlers being one of the most affected age-group. The practice of limited or no screen time for children in their foundation years have been replaced with just the opposite: pre-schoolers were put in front of laptops, computers or smartphone and taught how to interact with teachers in their online classes. Some schools have even been teaching digital painting. Some children don’t even know how a school looks like. “During the recent video call interaction sessions with parents for nursery admissions, we had been asking the parents about their experience with online schooling. A majority of them said their child did not even know what physical schools were and for them, classes meant those held on computers or cellphones. It’s scary children so small are made to attend online classes. But I believe children adapt very quickly and when they would come to physical schools, they would adapt to it as well,” said Devi Kar, director, Modern High School for Girls. While online education might not be the best for kids up to five years, it was the only option right now, said educationists, most of whom believed physical classes for toddlers would not begin anytime soon even next year. But they stressed on the need for changing the form of interactions by teachers to make the sessions more engaging. “Some teachers keep on muting and un-muting children during a class to avoid chaos. But that is not how a normal classroom environment is like. So teachers should let it be,” said a senior teacher at a school. While some parents are happy with online classes as they can keep tabs on what is being taught and can help the kids understand the lessons, many others, mostly working parents, have been finding it difficult juggle with the online lessons, household chores and office work. “Some parents help their kids finish their assignments as soon as they got them but my child occasionally lagged behind. I don’t mind if my child progresses a bit slowly. It makes it difficult for even teachers who are pushed to move on to the next exercise,” said Puja Sengupta, a graphic artist attached with an MNC and mother of a three-year-old child. Some parents de-rostered their kids when online classes began. “My child is only two-and-a-half years old. I sent her to a playschool to play and get habituated to the idea of a school, to learn open her lunch box, eat on her own, drink from bottle and practise using the toilet. But with online classes, the good part is gone and I found the competitive learning stressful. She is too small for it and I opted out,” said Nilofar Yasmin, a resident of Behala. Most experts TOI spoke to said even a year’s loss in school at such a young age was no big deal but no interaction with teachers and classmates for a long time might impact their overall learning. Psychologists pointed out parents played a larger role in the upbringing of children and needed to maintain a fine balance between their assistance and interference. “ Indian parents end up helping their kids a lot, sometimes more than they need. This leads the child to get over dependent on their parents,” said clinical psychologists and child counsellor Devika Dey Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-cov-yr-screen-is-where-school-is-for-nursery-kids/articleshow/79999164.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun RWAs volunteer to track down UK returnees||DEHRADUN: Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) of Dehradun have urged the district administration to rope them in tracking down people who have recently returned from the UK. Representatives of various RWAs have volunteered to look out for UK returnees in their societies and keep them away from the rest of residents until they test negative for Covid-19. Talking to TOI, Mahesh Bhandari, president, Doon Residents’ Welfare Front, said, “So far, six patients have been infected with the new strain of coronavirus in Dehradun. We have seen the extent of damage that this virus has caused in the last 10 months. Hence it’s the collective responsibility of the residents and the district administration to monitor the situation and take every possible measure to keep people safe.” Major general Chander Nandwani, a resident of Dalanwala area, said, “I tested positive for the virus sometime back and had to be admitted to an ICU. I feel families with one or more members who have recovered from the virus should share their experience through mohalla meetings and other awareness exercises.” Dr Kranti Nanda, a doctor practising in Dehradun, said that the new strain of the virus could be more harmful as studies to understand its behaviour are still underway. “Prevention through social distancing and washing hands will remain the fundamental defence against this disease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-rwas-volunteer-to-track-down-uk-returnees/articleshow/79997005.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Leather park to get Rs 5.8k cr investment||Lucknow: The greenfield leather park in Kanpur’s Ramaipur, which got clearance from the Centre on December 16, will receive investments of about Rs 5,850 crore and generate employment for almost 2 lakh people, according to MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh. The minister said the cluster would lead to a turnover of about Rs 13,000 crore every year. “The state government will contribute Rs 236 crore for the establishment of leather park on an area of 250 acres while the Centre will give Rs 125 crore for infrastructure development. Once the park is ready, it will provide international level facilities to domestic leather sector to promote export, investments and better quality production,” Singh said. Construction of roads, water supply, sewers, drains, horticulture, boundary wall, street lights, internal water supply, storm water drains, IT and telecommunication, administrative buildings, design labs, testing labs, value additional centres and hostels will be carried out as part of the project. In addition to this, an effluent treatment plant having a capacity of 20 million litres per day will also be constructed to check pollution in the Ganga. “There are 2,125 units related to leather work which employ about 1.2 lakh people. These units produce 75,000 pairs of footwear each day with an annual turnover of Rs 10,000 crore. Exports from the sector are to the tune of Rs 6,500 crore,” Singh said. While Kanpur is known for leather work, the industry has been suffering due to lack of infrastructural development, pollution. In 2018, several tanneries were closed down ahead of Prayagraj Kumbh, as they were allegedly polluting the Ganga. Shut for around five months, the industry suffered massive losses and has been demanding better facilities like modern sewage and effluent treatment plants. The project, along with another leather park in Hardoi’s Sandila, was first proposed by the Samajwadi Party government in 2012. The project was supposed to be completed in four years but failed to take off. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is expected to lay its foundation in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/leather-park-to-get-rs-5-8k-cr-investment/articleshow/80001031.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||Abdul, Chetna hog limelight as VNIT awards 1,134 degrees||Nagpur: BTech students Abdul Sattar Mohammad Ashraf Mapara and Chetna Srivastava stole the show as Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) awarded 1,134 degrees in its fanfare-less 18th convocation held in virtual mode on Monday. The prestigious Sir Visvesvaraya Medal was given to Abdul Sattar while Chetna bagged highest 10 prizes and medals. The institute bestowed 61 PhDs, 268 Master of Technology, 94 Master of Science, 648 Bachelor of Technology in various engineering disciplines and 63 Bachelor of Architecture degrees. This year VNIT felicitated students and research scholars with 45 medals, prizes and awards for their academic excellence. Union minister for education Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ was the chief guest while Union minister of state for education Sanjay Dhotre, JD Patil, whole-time director of L&T Limited, were the guests of honour. Abdul Sattar got the Visvesvaraya Medal for getting highest CGPA amongst all disciplines of BTech programmes. He also received five other prizes and medals. Chetna, a BTech civil engineering student, secured the highest (10) prizes and medals including the Institute Medal and newly constituted medal in memory of Vishram Jamdar, for 2nd highest CGPA amongst all disciplines of BTech programmes. The second Vishram Jamdar medal for 2nd highest CGPA in BTech was bagged by Sagar Kulkarni. Pokhriyal, Dhotre and Patil addressed the convocation through video messages. Pokhriyal spoke about the 3Ds — democracy, demographics and demand — and appealed to the students to use these 3Ds and help the country become ‘atmanirbhar’ and attain the goal of 5 trillion dollar economy. Dhotre asked the students to apply the concepts and ideas learnt during their studies while keep their values intact in the highly competitive world. Appealing the students to ponder over what they owe to the institute for making them what they are today, Patil said, “Your pay back time starts now. Know your responsibilities and do what is right for the society and country.” VNIT director Prof Pramod Padole presented the institute report where he mentioned about the MoU signed between VNIT and French Aircraft manufacturer Dassault Aviation, Siemens and AIIMS Nagpur. Registrar Dr SR Sathey proposed a vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/abdul-chetna-hog-limelight-as-vnit-awards-1134-degrees/articleshow/80000567.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Active Covid-19 cases under 15,000, 75% below September peak||LUCKNOW: In a first, the number of active infections in Uttar Pradesh went below 15,000 mark on Monday. According to the official bulletin on Covid-19 status in the state, the total number of active infections in state reached 14,710 which is nearly 75% less than the peak figure of 68,500 reported in the mid of September. “Overall, Covid-19 situation appears to be under control. In fact after several months the number of cases reported in 24 hours has been less than 1,000. Also, the number of recoveries was significantly higher than the new cases,” said principal secretary, health and family welfare Alok Kumar adding, “The number of active infections went below 15,000, while the load on hospitals has also reduced.” Kumar also said that the ratio of RT PCR tests vis-à-vis antigen has gone in favour of the RT PCR tests. “For the past few days now, over 50% tests were undertaken through the RT PCR method which is the gold standard in Covid-19 testing. That’s because of the improved lab infrastructure in the state,” he said. Kumar reiterated that though the number of cases had declined, the risk of infection was the same. “Though the work to roll out the Covid-19 vaccine and situation against our listed indicators is under control, following prevention protocol is a must to keep any kind of trouble away,” he said. Meanwhile, the state's Covid-19 tally increased to 5,82,920 of whom 5,59,888 have recovered and 8,322 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/active-covid-cases-under-15k-75-below-sept-peak/articleshow/80001034.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 29, 2020||Chennai||13 UK returnee samples sent to Pune for genomic analysis||Chennai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday said the government had sent samples of 13 people who returned from the UK between November 25 and December 21, and tested positive for Covid-19 for genomic analysis. “The blood samples collected from the people who returned from the UK and tested positive for the virus have been sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genomic analysis. Based on the outcome of the report, the government will take appropriate measures,” the CM said while holding a review meeting with district collectors over Covid-19 through video conferencing. The focus was more on the new Covid-19 strain in Britain and people returning from Britain to Tamil Nadu. Most of them had returned to the northern districts. The CM also discussed preparedness for the second wave. Palaniswami insisted that private and government hospitals follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) for Covid-19 and said effective preventive measures adopted by the government have been gradually bringing down coronavirus cases in the state. He emphasized on the importance of wearing masks and following social distancing to prevent the spread of the virus. On Nivar and Buveri cyclones, the CM said the agriculture department carried out a field inspection in Nagapattinam and Cuddalore districts that were worst affected in the recent rains and assessed the crop damage. Agriculture secretary has informed the government that a report will be submitted within four days regarding the extent of damage to crops and names of affected farmers along with their bank account details, said the CM in the statement. The government would soon release aid to the affected farmers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/13-uk-returnee-samples-sent-to-pune-for-genomic-analysis/articleshow/79999163.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine dry run done in 2 dists||Chandigarh: The Punjab government on Monday successfully completed the dry run of Covid-19 vaccine in 12 sites of Ludhiana and Nawanshahr districts. Health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said 25 beneficiaries have been identified from among health workers and their required data uploaded on a portal created for dry run by the central government. He said that session sites uploaded on the portal were linked with cold chain points for delivery of vaccine (dummy). Sharing details about teams deputed for the vaccination programme, the minister said the vaccinator and four additional team members were identified and teams allocated vaccination sites as per micro-plan finalised. He said supervisors were also appointed to ensure compliance with standard operating procedure (SOP). During the dry run, identified beneficiaries were allocated vaccination sites and informed about the date, time and place of vaccination through SMS. Sidhu said on December 29, lists of beneficiaries will be printed and provided to vaccination teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-vaccine-dry-run-done-in-2-dists/articleshow/79999153.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Renowned designers to give Tehri Lake a makeover to make it world class destination: Maharaj||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB) has decided to take help of renowned designers in order to promote Tehri Lake as a tourist destination. The decision in this regard was taken at the 20th board meeting of UTBD held here on Monday. During the meeting, the proposal of setting up of foot massage centres near the trekking destinations was also mooted by the tourism minister Satpal Maharaj. He also instructed the officials to make a book of various religious circuits in the Himalayan state, including Bhagwati Circuit, Shaiva Circuit, Nagaraja Circuit, Mahasu Circuit, among others. “A proposal will be made to construct a ropeway at Deva's Danda, Neelkanth, and Bharvagadhi. We will also take consultation and help from world’s renowned designers to give an international texture to Tehri Lake to promote tourism at the place,” said Maharaj. Dilip Jawalkar, secretary tourism, said that the International Convention Centre and Wellness City are being prepared by the Tourism Department and that the survey of this land has been done in the past. The board also approved the development of Dehradun-Mussoorie ropeway project under PPP mode. It was also decided that a parking lot would be made near Anand Van Samadhi. “We are also planning to fill all the vacant posts in the department at the earliest,” said Jawalkar. During the board meeting, officials took cognisance of the transfer of land in the name of the department by acquiring land for tourist accommodation houses and other tourism development schemes in the state. The board members instructed to release the remnant of the sanctioned amount for the tourist accommodation house to the executive body as soon as possible. The foundation stone for the construction of a tourist accommodation in Satpuli (Pauri Garhwal) was also discussed along with delayed construction of tourist accommodation houses at Pokhara and Birkhal in Pauri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/renowned-designers-to-give-tehri-lake-a-makeover-to-make-it-world-class-destination-maharaj/articleshow/79997061.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||BJP OBC Morcha slams Cong govt||Udaipur: Terming the Gehlot government a complete failure, the OBC Morcha Wing of the BJP said people were suffering because of the pandemic but the state government was insensitive and busy celebrating two years of its governance. Party workers and supporters who took out a rally in protest against the government raised slogans outside the collectorate on Monday. BJP Udaipur president Ravindra Shrimali, rural MLA Phool SIngh Meena, senior leaders Yudhishthir Kumavat, Jagdish Sharma and Manohar Chowdhary led the procession. “When people of Rajasthan were battling for their lives because of Covid and suffering because of lockdown, the Congress legislators were having a merry time in luxury hotels as the government badly failed in all public fronts be it farmer loan waiver or incentives to jobless youths,” Shrimali said. The protestors said the main objective of the Gehlot governemt was to add fuel to the fire and the ongoing farmers’ stir was the latest example.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-obc-morcha-slams-cong-govt/articleshow/79999174.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Udaipur||Man killed in Udaipur for shielding women from lewd remarks||UDAIPUR: Udaipur police on Monday arrested three criminals a day after they had killed an autorickshaw driver under Surajpole police station area. The accused are drunkards who used to regularly abuse people, especially women. The victim had told them to mend their ways, which was the reason for murder, police said. The incident had triggered public fury as a large number of people gathered outside the hospital where he was declared dead and at the police station demanding speedy action. The incident took place on Sunday night at Kachhi Basti, opposite the railway station, where Vinod (43) was stabbed by three men who came in an autorickshaw and started an argument with him. One of them took out a knife and stabbed Vinod on his neck. Before anyone could catch them, they fled from the spot. Vinod was rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead. The Basti residents and the victim’s family protested at the hospital and demanded that police take speedy action to nab the criminals. Surajpole police team swung into action and raided several places overnight. On Monday all the three accused were caught. “The accused have been identified as Raja Oad, and two youths both known as Fardeen. The investigation officer completed the medical formalities and the cremation was held under police supervision. The accused are being interrogated for details,” ASP Gopal Swaroop Mewara said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/man-killed-for-shielding-women-from-lewd-remarks/articleshow/79999165.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Faridabad||5 out of 667 UK returnees found positive in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Five UK returnees have been found Covid positive as Haryana has tested 667 returnees over the past three days. The positive cases are from Panchkula, Karnal, Kaithal, Faridabad and Ambala districts. IDSP Director Dr Usha Gupta said samples of the five positive returnees have been sent for further testing for new virus strain to an ICMR-approved laboratory in New Delhi. The patients have been isolated and are under medical supervision of experts. Meanwhile, 15 out 22 districts of the state reported less than 15 new cases each on Monday as 351 new cases and eight deaths were reported from across the state. As many as 571 persons also recovered from the infection. Notably, samples of 18,733 persons were sent for testing on Monday. Haryana has reported 2,61,258 cases so far, out of which 2,882 patients have died and 2,54336 have recovered. There are total 4040 active cases, including 147 critical patients who are on oxygen or ventilator support. The Covid positive rate has further come down to 5.86% and fatality rate has remained stable at 1.10 %. Meanwhile the doubling rate in the state has touched 87 days. Two deaths each were reported from Faridabad and Panchkula; and one each from Karnal, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar and Palwal districts. For the third consecutive day, Gurugram topped the table, but new cases remained below 100. A total of 81 new cases were reported, taking the overall tally to 56,554 cases, 342 deaths and 1,010 active cases. Faridabad reported 49 new cases, followed by Yamunnangar (29), Ambala (28), Panipat (22) and Kurukshetra (17). While the rest 15 districts reported less than 15 new cases with Charkhi Dadri reporting just one case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/5-out-of-667-uk-returnees-found-positive-in-hry/articleshow/80005225.cms||Manvir Saini
December 29, 2020||Chandigarh||5 out of 667 UK returnees found positive in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Five UK returnees have been found Covid positive as Haryana has tested 667 returnees over the past three days. The positive cases are from Panchkula, Karnal, Kaithal, Faridabad and Ambala districts. IDSP Director Dr Usha Gupta said samples of the five positive returnees have been sent for further testing for new virus strain to an ICMR-approved laboratory in New Delhi. The patients have been isolated and are under medical supervision of experts. Meanwhile, 15 out 22 districts of the state reported less than 15 new cases each on Monday as 351 new cases and eight deaths were reported from across the state. As many as 571 persons also recovered from the infection. Notably, samples of 18,733 persons were sent for testing on Monday. Haryana has reported 2,61,258 cases so far, out of which 2,882 patients have died and 2,54336 have recovered. There are total 4040 active cases, including 147 critical patients who are on oxygen or ventilator support. The Covid positive rate has further come down to 5.86% and fatality rate has remained stable at 1.10 %. Meanwhile the doubling rate in the state has touched 87 days. Two deaths each were reported from Faridabad and Panchkula; and one each from Karnal, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar and Palwal districts. For the third consecutive day, Gurugram topped the table, but new cases remained below 100. A total of 81 new cases were reported, taking the overall tally to 56,554 cases, 342 deaths and 1,010 active cases. Faridabad reported 49 new cases, followed by Yamunnangar (29), Ambala (28), Panipat (22) and Kurukshetra (17). While the rest 15 districts reported less than 15 new cases with Charkhi Dadri reporting just one case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-out-of-667-uk-returnees-found-positive-in-hry/articleshow/79999161.cms||Manvir Saini
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||‘Youth must effectively optimize country’s biological wealth’||Nagpur: In coming years, the youth has tremendous opportunity in the fields of chemistry and biology if they effectively optimize the biggest strength of this nation that is biological wealth, said former vice-chancellor of Nagpur University Vilas Sapkal on Monday. He was speaking on ‘Chemical industries and biological wealth’ on the grand finale of ‘A movement for Dr APJ Abdul Kalam’s Vision: India 2020 (a vision for a new millennium)’. Organized by Centre for Creativity and Innovations (CCI), an initiative by Vidarbha Youth Organization, the event has been conceptualized by founder Prashant Kadu. Held across three days, the seminar aims to gather experts’ views on the book written by APJ Abdul Kalam that envisaged an economically developed India by 2020. Kadu said, “It was planned that the event would be held in the last week of December so as to end the year on a thoughtful note. The sessions are enriching for the participants as they attempt to understand Kalam’s vision, map what has been achieved by the country yet and urge them to join in the movement with a developmental thought process to progress beyond the current status.” In his address, Sapkal said, “Chemicals have become an integral part of our lives and for national development due to extensive use of fertilizers and pesticides, drugs and pharmaceuticals, petrol, diesel etc. But the chemical industry poses certain challenges like & water air pollution, soil degradation, carcinogenic chemicals and chemical weapons among others.” He said, “In the 20th century, chemical industry witnessed mass production, newer inventions, more complex technologies, processes and production methods to derive the advantages of economies of scale, products at affordable prices and job creation.” Speaking about the current scenario, he said, “Demands are now for cleaner processes with total recycling and recovery for high-energy efficiency, tailor-made production and a shift from batch to continuous processes with increased automation.” Other speakers at the session were Atul Thakare who spoke about Industry 4.0, Dileep Malkhede who talked about government initiatives and schemes to facilitate employment and eradicate poverty, and Anil Sahasrabuddhe, who gave a speech on ‘Role of education in making India a developed country.’ Sayali Karale conducted the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/youth-must-effectively-optimize-countrys-biological-wealth/articleshow/80000588.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Police personnel in 9 hill districts to start getting weekly off from Jan 1||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar on Monday announced that police personnel posted in the nine hill districts of the state will start getting weekly offs from January 1. Incidentally, within days of taking charge as the DGP, Ashok Kumar has announced to provide weekly off to police personnel, who, according to the top cop, work under tremendous stress. Police personnel, including constables and head constables, posted in police station, police posts and police lines in Pauri Garhwal, Tehri, Chamoli, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Almora, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, and Champawat will be able to start availing the weekly off, said Ashok Kumar. According to Kumar, the weekly off will also be introduced in the remaining four districts — Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar, and Nainital — some time later. Moreover, the police personnel will not be permitted to leave the station headquarters on their weekly off and be deemed to be on reserve duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-personnel-in-9-hill-districts-to-start-getting-weekly-off-from-jan-1/articleshow/79997055.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 2020 to exit on an icy note; thunderstorm to ring in New Year||LUCKNOW: The new year celebrations may remain subdued due to Covid-19 pandemic, but weather is expected to bring some fireworks in the form of thunderstorm in January first week. State Met director JP Gupta has predicted that the temperatures will decline by 3-4 degrees till December 31 and rise thereafter for the next 2-3 days, while rains or thunderstorm are expected on January 2-3. On Monday, the minimum temperature in the city was 10 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal and four degrees more than Sunday. The maximum temperature was also high at 22.4 degrees Celsius, 0.3 degree above normal. The rise in temperature in the past 24 hours was because of the cold winds coming from northern hills were cut off by a western disturbance (WD). Active over Himachal, Kashmir and Uttarakhand, the WD caused rains and snow in the hills, but has now weakened. This may lead to revival of cold winds from Tuesday, which would force minimum temperatures to drop till 6 degrees Celsius in the next 3-4 days. However, another WD is expected to hit the hills by January 1, which will again lead to rise in mercury levels in many parts of UP, including Lucknow. This WD may extend till northwestern plains and cause thunderstorm and rains at several places in the state, including the city. On Tuesday, the city would witness shallow fog in the morning and mainly clear sky thereafter. There will be no significant change in maximum temperatures, but mercury levels are expected to drop in the night. Weather is most likely to remain dry in the rest of the state with shallow to moderate fog in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2020-to-exit-on-an-icy-note-thunderstorm-to-ring-in-ny/articleshow/80001042.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||Vid’s caseload crosses 2.5L, recovery rate now matches state avg||Nagpur: Last week of the year began with a relief for Vidarbha as far as Covid-19 conditions are concerned. Only 568 cases were reported on Monday while 976 patients recovered. Total cases surpassed the 2.5 lakh-mark on Monday, but recoveries also reached 2.36 lakh. For the first time, recovery rate of Vidarbha reached 94.4%. This is exactly equal to the Maharashtra average but still less than the national average of 95.8%. On Monday, 13 deaths were reported in the region. These include 7 from Nagpur district (including only 1 from Nagpur city, 3 from rural and 3 from outstation patients). Chandrapur and Akola reported 2 deaths each while Buldhana reported 1 death. Vidarbha’s death toll reached 6,517 on Monday. Case fatality rate is still at 2.6% which is higher than state and national average. Barring Nagpur, Amravati and Buldhana, all districts in Vidarbha reported less than 50 new cases. The day’s 568 cases came from Nagpur (335), Amravati (64), Buldhana (54), Chandrapur (31), Gondia (24), Yavatmal (21), Akola (14), Bhandara (12), Gadchiroli (6), Wardha (4), and Washim (3). On the other hand, all districts reported more recoveries than new cases. The difference between day’s cases and recoveries is increasing daily. Day’s 976 recoveries came from Nagpur (576), Buldhana (77), Amravati (63), Chandrapur (52), Yavatmal (49), Gondia (46), Bhandara (44), Gadchiroli (26), Wardha (20), Akola (16), and Washim (7). Wardha: Only 4 patients tested positive for Covid on Monday of the 142 test reports taking the count to 8,931. Total 20 patients were discharged with which the recoveries reached 8,367. Currently, the district has 295 active cases. Yavatmal: The district administration received 258 test reports of which 21 were found positive. Currently, 316 active patients are undergoing treatment in various Covid care centres across the district. Of the 12,551 positive patients treated in the district so far, 11,838 including 49 on Monday, have recovered. The death toll remains at 400. Amravati: Sixty-four new cases took the district’s caseload to 19460 on Monday. No death was reported, while 63 patients recovered to take the total to 18,632. There are now 432 active cases under treatment. Chandrapur: There were just 31 new cases, while 52 patients were discharged on Monday. With two more deaths registered in the district, the toll has climbed to 361. The caseload now stands at 22,210, while total recoveries are 21,321. Bhandara: Of the total 283 tests done on Monday, 12 tested positive which took the caseload cases in Bhandara to 12,222. On the other hand, 40 patients recovered taking the recoveries to 11,539. Recovery rate of Bhandara is 94.41% now. A death was also reported on Monday which took the toll to 290. Now, 393 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 24 new cases and 46 recoveries on Monday. No death was reported. Total cases reached 13,594 while recoveries touched 13,113. Recovery rate of the district reached 94.62%. The death is 178 in Gondia. Total 303 patients are under treatment of which 154 are under home isolation. Gadchiroli: Total 26 patients recovered on Monday while six cases were detected. This took Gadchiroli’s total cases to 8,936, including 8,662 recoveries. Recovery rate of the district is 96.93%. No death was reported on Monday. The death toll remained at 101. Now, 173 patients are under treatment, which is lowest in Vidarbha. Akola: The district reported 14 new cases while 16 patients recovered. Of the total 10,390 cases in the district so far, 9,550 patients have recovered. Akola also reported 2 deaths on Monday. These include a 92-year-old man and an 81-year-old man. Both patients were admitted in critical condition on December 22. Now, 522 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: Total 451 tests were conducted on Monday of which 54 tested positive. On the other hand, 77 patients recovered. Now, of the 12,436 cases in Buldhana, 12,017 have recovered. Recovery rate of the district is more than 96%. A death was also reported on Monday. A 63-year-old man died during treatment. Now, death toll has reached 150. Total 269 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 3 new cases, the lowest in Vidarbha on Monday. On the other hand, 7 patients recovered. Now, Washim has 6,625 19 cases, the lowest in Vidarbha. Total 6,214 of them have recovered taking the recovery rate to 93.7%. With 148 deaths reported till date, total 262 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vids-caseload-crosses-2-5l-recovery-rate-now-matches-state-avg/articleshow/79999167.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||‘Book office heads if staff found not wearing masks’||Lucknow: The UP government will now book owners of eateries, stores, malls and offices in Lucknow where employees and crowds are found without mask and violating social distancing. The decision was taken at a meeting held on Monday at the Smart City auditorium for stopping the second wave of coronavirus infection and attended by additional chief secretary, panchayati raj and rural development Manoj Kumar, principal secretary, health Alok Kumar, Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash and police commissioner D K Thakur. Principal secretary, health issued directives to videograph all markets, shops, malls and eateries registering heavy crowd without mask and violating social distancing. “Book the store owners under the pandemic Act if a customer is found without mask,” he emphasized in the meeting. The DM directed that surprise checking be conducted of offices apart from markets and stores. If any employee or person is found present in the office without mask, the office head should be booked under the pandemic Act, the order said. It was decided to conduct contact tracing on war-footing and focus on areas which are reporting more corona patients. “We have to be more alert during the New Year celebrations and other festivals. Often it is seen that people are not sensitive to the Covid-19 epidemic. Neither are they wearing masks nor following social distancing and this very worrying. The next 15 days are very important for Covid-19 from the point of view of infection. Therefore, it is instructed that all the officials need to increase enforcement. Joint teams of municipal corporation, district administration and police have to work together to ensure people wear masks and follow social Covid protocols,” said the ACS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/book-office-heads-if-staff-found-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/80001051.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's Behala girl, who lost her father in 40-ft fall, returns home from jaws of death||KOLKATA: As 15-month-old Palakshi sat up on her bed and cuddled in her mother’s arms at their flat at Pathakpara in Behala Parnasree, neighbours and family could hardly fight back their tears. A little more than two weeks ago, Palakshi was playing with her father, Subhas Panda, on the terrace of their four-storey building when they lost balance and fell to the ground. Though Subhab, a central government employee, died as he hit the ground, he had pushed his daughter towards a tree, which had broken Palakshi’s fall. Nonetheless, the child fell 40ft to the ground and received multiple injuries on her neck, head and legs. In the days that followed, her mother, Upasana, spent sleepless nights at SSKM Hospital, where a team of doctors took it as a challenge to save Palakshi’s life. “She fought so hard, she taught me to be brave. But this will be a long fight. It will last beyond a week, a month and years. I am now ready for all of that,” Upasana told TOI. “Palakshi can now sit on her own. She does feel bouts of pain but she is on strong medication, about six medicines a day. The blood clot in her head was a concern but she is responding to treatment. Doctors said my daughter is too young and she does not require a surgery right now. They discharged Palakshi on December 22 and asked us for a check-up a month later. I have been asked to monitor her progress and on Monday, I saw her sitting up on her own.” During Palakshi’s treatment, Upasana refused to leave her side and even missed her husband’s last rites and shradh. Her 12-year-old son, a student at a reputable English-medium school at Taratala, went to their hometown in Odisha with their relatives to perform the rites. He is now back at their Behala home. “I know the check-ups will be a challenge. I will take up the job that I will get on compassionate grounds as my husband died in harness. But I am determined to take care of my family and carry out all my responsibilities towards my children,” said Upasana. A relative stated that the initial few days were the hardest, but Upasana never gave up. “You can call it a miracle, I will call it a mother’s conviction,” said Upasana’s mother, who is now in Kolkata. The family said doctors and neighbours extended all the help possible. “Every time I need help, they are there,” said Upasana. Neighbours said they gathered on the terrace every new year’s even to to ring in the next year. “We hardly visit the terrace these days. We will hold prayers for the departed on the last day of the year. But the little girl has brought new hope to this apartment and that is the biggest positive thing to end the otherwise entirely forgettable year,” said a neighbour. (With inputs from Debabrata Shome)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/behala-girl-who-lost-her-father-in-40-ft-fall-returns-home-from-jaws-of-death/articleshow/79999281.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 29, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu has more women with cancer than men, finds study that covered 80 million||CHENNAI: More women are fighting cancer in the state than men, revealed a Tamil Nadu Cancer Registry Project (TNCRP) report jointly released by Cancer Institute and state health department on Monday. The Crude Incidence Rate (CIR) of all cancers per 1,00,000 population was 93.9 among women compared to 74.4 in men, said TNCRP data, which covered the entire TN population of 80 million. This is the highest demographic evaluated by any cancer registry in the world. A total of 65,590 cancer cases were diagnosed in 2016 in TN and estimated cancer burden in 2020 was 78,641. Of this, the highest CIR of cancers was observed in Chennai (140.8) and the least in Krishnagiri (48.5). The incidence of breast cancer in women observed in Chennai (46.4 per 1,00,000 women) was the highest in the country. Commenting on it, professor R Swaminathan from Cancer Institute, who co-authored the study with R Shanta, said more than genetic components that usually account for 5-10% of incidences, or diet, increase in breast cancer could be related to change in lifestyle. “The mean age of marriage and age of first child birth is higher compared to what it was 30-35 years ago. Also, the number of pregnancies and breastfeeding have come down. These could be reasons but we definitely need more research studies,” he said. After Chennai, Thanjavur has the second-highest CIR and this could be attributed to rampant use of chewing tobacco there, the study said. The report also showed that in districts such as Erode, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga, 50%-70% cancer patients travel to another district for treatment while the figure was 10% in Chennai and Coimbatore. “Such findings will help the government know where to place cancer treatment centres,” said Swaminathan. Health minister C Vijayabaskar thanked Cancer Institute for providing such comprehensive data based on which the government can plan its treatment and disease prevention policies. The report was prepared by the institute without incurring any cost to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-has-more-women-with-cancer-than-men-finds-study-that-covered-80mn/articleshow/80003653.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu has more women with cancer than men, finds study that covered 80 million||CHENNAI: More women are fighting cancer in the state than men, revealed a Tamil Nadu Cancer Registry Project (TNCRP) report jointly released by Cancer Institute and state health department on Monday. The Crude Incidence Rate (CIR) of all cancers per 1,00,000 population was 93.9 among women compared to 74.4 in men, said TNCRP data, which covered the entire TN population of 80 million. This is the highest demographic evaluated by any cancer registry in the world. A total of 65,590 cancer cases were diagnosed in 2016 in TN and estimated cancer burden in 2020 was 78,641. Of this, the highest CIR of cancers was observed in Chennai (140.8) and the least in Krishnagiri (48.5). The incidence of breast cancer in women observed in Chennai (46.4 per 1,00,000 women) was the highest in the country. Commenting on it, professor R Swaminathan from Cancer Institute, who co-authored the study with R Shanta, said more than genetic components that usually account for 5-10% of incidences, or diet, increase in breast cancer could be related to change in lifestyle. “The mean age of marriage and age of first child birth is higher compared to what it was 30-35 years ago. Also, the number of pregnancies and breastfeeding have come down. These could be reasons but we definitely need more research studies,” he said. After Chennai, Thanjavur has the second-highest CIR and this could be attributed to rampant use of chewing tobacco there, the study said. The report also showed that in districts such as Erode, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga, 50%-70% cancer patients travel to another district for treatment while the figure was 10% in Chennai and Coimbatore. “Such findings will help the government know where to place cancer treatment centres,” said Swaminathan. Health minister C Vijayabaskar thanked Cancer Institute for providing such comprehensive data based on which the government can plan its treatment and disease prevention policies. The report was prepared by the institute without incurring any cost to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-has-more-women-with-cancer-than-men-finds-study-that-covered-80mn/articleshow/80003645.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 29, 2020||Surat||Surat textile businessman ends life in office||SURAT: A 24-year-old businessman engaged in online textile business hanged self at his office near Sita Nagar crossroad in Puna area of the city on Sunday. Chintan Sonani, a Varachha resident, is suspected to have ended his life due to financial crisis, police said. Sonani was at his office in the International Market building with his partner and friends on Sunday evening. His friends and partner went to have snacks in the evening but Sonani did not join them. At around 9.30pm, when some of his friends returned to the parking area of the building to collect their vehicle, they found the shutter of Sonani’s office half open. On checking, they found his body hanging and alerted his family and police. Family members told police that Sonani was worried due to the financial crisis in business. His father is employed in a diamond unit as an artisan. The family is native of Bhavnagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-textile-bizman-ends-life-in-office/articleshow/79999173.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||28-year-old beaten, paraded naked in Rajasthan's Jhalawar||KOTA: A 28-year-old MNREGA worker was severely thrashed, garlanded with shoes and paraded naked in Bagher village of Jhalawar district on Sunday. He was caught with a woman, also an MGNREGA worker, at her house on Saturday night. Police arrested eight of the nine accused on Sunday. The victim was also put behind bars for house trespass and unwelcome, explicit sexual overtures. The man, identified as Rakesh Rathore, was caught by the woman’s husband and sent away on Saturday night after strict warning. On Sunday morning, the woman’s husband’s friend called Rathore at a place in the village. On reaching there, Rathore was attacked by the woman’s husband and his aides. A video of the incident was also recorded and allegedly uploaded on social media, said police. Meanwhile on the woman’s report police lodged a case against Rakesh Rathore, MNREGA mate, under section 456, 354 of IPC and section 3 of SC/ST Act as she belongs to ST. Initial investigation revealed that Rathore was in a relationship with the woman who worked under him and had recently gifted her a mobile phone. The accused were produced before the local court on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/28-yr-old-beaten-paraded-naked/articleshow/79999181.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu has more women with cancer than men, finds study that covered 80 million||CHENNAI: More women are fighting cancer in the state than men, revealed a Tamil Nadu Cancer Registry Project (TNCRP) report jointly released by Cancer Institute and state health department on Monday. The Crude Incidence Rate (CIR) of all cancers per 1,00,000 population was 93.9 among women compared to 74.4 in men, said TNCRP data, which covered the entire TN population of 80 million. This is the highest demographic evaluated by any cancer registry in the world. A total of 65,590 cancer cases were diagnosed in 2016 in TN and estimated cancer burden in 2020 was 78,641. Of this, the highest CIR of cancers was observed in Chennai (140.8) and the least in Krishnagiri (48.5). The incidence of breast cancer in women observed in Chennai (46.4 per 1,00,000 women) was the highest in the country. Commenting on it, professor R Swaminathan from Cancer Institute, who co-authored the study with R Shanta, said more than genetic components that usually account for 5-10% of incidences, or diet, increase in breast cancer could be related to change in lifestyle. “The mean age of marriage and age of first child birth is higher compared to what it was 30-35 years ago. Also, the number of pregnancies and breastfeeding have come down. These could be reasons but we definitely need more research studies,” he said. After Chennai, Thanjavur has the second-highest CIR and this could be attributed to rampant use of chewing tobacco there, the study said. The report also showed that in districts such as Erode, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga, 50%-70% cancer patients travel to another district for treatment while the figure was 10% in Chennai and Coimbatore. “Such findings will help the government know where to place cancer treatment centres,” said Swaminathan. Health minister C Vijayabaskar thanked Cancer Institute for providing such comprehensive data based on which the government can plan its treatment and disease prevention policies. The report was prepared by the institute without incurring any cost to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-has-more-women-with-cancer-than-men-finds-study-that-covered-80mn/articleshow/80003647.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 29, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu has more women with cancer than men, finds study that covered 80 million||CHENNAI: More women are fighting cancer in the state than men, revealed a Tamil Nadu Cancer Registry Project (TNCRP) report jointly released by Cancer Institute and state health department on Monday. The Crude Incidence Rate (CIR) of all cancers per 1,00,000 population was 93.9 among women compared to 74.4 in men, said TNCRP data, which covered the entire TN population of 80 million. This is the highest demographic evaluated by any cancer registry in the world. A total of 65,590 cancer cases were diagnosed in 2016 in TN and estimated cancer burden in 2020 was 78,641. Of this, the highest CIR of cancers was observed in Chennai (140.8) and the least in Krishnagiri (48.5). The incidence of breast cancer in women observed in Chennai (46.4 per 1,00,000 women) was the highest in the country. Commenting on it, professor R Swaminathan from Cancer Institute, who co-authored the study with R Shanta, said more than genetic components that usually account for 5-10% of incidences, or diet, increase in breast cancer could be related to change in lifestyle. “The mean age of marriage and age of first child birth is higher compared to what it was 30-35 years ago. Also, the number of pregnancies and breastfeeding have come down. These could be reasons but we definitely need more research studies,” he said. After Chennai, Thanjavur has the second-highest CIR and this could be attributed to rampant use of chewing tobacco there, the study said. The report also showed that in districts such as Erode, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga, 50%-70% cancer patients travel to another district for treatment while the figure was 10% in Chennai and Coimbatore. “Such findings will help the government know where to place cancer treatment centres,” said Swaminathan. Health minister C Vijayabaskar thanked Cancer Institute for providing such comprehensive data based on which the government can plan its treatment and disease prevention policies. The report was prepared by the institute without incurring any cost to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-has-more-women-with-cancer-than-men-finds-study-that-covered-80mn/articleshow/80003652.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 29, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu has more women with cancer than men, finds study that covered 80 million||CHENNAI: More women are fighting cancer in the state than men, revealed a Tamil Nadu Cancer Registry Project (TNCRP) report jointly released by Cancer Institute and state health department on Monday. The Crude Incidence Rate (CIR) of all cancers per 1,00,000 population was 93.9 among women compared to 74.4 in men, said TNCRP data, which covered the entire TN population of 80 million. This is the highest demographic evaluated by any cancer registry in the world. A total of 65,590 cancer cases were diagnosed in 2016 in TN and estimated cancer burden in 2020 was 78,641. Of this, the highest CIR of cancers was observed in Chennai (140.8) and the least in Krishnagiri (48.5). The incidence of breast cancer in women observed in Chennai (46.4 per 1,00,000 women) was the highest in the country. Commenting on it, professor R Swaminathan from Cancer Institute, who co-authored the study with R Shanta, said more than genetic components that usually account for 5-10% of incidences, or diet, increase in breast cancer could be related to change in lifestyle. “The mean age of marriage and age of first child birth is higher compared to what it was 30-35 years ago. Also, the number of pregnancies and breastfeeding have come down. These could be reasons but we definitely need more research studies,” he said. After Chennai, Thanjavur has the second-highest CIR and this could be attributed to rampant use of chewing tobacco there, the study said. The report also showed that in districts such as Erode, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga, 50%-70% cancer patients travel to another district for treatment while the figure was 10% in Chennai and Coimbatore. “Such findings will help the government know where to place cancer treatment centres,” said Swaminathan. Health minister C Vijayabaskar thanked Cancer Institute for providing such comprehensive data based on which the government can plan its treatment and disease prevention policies. The report was prepared by the institute without incurring any cost to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-has-more-women-with-cancer-than-men-finds-study-that-covered-80mn/articleshow/79999214.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 29, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu has more women with cancer than men, finds study that covered 80 million||CHENNAI: More women are fighting cancer in the state than men, revealed a Tamil Nadu Cancer Registry Project (TNCRP) report jointly released by Cancer Institute and state health department on Monday. The Crude Incidence Rate (CIR) of all cancers per 1,00,000 population was 93.9 among women compared to 74.4 in men, said TNCRP data, which covered the entire TN population of 80 million. This is the highest demographic evaluated by any cancer registry in the world. A total of 65,590 cancer cases were diagnosed in 2016 in TN and estimated cancer burden in 2020 was 78,641. Of this, the highest CIR of cancers was observed in Chennai (140.8) and the least in Krishnagiri (48.5). The incidence of breast cancer in women observed in Chennai (46.4 per 1,00,000 women) was the highest in the country. Commenting on it, professor R Swaminathan from Cancer Institute, who co-authored the study with R Shanta, said more than genetic components that usually account for 5-10% of incidences, or diet, increase in breast cancer could be related to change in lifestyle. “The mean age of marriage and age of first child birth is higher compared to what it was 30-35 years ago. Also, the number of pregnancies and breastfeeding have come down. These could be reasons but we definitely need more research studies,” he said. After Chennai, Thanjavur has the second-highest CIR and this could be attributed to rampant use of chewing tobacco there, the study said. The report also showed that in districts such as Erode, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga, 50%-70% cancer patients travel to another district for treatment while the figure was 10% in Chennai and Coimbatore. “Such findings will help the government know where to place cancer treatment centres,” said Swaminathan. Health minister C Vijayabaskar thanked Cancer Institute for providing such comprehensive data based on which the government can plan its treatment and disease prevention policies. The report was prepared by the institute without incurring any cost to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-has-more-women-with-cancer-than-men-finds-study-that-covered-80mn/articleshow/80003651.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 29, 2020||India||10 labs to be regional hubs for genome sequencing||NEW DELHI: The Centre has identified 10 advanced regional laboratories to serve as regional hub laboratories for genome sequencing as part of its surveillance strategy to monitor the genomic variations in the Sars-Cov-2 virus. The health ministry has charted a detailed action plan which the genomic surveillance consortium (INSACOG) would follow if the new Coronavirus variant, which is more infectious, is detected in the samples of returnees from the UK. According to the consortium's action plan, in case the UK variant or any other variant mutation is detected in any sample, the virus will be sent to any of the two notified Covid Virus Repositories at RCB- Faridabad or NIV, Pune for isolating the virus and further culturing. "This can then be shared as per notified guidelines for development of assays, which will help in validation of diagnostics and also testing of the vaccines under development. The molecular surveillance will be closely linked with the epidemiological surveillance and clinical specimens will also be collected for relevant clinical correlations," the INSACOG said. The 10 regional genome sequencing laboratories spread across the country will cater to the nearest states, which will send 5% of the positive samples to these labs for genome sequencing. The viral genome sequencing data generated by regional genome sequencing laboratories will be sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi for collation and integration. Further, the relevant case details and travel details of any sample detected with the new UK variant, or any other found to be of significance from public health perspective, will be communicated to NCDC (Director) Nodal Unit. No details shall be revealed before due approval by the competent authority. All the genomic sequencing data will be maintained in a national database at two sites, National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani (West Bengal), and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi. Apart from ascertaining the current status of the new variant of Sars-Cov-2 virus, the project also aims to establish sentinel surveillance for early detection of genomic variants with public health implications and to determine genomic variants in unusual events or trends such as super-spreader events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/10-labs-to-be-regional-hubs-for-genome-sequencing/articleshow/80001484.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Scion of Jaisalmer’s erstwhile royal family Brijraj Singh dies||JAISALMER: Scion of Jaisalmer’s erstwhile royal family Brijraj Singh, 52, died at Medanta Hospital in Delhi on Monday. He was undergoing liver treatment. He is survived by wife and two sons. When the news of his death reached Jaisalmer, a pall of gloom descended on the historic town. The royal flag was lowered to half-mast at Sonar Fort and the palace was closed for tourists. The cremation will take place on Tuesday at the royal cremation ground, 5km from Jaisalmer. According to sources, the former royal was suffering liver problem and was brought to a private hospital in Jodhpur. When his health deteriorated, he was shifted to Delhi by air ambulance. Doctors had advised for liver transplant. He was undergoing treatment at Medanta hospital in Delhi for the last one week. His body will be brought to Jaisalmer by road. He is survived by mother Mukut Raj Laxmi, wife Rajeshwari and sons Chaitanyaraj Bhati and Janmejay Raj Bhati. Brijraj was born on January 31, 1968. He was married to Rajeshwari Devi, daughter of Maharaja Sahdev Shamsher Singh Bahadur of Nepal. He completed his studies in Indore. Singh kept the traditions and culture of Jaisalmer alive. He promoted the Gangaur festival which is celebrated with pomp. Also Holi with the gair of Pushkarana community and at Lakshminath temple was patronised by him. The residents of Jaisalmer extended condolences on social media. The funeral procession will start from Mandir palace from Jaisalmer to Bada Bagh. A large number of erstwhile royals from across the country are expected to attend the funeral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/scion-of-jaisalmers-erstwhile-royal-family-brijraj-singh-dies/articleshow/79999235.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jodhpur||Mass deaths of crows in Jodhpur worry bird lovers||JODHPUR: Sudden death of crows in the city triggered panic among bird lovers here on Monday. The cause of deaths, however, has not yet been ascertained but veterinarians have attributed them to either consumption of some poisonous substance or spread of some contagious disease. The city has been witnessing sudden deaths of crows for past two days and it was first spotted in the areas of Chopasni, where some scattered carcasses of crows were spotted on Sunday. On Monday as well, some dead crows were spotted in other areas in the vicinity which led the wildlife and bird lovers of the city to finding the cause of these sudden deaths of crows. According to a wildlife enthusiast, Kamlesh Bhati, such incidents are being reported since the past 3 to 4 days. “Initially, these deaths were taken casually, but the continuous deaths of crows from different areas was a cause of concern,” he said. Veterinarian Shrvan Singh Rathore said that the exact cause of the deaths could be ascertained after the postmortems but he assumed that it could be either due to consumption of some poisonous substance or spread of the disease ‘Ranikhet’. “Ranikhet is a contagious disease and was first reported in Uttarakhand’s Ranikhet a few years back, where a large number of birds had vanished due to this disease,” he said, adding that it was a virus-based infectious disease and spread very fast. There was a huge population of crows in the city till a few years back, but lately, their count has been reported to be declining fast. Bhati said that if the crows continued to die like this, there would be a crisis on the existence of crows in the city. The bird lovers in the city have demanded an intervention from the forest department for finding out the cause of these deaths and its solution so that the crows could be saved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/mass-deaths-of-crows-in-jodhpur-worry-bird-lovers/articleshow/79999209.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Surat||Rander PI suspended after raid at gambling den||Surat: Police inspector of Rander, D V Baldaniya, was suspended by city police commissioner Ajay Tomar on Monday for negligence after a gambling den was busted in his area. On Saturday, the state monitoring cell that functions under direct supervision of the director general of police (DGP) had raided the den operating in Shital Talkies area and arrested 39 persons. Police seized Rs 3.19 lakh cash and 45 vehicles from the spot while 49 were declared wanted. Inquiry into police’s negligence has been handed over to additional commissioner of police HR Muliyana. Police found that Arif Kothari and Yogesh Tandel were running the gambing activity. Currently, Athwaline police inspector JP Jadeja has been posted in Rander while DS Korat has replaced Jadeja. Korat was posted in special branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rander-pi-suspended-after-raid-at-gambling-den/articleshow/79999213.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Above-normal temp removes Aurangabad’s winter chill||AURANGABAD: Mercury level continued to hover above the normal for the second consecutive day in Aurangabad on Monday, causing the winter chill to disappear. At 15.3 degrees celsius, the minimum temperature in the city was above normal by four degrees on the outset of the week, as per data available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Shriniwas Aundhkar, director of city-based APJ Abdul Kalam Astrospace Science Centre, said temporary weakening of Westerly winds has led to rise in the mercury level. “The winter chill is likely to pick up again by week-end and expected to build further by early next year. As per emerging weather systems, harsher winter is likely in Aurangabad and parts of Marathwada during next month,” he said. KK Dakhore, agricultural meteorologist at Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University in Parbhani, said the temporary deviation in the minimum temperature would not affect the ongoing rabi crops. “While cotton and tur have been already harvested at many places, other standing crops such as chickpea, wheat, sorghum and safflower can survive the current abrasion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/above-normal-temp-removes-aurangabads-winter-chill/articleshow/79997913.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||At Cong foundation day, Puglia seeks guardian min’s ouster||Chandrapur: Bitter rivalry between two Congress stalwarts came to fore, once again, during the party’s foundation day function on Monday when Former MP Naresh Puglia openly blamed his rival and district guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar for failure of the administration in handling Covid situation and police department in controlling crime. Puglia blamed Wadettiwar for high number of Covid deaths in government hospitals and staged a sit-in seeking intervention of chief minister in replacing the guardian minister of Chandrapur. Puglia charged that 90% of Covid deaths in Chandrapur have taken place in government hospitals, owing to lack of doctors, medics and other facilities for Covid treatment. “The guardian minister had made tall claims about recruiting doctors, building oxygen plants and increasing number of oxygen beds on last Independence Day. He has failed to stand up to his words even after nearly five months and poor patients who availed Covid treatment at government hospital lost their lives,” he said. Puglia has already filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in high court against tattered Covid treatment facilities in Chandrapur. In a letter sent to CM Uddhav Thackeray, Puglia has said that law and order has shattered in the district as crime rate and illegal businesses have increased manifold. He claimed incidents of gang wars, murders and waylaying have increased. Similarly, smuggling of coal and sand apart from peddling of narcotics like brown sugar and liquor has also shot up in the district. Illegal businesses like cock-fight, betting and gambling have flourished in last one year, while the administration and police department have remained mute spectator thanks to political pressure, said Puglia. “Congress has 135-year-long tradition of standing up against injustice. Nearly 300 people, who could not afford costly private treatment, have died of Covid in the district because of lack of facility. It is high time to stand up against the person responsible for the deaths,” he said, justifying his stand against own party government. Earlier, Puglia supporters had sent a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi ‘highlighting’ Wadettiwar’s failure and demanded his replacement. NB—Photo sent on Whatsapp Group||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-cong-foundation-day-puglia-seeks-guardian-mins-ouster/articleshow/80000606.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Residents meet collector over check-post||Jaisalmer: The residents of Sonar Fort on Thursday met district collector Ashish Modi and said they were facing problems in repairing their houses because of the police check-post set up at the fort’s entry gate. The residents are quite disturbed on prohibition imposed in repair works and had even met cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad and requested him to provide relief. The minister had discussed the issue with the collector and asked him to provide relief. Modi said residents met him and he had discussed the issue with officers of the archeological department. He said he would try to figure out an alternative solution. Due to illegal construction in the 860-year-old Sonar Fort, the load on the structure was increasing. On the directions of Modi, a police check-post was set up at the first entry gate of the fort to stop transportation of construction materials. The check-post was then set up on the orders of SP Ajay Singh and five police personnel including a head constable have been posted there. This check-post functions under the directions of Kotwali SHO. The residents submitted a memorandum demanding relief in repair works on which Modi assured that all possible efforts would be made to provide relief. A meeting of the committee formed for the conservation of the fort was also held under the chairmanship of Modi. He directed officials to remove encroachments nearby the fort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/residents-meet-collector-over-check-post/articleshow/79999267.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Missing UK flyer traced, wrong info delayed search||Lucknow: After having sleepless nights for nearly a week, the district health officers heaved a sigh of relief on Monday when the ‘untraceable’ UK returnee replied to their email and shared his whereabouts. It then became clear that the confusion was because of misreading ‘Katra’ as ‘Kathauta’ in the address scribbled by him in travel documents. The email arrived in the inbox of the district health authorities at 4pm and the employee who saw it lost no time in informing officers. A team was instantly dispatched to the house of the 50-year-old man who could not be traced for the past six days as his phone was switched off and the address was vague. The team collected his sample, sent it for a test and is expecting the report on Tuesday. The man has been told to isolate himself for next four weeks. He was among 114 city residents with UK travel history between December 9 and 22. The Union aviation ministry had handed over the names to health authorities on December 23. The exercise is being carried out across India to check the spread of the new variant of novel coronavirus detected in the UK recently. In Lucknow, officers were able to trace 113 persons easily, but one remained untraceable. They were concerned that in case he is carrying the mutant virus and moves around, he may inadvertently spread it in the city. “We were unable to contact him anyhow, so we sent him an email on the id mentioned in his air travel documents, requesting to share his whereabouts and isolate himself,” a senior health officer told TOI. “He told our team that he lives alone and did not venture out after returning from the UK. He also said that he had blocked calls from all unknown numbers in his phone settings,” he added. The address of his house was ‘Katra’ in the Old City, but it was being interpreted as ‘Kathauta’, which is in Gomtinagar extension. District immunisation officer Dr M K Singh said “The man has no symptoms of influenza like illness yet. He said he remained in his house after returning from the UK, but we have asked for a list of persons who visited him in the past six days so that they can also be tested. Among other returnees, 110 have already tested negative, while the report of the remaining three will come on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/missing-uk-flyer-traced-wrong-info-delayed-search/articleshow/80001078.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
December 29, 2020||Vadodara||Cops get ready to roast those raising a NY toast||VADODARA: If you are planning to add some bubble and zing to your New Year party spirit, beware. Cops are getting armed to fizzle it.With night curfew in place, many Barodians have been firming up plans to chill with near and dear ones in the comfort of their homes on December 31. While the invites to such house parties are out, cops too have formed several teams of ‘uninvited guests’ to bust a bubble or two in these ‘domestic affairs’. “Apart from a team from every police station in the city, crime branch sleuths along with special operation group (SOG) men too will be on duty on New Year’s Eve. We will be keeping an eye on the parties where liquor may be on the menu,” said a senior police official. “Police will be keep a hawk’s eye on shops selling soft drinks and snacks. People usually have these during liquor parties. Those with suspicious acts will be followed by the policemen,” the official told TOI. The night curfew will dissuade party goers from hitting hit the road for extra celebration.“But our teams will be deployed on the entry and exit points of the city from the evening on December 31. We suspect that many people may organize liquor parties at farmhouses on the outskirts of the city. If anyone is found drunk while entering the city, he or she will be booked under the Prohibition Act,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Cops have also kept breath analysers ready. “Every police station has five breath analysers that will be used on New Year Eve. Our teams will be out on the road from evening,” Jadeja added. Also, the cops are cracking down on the bootleggers to restrict liquor flow in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-get-ready-to-roast-those-raising-a-ny-toast/articleshow/79999254.cms||Tushar Tere
December 29, 2020||Goa||In a first for North Goa, farmer grows strawberries in Sattari||VALPOI: Shyam Gaonkar, a young farmer in remote Satrem has now proven that Sattari’s environment is suitable for strawberry plantations. Gaonkar is the first farmer in North Goa to grow strawberries successfully in his agricultural land. Until now, only in Netravali in South Goa’s Sanguem taluka, farmers were successful in planting strawberries. Gaonkar said it is the zonal agriculture department officials who introduced the idea of growing strawberries to him. He was among a group of 20 farmers from Sattari, who were taken to Mahabaleshwar to attend a workshop. It is there that Gaonkar learnt how he can grow strawberries and other new agricultural crops suitable for Goan soil. “While returning home from the workshop at Mahabaleshwar, I bought more than a thousand strawberry saplings. In the second week of November this year, I undertook strawberry farming in a field admeasuring around 300sqm,” Gaonkar said. It proved to be nearly one-and-half month of hard toil before the results begun showing this month. “As can be seen from my field, it is proved now that Sattari’s climatic condition is very much suitable for strawberry plantation. As of now, there is no market for strawberry produce in Sattari, but now that there is local yield, it will help create the market for strawberries soon in the area,” Gaonkar said. Besides strawberries, Gaonkar has developed a lush farm which also grows red chillies, cucumber, and many other vegetables. And, just as it happened in Netravali, Satrem locals are hoping that their village too will become a paradise for picnickers due to Goankar’s strawberry plantation. The potential of this to generate other employment in the area is not lost on the locals. The Satrem waterfall is located very close to the farm, which already attracts hundreds of picnickers and trekkers. Zonal agricultural officer, Sattari, Vishwanath Gawas, told TOI that he and his team constantly visit the site to monitor the plantation. “We will definitely see that this young farmer finds success in this new venture,” Gawas said. He further said that the agriculture department will give incentives to such farmers who are open to innovation. “We are planning to erect fencing at Gaonkar’s farm,” Gawas said. The success of Gaonkar’s farm even drew praise from health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane. “I am delighted to know that a young and dynamic farmer from Satrem has grown strawberries in his field at Sattari. I congratulate him and assure him my full support in his future endeavours,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-first-for-north-farmer-grows-strawberries-in-sattari/articleshow/80000678.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Delhi||Speeding car with lawyer at wheel hits two in Delhi; 50-year-old dead||NEW DELHI: A 50-year-old man was killed, while a 75-year-old man was injured after being hit by a speeding car being driven by an advocate from Greater Kailash late on Saturday. The advocate, who was allegedly driving drunk, has been arrested. The accused claimed that he lost control while trying to avoid hitting a cow that suddenly came in front of his Toyota Yaris. While police could not identify the deceased 50 year old, the injured man was identified as Kanhaiya Lal, a resident of Kotla Mubarakpur. The accident took place around 11.30pm on Saturday when both victims were standing on the roadside at Bhishma Pitamah Marg. They were rushed to AIIMS and passersby reported the matter to police. When cops reached the hospital, they found that the 50-year-old man had been declared brought dead, while the septuagenarian was admitted for treatment. Lal’s family was soon informed about the accident. Cops are trying to identify the dead man and his picture has been circulated in the nearby police stations. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said a case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence was registered at Kotla Mubarakpur police station. “The car was being driven by Rahul Shrivastav (54), a resident of GK-I practising law at Saket courts. The car has been seized. The accused was arrested from the spot. As Shrivastav was found drunk, IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was later added to the FIR,” he added. Police are checking CCTV footage from the accident spot to establish the sequence of events and verify the claims of the accused that he hit the two men while trying to save a cow that had suddenly come in front of his car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/speeding-car-with-lawyer-at-wheel-hits-two-50-yr-old-dead/articleshow/79999273.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Madame Tussauds set to shut operations||NEW DELHI: From sitting in a rickshaw pulled by Salman Khan and raising a bat with Sachin Tendulkar to standing beside PM Narendra Modi and rubbing shoulders with Leonardo diCaprio, Madame Tussauds provided Indians the opportunity to be part of a global infatuation with wax statues. But the outlet at Connaught place is shutting shop, with Merlin Entertainments, the parent company, deciding to exit the country. Confirming this, Anshul Jain, general manager and director, Merlin Entertainments India, told TOI, “Merlin Entertainments can confirm it will permanently close Madame Tussauds Delhi in Connaught Place.” Jain said the attraction was temporarily closed in March 2020 in line with the Covid-19 regulations and while Madame Tussauds remained popular in India, Jain said the current climate allowed the UK-based company the opportunity to look at alternatives to its presence in India. Vikram Bakshi, the property owner, admitted it was a big loss for the city as a lot of effort and investment had gone into setting up this global tourist attraction. He revealed that top civic officials had facilitated fast approvals to enable the brand’s entry in the country. He said the project involved a lot of investment and the company's withdrawal from India meant the withdrawal of that investment too. Bakshi claimed he did everything possible from waiving the rental for the lockdown months to reducing the rent, but the company had decided to move on. He said the Connaught Place premises were vacated a few days ago on mutually cordial terms and the statues will be sent to Madame Tussauds outlets in other cities around the world. Jain added, “Merlin Entertainments would like to thank all the partners that worked closely with the attraction as well as all the guests who visited since its opening in November 2017.” Retail experts familiar with the developments explained that keeping Madame Tussauds operational was cost intensive because the waxwork needed a specific temperature and daily maintenance. “Keeping it closed came at a huge operating cost and big daily expenses despite the rent waiver,” said a franchising expert. Another franchising expert observed that the Delhi branch of the show never became as big an attraction as it is abroad, attributing this to issues such as lack of parking, poor accessibility, high ticket prices and lack of visitor engagement, making it a one-time experience. Rehan Huck, a retail and franchising expert, said 2020 was a difficult year for high-street outlets across the globe, especially in business districts. Pointing out that Merlin was exiting some other countries as well, Huck said, “Properties that feed on tourist inflow or public gathering are struggling universally. With tourism and gatherings restricted for the next few months, it is commercially unviable for many brands across the world to operate. With public gatherings not looking possible for some more time to come, it is sad but inevitable that Madame Tussauds opts to shut shop.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/final-bow-tussauds-will-no-longer-wax-eloquent-here/articleshow/79999301.cms||Amin Ali
December 29, 2020||Delhi||Why Delhi University special drive may deny achievers||NEW DELHI: A humanities student who had scored 97.25% in her CBSE Class XII board exam had hoped to land a seat at Lady Shri Ram College for Women in Sociology (H). However, as the first cutoff was 99.25%, she took admission in Jesus and Mary College. Till the seventh list, the cutoff had only reached 97.5%. However, when admissions started being conducted under a special drive, the cutoff came down to 96.75% in the third such list. This student still couldn’t join her dream college as Delhi University said that no movement was allowed for those who had already taken admission. Times ViewDelhi University attracts tens of thousands of students from across the country each year. Even a quarter of a percentage point can matter in deciding who makes it to which college or course. Obviously, they expect the cutoff system to be fair. This seems to be an anomaly that needs to be looked into.Her parents even wrote to different grievances cells, but received no response. “What kind of system is this that high-scoring students are being made to compromise? Students should have been told this beforehand. Is this not denying equal opportunity to them?” asked her parents. With several such cases now coming up, parents, students and even teachers are questioning if this system of merit list is fair, especially when even a 0.25% reduction means a lot given the intense competition. Teachers said this system was resulting in high scorers settling for colleges that were not their first or even second choices. Debraj Mookerjee, associate professor in the English department of Ramjas College, said, “We have two seats still vacant in the unreserved category. Under the special drive, the cutoff is 91%. We had closed admissions at 96.25%. The signal going now is that from next year one should wait till the special drive for admissions.” An admission convener said the special drive was unfair. “Many students cancelled their admission as they didn’t read the instructions. The system needs a rethink as the admission process continues for two and a half months. If seats are vacant even now, what is the point of having such a high cutoff at the beginning?” he asked. SP Agarwal, the principal of Ramanujan College, suggested an easy alternative. “What needs to follow is a counselling system. No admission process should go beyond 15-20 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-du-special-drive-may-deny-achievers/articleshow/79999363.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 29, 2020||Shimla||First snowfall of season in Shimla, temperature dips in region||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: Overnight rains across Punjab and some parts of Haryana resulted in a fall in minimum temperature in the two states on Monday. In Himachal, people in most parts of the state woke up to a thick blanket of snow. Shimla received its first snowfall of the season. The snowfall, just three days before New Year Eve, has thrilled thousands of tourists visiting the hill state. The meteorology department has predicted dry and severe cold, along with shallow to moderate fog, during the next three days in Punjab and Haryana. Ground frost is likely at isolated places too. In Himachal, Shimla, Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur, Chamba, Mandi, Sirmour and Kangra districts received fresh snow. Gated, Tyaman, Katal and Ghuvavi Chheta areas in Bilaspur district have received snow after more than 15 years. Traffic movement was crippled partially on some routes due to deposit of snow on the roads. State capital Shimla recorded 9cm fresh snowfall. Shimla’s popular tourist place Kufri recorded 30cm of snow. Manali received 14cm snow while Solang valley recorded 20cm snowfall. North and south portals of Atal tunnel recorded 15cm and 25cm of snowfall, respectively. Keylong received 5cm and Kalpa witnessed some traces. Dalhousie recorded 22cm of snowfall and it was 4cm in Jubbarhatti. Jalori pass, Kunzum, Kaza, Baralalacha, upper Shimla, Rajgarh in Sirmour, Seraj area in Mandi, upper areas of Kangra also received snow overnight. The lowest temperature in Haryana was recorded at 1.6°C in Narnaul. In Punjab, Ludhiana was the coldest at 2.1°C. Chandigarh, the capital of Punjab and Haryana, received 4.3mm rainfall on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. Manali, which also witnessed fresh snowfall, received the highest rainfall in the region, which was recorded at 15 mm. Other places which received rainfall included Ambala (4.5 mm), Amritsar (4.2 mm), Ludhiana (1.6 mm) and Patiala (2.2 mm).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/first-snowfall-of-season-in-shimla-temp-dips-in-region/articleshow/80001829.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Mobile cycle clinic on the cards in New Town||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has tied up with an agency to operate a mobile cycle clinic in the township. The clinic will operate through a 24-hour helpline number, by which cyclists in New Town can seek assistance, if their cycle breaks down on the road. The authorities came up with the idea of setting up the clinic after they noticed that the cycles, equipped with modern tools and equipment these days, cannot be repaired by local mechanics roadside. Modern cycles have different kind of gears and bells along with the carbon frame, various types of tyres and a variety of brakes and other accessories, for which specialized mechanics are needed for repair and maintenance. Officials said that an agreement has been signed with a reputed cycle selling and repairing agency that is already operating three cycle shops in New Town. The agency will provide on the spot maintenance services at a lower charge. “Whenever a cyclist faces any problem with the two-wheeler, the person will have to call at the helpline number (+91 7044752257) and trained cycle mechanics will reach to the the spot within New Town within a short time,” said an official. A service charge of Rs 70 will be levied per visit, apart from other costs for any major repair work. Officials said cycle health awareness and checking camps will also be orga-nized periodically at the des-ignated locations across the township. The authorities re-introduced recently the app based public cycle sharing scheme that is getting encouraging response in the township. The authorities are also developing more graded cycle tracks, docking stations and cycle sheds across the township. NKDA has also started providing training every Sunday at the New Town football stadium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mobile-cycle-clinic-on-the-cards-in-new-town/articleshow/79999279.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 29, 2020||Vadodara||Planned murder of politician stuns Dahod||Vadodara: Dahod district has a history of violence after polls, but these were limited to clashes between supporters or attacks on political leaders and candidates.Few would have expected political rivalry to reach an extent of a planned murder of a prominent politician.Many were discussing the possibility of the killing of Jhalod municipality corporator from the BJP Hiren Patel having its roots in politics. Patel was an active corporator and had even ensured that the BJP wrested the Jhalod municipality from Congress. The politics in Jhalod is dominated by the Katara family considered heavyweights in the area.A former Vishwa Hindu Parishad member, Babu Katara had stunned veteran Somji Damor in 1999. He also won in 2004, but ended up being suspended from the party after being caught red-handed while trying to take a woman and a boy abroad along with him on the passports of his wife and son. He switched loyalties to the Congress ahead of the 2019 parliamentary elections and contested the Lok Sabha polls that he lost.Babu’s son Bhavesh had shifted loyalty much earlier and won the 2017 assembly polls on a Congress ticket. He was sulking as he had not been given a ticket by the BJP despite his dominance in Jhalod. Bhavesh too had cases registered against him in the past. His younger brother Amit had remained largely away from limelight, but his wife was made the president of the Jhalod municipality.But BJP turned the tide against the Kataras in Jhalod, their hometown, by engineering defections and ensuring its candidate became the president. Patel had played a key role in the process and emerged as an influential politician in the area.After Patel’s murder around a dozen corporators had made representations to the district superintendent of police (SP) that they were feeling unsafe. SP Hitesh Joysar said that the corporators had met him and he had assured them of cooperation. “We will be taking custody of the accused nabbed by ATS and conduct further investigations,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/planned-murder-of-politician-stuns-dahod/articleshow/79999288.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Chandigarh||First snowfall of season in Shimla, temperature dips in region||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: Overnight rains across Punjab and some parts of Haryana resulted in a fall in minimum temperature in the two states on Monday. In Himachal, people in most parts of the state woke up to a thick blanket of snow. Shimla received its first snowfall of the season. The snowfall, just three days before New Year Eve, has thrilled thousands of tourists visiting the hill state. The meteorology department has predicted dry and severe cold, along with shallow to moderate fog, during the next three days in Punjab and Haryana. Ground frost is likely at isolated places too. In Himachal, Shimla, Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur, Chamba, Mandi, Sirmour and Kangra districts received fresh snow. Gated, Tyaman, Katal and Ghuvavi Chheta areas in Bilaspur district have received snow after more than 15 years. Traffic movement was crippled partially on some routes due to deposit of snow on the roads. State capital Shimla recorded 9cm fresh snowfall. Shimla’s popular tourist place Kufri recorded 30cm of snow. Manali received 14cm snow while Solang valley recorded 20cm snowfall. North and south portals of Atal tunnel recorded 15cm and 25cm of snowfall, respectively. Keylong received 5cm and Kalpa witnessed some traces. Dalhousie recorded 22cm of snowfall and it was 4cm in Jubbarhatti. Jalori pass, Kunzum, Kaza, Baralalacha, upper Shimla, Rajgarh in Sirmour, Seraj area in Mandi, upper areas of Kangra also received snow overnight. The lowest temperature in Haryana was recorded at 1.6°C in Narnaul. In Punjab, Ludhiana was the coldest at 2.1°C. Chandigarh, the capital of Punjab and Haryana, received 4.3mm rainfall on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. Manali, which also witnessed fresh snowfall, received the highest rainfall in the region, which was recorded at 15 mm. Other places which received rainfall included Ambala (4.5 mm), Amritsar (4.2 mm), Ludhiana (1.6 mm) and Patiala (2.2 mm).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/first-snowfall-of-season-in-shimla-temp-dips-in-region/articleshow/79999283.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Chandigarh||73 tourists evacuated from Kareri lake||Shimla: The Kangra district administration evacuated 73 stranded tourists from Kareri lake, about 9 kms from Dharamshala, in the Dhauladhar range. The tourists, mostly from Delhi, Punjab, Chandigarh and adjoining areas had gone to the lake area on Sunday and were caught in the sudden snowfall. Kangra DC Rakesh Prajapati said in the morning they received information of 100 tourists being stranded at Kareri and a police team led by SP Vimukt Ranjan, with Home Guard jawans and local volunteers, left for rescue immediately. A state chopper was also mobilised to airlift the stranded tourists in case of emergency and the IAF contacted to conduct the air operation, he said. “But we did not require the airlifting as the rescue team managed to bring down all the stranded tourists safely,” he said. Known as the best trekking destination in the Dhauladhars, Kareri lake is frequented by a large number of tourists and trekkers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/73-tourists-evacuated-from-kareri-lake/articleshow/79999291.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Sirsa cops bust illegal firearms factory in UP||Hisar: The CIA team of Sirsa police has arrested a supplier of illegal weapons on Monday from Baheri area in Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh. The police also busted an illegal arms factory during the 10-day investigation and nabbed two persons with a stockpile of illegal weapons. Police recovered 19 butts, 10 barrels, 19 springs, 20 screws, three triggers, an incomplete pistol and other items from the factory. The arrested person was identified as Istak Ahmed, a resident of Baheri in Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sirsa-cops-bust-illegal-firearms-factory-in-up/articleshow/79999294.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Genome sequencing of new strain at KGMU in Jan||Lucknow: Genome sequencing of novel coronavirus found in the samples of patients in Lucknow will start at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) next month for the detection of new strain found in the UK as well as to record mutations that the virus has undergone in the state and country. The exercise will not only help in determining the variants of the virus in India but also strain-specific severity and strength, thus paving way for better treatment and management of Covid-19. It will also help in providing inputs for drug discovery and further advancements in vaccines for the disease. According to Dr Amita Jain, head of microbiology department at KGMU, a genome sequencer is already available in the department and the process to purchase the reagent kit required for the study will be completed soon. It will be used to analyse genetic material of novel coronavirus in the samples of patients. “We expect to start gene sequencing by the end of January. For this, random samples of patients will be taken for analysis. The procedure involves separating RNA molecules from mucus proteins and converting it into DNA to read the sequence. Only a few labs in India have this facility,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/genome-sequencing-of-new-strain-at-kgmu-in-jan/articleshow/80001084.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Maharashtra theft gangs prey on people in Bowbazar, Hazra||KOLKATA: Cops have warned pedestrians and motorists to be careful at important crossings, particularly at Bowbazar and Hazra crossings, after kepmars struck multiple times in the city in the past one week. They follow two modes of operation to target pedestrians and motorists. On January 26, one of the kepmars posed as a CBI officer and stopped a person carrying Rs 50,000, claiming that he appeared to be a “child kidnapper.” He asked the victim, Selim Khan, a resident of Bibibagan in Tangra, to come to a house on Madan Street so that he could question Khan. Once the victim was within his reach, the accused took Rs 50,000 from him, calling it a “settlement value” and fled. The incident happened near Bowbazar crossing. At the same crossing, another gang targeted motorists and stole ornaments worth Rs 4 lakh. “The accused told the driver that petrol was leaking from the car. When the driver came out to check, the accused snatched the bags and fled. The bags contained the ornaments. We took CCTV footage and saw that three men were moving suspiciously at the Hazra Crossing. Cops arrested them.” said a police officer. Cops believe the accused could be inter-state gangs, mostly based out of Maharashtra. “The patrol vehicles have been asked to follow a dedicated route and serve key areas like Bowbazar, New Market,Shakespeare Sarani, Park Street and Bhowanipore,” said an officer. The control room monitors the movement of these vehicles. Police have already travelled to a Bhopal jail and brought back one of the main accused who had been carrying out kepmaris across Hatibagan and Shyampukur during the lockdown. “The accused, Abid Ali, had targeted senior citizens, especially women, by posing as a cop. He fled with jewellery once the victims were tricked into believing him. He has some local conduits. We are trying to trace them,” said an officer. Cops are also wary of Banjara gangs striking at the busy market places. With barely a few days left for New Year celebrations, th mad rush of people can give them chances for theft. “Interrogation revealed that banjaras generally engage their wives at important crossings or enter into open rooms and flats and flee with electronic gadgets, wallets and ornaments. If they are apprehended, they take the alibi of begging. The male members generally do not operate from the front line,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/maha-theft-gangs-prey-on-people-in-bowbazar-hazra/articleshow/79999297.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Jadavpur University mass communication admission notice likely tomorrow||KOLKATA: The notification on mass communication PG admission at Jadavpur University is likely to be published on December 30. The course fee has been reduced from Rs 40,000 for two years to Rs 26,000. These were decided by the executive council of Jadavpur University on Sunday. But the review committee had recommended that a slash in fees could not bring a permanent solution to the students’ problems. They said the PG diploma course in mass communication should be upgraded into a full-fledged MA programme, like that in any other humanities course being taught at the university. Also, they had demanded a further reduction in fees, making the amount similar to that of other PG courses at JU. “We may consider an elaborate movement if the matter is not taken up later. For this year, we have been forced to agree to this solution, which is temporary,” Debraj Debnath, SFI local committee secretary of JU. “In the next EC, we will demand immediate solution to the problems in the arts departments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-mass-comm-admission-notice-likely-tomorrow/articleshow/79999306.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: AKTU publishes highest number of research papers in its history this year||LUCKNOW: Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) added another feather to its cap by getting highest number of research papers published in its history in reputed national and international journals in a year. According to Scopus, a multidisciplinary database with citations, abstracts and publications, AKTU published 1,288 research papers this year. According to AKTU officials, the number of research papers is increasing every year due to several schemes introduced by the university and increased focus and dedication of teachers for producing quality research work. The university has registered an increase of 300% in research publications in the last five years. “In 2015, about 392 research papers were published by the university teachers in Scopus Journals. In 2020, about 1,288 research papers have been published which indicates that AKTU has grown manifold in its research work. Along with imparting technical education, our faculty is also devoting time to research so that they can not only nurture good engineers but also develop technologies based on their research,” said AKTU vice-chancellor Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak. “Every year, the number of our research papers is going up. In 2015, we made the debut in Scopus and the very next year our research papers increased by over 150 with 540 publications. In 2017, we got 460 papers published while the number was 685 in 2018. Last year, we published 1,151 research papers but this year the university broke all its previous records by nearing the 1,300-mark,” he said. “In last five years, the university started several projects to promote research and innovation. These include grant schemes like Visvesvaraya Research Promotion Scheme, Homi Bhabha Teaching Assistance Scheme, seminar grant, travel grant and Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Quality Improvement Scheme,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aktu-publishes-highest-number-of-research-papers-in-its-history-this-yr/articleshow/80001089.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Now, Latur cops will have to prove physical fitness||AURANGABAD: Police headquarter-based branches like reserve police, special branch and armoured section in Latur district can look forward to bagging better grades during the forthcoming annual performance review (APR) as physical fitness has been included in it for the first time by any district police. The decision has been taken by Latur superintendent of police Nikhil Pingle, who said the APR was discriminatory while adding that the physical fitness criteria will be introduced at the police station level too. “It was found that guards posted at offices and officers’ bungalows were bagging the top grade of A+ whereas reserve police personnel mostly got B and C grades, despite performing tough duties, which was not justified,” the officer told TOI on Monday. The annual performance of police personnel across the hierarchy is evaluated. A total of 200 marks are reserved for physical fitness, including a 1-km brisk walk, 400-metre run, drills and handling of firearms. Pingle said that although this pattern of evaluation is in place for the state reserve police force, it is being introduced by any district police in the state for the first time. “Since the officers on duty at the police headquarters do not have to do any criminal investigation or are in direct contact with people, their annual performance is recorded on the basis of recommendations by the reserved police officers at the headquarters,” said the officer. Police personnel vie for the top grading A+ as getting it for 10 consecutive years makes them eligible for prestigious medals at the state and national levels. Cops given field postings, especially at police stations, easily bag high grades each year. “While writing the annual report of an officer at the police station, considering the investigation of various crimes committed by them, their relations with citizens, top grading is recorded in their service sheet annually,” said Pingle. “However, police personnel posted at the headquarters neither get any chance to investigate a case or detect an offence or interact with public,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/now-latur-cops-will-have-to-prove-physical-fitness/articleshow/79997937.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||Soma Sen’s pension still held up 5 months after high court’s order||Nagpur: Even as the family members of Soma Sen are looking forward for the Elgar Parishad case’s next hearing on Tuesday, their wait continues for the former university professor’s pension to be released. To make things worse, even her bank account has been blocked for want of know your customer (KYC) documents. The papers could not be submitted as she is under custody in Mumbai. It’s been five months since the high court order, but the Nagpur university has not released her provisional pension, say her kin. Sen was the head of the department of English in the university when she was arrested on June 2018. She had retired from service while in custody. The university had not even released the provisional pension (part amount) after that, says the family. The family had filed a petition in the high court seeking pension after which the orders were issued by the bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and Justice R K Deshpande, directing the university to clear the pension. “The first ruling was on August 13 which called for paying the gratuity, provident fund and an additional amount of Rs5 lakh, apart from pension. The university in turn moved a plea seeking to modify the order stating that the gratuity would be deposited with the court instead of paying her. This was turned down by the court on August 28,” said Sen’s counsel Prakash Meghe. Even as rest of the amount was paid, the pension has not been released, he said. Meghe said the pension documents were supposed to be forwarded from the office of joint director higher education. There has been no response from the office so far. “To add to the problems, the bank account has been blocked for want of KYC documents,” said her husband Tushar Kanti Bhattacharya. “The documents were not needed when she was arrested. Now when the papers signed by her have to be submitted, she remains under custody. We plan to seek a permission from the court to get the papers signed,” he said. She had signed a cheque earlier with the court’s permission. However, when it was presented, it was found that the account itself has been blocked for want of KYC papers, said Bhattacharya. Sen also needs to submit her life certificate to continue to get the pension. “To get the certificate, physical presence of the pensioner is needed. The family plans to put a plea to seek the court’s permission in this matter too,” added Bhattacharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/soma-sens-pension-still-held-up-5-months-after-high-courts-order/articleshow/80000628.cms||Shishir Arya
December 29, 2020||Delhi||New system to track flyers, help mind gap at Delhi's IGI airport||NEW DELHI: Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) now has a new passenger tracking system that will help the airport officials reduce waiting time, enhance operational efficiency and manage passenger flow to ensure social distancing at various passenger touch points at Terminal 3. Xovis passenger tracking system (PTS) — a queue management system — also displays live waiting time taken at various processes, like check-in, security check, immigration, etc., on screens put up at various places, including check-in hall and arrival pier junction, inside the terminal. At departure level, sensors have been installed at all eight entry gates of Terminal 3, check-in rows, domestic and international security check areas, emigrations, while at arrival, they have been installed at immigration area for Indian and foreign passport holders and at domestic-to-international transfer area, an official said. Based on images (as a dot on the screen) computed directly on the ceiling-mounted sensors, passengers are counted and tracked anonymously. The system receives data streams from the sensors and provides airport operators with valuable key performance indicators (KPIs), such as waiting and process times and passenger throughput. “KPIs are visualised on an intuitive dashboard, enabling airports to quickly identify crowded areas and bottlenecks. The system’s intuitive and comprehensive user interface offers real-time insights on every process point for an improved passenger flow management,” the official added. The queue management system will reduce waiting time by providing auto alerts to the team when queues develop inside the terminal. If the situation is not brought under control within 10 minutes, it issues alerts to higher management. “We have introduced several measures to enhance passenger experience and provide safe and hygienic environment to the travellers. Xovis PTS will help us ensure movement of passengers is smooth and physical distancing is not compromised” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL. Since the resumption of commercial flight operations in May, Delhi airport has implemented several measures, including deep cleaning of passenger touch points and terminal, installation of UV tunnel for sanitisation of baggage, putting up of sanitisation mats at strategic places and touchless check-in facility, to enhance passenger safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-system-to-track-flyers-help-mind-gap-at-igi/articleshow/79999353.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 29, 2020||Vadodara||Cop who extorted money from consultant arrested||VADODARA: The constable of Manjalpur police station, who is accused in an extortion cse, was arrested on Monday after his RT-PCR test turned out to be negative. Police said that the accused cop Ramesh Galsar will be produced before a local court on Tuesday and his custody for interrogation will be sought. “We will be interrogating him about the three civilians who were with him on November 13 and also try to know about the private SUV which they had used,” said deputy commissioner of police Dr Karanraj Vaghela. He added that Galsar will also be suspended in the coming days. Police officials also said that Galsar and his accomplices had already planned to find somebody who can be booked and then blackmail him for money and other valuables. “On that night, he was not assigned the patrolling duty on the highway but he and his accomplices’ planned to target somebody. so they were there with a private SUV,” Vaghela said. Galsar and three unidentified persons had stopped a consultant from Mumbai and blackmailed him as they found two liquor bottles from his car. The consultant Amit Kumar had decided to take night halt at a hotel in Vadodara while on his way to Udaipur. The cop took Rs 38,000 cash from Kumar and also siphoned off his mobile phone and smart watch worth Rs 40,000 each. Galsar also took away the two liquor bottles and soft drinks from Kumar, it is alleged. After returning to Mumbai from Udaipur, Kumar had written an email to assistant commisioner of police of F division with complaint against Galsar. After conducting a preliminary investigation, an offence of extortion, prohibition laws and Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against Galsar on Sunday. Cop was unfazed with complaint threat The accused cop Ramesh Galsar had held a meeting with Amit Kumar at an apartment near national highway-48 on November 18. The meeting was arranged as Kumar had called Galsar asking him to return his phone and smart watch. During the meeting, Galsar told Kumar that neither he nor any of his accomplices had taken his mobile phone and watch. Galsar was unmoved even when Kumar threatened to complain against him. He told the consultant that he is free to complain to anyone he wants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cop-who-extorted-money-from-consultant-arrested/articleshow/79999351.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Delhi||Corporation ‘scam’: AAP and BJP councillors come to blows at House meet||NEW DELHI: East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC)’s House meeting on Monday witnessed commotion with some elected representatives getting involved in a scuffle. While the councillors from BJP were blaming AAP-led Delhi government for not releasing “pending Rs 13,000 crore”, AAP councillors alleged Rs 2,500-crore scam in the corporations. As soon as the House proceedings started with condolence motion for a deceased relative of a BJP councillor in EDMC, heated argument started as AAP’s leader of opposition Manoj Tyagi raised objection for not mentioning a building collapse incident of his ward. Thereafter, a proposal for waiving off interest and penalty on one-time payment of houses tax till March 31, 2021 was brought and it was allegedly torn by an AAP councillor, according to EDMC mayor. This led to a brawl and some councillors allegedly hurled slippers at each other. Mayor Nirmal Jain later suspended two AAP councillors, including leader of opposition Manoj Tyagi and New Seemapuri councillor Mohini Jeenwal. “A disciplinary notice will be issued to the AAP councillor, Geeta Rawat,” the civic agency stated in a press release. AAP councillors, however, called the action biased. “We have filed police complaints against two BJP councillors, including former mayor, for unruly behaviour, using abusive language and casteist remarks,” said Tyagi. The EDMC mayor alleged that the AAP councillors were raising objections over everything. “They were demanding discussion on farmers’ bills, which have nothing to do with the corporation. They then targeted leader of House Pravesh Sharma and former mayor Bipin Bihari. Jeenwal even took out her slipper to attack BJP councillors while Rawat came on dias to reach us,” Jain claimed. Tyagi, however, said that “Jain acts like a BJP and not EDMC mayor.” “He didn’t take any action against Bihari who attacked me, used casteist remarks against Jeenwal and even hit her. Their other councillor, Santol Pal, used abusive language for Rawat,” he claimed. Senior AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak claimed that BJP councillors had started the ruckus. “We demanded a discussion on the Rs 2,500-crore scam but instead of a debate, they started abusing our councillors and manhandled our party functionaries. If they have done no wrong then why are they running away from debate and not ordering a CBI inquiry,” Pathak asked. During the north corporation meeting also, ruckus was witnessed. While some AAP councillors went to the visitor’s gallery and started flinging pamphlets, BJP councillors shouted slogans against the AAP-led Delhi government continuously. “If union minister Hardeep Puri can come all the way to end the mayors’ strike outside CM house, why can’t he get money released to three corporations directly from the Centre so that their financial condition can improve,” said Vikas Goel, AAP councillor and leader of opposition in the north corporation. Over alleged misappropriation of Rs 2,457 crore, the north corporation stated: “There is no truth in the said allegation. All steps were taken as per the decision of council of ministers and were communicated to commissioner MCD in March 2012.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-scam-aap-and-bjp-councillors-come-to-blows-at-house-meet/articleshow/79999333.cms||Vibha Sharma
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Waste disposal worry at Lake||KOLKATA: The Covid situation, coupled with the illness of a KMDA official in charge of maintenance and beautification of Rabindra Sarobar, has delayed a compost project at the lake, leading to a problem in disposal of dry leaves and twigs that are shed in copious quantities in winter. Sweeping activity at the lake to clear the walkways results in accumulation of five-six truck loads of biomass at the entrance near the Buddha temple located to the east of the Lake. On days when trucks don’t clear the garbage, the leaves and stray plastic waste pile up there and encroach upon the walkway, causing inconvenience to visitors. “The biomass waste needs to be managed properly while plastic and other non-biodegradable waste need to be disposed daily. Currently, the rotting biomass leads to the spread of foul smell in a part of the Lake. KMDA officials said they would set up a compost plant to convert the biowaste into manure that would then be used in Rabindra Sarobar and elsewhere. There were plans to even sell packaged compost to individuals for use in home gardens. But nothing has happened so far,” said environment activist, SM Ghosh, a regular at the Lake. Green activist, Sumita Mukherjee, suggests the dumping of garbage be shifted from the Lake to a buffer zone outside. “The dump is an eyesore and vitiates the atmosphere of the lake,” she said. KMDA officials said shifting the dump would not be practical as leaves and twigs would have to be transported to the interim dump. “We have asked the contractor, appointed to clear the garbage, to be more regular,” said a KMDA official. Two compost plants of 0.5 tonne capacity each were proposed for Rabindra Sarobar, one near the dump site and the other near Rabindra Sarobar Metro station at the western edge of the lake. But the project was put in the backburner after a key official helming it fell ill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/waste-disposal-worry-at-lake/articleshow/79999332.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid: 11 new cases, 1 death reported in Kolhapur district||KOLHAPUR: A total of 11 new cases of Covid-19 along with one death were reported across Kolhapur district on Monday. The patient who died due to the contagion was a resident of Kankavali in Sindhudurg district and was admitted to a private hospital in Kolhapur. The number of active patients in the district has now declined to 71 and all undergoing treatment in hospitals. Also, 12 patients got discharged from the hospitals after recovery on Monday. The total number of Covid cases in the district has gone up to 49,491, out of which 1,701 have succumbed to infection while 47,719 have been cured. Meanwhile, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has appealed to the private doctors and health workers to register themselves for getting the Covid vaccine shot. The authorities stated that doctors, nurses, government officials will get the vaccine in the first phase for which registration is mandatory. Sangli district on Monday reported 27 fresh cases and no death. The number of active cases has come down to 179. So far, the district has reported 47,532 cases, out of which 1,728 have succumbed to infection while 45,625 have been cured. Solapur city reported 12 new cases and no recoveries. The city reported two deaths and both of them were men — one of them a senior citizen while the other was 48-year-old. The city has so far reported 10,970 Covid cases and 592 deaths. No death in Satara Satara district reported 54 fresh Covid cases on Monday while no deaths due to the infection were recorded. With this, the total number of cases reached 54,595. The death toll has now risen to 1,795. As many as 51,533 patients have recovered while 1,267 are currently undergoing treatment. According to the official information released by district civil surgeon Dr Subhash Chavan, Phaltan tehsil added 10 cases, Koregaon tehsil recorded 12 cases and 10 people tested positive in Maan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-11-new-cases-1-death-reported-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/79997953.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 97-year-old tries to end life over son duping her||COIMBATORE: A 97-year-old woman and her three daughters on Monday attempted to commit self-immolation on the district collectorate premises. Murugammal Palanichamy, 97, of Kuppanur near Annur, came with her three daughters to the collectorate entrance and poured kerosene over them. Police rushed to the spot and stopped them. Later, Murugammal told reporters that her son Rangaswamy took her property documents from her many years back to apply for an electricity connection, but stealthily changed it to his name. "My son died 10 months back and now his wife and children are not willing to give my daughters or me a share of the property or a place to stay," she said, adding that she has been forced to beg. Murugammal on September 7 petitioned the collector for permission to end her own life as she was forced to beg after being cheated by her son. The Annur tahsildar collected all her documents and promised to look into the issue. Meanwhile, Periyamman, 85, a widow from Vadavalli, petitioned the collector seeking to retrieve her 5-cent land from her grandson. Periyamman, who lost her husband 45 years back, was accompanied by her neighbours. In her petition, Periyamman said her grandson, Gopalakrishnan, transferred her 5-cent plot to his name promising to take care of her. "However, he neither bought medicines nor groceries for food for me. My neighbours help me by giving me food, but I can’t buy medicines," she said. She either wanted the land back in her name or monthly monetary support from her grandson. Another woman, Nagamani, 67, also a widow, living on Thayir Itteri Road at Rathinapuri said her four daughters were forcing her to transfer 4.75 cent plot and house to their name. She accused her daughters, their husbands and brother-in-laws of physically abusing her often. "They don’t even let me collect my rent from the tenant and grab that money from me every month. Police refuse to register a case," she said. Under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act 2007, north taluk office has settled seven cases so far, cancelling property registrations worth Rs 2.7 crore and ordering monthly support in two cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/97-yr-old-woman-three-daughters-threaten-self-immolation-stopped/articleshow/79999356.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Vadodara||Mask penalty lands in ‘criminal’s bank account!||Vadodara: Much to the surprise of cops, fine for violating mask rule taken through digital payment platform went into the account of a Sayajigunj resident who has a criminal past. Rahul Pandya, a resident of Karelibaug, came under the scanner in Fatehgunj on December 26 when his mask slid below his mask while talking on phone. A constable from Sayajigunj police station, who was present nearby, asked Pandya to pay Rs 1,000 fine as he had not worn the mask properly. Pandya told the cop that he just had Rs 500 cash in his wallet and told the policeman that will withdraw money from the nearby ATM. “There were several others too who did not have enough money to pay the fine, so the cop asked to either pay through PayTM or Google Pay,” said Pandya. After others paid through Google Pay, the cop asked Pandya if too would pay through Google Pay or be taken to police station. “I did not want to escalate the issue so I paid through Google Pay on the number given by the cop,” Pandya said. He was given receipt for the fine. It later turned out that the money was not transferred to the cop’s personal bank account but a man living in Sayajigunj area who had criminal past. “The policeman allowed the man to pay digitally after he requested, otherwise he was to be brought down to the police station where an offence was to be registered against him,” said inspector S G Solanki of Sayajigunj. “No case has been registered in the past three to four years against the man in whose account the money was transferred,” he added. However, police sources said that there may not have been any recent case registered against the history-sheeter in question, but he has been continuing with his illegal activities and the cops are simply turning a blind eye.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mask-penalty-lands-in-criminals-bank-account/articleshow/79999369.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Delhi||Make in India: Stores toying with idea at Delhi's Jhandewalan||NEW DELHI: “Wherever there are children there will be toys, and since a large part of India’s population is so young, the potential is huge,” reasoned elderly Amarjit Singh, who heads the toy market association of Jhandewalan. Singh was among the first local manufacturers of toy tricycles in India. He argues that with the right policy changes, Delhi-NCR could become a toy hub surrounded by satellite towns just as Shanghai is with manufacturing locations like Pinghu, Yiwu and Ningbo. Perhaps that dream will come true because recent geostrategic events have gradually shifted preference from the dominating Chinese toys to Indian products. And the trend was highlighted even by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in last Sunday’s Mann ki Baat address, where he discussed self-reliance on toy manufacturing. Shopkeepers in Jhandewalan are pushing quality now to put Indian toys above the imported ones. Bhupender Singh said, “Chinese toys have been popular because they are cheap, but a bad product kills the customer-trader relation. Indian products can be replaced and repaired immediately.” While Singh admitted that production capacity and innovation remained low in the Indian manufacturing sector, Jhandewalan traders agreed that a lot needed to be done to catch up with the Chinese exports. Ajay Agarwal, president of the Toy Association of India, pointed out that the Indian share in the Rs-7 lakh crore global toy industry was less than 1%, and the majority of the 3,500 Indian manufacturers operated in the medium and micro sectors. Agarwal was, however, optimistic. “It is changing. Indian toy industry is moving in the right direction and several changes were brought in last year, such as the hike in import duty from 20% to 60%. BIS certification will also be mandatory from January 1, 2021,” Agarwal said. “Imports have gone down 20% and more positive developments will be seen in 2021.” While the demand for Chinese imports has reduced, the need for toys and games has actually gone up with children forced to remain indoors and out of classrooms due to the Covid-19 pandemic. At Sanagam Toys in Jhandewalan, Rajesh Chugh, a parent who had come from Dwarka to purchase educational board games for his kids, said, “We discovered many very good made-in-India games and puzzles. Traders can play a key role in displaying diverse options from Indian toy makers. The customers are willing to opt for Indian goods.” Deepak Murgai, a trader who specialises in electronic toys such as baby bikes and cars, maintained that India needed to do a lot to make its presence felt in this particular area. “We are way behind,” he said. “Almost 100% of miniature bikes and cars come from China. Indian toy makers have a negligible presence in the area of electronic toys,” said Murgai, a toy maker of 13 years’ standing. With Toy City in greater Noida, manufacturing units in Bawana and east Delhi and the upcoming 100-acre Toy Park on the Yamuna Expressway, Delhi NCR is developing into one the biggest manufacturing hubs for toys in India, followed by other surging manufacturing towns, including Chitrakoot, Kondapalli and Channapatna. But with 75% of the global toy market occupied by China, traders at Jhandewalan point out that it will take time to catch up with the feisty neighbour. The movement, however, seems headed in the right direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/make-in-india-stores-toying-with-idea-at-jhandewalan/articleshow/79999385.cms||Paras Singh
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||WFH suffers as power cuts hit west Nagpur||NAGPUR: Residents of Ravi Nagar, Gokulpeth, Dharampeth, etc had a harrowing time on Monday as power supply played hide and seek throughout the day. Those working from home had to face a lot of inconvenience due to MSEDCL’s mismanagement. A MSEDCL officer said the company staffers were making a cable joint and hence supply had to be taken from other sources. "This caused power supply to go off for a few times. However, the fault was rectified by evening and after that there was no problem," he added. Devesh Pathak, a software professional, who is working from home due to the coronavirus pandemic, said his work was greatly affected by the frequent power failures. "You don’t save your work after every one minute. Power supply went off four times and my desktop shut down every time. I had to redo the work that was not saved. I pay my bill honestly so I have a right to get quality power supply. Why doesn’t Mumbai experience such failures? Obviously, it is the mismanagement of local officials," he added. Vishal Tiwari, a chartered accountant, whose office is located in Dharampeth, slammed MSEDCL for the frequent power failures. "This is not happening for the first time. Power supply goes off for short durations anytime. Ever since load-shedding has ended we don’t have UPS at our office. So our work gets adversely affected due to these unscheduled cuts," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wfh-suffers-as-power-cuts-hit-west-nagpur/articleshow/79997980.cms||Ashish Roy
December 29, 2020||Coimbatore||PM Narendra Modi lauds father-daughter duo from Coimbatore for helping disabled canine friend||COIMBATORE: Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Maan Ki Baat address on Sunday praised father-daughter duo from the city for creating a wheelchair for their dog with broken legs to walk and run. In his speech, the Prime Minister said, "I have read about a touching initiative in Coimbatore. This initiative is inspiring and can happen only when a person is filled with kindness and compassion towards all." "We have seen wheelchairs for humans, but my daughter Gayatri in Coimbatore, along with her father, made a wheelchair for a suffering dog," he added, before moving on to praise hundreds of people who are helping street dogs during winters by donating blankets and their sweaters for them to lie down on. Gayatri, 21, and her father Kasilingam, 57, created a wheelchair for their dog ‘Veera’. Gayatri and Kasilingam, both residents of Saibaba Colony, were surprised when they got a call from Doordarshan on Saturday. The caller inquired about their innovation for their dog and a few videos of the dog using the wheelchair. "When the PM mentioned our names in his speech, we were elated," Gayatri said. "We are happy that by mentioning about us, more people with handicapped dogs will get an idea on how to improve their quality of life. I am willing to help anyone who contacts me to make such contraptions for their pets," Kasilingam, who is a mechanical engineer, said. Kasilingam made the wheelchair by using a child’s tricycle wheels for the wheels, PVC pipe parts to create crutches and harness to create a strap. "It took two to three modifications to get it right, but we used simple low-cost, low weight items to make the wheelchair. However, unlike a human wheelchair, the dog cannot fit the wheelchair himself and we need to help it," Gayatri, who adopted the four-year-old Pomeranian from the Humane Animal Society shelter three months back, said. The dog’s hind legs were broken, making him remain at a place for hours together without moving. Post fitting his wheelchair, ‘Veera’ now runs on the road. "The minute he even sees us lift his wheelchair or bring it towards him; he starts jumping with joy and starts acting crazy. And once we fit it, he doesn’t walk, but literally sprints across the house," she said. "So many people hesitate to adopt handicapped dogs, thinking it entails too much work, but that’s not true. They are easy to handle, easy to train and bring so much happiness," she added. The father and daughter became YouTube and WhatsApp sensations two months back when videos of their dog running on his wheelchair began viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pm-lauds-father-daughter-duo-for-helping-disabled-canine-friend/articleshow/79999372.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Loss making orchards at Bamu raise many eyebrows||AURANGABAD: The sprawling orchards spread across 101 acre on Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) campus have earned a paltry income of only Rs 18.33 lakh in the last 10 years. At the same time, the university has spent around Rs 1.2 crore towards expenses of maintaining the orchards. Details in this regard were disclosed during the senate meeting of Bamu on Monday, raising many eyebrows. Senate member Satish Dandge, who sought the profit-loss statement of the orchards during the senate proceedings, has accused the Bamu administration of mismanagement. “While the university was expected to earn profits from orchards, it is shocking to know that it is incurring losses. The effective management of orchards could have served as an effective source of revenue for the university administration,” he said. As per official data tabled before the senate, the university has a total of 24 employees associated with the orchards, including 22 contractual workers. The farms involve a large number of trees of mangoes, Amla, Tamarind, Custard apple and Chikoo among other trees. Bamu management council member Rahul Mhaske, who replied to the query regarding the orchards, said he only presented the available details provided by the university administration. “A detailed discussion involving all stakeholders is needed on how to improve the income from the orchards,” he said. NCP youth activist Rahul Tayde said it is suspicious that orchards remain loss-making for as many as 10 years. “We have a strong doubt that there is corruption in the management of orchards. The university administration should carry out inquiry into the matter. While other institutions earns handsome amount from their orchards, Bamu is losing money on it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/loss-making-orchards-at-bamu-raise-many-eyebrows/articleshow/79997979.cms||Prasad Joshi
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||Year-end solace as Covid-19 cases, deaths down significantly||Nagpur: Weekly comparison of Covid-19 tests, samples positivity rate, recovery rate and case fatality rate in last four weeks in Nagpur district clearly show that the outbreak is well under control. As Nagpur accounts more than 50% of cases and 65% of deaths due to Covid-19 in Vidarbha region, the effect is visible on Vidarbha region too. The recovery rate of Vidarbha is now more than 94%, for the first time since the outbreak.Nagpur is worst-hit right since the Covid-19 peak. By Monday, the district had 1,22,649 cases, which is more than 50% of total Vidarbha region cases. In September, when the Covid-19 was at its peak, 24 out of 100 samples used to test positive in Nagpur. This number is now less than nine per 100. According to WHO, if the samples positivity rate is less than 10%, the situation is considered ‘under control’. All four weeks in December, the sample positivity rate was less than 9% in Nagpur.Second parameter is recovery rate. Weekly analysis of recovery rate in district shows constant improvement in last four weeks. Recovery rate was at 76% in first week of December. During December 20 and 26, recoveries doubled compared to reported new cases taking the rate to 181%. More than 100% recovery rate was observed even during Covid-19 peak in September. But, that was the time when new cases were also high, so more recoveries were obvious. In December, cases are going down and still recoveries are improving which means the situation is getting better.Third and most impactful parameter is death rate or case fatality rate. Nagpur, during Covid-19 peak, saw case fatality rate touching 4%. In last two weeks, it has been around 2% which is less than Maharashtra state’s average of 2.56%. Number of weekly Covid-19 deaths which was more than 350 during September, has reduced to fewer than 50 in last two weeks of December.With 3,907 out of 6,500-odd deaths in Vidarbha, Nagpur still accounts for more than 60% deaths in the region. More than 15% of total deaths reported in Nagpur (594) are from the outstation/out-of-state patients. Data say that number of native (city deaths) has gone down significantly which is another important indicator of good control.Experts have reiterated that smaller waves of Covid-19 will continue to come and it’s in people’s hands to reduce the intensity of the spread. “We have still a long way to go. We have just started living with Covid. Physical distancing, hand washing, wearing mask need to made inseparable parts of our lives,” said Dr Nitin Shinde, infectious disease specialist.“We must learn that social distancing may not work indoors, quality of mask is most important for protection, and removing mask while talking makes entire effort useless,” he added. September 6 to 12 (During Peak)September 13 to 19(Peak period)November 22 to 28(post Diwali week)November 29 to December 05 (Diwali incubation period)December 06 to 12(Post incubation period)December 13 to 19(Relief period)December 20 to 26TESTS54,35547,68548,15630,90139,47936,04928,577POSITIVE11,64111,1952,8272,5013,2202,7082,369Sample POSITIVITY RATE21.41%23.47%5.87%8%8.15%7.518.28%DISCHARGED 11,91412,5751,4731,9177502,6284,288RECOVERY RATE102.30%112.3252.10%76.60%85.40%97%181%DEATHS 3523795969784949Case fatality RATE 3.20%3.40%2.00%2.75%2.42%1.8%2%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/year-end-solace-as-covid-19-cases-deaths-down-significantly/articleshow/79997997.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Textile unit worker found dead||Coimbatore: A 30-year-old textile unit worker was found murdered at Therkupalayam Pirivu on Palladam – Tirupur road on Monday morning. Police suspect that he might have been murdered by his co-worker and formed a special team to nab the murderer.K Murugan, 30, from Manamadurai in Sivaganga district, was working in a textile unit at Thennampalayam in Tirupur district. He was found murdered with cut injuries on his chest and throat in front of a textile company’s godown at Therkupalayam. Passers-by informed the Palladam police who came to the spot and sent the dead body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. Police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.Preliminary inquiries revealed that K Sakthivel, 40, from Manamadurai in Sivaganga district, was working with Murugan in the company. Following the murder, Sakthivel is missing from his place. Police suspect that Murugan might have been murdered by Sakthivel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/textile-unit-worker-found-dead/articleshow/79999359.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Plant nursery at prison sowing seeds of hope||Coimbatore: Deputy inspector general of prisons G Shanmugasundaram on Monday inaugurated a plant nursery at Gandhipuram, which will be operated by a team of inmates of the Coimbatore Central Jail.Saplings of over 40 plants are sold at ‘Freedom’ between 6am and 6pm. “Twelve convict prisoners grow saplings and prepare them for sales. We now have 1,000 saplings of jasmine, rose, coconut, pomegranate, plantains and neem,” said superintendent of prisons R Krishnaraj.Experts from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) trained the prisoners, who will be given a monthly salary. “We are getting good response from the public. We sold saplings worth Rs 1,500 on the first day,” said Krishnaraj.In an attempt to rehabilitate convicted prisoners, authorities had launched prison bazaars across the state. Under the initiative, prisoners here are operating a fuel station and a two-wheeler parking lot at Gandhipuram. Authorities also started a herb garden and an integrated farm where prisoners are rearing fish, rabbits and quails.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/plant-nursery-at-prison-sowing-seeds-of-hope/articleshow/79999378.cms||A Subburaj
December 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Erode SP: No New Year celebrations in hotels||Erode: New Year celebrations are not allowed at hotels or any public places after 10pm on December 31, district superintendent of police P Thangadurai said. He warned of criminal action against violators. The state government has recently banned New Year celebrations citing the Covid pandemic. Police personnel will be posted at the key checkposts in the district on December 31 night. “Cases will be booked against drunken drivers,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/erode-sp-no-new-year-celebrations-in-hotels/articleshow/79999375.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Allow cops to form association: Retired DSP to state govt||Erode: The state government should give permission for police personnel to start an association, said G Kaliyamurthy, retired DSP and the president of the Erode district retired police welfare association. He said police personnel and their family members will cast NOTA in the forthcoming assembly election, if the government denies permission. In a meeting of retired police personnel in Erode on Monday, Kaliyamurthy asked the state government the reasons for not allowing police personnel to form an association. There are 1.24 lakh working police personnel and 75,000 retired personnel in the state, he said. “With their family members, working and retired personnel will count around 10 lakh votes. Besides, family members will go the public asking them to cast NOTA in the 2021 assembly election. Our aim is to make at least 1 crore people to cast NOTA,” he said. He also said office-bearers will meet retired central and state government officials, ex-servicemen and other government personnel during the election campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/allow-cops-to-form-association-retired-dsp-to-state-govt/articleshow/79999376.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Vadodara||Bikes stolen from Vadodara used to ferry liquor||Vadodara: A racket of stealing bikes from Vadodara and using it for ferrying liquor in Chhota Udepur was unearthed by Makarpura police on Monday. A bike thief from Panchmahal and four residents of Chhota Udepur, who used to purchase the stolen vehicles, were arrested.Police said that the Panchmahal man Nitin Solanki was nabbed in the drive to detect vehicle thefts in the last one year. “Solanki was found using different tactics like crime mapping, setting up a decoy and going through footage of CCTV cameras,” said a police official. He was arrested on December 26 in Tarsali with a stolen motorcycle.Solanki told cops that he had stolen 25 bikes and sold them to four persons in Chhota Udepur. Of these, police recovered 20 vehicles that were stolen from Makarpura, Manjalpur, Harni, Fatehgunj, Bapod, Raopura, Varachha in Surat and Chhota Udepur. Based on Solanki’s admission, police arrested Udesing Rathwa, Tarju Rathwa, Sartan alias Lalu Rathwa and Desing Rathwa from Chhota Udepur.The four men confessed that they had used the bikes for ferrying country-made liquor in Chhota Udepur. “Prohibition cases were already registered against them in different police stations in Chhota Udepur, so including the 25 vehicle theft cases, the seven liquor cases were also detected with their arrests,” the police official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bikes-stolen-from-vadodara-used-to-ferry-liquor/articleshow/79999391.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||GMCH to send samples of new strain suspects to Pune’s NIV||NAGPUR: After the goof up that resulted in the first new strain suspect’s sample lying in city for more than two days, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has now been entrusted with the task of directly sending samples to National Institute of Virology (NIV) at Pune. GMCH is the designated health care facility for positive patients returning from the UK, Middle East and South Africa. It last week started a special ward for the new coronavirus patients. GMCH would be dispatching the samples either in morning or evening Pune flights. Unaware of the process, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had taken fresh sample for genomic sequencing at NIV despite the 28-year-old UK returnee from Nandanvan testing negative in RT-PCR at GMCH. He had tested positive for Covid-19 through rapid antigen test (RAT), and the sample VTM was not available. The fresh sample was handed over to IGGMCH, from where it couldn’t be sent for unexplained reasons. This type of confusion also poses a risk of the sample losing its usefulness. Besides, IGGMCH officials were left with the task of tracing the samples of other patients in close contact of new strain suspects at different labs. Hence, IGGMCH officials suggested that GMCH should send the samples directly as it is hosting the patients and suspects too. Of the five patients, so far one sample has been sent by GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-to-send-samples-of-new-strain-suspects-to-punes-niv/articleshow/79998004.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Beware of suspicious Covid vaccine registration link: Cops||AURANGABAD: The cybercrime branch of city police have expressed concerns over the number of messages being sent to people asking them to click on a link to register for Covid-19 vaccine. The suspects are using the phobia surrounding Covid-19 to cheat people. In some cases, phone calls are also being made by the suspects claiming to be representative from the health department or local municipal corporation. Commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta has asked the cyber crime branch officials to pull up their socks in bringing a check on the new modus operandi adopted by the cyber criminals. Though the sudden surge in the cases has added to the worries of the police, cyber inspector Geeta Bagwade said that so far no major cheating case has been reported.“But the possibility of gullible people landing in the trap, cannot be ruled out,” he said. Police have found that the suspects are taking advantage of the publicity surrounding the vaccination drive. Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Suresh Wankhede said, “This is the latest modus operandi being opted by the conmen and they are taking advantage of the publicity surrounding the vaccination drive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beware-of-suspicious-covid-vaccine-registration-link-cops/articleshow/79998003.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||NMC: Suspected patients of new Covid can go home before NIV results arrive||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Monday clarified that suspected patients of new variant of Covid-19 will not need to stay in special ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) till results come from National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. The civic body has left it to GMCH to decide on discharge of these patients.An NMC official told TOI, “Five such patients who returned from countries in Europe have tested positive for Covid-19 here. They are admitted in special ward at GMCH. We talked to officials at NIV who said results will take time. Therefore, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has left it to GMCH to decide on their discharge. GMCH will have to decide on clinical management parameters for their discharge.”GMCH officials said, “Suspected patients will be discharged on the basis of results of CAT scan of chest and blood tests after testing negative in RT-PCR test. They can be discharged within a week after testing negative, subject to home quarantine of one more week.”The first suspected patient of new strain, which had emerged in UK, was admitted at GMCH on Wednesday. He had tested positive with all his four family members on December 15 and 16, well before the SoPs were issued by the government. Following an appeal from the civic chief, he had disclosed himself as having returned from UK.NMC and GMCH delayed sending his swab samples for genome sequencing to NIV for two days. Genome sequencing will make it clear whether the patient tested positive for old or new variant. Till Monday, his results had not been received from NIV.Later, four more travellers had tested positive, including mother-daughter duo from Trimurti Nagar, and two men from Narendra Nagar and Mahal.On Monday, none of returnees from Europe, Middle East and South Africa tested positive.NMC has received list of 137 flyers, who returned between November 25 and December 23, from these particular countries from the Bureau of Immigration. As per SoPs issued by the government, the civic body is supposed to get them tested for Covid and also send swab samples to NIV.NMC additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane and medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar had ensured testing of 62 flyers till Monday, of which four tested positive. The fifth patient was in the list of Janjgir in Bilaspur district of Chhattisgarh and tested here is a resident of the city.Total of 58 flyers have tested negative as of now. Tests reports of remaining air passengers are pending, said NMC officials.Total 15 new flyers from these countries had arrived in city till Sunday. They are quarantined in private hotels and NMC’s VNIT quarantine centre. Their tests will be done on days 5 and 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-suspected-patients-of-new-covid-can-go-home-before-niv-results-arrive/articleshow/79998010.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Power supply to 96 houses along lake disconnected||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) disconnected power supply to 96 houses at Poosaripalayam, on the banks of Selvampathy lake, on Monday. An 80-member team consisting of six Tangedco engineers, Coimbatore corporation officials and police officers carried out the drive. The engineers removed electric metres, switch boxes and lines from the illegal houses.Inmates of as many as 360 houses were served eviction notices after the Madras high court ordered to remove all encroachments along water bodies to carry out projects under the Smart Cities Mission.Authorities had planned to cut power to the houses on December 24. But MLA P R G Arun Kumar requested them to postpone the drive.On Monday, when the residents got ready to protest, police and Tangedco officials pacified them. “The slum clearance board had issued eviction notices and gave them alternate housing two years ago,” corporation’s town planning officer in charge of encroachment removal T Ravichandran said.While some residents made frantic calls to local politicians and the MLA, the officials managed to disconnect power. Power connection was given to the illegal structures decades ago after obtaining no-objection certificate from TNEB. “We don’t mind being shifted to somewhere within 5km, like Veerakeralam or Selvapuram. If we have to move to the new accommodations, our children will be affected as they will have to travel a long distance to reach schools and colleges,” said Kumaravel, a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/power-supply-to-96-houses-along-lake-disconnected/articleshow/79999389.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Schools asked to utilize 10% of grant to keep premises clean||The school education department has directed schools to utilize 10% of grant allotted for implementing Swachh Action Plan to keep the school premises clean ahead of reopening. Recently, the department released Rs 1.23 crore for 193 government high and higher secondary schools. A circular from the office of chief educational officer said the fund should be utilized to take all the Covid-19 precautionary measures at the schools. "Separate hand washing and drinking water facilities should be set up. Hand sanitizers or soaps should be kept at the washing facilities. Entire school premises should be cleared of the bushes, cleaned and fumigated. Thermal screening machines should be purchased along with the essential cleaning materials," the circular said. For the past three years, the department has been issuing specific directions to use 10% of the school grant for maintaining hygiene on the school premises and depending upon the strength of the school, the grant would vary from Rs 1,250 to 10,000, said an official from Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan. The remaining fund could be utilized to repair the infrastructural damages or to procure laboratory equipment, the official added.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/schools-asked-to-utilize-10-of-grant-to-keep-premises-clean/articleshow/79999394.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant kills security guard||Coimbatore: A 65-year-old Selvapuram resident, who ventured out of his workplace on the foothills of Marudhamalai on Monday morning to get a cup of tea, was killed by a wild elephant.The victim, S Mohammed Niyas, was working as a private security guard in a building near the Government Law College on Marudhamalai Road. “He had left the place around 6am and did not notice the lone tusker standing on the road. The animal pushed him down, killing him on the spot,” a forest department official said.The body was handed over to the family after postmortem was conducted at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. The department gave Rs 50,000 to the family. Rs 3.5 lakh will be given later, the official said.The incident has prompted the department to prohibit use of Marudhamalai Road till 7am. “Our frontline staff will warn walkers against using the road in early morning and evening hours,” district forest officer D Venkatesh said.Two-wheelers will be allowed to the foothills from Navavur Pirivu only after 7am, assistant conservator of forests M Senthilkumar said.The department is also planning to prompt the Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department to ban all commercial activities on the foothills between November and January, additional principal chief conservator of forests I Anwardeen said. “Elephant herds that migrate to the Thadagam valley from Boluvampatti between November and January pass through the Marudhamalai foothills. We had requested joggers not to use the Marudhamalai Road in the early morning hours, but several people are spotted there even in the wee hours.”Buildings on the migratory path of elephants obstruct their movement, Anwardeen said. “We plan to conduct a meeting with Bharathiar University officials to get back some land that the elephants can use as transit pathway.”As many as 18 people were killed by wild elephants in the Coimbatore forest division this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-kills-security-guard/articleshow/79999380.cms||A Subburaj
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||State nod to in-person special GB meet, mayoral polls on Jan 5||NAGPUR: After a notification to conduct special general body meeting of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to elect new mayor and deputy mayor was issued and scheduled for January 5 on December 24, the state government on Monday allowed the election process in-person. After the government’s nod, the civic body on Monday evening issued the agenda for organizing the meeting for election of mayor and deputy mayor to be held at Suresh Bhat Hall at 11 am on January 5 by strictly following Covid-19 guidelines like wearing masks, hand sanitizers etc. The NMC has not conducted an in-person general body meeting since June. After the unlock phase started, the NMC attempted to conduct a general body meeting in June. But with rise in Covid-19 cases and as a precautionary measure to avoid any spread of the virus, the government had stalled in-person meeting in the civic body. Recently, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said the government has allowed to conduct meetings of various consultative committees but not for the general body. With delay in getting permission for in-person meeting, the civic administration had prepared for the online mode to conduct the election to be held during the special general body meeting because of the spread of Covid-19. However, the NMC, while seeking permission to hold the meeting in-person, had contended that holding a meeting on any subject virtually is not a problem but organizing elections will be challenging task for the administration. During the lockdown period, the NMC had convened at least three general body meetings and several other meetings, including standing committee meeting virtually. But it was marred with technical snags. The nomination process for both the posts will commence from December 30 and the forms will be accepted till January 2. The mayor’s post, which has been reserved from the general category, but senior corporator Dayashankar Tiwari has been shortlisted. The ruling BJP will replace deputy mayor Manisha Kothe with open category. Varsha Thakre and Divya Dhurde are the frontrunners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-nod-to-in-person-special-gb-meet-mayoral-polls-on-jan-5/articleshow/79998023.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||How East UP’s fruit, veg exportbranched out amid Covid crisis||Varanasi: When most of the vegetable growers and farmers were facing losses due to dip in prices of their produce in local markets during the coronavirus pandemic, some of them made inroads into foreign markets and shipped consignments to UK, Australia and Gulf countries. The turnaround was made possible with the combined efforts of Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) and state government officials, who ensured formation of farm produce organisations (FPOs) for the export of green chilli, bottle gourd (lauki), cucumber and mango to Dubai and UK and varieties of rice from Chandauli to Australia and Qatar. APEDA is a body under the Union ministry of commerce and industry which is responsible for export promotion of agricultural products. The Authority has now opened its regional office in Varanasi. Ramkumar Rai, an academician-turned-agriculturist created history in the agriculture sector by forming an FPO at Joga Musahir village in Bhanvarkole area which exported green vegetables to UK and Dubai. “Besides various states of the country, I have been exporting vegetables to Nepal and Bangladesh for the last 15 years. In 2015, I started exporting vegetables to Dubai and other Gulf countries. When the prices of green vegetables were at its lowest during coronavirus lockdown, I got an export order from London (UK) which was a first for the region,” Rai says. “It was a challenging task at a time when all means of transportation were unavailable. We ensured special permission for refrigerated vans to take the consignment to the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi for its dispatch to London,” says divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal. “Mangoes from the region were sent to mango pack house in Rehman Kheda in Lucknow for packaging as per export standards before being sent to Dubai or UK. Now, we are trying to develop pack houses in Varanasi itself. Once it is done, the produce will be exported from LBS International Airport through the cargo facility at Rajatalab, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in July 2018,” he says. Speaking on export orders that materialised during Covid-19 lockdown, assistant general manager, APEDA, CB Singh says: “APEDA has been working hard to make the region an export hub. Fortunately, it became possible during lockdown when every industry started struggling. Most of the farmers had started leaving their produce in farms as they were unable to bear the expense of labour involved in harvesting.” “Okra, sponge guard, bottle gourd and green chilli were sold at Rs 2-5 per kg,” he recalls. “In such a situation, APEDA acted as a bridge between farmers and exporters and provided a platform to all stakeholders to interact and make things easy for farmers. APEDA officials visited farm fields to sort out export quality products and prepared the roadmap for the export of mangoes and vegetables from Varanasi region,” he says. “Export orders for fresh vegetables and mangoes increased the earnings by up to 2-3 times than the average price received by farmers for their produce,” Singh adds. Apart from green vegetables and mangoes, black rice and Samba variety of rice from Chandauli were also purchased in bulk by a firm in Ghazipur for export to Australia and Qatar. “Chandauli farmers were earning Rs 1,840 per quintal as per the minimum support price announced by the government or up to Rs 2,500 per quintal in local market. But, this firm purchased black rice at Rs 8,500 per quintal which was almost four times the MSP of the last Kharif crop,” Singh says. According to APEDA officials, farmers of the region have succeeded in hitting the markets in Dubai, Oman, London and Australia with their produce in the last few months. Export of bananas from Ghazipur is also in the queue. Market is also being explored in Gulf, Europe and South East Asia for export.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/how-east-ups-fruit-veg-exportbranched-out-amid-covid-crisis/articleshow/80001110.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||Remembering Dr Watsa, the Vatsyayana of modern India||Today, we have lost our mentor. Dr Mahinder Watsa was a great human being. He helped and guided most of us (doctors) working in field of human sexuality. My association with him was more than three decades old. He was like a father figure for me and many contemporary sexologists in the world. I enjoyed special affection and mentorship of Dr Watsa. For me, he was next to God in the field of sexology. In 1997, he motivated me to join this field and encouraged me to keep working in it. I still remember the hospitality I enjoyed in his spacious villa in Mumbai’s Shivaji Park whenever I used to visit. I consider the time spent with him, listening to his wisdom, and learning from him as the best days of my life as a lifetime student of human sexuality. Apart from being an excellent doctor, Dr Watsa had great organizational skills. He pioneered global institution like a Council of Sex Education and Parenthood International (CSEPI). He motivated me to work for this organization of which I am the present chairperson. Dr Watsa was our founder and president and with his demise, we will dissolve this post forever now. He was a great ambassador of India’s sexual progressiveness and wisdom. Once, he asked me to organize a sex education and parenthood conference in Khajuraho. We all know that carvings on the inner and outer walls of Khajurao temples depict lessons in sex education. But, with the conference held in 2011, doctors from many countries in the world also came to know about India’s heritage. The conference was a great success. In a country where discussing sex openly is still a taboo for many, Dr Watsa, son of a military doctor, enjoyed a fan following that makes him a true legend. We must keep in mind that when Dr Watsa chose to became the ‘Vatsyayana’ of modern India, the Internet did not exist and access to sex education was very limited. Dr Watsa came to Nagpur on three occasions. He attended the National Conference of Sexology twice in Nagpur — in 2007 and 2016. I was the organizing secretary for both. Apart from medical conferences, once he came as a chief guest on Doctors’ Day in 2008 when I was secretary of IMA Nagpur. I last met him on February 26 this year at his Mumbai home. Dr Watsa will be remembered as a great doctor, an honest man, a witty writer, and a Guru for entire generation of sexologists. His laughs, clarity, love, will keep inspiring us for ages to come. (Dr Sanjay Deshpande is a senior sexologist in Maharashtra and chairperson of CSEPI, the organization founded by Dr Watsa)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/remembering-dr-watsa-the-vatsyayana-of-modern-india/articleshow/79999125.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Vijayawada||CM distributes house sites in Chittoor, takes swipe at oppn||Tirupati: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who took part in a house sites distribution programme at Uranduru village under Srikalahasti assembly constituency in Chittoor district on Monday, attacked opposition TDP for creating legal hurdles to stop the programme. Recalling his interactions with landless poor during his padyatra in the run-up to the 2019 elections, Jagan said he had promised them the YSRC government will distribute 25 lakh house sites after coming to power. “I came face to face with poverty and was moved by the plight of the landless poor. In addition to 28.3 lakh houses being constructed for poor, 2.62 lakh Tidco flats would be constructed in next three years for which government will bear an additional financial burden of Rs 4,287 crore. The government will also spend Rs 7,000 crore towards infrastructure development,” he said. While the government is trying its best to bring about change, the opposition is creating legal hurdles to delay the process, Jagan alleged. “I wonder at times whether they even have humanity and whether they deserve to be in public life. The housing scheme couldn’t be launched in my home constituency (Pulivendula). Beneficiaries at other places are also suffering due to legal hurdles created by TDP,” he said. The CM later distributed site pattas to 6,232 women beneficiaries. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-distributes-house-sites-in-chittoor-takes-swipe-at-oppn/articleshow/80000685.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||Protest for crop insurance payout ends in scuffle at Ytl||Yavatmal: Agitation demanding insurance claim payout to farmers who have lost their crops due to excessive rains ended with a scuffle between Shiv Sena contact chief Santosh Dhawale and general manager of IFFCO Tokio General Insurance Company Limited Sachin Suroshe here on Monday.Responding to the call by sitting Sena MP from Yavatmal-Washim Bhavana Gawali, a large number of farmers from across the district had gathered at local SBI Square to stage a dharna. At the end of the ‘Jawab Do’ agitation, a delegation led by Gawali and her supporters met Suroshe, who had come to the city to hear grievances of the farmers. During the meeting, Gawali demanded compensation payout to over 4.50 lakh farmers in the district who had paid premium to the company under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY). The company has released compensation to only 9,776 farmers in the district so far. The MP said preliminary survey report submitted by district agriculture department has confirmed heavy damage to crops like soyabean and cotton. “The insurance company should pay compensation on the basis of the department’s report,” said Gawali.Dissatisfied over the insurance company official’s reply, Dhawale allegedly threw soyabean seeds at Suroshe and attempted to thrash him by holding his collar. Suroshe's office employees and police rescued the general manager and took him away from the spot.Soon thereafter, Gawali left the meeting saying she would solve the matter using Sena tactics. Those who attended the meeting with insurance company officials included former MLA Balasaheb Mungantiwar, Sena city chief Pintu Bankar, Mahesh Pawar of Swamini Janandolan, Ashok Bhutada and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/protest-for-crop-insurance-payout-ends-in-scuffle-at-ytl/articleshow/79999145.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Pedana municipal chief attacked over harassment allegations||VIJAYAWADA: Tension prevailed in Pedana town after its municipal commissioner M Anjaiah was allegedly assaulted by sanitation staff while on his way for a morning walk on Monday. According to Pedana police sources, sanitation workers attacked Anjaiah alleging that he was sexually harassing and misbehaving with one of their colleagues. Police said that they have received a complaint from the person concerned and have launched an investigation into the incident. Meanwhile, cops also acknowledged that they have not received any complaint from the municipal commissioner who was attacked. However, Anjaiah did make a statement speaking to the media condemning the accusations made against him. The woman, in her complaint, has demanded strict action against the municipal commissioner. Sources said that the sanitary workers have also given a representation to the mandal revenue officer (MRO) seeking action against Anjaiah. Cops said that Anjaiah was taken to a local government hospital and got treated for minor injuries. Meanwhile, Pedana police said the sanitation workers have given a complaint and had gone to Machilipatnam to report the same to higher officials. So far, no case has been registered over sexual harassment however police clarified that they are yet to officially receive a written complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/municipal-chief-attacked-over-harassment-allegations/articleshow/80000739.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Delhi||Soap to slippers: 28 basic items free for farmers at this mall||NEW DELHI: To ensure protesting farmers don’t have to run around for their basic and essential items, Khalsa Aid has set up another Kisan Mall for them. While the first such mall was set up at Tikri Border a week back, the second one was set up at Singhu border on Sunday evening. Toothpaste, desi geysers, disposable bags, slippers, shoes, washing soap and blankets are among the 28 items available at the mall for free for farmers. Each trolley is given a token as per the number of people staying in it. To avoid duplication, names, phone numbers and even Aadhar Card numbers of the people are registered. On Monday afternoon, several people queued up towards a lane at Singhu border where the mall has been set up. Just outside it, volunteers from Khalsa Aid were distributing fruits also. Kulbir Singh, a volunteer, said: “We are doing sewa here for our farmers who provide us food. We have been here earlier as well and realised that the protesting farmers needed basic things for their survival. As they are braving biting cold, blankets are also needed. We decided to make a list of things, which were required by them, and thanks to the people who donate to us, we were able to set up the mall.” Singh said that a team of 60-70 volunteers from different states was working at the mall. “We ensure that the mall does not get crowded and the items are sanitised as well. The mall is functional from 9am to 5pm and people can come anytime to take their essential items. The process is going on smoothly so far,” said Singh. Khalsa Aid has even got some necessary items delivered to the farmers at Ghazipur. Watch Delhi: Soap to slippers, 28 basic items free for farmers at this mall in Singhu border||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/paste-to-slippers-28-basics-for-free-for-farmers-at-this-mall/articleshow/79999420.cms||Sakshi Chand
December 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: New ticket counter sought at rail station||AURANGABAD: The demand for creating a separate entry gate and ticket counter at the rear of Aurangabad railway station was raised during the recently held meeting involving railway officials. Rajya Sabha member Bhagwat Karad, who attended the meeting, said the desired facilities would be helpful for residents of Waluj, Beed bypass and Paithan road among other nearby areas of Aurangabad. “The residents from these areas have to cover a considerable distance to reach the existing entry point of the railway station. Aurangabad railway station has adequate space to raise the desired facilities,” he said. As per official estimates, Aurangabad railway station witnesses a footfall of around 15,000 passengers per day. The separate entry gate and a ticket counter is expected to facilitate smooth flow of passengers. Among other demands, the aforesaid meeting, which was attended by divisional railway authorities, saw discussion on pending demand for construction of pit-line at Chikalthana at Aurangabad. Railway activist Anant Borkar said the pit-line would give an edge to the rail connectivity for Marathwada. “The SCR top-brass in the past had supported the demand for pit-line. However, things fail to progress till date. We have renewed the demand for pit-line now with support from public representatives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/new-ticket-counter-sought-at-rail-station/articleshow/79998043.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||Travel bug lures many people out of homes for year-end holidays||Nagpur: The travel bug seems to be more infectious than Covid for many. After a dull season in Diwali, tourists have finally begun to venture out. If not a rush, it certainly is busy season at a number of tourist destinations, nearby and far.Tourists are reportedly heading for places as far as Himachal and Goa, or Pench and Pachmarhi in the vicinity.Passenger traffic at Nagpur airport has crossed 5,500 on an average since last one week. This is an increase of close to 1,000. The flights to Goa, a popular destination, began less than a fortnight ago, and the load is close to normal. “As against full capacity of 180 seats there have been days when the occupancy has touched 110 seats on flights to Goa. This is close to the pre-Covid numbers despite the mandatory RT-PCR tests for returnees,” said an airport source.“Unlike Delhi and Mumbai, where individuals may take business trips, Goa remains largely a tourist destination. A near normal flow of passengers indicates people have begun taking up leisure travel too,” said a source at the airport.There has been a rush in trains too. A source in Central Railway said the waiting list is up to 80 to 100 persons for reservations since a little before Christmas, which indicates that it may be holiday rush.Apart from Goa there has been rush towards the north too. Amol Khante of CAC All Rounder said, “Tourists are also travelling to Manali and Solan in Himachal Pradesh. There were hardly any inquiries in Diwali but a marked revival was seen in December.” He added that he sent 50 clients in last one week.Travellers are, however, avoiding New Delhi and are directly flying to Chandigarh or any other station instead of taking a cab to the hills like earlier, he said. Closer to home, Pachmarhi hills, the all-time favourite retreat of Nagpurians, is also full, say tour operators there.“It’s peak season here and hotels have increased the rates. The rush is expected to continue for one more week. Majority of tourists are from Nagpur,” said Mancheel Kumar Sahoo, a guide and Gypsy operator at Pachmarhi.“Strict safety protocol is being followed. Not more than six persons are allowed in a vehicle. Access has been restricted to the waterfalls and no bathing is allowed,” he said.Raja Khan of Satpura Resort at the Madhai jungle close by also said there is rush even there. Here, tourists are mainly from parts of Madhya Pradesh like Bhopal and Indore, apart from a small number from Nagpur, he said.Kailash Jogani, who runs Nakshatra resort at Pench, Madhya Pradesh, said the rush this December has been the highest in last three years. Tourists are coming from all parts of Vidarbha, and also Madhya Pradesh, he added.Sanjay Kothari of Gladiolus Hotels said the arrivals are so many that last minute booking is certainly not possible at forest resorts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/travel-bug-lures-many-people-out-of-homes-for-year-end-holidays/articleshow/79999037.cms||Shishir Arya
December 29, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Scope’ brings teachers, students together to promote learning||Coimbatore: M Thahaseena, a Class XI student of CCMA Girls Higher Secondary School on Raja Street, wore the uniform and stepped out of her house after a gap of nine months to meet her classmates and her teacher P Sangeetha at the school, before visiting handicraft makers in the locality. With four of her classmates, Thahaseena is doing a project on ‘Economic Importance of Handicrafts’ as part of the school education department’s specific concept-oriented project experience (Scope) initiative.As many as 70 teams in 10 schools in the district are doing projects in seven subjects - Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Botany, Zoology, Commerce and Economics. “The projects aim to improve participation of average and below-average students in academic and extracurricular activities by invoking interest through practical activities,” said an official from Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), implementing body of the project. “Ever since I was selected for the project, I was excited and over the days, the kind of activities we do has increased my interest. As part of the project, we visited libraries to refer books and prepared a questionnaire. Then we conducted a survey among our neighbours, handicraft shops and craft makers. Almost all the people we met responded well and the experience motivated us,” Thahaseena told TOI. “The project not just invoked interest in Economics, but also brought the teacher, who I had never met in person until the last month, close. Earlier, I was afraid to clear doubts. But now that I know her well, I am confident of approaching her any time.”The students are forthcoming and are very much involved in the project, said Sangeetha. “Through the project, I wanted to create a bond with the students, so that they will be interested to learn my subject without any aversion. They also gained self-confidence,” she said.N Selvi, a teacher at the Ondipudur Government Higher Secondary School, said her team is working on ‘Day-to-day Application of Bayes Theorem’ by collecting Covid-19 data in the district. “Due to the pandemic situation, we decided to do the project using online data,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/scope-brings-teachers-students-together-to-promote-learning/articleshow/79999412.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 29, 2020||Coimbatore||K’taka engineers undergo training||Coimbatore: A team of 26 newly recruited engineers from municipal corporations in Karnataka reached the city on Monday for a two-day-long exposure visit.The engineers will learn about the 24/7 drinking water project, Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) projects, lake beautification and rejuvenation project, solar power plant and sewage treatment plants (STPs) being set up under the Smart Cities Mission, said an official with the Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies (TNIUS) in-charge of training corporation and municipality employees. “They will also visit G. Kuppuswamy Naidu Memorial Hospital to learn about the multi-level car parking system there, children’s traffic park and smart trees set up by the city corporation. The field visit would help them execute similar projects back home,” the official said.The engineers, from eight corporations including Mysuru, Mangaluru, Belgaum and Shimoga, are undergoing a month-long training programme at the Karnataka State Institute of Urban Development in Mysuru and the exposure visit is part of the training, he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ktaka-engineers-undergo-training/articleshow/79999409.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Dr Sudhakar case: Andhra Pradesh high court seeks detailed report from CBI||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday expressed dissatisfaction over the report filed by the CBI in Dr Sudhakar case and sought a detailed report with the signature of a CBI official not less than additional director rank. Dr Sudhakar was suspended from service for making allegations against the government over poor safety gear provided to doctors on Covid-19 duties. On May 17 he was taken into custody by Vishakapatnam police for reportedly creating nuisance on public road in a drunk state. The high court ordered a CBI probe into the issue and directed it to file cases against police who used excessive force while arresting the doctor. The CBI, after a detailed inquiry, had submitted its report to the high court in a sealed cover with the signature of SP rank official. However, the HC bench headed by Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice D Ramesh directed the agency to resubmit the report by March 31 and posted the matter for further hearing to first week of April 2021. In another development, the high court passed an interim order stating that the final recruitment of Group I posts has to made as per the guidelines issued by the court. The bench, headed by Chief Justice JK Maheswari and Justice K Lalitha, passed the order after hearing a petition filed by some aspirants seeking cancellation of the examination. The petitioners claimed that officials didn’t permit non-programmable calculators into the exam hall. There were also many mistakes in the question papers, they said. The petition was earlier rejected by a single judge bench on December 22. Sh Navaz and a few others moved to the upper bench for appeal. The high court considered their arguments and passed the interim order directing the APPSC to inform candidates that the final result would be declared following the court’s orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dr-sudhakar-case-hc-seeks-detailed-report-from-cbi/articleshow/80000732.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan seeks immediate aid for farmers||VIJAYAWADA: Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan on Monday said he would block the legislative assembly if the government failed to give compensation to farmers who lost their crop in cyclone Nivar. Kalyan was addressing a public gathering at a rally in support of farmers at Machilipatnam and Gudivada. He submitted a memorandum at the district collector’s office demanding immediate compensation for farmers who lost their crops in the cyclone. Kalyan received a welcome from party functionaries and followers at Gudivada Nehru Bomma centre. Addressing the gathering, he alleged that the local legislator and ministers were ignoring the welfare of the people and asked locals to demand that ministers repair roads in the region, which are in poor condition.  The Jana Sena chief also alleged that ruling party legislators are running gambling clubs instead of resolving issues faced by the public. In Machilipatnam, Kalyan marched along with the farmers and demanded the government release compensation money from the Rs 17,500 crore revenue generated from the sale of liquor. Stating that he would soon lead a people’s agitation if the government did not come forward to address problems faced by the public, Kalyan said, “People of AP are closely watching them (legislators) and they will soon teach them a lesson.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pawan-seeks-immediate-aid-for-farmers/articleshow/80000698.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt directs departments to set up basic infra in housing layouts||Amaravati: Making another move to making housing for all come to fruition, the state government has directed line departments to take immediate measures to create basic infrastructure in the YSR Jagananna housing layouts. This is to help the beneficiaries start construction of houses in the plots being distributed over the last two days. The state government has granted the green signal for the construction of about 15 lakh houses in the first phase. The construction of remaining 17 lakh houses in the 31 lakh plots would be commenced during the next financial year. The state government had readied a model house in the colonies where the houses are to be constructed in the first phase. The beneficiaries have been directed to stick to the model readied by the housing department to reduce the cost. The housing department had already started procurement of cement, steel, window frames, fans, lights and synthetic tanks on wholesale price to bring down the cost of the housing unit. Meanwhile, key infrastructure departments including rural water supply (RWS), municipal administration, panchayat raj, electricity have been directed to set their focus on creation of infrastructure in the upcoming colonies immediately. While RWS would provide drinking water facility in rural colonies, municipal administration department would take up the works in colonies created for urban poor. Sources said that the state government had granted its nod for spending of Rs 950 crore for providing drinking water facilities in the new colonies. The RWS department had deputed field engineers to track the right location to dig borewells. The water would be initially supplied through borewell till the overhand reservoirs were constructed. The department would construct sufficient number of borewells in the colonies depending on the housing units coming up in respective area. “We are planning to create drinking water facilities in about 8000 colonies by March 2021,” said RWS ENC Krishna Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-directs-departments-to-set-up-basic-infra-in-housing-layouts/articleshow/80000715.cms||Samdani MN
December 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt to release Rs 646 cr to aid farmers who lost crop||Amaravati: The state government is set to initiate payment of input subsidy for farmers who suffered crop damage as a result of cyclone Nivar. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will formally credit an amount of Rs 646 crore into the respective bank accounts of farmers on Tuesday. This will mark the first time in the state government’s history wherein input subsidy will be paid within one month of crop damage due to natural calamities. The chief minister had announced in the state assembly that the government was committed to complete the crop damage assessment by December 15 and release compensation by December 31. Following extensive damage to crops due to cyclone Nivar, the government swung into action immediately to complete the enumeration of crop damage. It had announced timelines for completion of enumeration by allocating additional teams at the field level. The list of farmers who lost their crop was published at local Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) in the second week of December for farmers to verify. Following verification by farmers and validation by the field teams, agriculture commissioner H Arun Kumar requested the government to release Rs 601.7 crore for payment of input subsidy to farmers in 12 districts. He explained that crops in nearly 4.6 lakh hectares was damaged as a result of the heavy rains and over 7.8 lakh farmers had suffered losses. Similarly, horticulture commissioner Dr Chiranjeev Chaudhury requested the government for Rs 44.33 crore for payment of input subsidy to owners of nurseries who suffered losses due to the cyclone. The government had approved both requests and directed the finance department to disburse Rs 646 crore towards input subsidies. Elsewhere, agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu lashed out at TDP MLC Nara Lokesh for allegedly running a campaign against the government in the guise of meeting cyclone victims. He said that Lokesh should feel ashamed for not releasing the input subsidies and compensation to farmers who ended their lives during TDP regime and added that chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had kept his promise of making input subsidy before December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-release-rs-646-cr-to-aid-farmers-who-lost-crop/articleshow/80000680.cms||Samdani MN
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||Attacked by Sena men for backing Kangana: Actor||Nagpur: Radio jockey-turned-actor Pritam Singh aka Preetam Pyare, who has featured in Bollywood films and several TV shows including Big Boss 8, was allegedly assaulted by Shiv Sena activist Karan Tuli and his friend Richi Sethi on December 26 at Kamgar Nagar for supporting actor Kangana Ranaut over her social media tirade against Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, especially Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. City’s Shiv Sena leaders have, it is learnt, kept themselves away from the controversy stating it was more of an individualistic enmity than political affair. Following Singh’s complaint, non-cognizable offences for assault and threatening were registered against Tuli and Sethi at Kapil Nagar police station. Singh also took to social media to claim his life and family were under threat from the duo. Tuli and Sethi too approached Kapil Nagar police against Singh claiming it was he who had attacked them. Singh said he had a difference of opinion with Tuli and others over Ranaut’s social media outbursts against the MVA government. “It was just a routine social media tussle which I had thought would end there. Tuli and his friend attacked me over it after several months, at a common friend’s place,” said Singh. “Later, they went to my family-owned shop and abused my mother and threatened everyone present there,” he said. Tuli said police can scan CCTV footage to ascertain who had attacked whom. “It was Pritam who had assaulted me and my friend,” he said. “Singh had been insulting our Sena leader, which we protested against,” said Tuli. It’s learnt Singh and Tuli have been summoned by CP Amitesh Kumar at his office on Tuesday. Kapil Nagar police sources said Tuli’s complaint against Singh has been received and kept under investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/attacked-by-sena-men-for-backing-kangana-actor/articleshow/79999073.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Woman killed in violent clashes at Velagapudi in Guntur district||VIJAYAWADA: A 40-year-old woman was killed during violent clashes between two groups at Velagapudi village in Guntur district on Sunday night. The deceased was identified as Mariyamma (40). According to Thullur police, the incident happened on Sunday night over a dispute regarding the naming of a newly-constructed arch and an old rivalry. Tempers flared as heated arguments soon turned violent after some from the two groups began to pelt stones against each other resulting in the clashes. Mariyamma who was present there suffered head injuries and was rushed to Thullur government hospital where she succumbed while receiving treatment. Cops said two other persons suffered injuries and are said to be out of danger. After Mariyamma’s death, family members and other villagers staged a dharna with her body demanding action against the persons responsible.  Home minister Mekathoti Sucharita along with Bapatla MP N Suresh, MLAs Undavalli Sridevi, M Nagarjuna, MLC D Manikya Vara Prasad visited the village on Monday morning. The villagers raised slogans against the MP, blaming him for the clashes. Sucharita condemned the violence and announced Rs 10 lakh ex-gratia to Mariyamma’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-killed-in-violent-clashes-at-velagapudi/articleshow/80000729.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Experts bat for merger of Vijayawada & Guntur||AMARAVATI: Urban planners and experts feel that creation of simple infrastructure for development of townships could easily merge Vijayawada and Guntur. In fact, Vijayawada and Guntur cities have the potential to emerge as a major economic hub in the state. Experts suggest that chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy should tap the best resources of the two cities by converting them as twin cities. “Jagan should make use of the overwhelming mandate given to him and set focus on development of Vijayawada and Guntur cities along with Visakhapatnam and Kurnool or Kadapa,” opined retired principal and economics professor, Dr DAR Subramanyam. Experts are of the view that twin cities would act as economic power to the state despite relocation of the executive capital city to Vizag if the region is properly groomed. They, however, caution that the region should not be neglected in the larger interests of the state. “There are many land parcels, small and big, between Vijayawada and Guntur. A mega city would have already emerged had the previous government completed the assembly, secretariat, Raj Bhavan, ministers’ quarters, government offices and residential quarters of employees in different locations along the NH and Mangalagiri Tenali road,” added Subramanyam. He is of the view that the government should immediately appoint a prominent industrialist from the merchant community as chairman of regional development board and attract some investments into the region. “The government needs to earn the goodwill of businessmen and industrialists as there is big trust deficit,” he said. Chandu Srinivas, associate professor at Acharya Nagarjuna University, said the region has huge human resources thanks to the presence of six universities located in Vijayawada and Guntur. “It would be apt for the government to encourage private investments to generate jobs for talented local youth. The region is suitable for development of agro industries, nurseries, vegetable export, besides IT and tourism. Vijayawada and Guntur are already connected with NH, rail and water resources. A little impetus to connect the two cities will easily create a big city to generate huge employment to the sections which are backing the CM to the hilt,” said Chandu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/experts-bat-for-merger-of-vijayawada-guntur/articleshow/80000719.cms||Samdani MN
December 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Blue Flag hoisted at Rushikonda||VISAKHAPATNAM: Around nine beaches in Andhra Pradesh will be developed as per international standards so as to vie for Blue Flag certification along the lines of Rushikonda Beach, said tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao while hoisting the blue flag at Rushikonda on Monday. The minister further said Rushikonda has achieved the feat after fulfilling 33 parameters in four categories. The beach has been developed as an international beach following an eco-tourism model, which would attract domestic as well as foreign tourists and also place Visakhapatnam on the global tourism map. Rushikonda Beach got the international recognition in October, along with seven other beaches in India. It was allocated Rs 7.35 crore from the Centre for undertaking Blue Flag certification works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/blue-flag-hoisted-at-rushikonda/articleshow/80000723.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Star hotels unlikely to avail Covid-19 loans||VISAKHAPATNAM: Though the government has announced easy loans for different stakeholders of tourism industry, many star hotels are not too keen to avail the welfare scheme. The hoteliers say the amount of Rs 15 lakh, as announced by the government, can only help small and budget hotels. “We appreciate the government’s gesture. Rs 15 lakh is a decent amount for small and budget hotels to revive their business. But for 4-star and above category hotels it won’t help much. I don’t think any of the 50-odd hotels in these categories across the state will avail this loan,” said Pavan Kartheek, vice-president of Hotels & Restaurants Association of Andhra Pradesh. For travel agents and restaurant owners in the state, the government has announced loans of Rs 10 lakh and Rs 50,000, respectively. There are around 60,000 travel agents and over 40,000 restaurants in the state. “Most travel agents were forced to shut down their offices and are now operating from their homes. This loan can act as a working capital for them to revive their business again. Hoteliers and restaurateurs can also take advantage of this initiative,” added K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours & Travel Association of AP. The government, which is yet to spell out the policies, is likely to tie up with a national bank to disburse loans at low interest rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/star-hotels-unlikely-to-avail-covid-19-loans/articleshow/80000728.cms||Arpit Basu
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||Upgraded Jabalpur-Gondia route cuts distance to south by 266km||Nagpur: Ushering in the new era of train travel, the Indian Railways has commercially launched train operations on its upgraded Jabalpur-Nainpur-Gondia section under the Nagpur division of South East Central Railway (SECR).The weekly 02389-02390 Gaya-Chennai-Gaya will be the first superfast express to operate on this route. Earlier, this train passed through Jabalpur-Itarsi-Nagpur-Wardha-Ballarshah section under the Nagpur division of Central Railway. From January 3, the train will take the shortest route via Jabalpur-Nainpur-Balaghat-Gondia-Ballarshah.“The new alignment of the section passes through Gondia district of Maharashtra and Balaghat, Mandla, Seoni, and Jabalpur districts of Madhya Pradesh. The new route will reduce the travelling length by 266km, which apparently means it will cut journey time by at least 4-5 hours,” said divisional commercial manager (DCM) Anurag Kumar Singh.The distance between Jabalpur-Nagpur-Ballarshah is 754km, while the distance between Jabalpur-Balaghat-Gondia-Ballarshah distance is 488km.“Nagpur will lose one train but the loss will be for the betterment of passengers travelling from to end to end. In future, some new trains can be introduced towards Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and Central India via Jabalpur-Balaghat-Gondia route. The new route will also reduce congestion in the Nagpur-Ballarshah section,” said Basant Shukla, secretary Bharatiya Yatri Kendra (BYK).SECR officials said the project to upgrade 285km narrow gauge section to broad gauge between Jabalpur and Gondia was sanctioned in 1996-97. It took 24 odd years to get the project commissioned. The present project cost is overRs 2,005 crore.On the delay, an SECR construction wing official said, “Work on the project was stopped between 2011 and 2016 due to forest clearance for 76 hectares land in tiger and wildlife corridors. The last section between Nainpur-Samnapur (60km) was completed in October paving way for commercial operations for trains.” As per the first train schedule, the 02389 Gaya-Chennai express will run on every Sunday while 02390 Chennai-Gaya will run every Tuesday between January 3 and 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/upgraded-jabalpur-gondia-route-cuts-distance-to-south-by-266km/articleshow/79998100.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||225 plastic kites seized, 5 shopkeepers fined||Nagpur: The nuisance detection squad of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Monday penalized five shopkeepers for keeping and selling plastic kites, which have been banned. The team led by commandant V Tambe seized 225 banned plastic kites and recovered Rs5,000 fine from the shopkeepers.The NDS team of Laxmi Nagar zone caught one shopkeeper after it found banned plastic kites on sale. Similarly, the civic cops from Satranjipura and Ashi Nagar zones raided shops under their jurisdictions and found two shops each selling banned plastic kites. Fine of Rs1,000 each have been recovered from these four shopkeepers, the action taken data procured from the NDS revealed.Health committee chairman and corporator Virendra Kukreja has appealed to people not to use plastic kites and also to tip off the NDS team if any person comes to know about availability of nylon manja in the city markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/225-plastic-kites-seized-5-shopkeepers-fined/articleshow/79998073.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Driverless? Riders unaware, but find travel smooth||NEW DELHI: Though Delhi Metro took a technological leap on Monday with the inauguration of its driverless train on Magenta Line, most commuters travelling on the 37km corridor were blissfully unaware that their train was not run by an operator in the driver’s cabin but from the silent Operations Control Centre situated 10-20km away — depending on where they were between Botanical Garden and Janakpuri West — in the Metro’s Barakhamba Road headquarters. If not for the electronic display panel welcoming passengers to a “driverless train” while also assuring that an operator is available in the cab for any assistance, Akanksha Saxena, a 36-year-old homemaker from Janakpuri, would have had no idea she was on a fully automated driverless train operations (DTO) that only 7% of the world’s Metro networks can boast of. “I don’t travel by the Metro regularly and had no idea about driverless trains. It seems like any other journey I have taken earlier,” she said. “Though the idea of sitting in a fast-moving train without a driver can make you a bit anxious, I am confident Delhi Metro must have thoroughly tried and tested the system.” This is the reason that for the time being, train operators will be there. “An operator will initially be present in the train to instil a sense of confidence. DTO’s higher level of diagnostic features will help move from conventional time-based maintenance to condition-based maintenance,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications) of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. “This will also reduce maintenance downtime of trains.” Marketing executive Shekhar Verma, who boarded from Palam, was also unaware that the train was driverless. “This is like any other Metro ride as you seldom see the driver anyway. The train just feels to be moving a little faster than usual and doors are opening and closing more swiftly.” According to Dayal, “The fully automated trains will reduce human intervention in operations and offer more reliability and safety for commuters. The system also brings more flexibility in operations. The number of trains in service can be regulated based on demand dynamically without any dependence on availability of crew.” Operating on a communication-based signalling system, these trains can be made available at a frequency of just 90 seconds. National common mobility card, introduced on Airport Express Line, enables passengers from any part of the country to use their NCMC-compliant RuPay debit card for seamless travel, Dayal said. “DMRC is planning to upgrade its entire existing network by 2022.” Watch PM Modi inaugurates India’s first-ever driverless train operations on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/driverless-riders-unaware-but-find-travel-smooth/articleshow/79999455.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 29, 2020||Goa||300 small units register with tourism dept||Panaji: Since the tourism department issued a public notice two months ago appealing to owners of category D apartments — units having less than six bedrooms — to register with the department, about 300 of them have applied and been granted permissions. This number is small in comparison to the many alleged unregistered properties that are let out to tourists. The department will be able to penalise illegal operators only after its draft rules, which are in the process of being finalised, are notified. Those whose NOC applications, whether from the local panchayat or Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB), are pending, have been granted a registration of one-year validity, secretary tourism J Ashok Kumar. They will be given a further extension of five years if they submit the necessary NOCs, he said. Sources said that though small operators who find it difficult to go through the rigmarole of getting permissions from various authorities were offered a concession, it appeared that many have not bothered to put their house in order. A tourism stakeholder said due to the pandemic most closed their accommodations, but the recent surge in domestic arrivals has encouraged many to reopen. In the last few months, several tourists have opted to stay in rented villas and apartments rather than in hotels. “Several wealthy guests drove down to Goa with their cooks and servants in tow. It made more sense to rent a big house or bungalow than stay in a hotel,” the tourism stakeholder said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/300-small-units-register-with-tourism-dept/articleshow/80000712.cms||---
December 29, 2020||India||46 more UK returnees test Covid positive, total now 233||NEW DELHI: As many as 46 travellers who returned from Britain have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. Most of the samples of the passengers who tested positive were sent to the National Institute of Virology for genome sequencing to determine whether any of the patients are carrying the new strain of Covid-19 found in the UK. The results of genome sequencing are not out yet. With today’s count, the total number of UK returned travellers who tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 10 days has grown to 233. Among the states and Union territories where passengers from the UK tested positive in the last 24 hours, Goa topped the list with 13 cases, followed by Maharashtra (nine cases) and Uttarakhand (six). Among the states where UK returned travellers have tested positive in the last 10 days, Maharashtra tops the list with 32 cases, followed by Goa (29 cases), Karnataka (26), Telangana (21) and Delhi (20). Meanwhile, the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) submitted its report late Monday night to the Telangana and Central governments on the genome sequencing of samples of 18 of the 21 UK-returned passengers. CCMB authorities said an official announcement on the findings is likely to be made on Tuesday.Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender said the Centre is directly dealing with this issue. “If there are any cases of the new strain found, we will isolate them and will tackle the issue effectively,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/46-more-uk-returnees-test-covid-positive-total-now-233/articleshow/80001492.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Real estate sector on firm ground despite corona-induced slowdown||Lucknow: Against the general notion that coronavirus lockdown had an adverse impact on businesses and savings, the stamp and registration department in Lucknow registered over 150% rise in revenue from property registration — an indication that people’s inclination for investment in land remains largely unaffected. Data accessed by TOI reveals that after the coronavirus lockdown, the stamp and registration department registered a significant increase in revenue. In August, it recorded 99% revenue collection against the target of Rs 166.92 crore, while in September, the department earned Rs 164.84 crore which was 96% of the target. The department’s coffers received heavy cash during festive season in October and November, recording 142.2% (Rs 248.2 crore against Rs 174.5) and 151.4% (Rs 221.8 crore against set target of Rs 146.4) collections. During Navratri, the stamp and registration office issued registry of 1,200 properties a day against the usual average of 600. According to officials at AIG stamp office, a huge rush for property registration has been witnessed since August after the government lifted lockdown. Officials said the stamp department has earned Rs 1099.1 crore revenue till November month. The target for current financial year is Rs 2,178.5 crore. “The rate at which we are registering properties since August is very surprising to us. Unlike after demonetization, people are heavily investing in land and houses. Rise in revenue collection from registration of properties seems to indicate that the real estate sector is registering significant growth,” said assistant inspector general (stamps), Lucknow, Ram Akbal Singh. Data shows that from April to November this year, 78,561 registrations were done for categories of stamp involving sale, mortgage, gift, settlement, power of attorney and others, while in the same period last year, 99,750 registrations were done. It is to be noted that in the current financial year there was no registry in April and May while June and July registered low registrations due to coronavirus lockdown. “We have made losses to the tune of nearly Rs 700 crore but if current trend continues, the stamp and registration department will recover the losses in next four months,” said the AIG (stamps).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/real-estate-sector-on-firm-ground-despite-corona-induced-slowdown/articleshow/80001111.cms||Arvind Chauhan
December 29, 2020||Madurai||SHGs suffered badly under AIADMK regime: Kanimozhi||Madurai:The AIADMK government has not done anything towards the skill development of the self-help groups in the state for the past ten years. Jobs were not created and they were among the most affected groups during the Covid-19 lockdown, said Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi.She was speaking to reporters at Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district on Monday, after interacting with the members of a self-help group. Kanimozhi said that her interactions with them had shown that they did not have access to many subsidies and had fallen prey to usurers to meet their financial commitments during the lockdown. Educated youth did not have jobs and people of all sections were affected. The economic growth of the state has also been affected, she said. Many industries such as matchbox, fireworks, and bandage making units were greatly affected by the GST.The DMK would ensure that all the promises made by it to the people in the manifesto are fulfilled. On the charges that DMK was driven by dynasty politics, Kanimozhi said that there was no family rule in the party, and that the late DMK chief M Karunanidhi had done everything for the welfare of the Tamil community. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shgs-suffered-badly-under-aiadmk-regime-kanimozhi/articleshow/80000711.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro rolls on auto mode||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagged off the country’s first fully “driverless” train on Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line and the national common mobility card on Airport Express Line on Monday through videoconferencing. The first train started from Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh station of the 37km Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West line. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri also took part in the event. Modi said the driverless train showed how fast India was moving towards a smart system. While a metro system was discussed in Delhi for years, the first train ran due to the efforts of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. “When our government was formed in 2014, only five cities had Metro rail. Today, 18 cities have Metro rail service. By 2025, we are going to extend it to more than 25 cities,” Modi said. From 248 kilometres of operational Metro lines in 2014, the number now stands at over 700, which may get expanded to 1,700km by 2025. “These are not just infrastructures made from brick stones, concrete and iron, but evidence of the realisation of the aspiration of the citizens and the middle class of the country,” he emphasised. The national mobility card is part of the process of integrating the systems of the country like One Nation, One Fastag and One Nation, One Tax in form of GST to One Nation, One Power Grid and the country is now moving in the direction of One Nation, One Agriculture Market, the Prime Minister said. The card was introduced in Ahmedabad last year. Modi said preparing the country for future needs was an important responsibility of governance. A few decades ago, he pointed out, when rapid urbanisation was taking place, our cities were not designed to deal with its after-effects, resulting in a huge gap between the demand and supply of urban infrastructure. “The modern thinking says urbanisation should not be seen as a challenge, but should be used as an opportunity,” Modi said. The Metro rail is an example of improving ease of living through better infrastructure, he added. The Metro rail is not being operated on a single fix model as different cities have different needs, the Prime Minister emphasised. The “magnificent model” of Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System will reduce the distance to less than one hour and Metro Lite, which will cost 40% of the normal Metro, is being worked out for cities where the number of passengers is low, he said, adding that cities with lesser traffic would get Metro Neo at 25% cost. Water Metro is being prepared for cities with large waterbodies like Kochi, he pointed out. Watch Watch: Country’s first driverless train begins operations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-metro-rolls-on-auto-mode/articleshow/79999470.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Madurai||Allow only native bull breeds in jallikattu, say enthusiasts||Madurai: Members of Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Payirchi Maiam submitted a petition to district collector T Anbazhagan in Madurai on Monday urging him to ensure that only native breeds of bulls are allowed to participate in jallikattu games this year. They brought a buffalo to the collectorate premises to stress their demand.State deputy secretary of the outfit, A G Rajaji, said jallikattu involved only native breeds of cattle and the sport’s role in protecting them was emphasised during the jallikattu protests too. Most native breeds such as Pulliankulam, Kangeyam and Umbalachery have well-developed humps or ‘thimmil’ which helps the bull tamers to latch on to the animal. But many were bringing crossbreed bulls like jersey cows, which were big in size and had a tiny protrusion on their backs which was not really a hump. ``This forces the tamers to hold on to the neck of the big animals and they get disqualified,’’ said B Manikanda Prabu, president of the organisation.A criteria being followed recently is not to allow bulls below the height of 120 cms into the arena. Some native breeds are very short in height, so only the age of the bull should be considered and not the size, he said. Similarly, bull tamers are required to have a specified BMI index, which does not apply to many youngsters. Though they are lean and short, they are very good tamers. Hence, age should be the only criteria besides fitness to rule out diseases, and not their height and weight, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/allow-only-native-bull-breeds-in-jallikattu-say-enthusiasts/articleshow/80000716.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Madurai||Crackdown on ganja sale: 40 held, 7.4 kg seized||Madurai: Madurai city police arrested 19 people and seized 7,430g of ganja from them on Sunday.According to city police, drive to check sale of ganja is underway in various places in the city on a day-to-day basis. As many as 40 people were arrested for selling ganja on the weekend as 21 people were arrested on Saturday from various parts of the city. Around 5.6 kg of ganja was seized from them.Police said that police intelligence has been kept on high vigil to prevalent bulk transportation of ganja into the city. Meanwhile, they are conducting regular checks to curb retail sale of ganja. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/crackdown-on-ganja-sale-40-held-7-4-kg-seized/articleshow/80000704.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: No parties, no firecrackers on New Year’s Eve||NAGPUR: With the threat of a new Covid-19 strain, the district administration is taking precautions by asking people to avoid year-end gatherings, building up to a subdued New Year’s Eve this time in Nagpur city and district. As a preventive measure, the district administration, city and rural police have taken a slew of decisions, including no New Year parties, and ban on bursting firecrackers at all public places, stated a press release issued by the district collectorate. Besides, section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 has been clamped in the district from December 31 till January 1, 2021. This precludes gathering of more than 4 people at any public space. Any person violating this order shall be liable to legal punishment under the provisions of Section 188. The administration has further appealed to the people not to burst firecrackers near petrol pumps, cylinders, godowns, kerosene depots, firecracker shops, flammable depots, chemical depots, shops or markets in the city, as the possibility of loss of life as well as financial loss cannot be ruled out. Firecrackers are prohibited within 200 feet of all these establishments, it stated. The noise made by firecrackers should not exceed 110 to 115 decibels within a distance of 4 meters from the place of firing of firecrackers. Crackers are also banned near schools, colleges, hospitals, courts etc, which fall in silent zone. Firecrackers are not allowed within 100 meters of these locations, it clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-parties-no-firecrackers-on-new-years-eve/articleshow/79998107.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||Three succumb to virus on Mon||Panaji: Goa reported 105 fresh cases, three deaths and 91 recoveries taking the count of active cases to 954 and mortalities to 735, on Monday. The state’s case positivity rate rose to 9%. Recovery rate remained static at 96%. Two men — a 59-year-old from Siolim and a 71-year-old from Chandor — and a 45-year-old woman from Canacona succumbed to the virus at Goa Medical College (GMC). The Siolim man did not suffer from any comorbid condition while the woman had only hypertension. In all three cases, the patients were detected with acute respiratory distress syndrome immediately after they were brought to the hospital. As many as 36 patients were hospitalised while 58 chose to be home isolated. Seven cases were detected in Panaji during the day, which pushed its tally to 70. The Porvorim primary health centre also witnessed a marginal rise and its caseload increased to 64 and that of Chimbel to 53. In South Goa, Ponda saw its tally rising to 71 whereas the Margao urban health centre witnessed a slight drop as its numbers came down to 80.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-succumb-to-virus-on-mon/articleshow/80000721.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: New Year Eve parties get admin nod but with riders||BHOPAL: The crisis management group of Bhopal has decided to give a go ahead for New Year Eve parties at restaurants and hotels on the condition that only 50 % of the capacity crowd would be allowed at the venue. Talking to TOI after a meeting of the group held on Monday, Bhopal collector, Avinash Lavania said that the parties will be allowed with the restriction of half the capacity rule. When asked whether the parties will be allowed till 10 pm or they may continue beyond that, Lavania said that the parties will continue till they are permitted to in the licence they obtain for the party. “As the liquor shops are allowed to remain open till 11.3 pm, parties will be allowed till the time the rule permits. It could be 12 am or 12.30 am but it will not be 10.00 pm,” he clarified. The crisis management group further decided not to allow any celebrity to perform in new year parties. “The committee has decided not to allow organisers to invite celebrities to any party,” said Lavania. He also denied speculations in a section of social media that only persons of 21 years of age or above will be allowed to participate in the new year parties. “Such a restriction is not possible,” he said. The group also ratified the order of the home department to scrap night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am and compulsory closure of shops and business establishments before 10pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-year-eve-parties-get-admin-nod-but-with-riders-/articleshow/79998122.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Made in Kanpur, assurance of IIT: Swasa mask got PM’s stamp||When the Covid-19 crisis was peaking, there was one commodity that was in the highest demand. Realizing the immense need for face masks and to counter an impending shortage, IIT-Kanpur stepped up and began production of N95 and N99 face masks on its campus. In doing so, it became the first institute in the country to take such an initiative. Realising the requirement, the institute set a target to manufacture 25,000 face masks per day. The task was taken up by its Startup Innovation and Incubation Centre (SIIC) in collaboration with E-Spin Nanotech and Indeema Fibres as well as IIT-K faculty members Prof Sri Sivakumar, Prof Ramkumar, Prof Raja Angamuthu, Prof Gopakumar, and senior scientific officers Dr Manish Kulkarni and Dr Prabhat Dwivedi. This was the first-of-its-kind initiative by any IIT or a business incubator of an academic institution, IIT-K said. “Face masks have become the absolute basic necessity in protecting the public against Covid-19 and no one should have to compromise on this because of availability or affordability. We are thankful to E-Spin Nanotech, Indeema Fibres and our faculty for stepping up to the challenge of making masks and taking them to public,” said IIT-K director Prof Abhay Karandikar. “There are many products flooding the market but being able to trust the product is very important for a customer. We have been continuously working for social benefit and providing safe and tested products,” said Sandip Patil, director of E-Spin Nanotech. “The production line is completely automated to prevent contamination during manufacturing. The masks are available to general public at a very affordable price on the company’s website as well as prominent e-commerce platforms,” Patil added. The proudest moment for the team was perhaps when Prime Minister Narendra Modi wore an N95 mask, named ‘Swasa’, developed by IIT-K, during the Ram temple bhoomipujan ceremony in Ayodhya. The team was on cloud nine, learning that the PM chose Swasa. SIIC had posted this on its Facebook account had shared images of the PM wearing Swasa mask. “Our team was delighted to have spotted hon’ble @PMOIndia @narendramodi wearing Swasa N95 mask during #AyodhyaBhoomipoojan. It was a great testimony to the quality & potential of Indian startups & innovations,” SIIC had written.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/made-in-kanpur-assurance-of-iit-swasa-mask-got-pms-stamp/articleshow/80001112.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 29, 2020||Bhopal||Pandemic affected mental health of youth more than seniors: Expert||BHOPAL: Mental health has taken centrestage during the pandemic, with cases of depression, phobia and anxiety on the increase, said renowned psychiatrist and former HoD, department of psychiatry, Gandhi medical college (GMC), Dr RN Sahu. He was speaking at the inauguration of Bhopal neuro-psychiatric clinic and diagnostic centre on Sunday. “I have diagnosed over 500 patients since the pandemic began. The range of symptoms varies. The pandemic has affected the young more; they have been found to be more susceptible than the elderly, when it comes to mental health,” said Dr Sahu. The neuro-psychiatric clinic and diagnostic centre was inaugurated by MP medical education minister, Vishwas Sarang. “There is a need to improve mental health facilities. Public stigma is the reaction that the general population has to people with mental illness. It should be overcome,” he said. “There are instances of people getting repeatedly tested for Covid-19. Others fear hospitalisation and isolation as a consequence of being diagnosed with the infection. Providing guidance and advice during the pandemic is the challenge for mental healthcare providers,” said Dr Sahu. There is connect between impact of Covid on mental, neurological and substance use increase. There are various types of mental health services to help people overcome these challenges during pandemic, he added. The new OPD facility at the centre would cater to various types of mental illnesses. It would provide special psychiatric clinics for children, adolescents, women and also those addicted to substance abuse. Advanced therapies like rTMS, Ketamine, Biofeedback, Multi-Behaviour therapy, De-addiction (drug screening, patches and implants), Aversion therapy have also been approved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pandemic-affected-mental-health-of-youth-more-than-seniors-expert/articleshow/79998116.cms||Jamal Ayub
December 29, 2020||Madurai||Boy, 3, dies after falling off bike||Madurai: A three-year-old boy was killed in a road accident on Alagarkovil Main Road near Thamaraithotti in the city on Monday. Two people including the boy’s mother suffered minor injuries in the accident involving three vehicles including the bike on which the deceased was travelling. The deceased was identified as Harshan, son of S Prasad from Chettiyarpatti near Vallapatti in Melur. Police sources said that Prasad’s friend Ajithkumar picked up his wife from Goripalayam and was on his way towards K Pudur on Alagarkovil Main Road . A car, which came on Bharathi Ula Road hit the two-wheeler while taking a turn on Alagarkovil Main Road.The three on the bike fell down while the boy came under the wheels of a truck coming from the opposite direction. He suffered head injuries and died on the spot. Ajithkumar and the boy’s mother escaped with minor injuries.Based on a complaint from Prasad, a case was registered against the unidentified car driver and truck driver M Muthan from Paramathi Velur in Namakkal district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/boy-3-dies-after-falling-off-bike/articleshow/80000726.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt tells people not to violate Covid norms during New Year celebrations||JAIPUR: Though Covid cases are dipping sharply, the health department has expressed concern over possibility of cases infections rising again due to New Year celebrations. The state, which had reported 3,314 cases on November 24, recorded 798 infections on Monday. “People should continue taking precautions to avoid risk of getting infected while celebrating New Year,” said Siddhartha Mahajan, secretary (health). The health department expressed concern over New year celebrations and asked the government to prevent people from violating Covid norms on New Year. The second wave was reported post-festive and marriage season and municipal polls. Now, the government has started taking measures well in advance to prevent people from violating norms on New Year. Though the number of patients getting Covid treatment in hosptials has reduced, still deaths were being reported from different parts of the state. In the last 24 hours, seven persons died, while 798 others tested positive taking the its overall casualty count to 2677. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (100), Jaipur (76), Bhilwara (61), Kota (57), Alwar (52), Pali (41), Nagaur (40), Udaipur (39), Rajsamand (34), Dungarpur (30), Jalore (29), Ajmer (28), Chittorgarh (27), Bharatpur (27), Baran (18), Pratapgarh (17), Jhalawar (16), Banswara (14), Bundi (13), Jhunjhunu (12), Sikar (11), Jaisalmer (9), Bikaner (7), Sawai Madhopur (6), Churu (6), Karauli (5), Sriganganagar (5), Barmer (5), Tonk (5), Sirohi (4), Dausa (2) and Hanumangarh (2). Chittorgarh reported two Covid-19 deaths taking its toll to 38, Jaipur reported its 498th, Jodhpur 286th, Kota 165th, Udaipur 110th and Banswara reported its 34th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cases-dipping-but-govt-tells-people-not-to-be-negligent-during-new-year-celebrations/articleshow/79999473.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Teachers’ recruitment scam: Edu dept gets 3 more months to complete document verification||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday gave the education department three more months to verify the documents of around 30,000 teachers and find out if they secred the job using fake degrees and certificates. Director elementary education, RK Kunwar, appeared before the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Alok Kumar Verma through video conferencing while it was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) alleging that there are hundreds or thousands of teachers in the state who secured jobs using fake degrees and though an SIT had been formed to investigate the matter in 2018, the pace of probe has been very slow. While appearing before the HC, Kunwar sought at least six more months to verify each document. Interestingly, the education department had, in October, sought 18 months to verify these documents. However, the bench reiterated that such a time frame is not possible. The court has now listed the case for further hearing on April 7, 2021, and said that it would be difficult for the court to grant him more time to complete the exercise. “Kunwar had demanded at least six months but the court said that it would be too long and gave him three months instead. Kunwar has told the court that he will take all possible measures to finish the exercise by the end of March,” said an advocate present in the hearing. As reported by TOI earlier, the education department has to verify around 1.3 lakh documents of 33,000 teachers. Kunwar had earlier said that as many of the teachers have completed their education from outside the state, verifying their background would be time consuming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/teachers-recruitment-scam-edu-dept-gets-3-more-months-to-complete-document-verification/articleshow/79997254.cms||Prashant Jha
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Health minister admitted to SMS hospital with complaint of food poisoning||JAIPUR: Health minister Raghu Sharma was admitted to Sawai Man Singh Hospital for a few hours on Monday for food poisoning. Sharma was diagnosed with Covid-19 in November and has already recovered. “He did not have any post-Covid symptoms. He was suffering from food poisoning. We have conducted his CT and sonography. He is doing good now,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. SMS Hospital’s gastroenterologists and specialists in medicine conducted his tests and diagnosed him with food poisoning. He remained admitted for a few hours till doctors examined him and conducted tests. As he got some relief after receiving the treatment, doctors sent him home. Sharma stirred up a controversy by meeting with Covid patients at dedicated Covid RUHS hospital after being tested positive on November 23. The opposition had alleged that the minister had flouted Covid protocol and demanded action against the minister under epidemic act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-minister-admitted-to-sms-hosp-with-complaint-of-food-poisoning/articleshow/79999466.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||Can’t dismiss seriousness of mutation: ICMR scientists||PUNE: Top virologists have warned that India cannot ignore the threat from the more infectious UK strain. High transmission may not mean high disease severity, but experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research said prevalence of underlying conditions in the population can enable the strain to cause serious Covid.  Raman Gangakhedkar, former head of ICMR’s epidemiology and communicable diseases division, said, “High transmissibility is often linked to lower virulence. But it is too early to say if this virus is moving in that direction. Going by the fact that it has accumulated 23 mutations within a year, we believe the fight with Covid could turn out to be a long-drawn affair.” British scientists have said the new strain has not led to an increases in virulence. Gangakhedkar said, “They are other factors — age, comorbidities, quality of care — that determine disease severity. A more transmissible variant will boost cases. And then the number of cases with severe Covid will also go up because comorbidities are rampant in our population.” Scientist Mandeep Chadha, a former NIV virologist, said, “This virus may become milder, but we can’t be sure. Who can say there won’t be further mutations that may enhance Covid severity? Also, severity can depend on the host, and not on the virulence of the pathogen alone.” Viruses also mutate for survival; it cannot live inside a dead host. It could then be possible this virus is mutating to increase transmissibility— its presence in humans — and not deadliness.  Samiran Panda, current head of its epidemiology and communicable division, agreed. “A symbiotic relationship can evolve in which a virus goes from an epidemic existence to an endemic one with less virulence.” He added, “Respiratory viruses attain relevance through this process. I do not yet see why SARS-CoV-2 will follow a different path, when its cousins have done the same over and over again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cant-dismiss-seriousness-of-mutation-icmr-scientists/articleshow/79999494.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 29, 2020||Ajmer||Police to check hotels, clubs in Rajasthan on New Year’s eve||JAIPUR: Unlike the conventional duty of monitoring drunk driving on New Year’s eve, Jaipur police will check violations under Section 144, Rajasthan Epidemic Act, Motor Vehicles Act and others on the last day of this year. Senior officers of Jaipur police commissionerate on Monday asked various police stations to ensure no mass functions are organised on New Year’s eve. Apart from checking hotels, bars and restaurants, Jaipur police might even check big gatherings at farm houses to check if any violations are taking place. “We have had requests from various event managers for small parties and gathering on the New Year’s eve, but we can’t permit this year following strict strict orders by the home department,” said a senior police officer. Senior officers have directed police stations to not only set up pickets all across the city, but also ensure surprise checks at hotels, guests houses, clubs and farm houses. “Under the prevailing situation of Covid-19, our men will carry out surprise checks if there are complaints regarding big gatherings and playing of loud music,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (crime). Jaipur police has already initiated action to prevent violation of night curfew. “As per directions, we have made night duty rosters and have been acting against mass gatherings. On Sunday, a similar action was taken at a club where there was a gathering of 150 people,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/police-to-check-hotels-clubs-and-farm-house-on-new-years-eve/articleshow/80004129.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Udaipur||7 UK returnees test Covid positive in Rajasthan so far||JAIPUR: Two more UK-returnees have been found infected with Covid in the state, taking the tally to seven. The health department instructed the SMS Medical College to send the samples to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune for finding out the strain of the virus, if it is UK’s new strain which is more contagious or the dominant strain found in the state. “Seven UK returnees have been found infected with the virus. Directions have been issued to keep them isolated and get the strain of the virus checked,” Siddhartha Mahajan, secretary (health), told TOI. He said that five had been found in Udaipur, while one each case was reported from Ajmer and Jalore. The health department had issued directions to all the chief medical health officers of the state to send the samples of persons returned from the UK to SMS Medical College. “We have sent the samples which we received from different parts of the state to NIV Pune. The test reports of the samples have not been received from Pune yet,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. The Centre had sent a list of 811 people who had returned from the UK to different parts of the state in November and December. The health department clarified that a lot of names were found to be repeated. Besides, some of the persons were not traced as they had left for other places. In Jaipur, 20 such persons were untraceable. The health department officials claimed that they are continuously conducting surveillance across the state and no such report has been received which shows unprecedented rise in cases hinting mutation in the virus. The health department is keeping an eye on the health of the people who have returned from the UK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/count-of-uk-returnees-testing-ve-now-7-in-state/articleshow/80004137.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Udaipur||Police to check hotels, clubs in Rajasthan on New Year’s eve||JAIPUR: Unlike the conventional duty of monitoring drunk driving on New Year’s eve, Jaipur police will check violations under Section 144, Rajasthan Epidemic Act, Motor Vehicles Act and others on the last day of this year. Senior officers of Jaipur police commissionerate on Monday asked various police stations to ensure no mass functions are organised on New Year’s eve. Apart from checking hotels, bars and restaurants, Jaipur police might even check big gatherings at farm houses to check if any violations are taking place. “We have had requests from various event managers for small parties and gathering on the New Year’s eve, but we can’t permit this year following strict strict orders by the home department,” said a senior police officer. Senior officers have directed police stations to not only set up pickets all across the city, but also ensure surprise checks at hotels, guests houses, clubs and farm houses. “Under the prevailing situation of Covid-19, our men will carry out surprise checks if there are complaints regarding big gatherings and playing of loud music,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (crime). Jaipur police has already initiated action to prevent violation of night curfew. “As per directions, we have made night duty rosters and have been acting against mass gatherings. On Sunday, a similar action was taken at a club where there was a gathering of 150 people,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/police-to-check-hotels-clubs-and-farm-house-on-new-years-eve/articleshow/80004127.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie gets season's first snowfall||MUSSOORIE: The Queen of Hills witnessed the season’s first snowfall, although just a smattering. The intermittent snowfall lasted for about two hours following a short spell of rainfall on the intervening night between Sunday and Monday. By early morning, higher reaches of Mussoorie, including Lal Tibba, Benog and Hathipaon, were covered by a thin blanket of snow to the delight of the large number of tourists who have gathered in the hill town for the holidays. “We came to Mussoorie to celebrate the New Year and the snowfall is an added bonus. We are enjoying,” said Ripudaman Singh, a tourist. Nearby locations such as Dhanolti, Buranskhanda and Surkanda also received moderate snowfall. As tourists headed out for Dhanolti, the serpentine queue of vehicles resulted in traffic jams en route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-gets-seasons-first-snowfall/articleshow/79997259.cms||Anmol Jain
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Twitter opened up village cut off from outside world||Jhansi: If corona pandemic unleashed untold misery on people, it also sprung up tales of inspiration and innovation. One such story emanated from Garhmau village in Jhansi. Cut off from the outside world during the lockdown, Garhmau perhaps became the first rural settlement in UP to get its own Twitter handle, which aided its natives to get unrestricted communication access to local authorities and their family members settled in other parts of the country and abroad. The idea was mooted by Jhansi Police after learning that only a limited number of natives had access to mobile phones and had problems in reaching out to authorities and their family members during the lockdown. The handle is managed by some local youths and the village head. Former SP Jhansi Rahul Srivastav, the brain behind the idea, shared: “It’s a sign of digital revolution at the rural level which has empowered villagers digitally. Social media will now become the new meeting platform for all of us”. The handle has become a potent tool for the locals to raise their problems before the administration. As soon as it became active, some locals tweeted to the district magistrate Jhansi, seeking upgradation of the lone junior high school in the village to senior secondary level. In a prompt action, the DM ordered suitable action be taken at the earliest. To make it more effective, Rahul Srivastav assigned Sashwat Singh, who is pursuing mass communication from Bundelkhand University, to educate local youth about using the Twitter handle. The Twitter classes are held near the lake in Garhmau village over the weekend. “The aim is to make youth aware of how to handle various social media platforms and at the same time not falling for fake news. The other purpose is to make them use social media as an instrument to raise their problems and social issues,” says Singh. Ankit Bhargav, 23, a local youth has been made the local coordinator for the project. Ankit, who has completed his ITI course, says: “We will soon request the authorities through our Twitter handle to convert the village lake into a tourist destination and free the nearby area from encroachment.” Garhmau village has 400 settlements and is headed by a woman gram pradhan. The village has about 200 youths. The village has a picturesque lake which is a major attraction for locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/twitter-opened-up-village-cut-off-from-outside-world/articleshow/80001113.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||Ahead of New Year’s Eve, Calangute gets traffic plan||CALANGUTE: Calangute panchayat along with the local traffic cell and police have put a plan in place to handle the deluge of tourists expected to throng the tourism hub on New Year’s Eve. With the number of tourists expected to go up on December 30, 31 and January 1, panchayat member Shawn Martins said that on these three days, large vehicles viz buses, tempo travellers, etc, coming from Panaji and Mapusa will not be allowed to enter Calangute and will have to park in a designated area at Bhodkovodh junction. “We have also joined hands with the Arpora-Nagoa panchayat, and all large vehicles coming from Arpora will be stopped at the Arpora bridge, for which parking arrangements have been near the wax museum,” he said. He said that the regular peak season parking zone in the fields in front of Calangute church has been discontinued this year as farmers have planted a variety of vegetables and herbs. “Just for three days of parking, we did not want to destroy their hard work,” Martins said. An additional parking zone has also been created at Baga. “We’ve also told owners of open land to clear the area and allow tourists to park their vehicles by levying rates notified by the panchayat. In doing so, the land owners can also earn something. Police will be deployed at all junctions to maintain vigil,” said Martins. Traffic movement in Calangute was smooth during the Christmas weekend, he said, and no special parking or traffic arrangements had to be made as there were fewer tourists this year who drove down in their own vehicles. “Many have come by flights and are moving around with rented two-wheelers and four-wheelers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ahead-of-new-years-eve-calangute-gets-traffic-plan/articleshow/80000731.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Police to check hotels, clubs in Rajasthan on New Year’s eve||JAIPUR: Unlike the conventional duty of monitoring drunk driving on New Year’s eve, Jaipur police will check violations under Section 144, Rajasthan Epidemic Act, Motor Vehicles Act and others on the last day of this year. Senior officers of Jaipur police commissionerate on Monday asked various police stations to ensure no mass functions are organised on New Year’s eve. Apart from checking hotels, bars and restaurants, Jaipur police might even check big gatherings at farm houses to check if any violations are taking place. “We have had requests from various event managers for small parties and gathering on the New Year’s eve, but we can’t permit this year following strict strict orders by the home department,” said a senior police officer. Senior officers have directed police stations to not only set up pickets all across the city, but also ensure surprise checks at hotels, guests houses, clubs and farm houses. “Under the prevailing situation of Covid-19, our men will carry out surprise checks if there are complaints regarding big gatherings and playing of loud music,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (crime). Jaipur police has already initiated action to prevent violation of night curfew. “As per directions, we have made night duty rosters and have been acting against mass gatherings. On Sunday, a similar action was taken at a club where there was a gathering of 150 people,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-to-check-hotels-clubs-and-farm-house-on-new-years-eve/articleshow/79999485.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||7 UK returnees test Covid positive in Rajasthan so far||JAIPUR: Two more UK-returnees have been found infected with Covid in the state, taking the tally to seven. The health department instructed the SMS Medical College to send the samples to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune for finding out the strain of the virus, if it is UK’s new strain which is more contagious or the dominant strain found in the state. “Seven UK returnees have been found infected with the virus. Directions have been issued to keep them isolated and get the strain of the virus checked,” Siddhartha Mahajan, secretary (health), told TOI. He said that five had been found in Udaipur, while one each case was reported from Ajmer and Jalore. The health department had issued directions to all the chief medical health officers of the state to send the samples of persons returned from the UK to SMS Medical College. “We have sent the samples which we received from different parts of the state to NIV Pune. The test reports of the samples have not been received from Pune yet,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. The Centre had sent a list of 811 people who had returned from the UK to different parts of the state in November and December. The health department clarified that a lot of names were found to be repeated. Besides, some of the persons were not traced as they had left for other places. In Jaipur, 20 such persons were untraceable. The health department officials claimed that they are continuously conducting surveillance across the state and no such report has been received which shows unprecedented rise in cases hinting mutation in the virus. The health department is keeping an eye on the health of the people who have returned from the UK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/count-of-uk-returnees-testing-ve-now-7-in-state/articleshow/79999484.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jodhpur||7 UK returnees test Covid positive in Rajasthan so far||JAIPUR: Two more UK-returnees have been found infected with Covid in the state, taking the tally to seven. The health department instructed the SMS Medical College to send the samples to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune for finding out the strain of the virus, if it is UK’s new strain which is more contagious or the dominant strain found in the state. “Seven UK returnees have been found infected with the virus. Directions have been issued to keep them isolated and get the strain of the virus checked,” Siddhartha Mahajan, secretary (health), told TOI. He said that five had been found in Udaipur, while one each case was reported from Ajmer and Jalore. The health department had issued directions to all the chief medical health officers of the state to send the samples of persons returned from the UK to SMS Medical College. “We have sent the samples which we received from different parts of the state to NIV Pune. The test reports of the samples have not been received from Pune yet,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. The Centre had sent a list of 811 people who had returned from the UK to different parts of the state in November and December. The health department clarified that a lot of names were found to be repeated. Besides, some of the persons were not traced as they had left for other places. In Jaipur, 20 such persons were untraceable. The health department officials claimed that they are continuously conducting surveillance across the state and no such report has been received which shows unprecedented rise in cases hinting mutation in the virus. The health department is keeping an eye on the health of the people who have returned from the UK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/count-of-uk-returnees-testing-ve-now-7-in-state/articleshow/80004140.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ajmer||7 UK returnees test Covid positive in Rajasthan so far||JAIPUR: Two more UK-returnees have been found infected with Covid in the state, taking the tally to seven. The health department instructed the SMS Medical College to send the samples to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune for finding out the strain of the virus, if it is UK’s new strain which is more contagious or the dominant strain found in the state. “Seven UK returnees have been found infected with the virus. Directions have been issued to keep them isolated and get the strain of the virus checked,” Siddhartha Mahajan, secretary (health), told TOI. He said that five had been found in Udaipur, while one each case was reported from Ajmer and Jalore. The health department had issued directions to all the chief medical health officers of the state to send the samples of persons returned from the UK to SMS Medical College. “We have sent the samples which we received from different parts of the state to NIV Pune. The test reports of the samples have not been received from Pune yet,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. The Centre had sent a list of 811 people who had returned from the UK to different parts of the state in November and December. The health department clarified that a lot of names were found to be repeated. Besides, some of the persons were not traced as they had left for other places. In Jaipur, 20 such persons were untraceable. The health department officials claimed that they are continuously conducting surveillance across the state and no such report has been received which shows unprecedented rise in cases hinting mutation in the virus. The health department is keeping an eye on the health of the people who have returned from the UK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/count-of-uk-returnees-testing-ve-now-7-in-state/articleshow/80004143.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Woman kills her girls after tiff with in-law||AHMEDABAD: A 22-year-old woman from a Gandhinagar village on Saturday threw her two daughters, aged four years and six months, into Narmada canal after a quarrel with her sister-in-law. Allegedly, she had asked her sister-in-law Saroj Solanki for plastic wastes to sell to a hawker and buy snacks for her daughters Urvashi, 4, and Shraddha, 6 months with the proceeds. But her sister-in-law objected and told her to arrange money for her kids. In a fit of rage, Shilpa Solanki, resident of Antroli village in Dahegam, went and threw her two daughters into the canal. The woman’s husband, Siddhrajsinh Solanki, filed an FIR with Dahegam police of Gandhinagar district, and the woman has been arrested on murder charges. Police said the body of the younger girl has been found and search is on for the other. When her husband had taken her to the canal, a local paan shop owner told him that he had seen her throwing the two little girls into the canal and running away after that. “When Siddhrajsinh asked why she had done that, she told him that she was enraged with her sister-in-law’s words and killed their two daughters,” said inspector J K Rathod of Dahegam police. Rathod said, “Saroj had told Shilpa to arrange money for snacks of her kids, which did not go well with Shilpa who left the house in a rage. When family members asked where she was going with the girls, she said that she was going to get her blouse from a tailor.” Rathod said that when her husband returned home in the evening, he couldn’t find Shilpa and his daughters. He went out to search for them. At that time, a villager called him up on phone and said that his wife was at a primary health centre near Jalundra village. Siddhrajsinh tried to talk with Shilpa on phone, but she said that she was not in her full senses and asked him to meet her. When he went there and met her and asked about their daughters, she said she had thrown them into the canal near Jalundra village, said Rathod. She blamed her sister-in-law for angering her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-kills-her-girls-after-tiff-with-in-law/articleshow/79999508.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jodhpur||Police to check hotels, clubs in Rajasthan on New Year’s eve||JAIPUR: Unlike the conventional duty of monitoring drunk driving on New Year’s eve, Jaipur police will check violations under Section 144, Rajasthan Epidemic Act, Motor Vehicles Act and others on the last day of this year. Senior officers of Jaipur police commissionerate on Monday asked various police stations to ensure no mass functions are organised on New Year’s eve. Apart from checking hotels, bars and restaurants, Jaipur police might even check big gatherings at farm houses to check if any violations are taking place. “We have had requests from various event managers for small parties and gathering on the New Year’s eve, but we can’t permit this year following strict strict orders by the home department,” said a senior police officer. Senior officers have directed police stations to not only set up pickets all across the city, but also ensure surprise checks at hotels, guests houses, clubs and farm houses. “Under the prevailing situation of Covid-19, our men will carry out surprise checks if there are complaints regarding big gatherings and playing of loud music,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (crime). Jaipur police has already initiated action to prevent violation of night curfew. “As per directions, we have made night duty rosters and have been acting against mass gatherings. On Sunday, a similar action was taken at a club where there was a gathering of 150 people,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/police-to-check-hotels-clubs-and-farm-house-on-new-years-eve/articleshow/80004128.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||Teen entrepreneur dreams of replacing Chinese electronics with his products||With the big dream of replacing Chinese products with Indian ones, 14-year-old Amar Prajapati undertook training in LED light making and has now opened his own company, employing five people—all within months. The student of class 8 aspires to launch the full range of electronic appliances under his company now. “After the outbreak of coronavirus and the subsequent lockdown, I became very sad to see that a huge number of people were unemployed. One day, I read in the newspaper about a training programme for LED light making organised by Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority. I told my father that I wanted to join it and he agreed,” said Prajapati. “The programme was run by Vivek Singh, who already runs a big unit. After learning the process, I started making lights at home and employed a few people. However, it was difficult to work from home due to space issues. With my father’s help, I made an investment of around Rs 2 lakh and formed a manufacturing company called Jeevan Prakash Industries, in which my mother Suman Prajapati is a director,” he added. “When parents were scared of sending their children outside, my father helped me and gave me the chance to not only learn a skill but also set up a company. It is my dream to replace Chinese products with Indian ones at least among electronics,” the young boy said. Recently, the little entrepreneur made a chargeable electric lamp which could stay illuminated for 12 hours without electricity and also a bulb which could emit light for three hours without electricity. “I am going to launch these two products and hope they will be a hit in the rural market,” he said. His mother Suman helps Prajapati run the company. The boy divides his time between studies and his enterprise. “My website is also ready and I will be able to sell products online soon. I am making profits already and hope to become a big name,” said the boy with big goals. Prajapati trains his employees for manufacturing as well as sales. “I am also telling them about marketing the benefits of LED lights,” he said. While father Ramesh, a government employee, is proud of his genius son, trainer Vivek Singh lauds the boy’s sharp mind, strong will and immense patriotism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/teen-entrepreneur-dreams-of-replacing-chinese-electronics-with-his-products/articleshow/80001115.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||After 10 months, Jaipur sees surge in tourist footfall||JAIPUR: After almost 10 months, Jaipur is witnessing good footfall of domestic tourists. Though the number of tourists visiting Amber Fort, Nahargarh fort and other monuments is very less, people in the tourism industry said it was satisfactory compared to the current situation. TOI on Monday spoke to the authorities at mber Fort, Hawa Mahal and other monuments to know the reason behind sudden spike in tourists. “We are witnessing good number of tourists during the last week. Tourists from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab and other parts of India are coming to Jaipur,” said Pankaj Dharendra, superintendent of Amber fort. In December 2019, Amber fort saw nearly 2.18 lakh domestic tourists. “We can’t expect to match this number during corona. Till Monday, nearly 55,000 domestic tourists visited the fort. In all, 101 foreign tourists have also come,” he added. Authorities added that in November, the average number of tourists visiting the sites was nearly 1,500 to 2,000 per day which has now increased to nearly 5,000 daily. Saroj Chanchalni, superintendent of Hawa Mahal said, “We have received almost 32,000 tourists at Hawa Mahal. There was big increase in number of tourists last week. But, these are all domestic tourists from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.” Tour operators said the number of tourists was not fetching much business. “People from Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh are mainly coming to Jaipur on their own vehicles. As far as domestic tourists are concerned, we are only getting business from tourists from Maharashtra so far,” said Sanjay Kaushik, a Jaipur-based tour operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/domestic-tourists-flock-pink-city/articleshow/79999500.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||Housing societies organize parties to keep residents safe||Pune: With the night curfew in place, citizens’ New Year’s Eve plans have changed. Many housing societies in the city are organizing parties, with some online activities too, to encourage residents to stay home and ring in the New Year.Surya TN, a resident of Undri, said, “The event is open to only the residents of the society and will be held in the compound. We are implementing safety protocols.” A member of the management of a housing society on NIBM Road said, “We are having a party on our terrace, where only residents are invited. We will also host some party games online for residents that will go on till midnight, to ring in the New Year.” A member of the management committee of a housing society in Salunke Vihar said they had decorated the premises and were planning a get-together of residents for New Year’s Eve. Priyabrata Chatterjee, a resident of Fatimanagar, said, “With night curfew in place, people will be home by 11pm, waiting for the New Year. We have organized online games that start at 11pm and will go on till countdown to midnight to ring in the New Year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-societies-organize-parties-to-keep-residents-safe/articleshow/79999525.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Madurai||Good turnout at tourist spots in south TN||Madurai: The tourist destinations in the southern districts are witnessing heavy footfall as local people are getting ready to welcome the new year. Vaigai dam in Theni district is seeing thousands of tourists, both on weekdays and weekends, for the past one week, as the dam is holding 59.78 feet of water after the recent rains.Assistant engineer of the Vaigai dam, C Selvam said that they were seeing not less than 50,000 visitors per week, which was the highest in the last 10 months. “We provide them with hand sanitizers at the entrances and ask them to wear masks and there are also many vendors selling the masks at the entrances,” he said.“I come here at least once a year with my family from Madurai as it is about a two hour drive and we get to spend some good time and this year there is a lot of greenery due to the good rainfall,” said R Baskaran, a software engineer.Kodaikanal in Dindigul district is another place which is seeing a huge tourist crowd. The night and morning temperatures stayed at about 13 to 14 degrees, but this did not deter the crowds.Lesser known places like Dindigul district and the Marudhanathi dam in Dindigul district is also seeing large crowds. Sathaiaru dam in Madurai, which had remained dry for over a year, is holding water and people are also visiting it now. However, these locations lack basic amenities and the tourists also leave behind a trail of garbage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/good-turnout-at-tourist-spots-in-south-tn/articleshow/80000736.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cera drags Leocera to court, gets restrain order||Ahmedabad: A district court at Mirzapur has temporarily stayed a Morbi-based company from selling its bath fittings and ceramic products under the brand name of Leocera because Cera Sanitaryware Ltd has alleged infringement on its trademark rights. Known sanitaryware manufacturer Cera approached the court earlier this year and complained that Leocera Bath Fittings had applied for registration of trademark ‘Leocera’ in December 2019. It had opposed the application for registration because a similar trademark ‘Cera’ was registered in its name in pertinent class of products. Leocera did not reply to the objection in trademark registry, but it started using the trademark for its products. Cera argued that the trademark Leocera is nothing but its own registered trademark with prefix ‘Leo’. This is materially, substantially and deceptively similar to its trademark. Cera Sanitaryware is a reputed firm in this business with an annual turnover of Rs 1,200 crore. If a similar trademark is allowed to be used by another company, it would amount to infringement because the customers cannot differentiate between two trademarks and this could cause great damage to Cera’s interest. The court issued notice to Leocera and its proprietor Shivkumar Viramgama, but the court did not get any response. The court observed that looking at the prevalent Covid-19 pandemic, it is not proper to pass any adverse order against Leocera for not responding to the court’s notice. However, it temporarily stayed Leocera from using the trademark. The court issued another notice to Leocera asking it to reply by January 21, and the stay will operate till the next date of hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cera-drags-leocera-to-court-gets-restrain-order/articleshow/79999556.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Madurai||Sivakasi presses see big dip in diary-calendar biz||Madurai: Central government offices, corporate houses and industries are among those which have cut complementary diaries and calendars in 2021 due to the impact of Covid-19. Though nearly 700 printing presses in Sivakasi town in Virudhunagar district are busy with printing orders till after Pongal, they used to be engaged till early-February every year. The impact is more on diaries which are seeing up to 60% drop in orders as against 30% for calendars.“We used to spend Rs 8 lakh every year to print 5,000 calendars and 3,000 diaries for our employees and stakeholders. A few months ago, we got a circular from the ministry of finance not to do so. So we did not call for the tender this year,” said a senior central government official in the state. This is the case with other central government offices too, says the general manager of a leading press.Diaries are priced at Rs 50 apiece which goes up to Rs 250, excluding customisation. “Some corporate giants including cement manufacturers used to place orders from 50,000 to 2 lakh diaries. They have not placed orders this year,” said C Ganesh Kumar, president of Sivakasi Master Printers Association.Some clients reduced spending on diaries and come out with options such as reducing the size and number of pages and even undated diaries that could be used later. Kumar expressed concern that increasing dependence on smartphones and computers poses threat to diaries and calendars.Orders for calendar are placed after Diwali based on business during the festival. “When Diwali is in October we get orders by early November. Since it was on November 14 this year we started getting orders late,” said P Ganesh Kumar, a third generation printer. Monthly calendars priced from Rs 20 to Rs 600 apiece make it more affordable than diaries, thereby minimising the impact. The demand is more for the ones priced lesser. Orders from textile outlets have dropped by half whereas those from hospitals have gone up by 25%. Thankfully, the assembly election has come as a blessing in disguise for the daily sheet calendar printing sector. Political parties and local functionaries eyeing a seat are placing orders for these calendars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sivakasi-presses-see-big-dip-in-diary-calendar-biz/articleshow/80000735.cms||M K Ananth
December 29, 2020||Madurai||Cold climate affects making of clay pots ahead of festival||Madurai: Clay pots are usually much sought after during Pongal season and is also the time when local potters make some profits. However, this year the cold climate is making it difficult to manufacture pots in large numbers as it is taking longer to dry them.“Making a clay pot is tricky as the pot should be moulded and dried just right and then heated up before it is painted. But this year the cold mornings is making it difficult to dry the pots and therefore we are making the pots in lesser number,” said R Veeran, of Bethaniapuram who has been making pots for 20 yearsOnce moulded, a pot takes about four to five days to dry, and about three days if it is sunny. “If the pots don’t dry well, they will break making the entire effort go waste. We are now spending more time in moving the pots from place to place to ensure they dry well. We are not able to stock them in large numbers,” said Kannan a potter from Kidaripati in Alagarkoil. This climate is increasing the numbers of days to dry to nearly six days, and many of the pots are breaking in the process, he added.The potters say the temperatures dip to less than 20C at night and early morning. “It is usually more sunny in the mornings during the month of Markali and we make the most of it. But this year it is too cold,” said Jaya, a potter from Arapalayam.“I have been cooking Pongal in brand new clay pots for the last five years because it is tastier and healthier. The pot that I bought last year for Rs 45 is costing Rs 70 this year because the potters say they are low on stock,” said S Lalithakumari of Anna Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cold-climate-affects-making-of-clay-pots-ahead-of-festival/articleshow/80000733.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||Deputy CM Ajit Pawar says son not in race for Pandharpur bypoll||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has dropped the curtain on the speculation in the political circles that his son — Parth Pawar — was a probable candidate for the Pandharpur-Mangalwedha assembly constituency bypoll in Solapur district. The talks of Parth’s nomination began after NCP functionary Amarjit Patil, the son of veteran NCP leader Audumbar Patil, sent a letter to party supremo Sharad Pawar seeking Parth’s nomination from the constituency. The letter has been widely circulated over social media. Parth’s name surfaced even before the election commission made any official announcement regarding the bypoll necessitated by the death of party’s sitting member Bharat Bhelke. Meanwhile, Bhelke’s supporters want his son — Bhagirath — to get the nomination. Sharad Pawar, who visited the Bhelke family a few days back, did not speak on the issue. Recently, Bhagirath was elected the chairman of the cooperative sugar factory headed earlier by his father. Calling the reports of Parth’s nomination as baseless, Pawar said that the Maha Vikas Aaghadi (MVA) would field a common candidate after considering sentiments and views of the local people. The MVS would prefer a local candidate in the byelection, Pawar said. Earlier, Sharad Pawar’s daughter Supriya Sule, the Baramati Lok Sabha member, told TOI that the decision would be taken by state president Jayant Patil. “Parth has not asked for a ticket. This is a move to create confusion. He had contested the Lok Sabha election and we can’t expect him to contest the Assembly election. He is continuing his work in the Maval Lok Sabha constituency, from where he had fought the last election,” Patil said. Since his loss in the 2019 Lok Sabha election from the Maval constituency, Parth has been keeping a low profile. However, he has made some statements that have drawn attention. There are indications that the Maval LS seat, which is represented by Sena, could be retained by the party next time too. Parth has caused some embarrassing moments for the party with his stand on two occasions — on Maratha reservation and Sushant Singh’s death. In August this year, Sharad Pawar had even slammed his grand-nephew calling him as “immature”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ajit-says-parth-not-in-race-for-pandharpur-bypoll/articleshow/80000738.cms||Satyajit Joshi
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Six UK returnees test Covid +ve in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Six persons who recently returned from the United Kingdom tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand in the past 24 hours. The health department is now planning to send the samples to National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune to ascertain whether it is the new strain. And the health status of all the recent returnees from the UK will be monitored. At least 227 people have arrived in the hill state from various parts of the UK in the past few days. Out of them, 138 are from Dehradun, 32 in Nainital, 25 in Udham Singh Nagar and 18 in Haridwar, among others. Dr RK Joshi, district surveillance officer of Dehradun, told TOI that five UK returnees tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday night. And one of their contacts was found positive as well. “We have sent their samples. While 15 new samples were collected of people who either have returned from the UK or their contacts,” Joshi said. Dr Pankaj Singh from the health directorate confirmed one UK returnee tested positive in Nainital. Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room informed that a total of 227 UK returnees arrived in Uttarakhand, according to the details shared by the Centre. “We have already written to all the chief medical officers (CMO) of each district to track those who have returned from the UK and monitor their health status for the next four weeks - even if they have tested negative,” Tripathi said. According to a letter to CMOs, each person returning from the UK since November 25 should be tested. Also, 'UK return' should be mentioned on the samples so that a separate database of such patients can be maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/six-uk-returnees-test-covid-ve-in-ukhand/articleshow/79997273.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 29, 2020||Goa||Lord Damodar temple now open for devotees||Vasco: Following prolonged entry restrictions due to the pandemic, the Lord Damodar temple in Vasco finally opened for devotees for darshan on Monday. The temple committee has set few SOPs to be strictly adopted while entering the temple. The Lord Damodar temple is very close to the hearts of Vascoites, as the annual Lord Damodar saptah has been taking place here for more than a century now. The temple’s doors were closed for devotees during the pandemic and were opened only during the saptah. It has now once again allowed devotees entry by laying down some SOPs, like mandatory wearing of the mask. Only 10 devotees at a time will be allowed in for five minutes and they have been asked not to offer flowers, coconuts, sweets, etc. Money offerings have to be put in a designated box, as per the SOP. Social distance has to be maintained at all times and thermal screening will be carried out at the entrance. Distribution of ‘tirth’ and ‘prasad’ has been suspended for safety reasons. The timings for devotee visits will be from 7.30am to 12.30pm and 5pm to 8pm on Monday. From Tuesday to Sunday, the timings will be from 8.30am to 12pm and from 5pm to 7pm. Former councillor of the Mormugao Municipal Council, Krishna alias Daji Salkar said, “For Vascoites the Lord Damodar means a lot. Everyday people take his blessings and start their day. Now, that the temple has been opened, people should follow all SOPs and help the temple committee to continue services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lord-damodar-temple-now-open-for-devotees/articleshow/80000741.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: 10 regional labs to help states with genome sequencing||PUNE: The Centre on Monday identified 10 advanced regional laboratories to serve as local hubs for genome sequencing. Officials from National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said these centres will play a vital role in sample surveillance, which will trace new variants or mutations of SARS-CoV-2. There are 17 labs in the country capable of genomic sequencing. The 10 newly identified units, spread across the country, will cater to the nearest states that have been directed to send 5% of all positive samples for genomic sequencing. The Central Surveillance Unit, under the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, at the NCDC, regularly collects data in a decentralised manner from various states and districts. Such data, collected for SARS-CoV-2, will be used to select representative positive samples from various regions for genome sequencing, an official from the NCDC said. Officials from the ICMR said that while the country has enough labs, each of them will have to carry out quality analysis. Dr Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR’s epidemiology department, said these labs will play a key role in tracking and analysing strains, including the newfound UK variant. Former ICMR head of epidemiology Dr Lalitkant said genomic surveillance in the country should have started from the earliest days of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Currently we have the NIV, one CSIR lab and five under under the Department of Biotechnology,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10-regional-labs-to-help-states-with-genome-sequencing/articleshow/79999557.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 29, 2020||Pune||DHO gets another list to track travellers||Pune: The district health office (DHO) has received another list for tracing around 476 people returning from the UK, taking the total number of returnees to 988 so far. The officials from the DHO stated out of these 988 travellers, a total of 455 had been tracked and 420 tested. Of them, three tested positive for Covid-19. Abhay Tidke, additional DHO of Pune ZP, said around 31 travellers could not be tracked due to invalid contact or address. Pune ZP’s CEO, Ayush Prasad, said, “All positive persons, so far, are not carrying the mutant strain.” — Piyush Bhusari||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dho-gets-another-list-to-track-travellers/articleshow/79999582.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, Telangana govt may go slow on its crop colonies move||HYDERABAD: The decision of the state government to do away with village-level collection centres and regulated farming will pave the way for easing of the crop colonies concept, agriculture experts said. The state government had planned to introduce the concept of crop colonies as part of the regulated farming to be implemented from the coming Vaanakalam crop season. Sources said the backlash it received after suggesting the farmers to opt for fine variety of paddy seems to have triggered the government’s decision. “We had an extensive discussion on regulated farming and realised that the minimum support price (MSP) for some of the crops cannot be given by the government. Since MSP for some of the crops set by the Centre will continue, we have decided to do away with regulated farming,” Telangana State Planning Board vice chairman B Vinod Kumar said. He recalled that 70% of farm produce transactions were already happening outside the purview of market yards in Telangana. A crop colony is meant to grow a particular crop in a given village or a cluster of villages. The idea is to ensure that adequate quantities of various crops, including vegetables, are grown in the state to meet the demand for foodgrains and pulses among other commodities, an expert said. As part of the regulated farming, the state government had asked the farmers to go for the fine variety of paddy and many farmers had opted for it. But since the cost of production was high, farmers had demanded an MSP of Rs 2,500 per quintal as against Rs 1,888 per quintal. This left the state government in a piquant situation. The state government faced a similar predicament over the MSP for maize crop. Officials pointed out that in states like Chhattisgarh where the MSP is just Rs 800, Telangana purchased the maize at Rs 1,800 per quintal from farmers. Experts said if regulated farming is implemented, the state government will have its hands full and its responsibility to purchase the farm produce doubles if there are not enough buyers in the market. It may be mentioned that the government had even threatened to stop disbursing Rythu Bandhu amounts if farmers do not stick to what crop should be sown and in how much quantity. But, it withdrew the proposal following stiff resistance from farmers. Sources said the proposed crop colonies concept will now be confined to just making suggestions to the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-govt-may-go-slow-on-its-crop-colonies-move/articleshow/79999588.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Sherwood College row: Suspended principal knocks on SC door||NAINITAL: Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday adjourned the hearing of petition filed by the Diocese of Agra seeking direction to police to help the newly-appointed interim principal of Sherwood College Peter Dhiraj Emmanuel take charge of the school till January 7. The Bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Alok Kumar Verma was informed by the counsel appearing for suspended principal Amandeep Sandhu that they have filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court (SC) against the HC’s December 9 order that granted police protection to Emmanuel. It has been listed for hearing on January 4. “The court was informed by the counsel that the apex court is set to hear the plea next week. The court, therefore, adjourned the hearing till January 7,” a lawyer present at the hearing said. The Sherwood College Diocesan Society – which is run by the Diocese of Agra – had moved the HC earlier this month seeking police protection for Emmanuel. Though the court granted protection, its December 9 order did not say that the police shall help him take charge. As a result, police accompanied Emmanuel to the school, but they did not make efforts to wrest control of the campus from Sandhu. An FIR was subsequently registered against Sandhu and around 60 staff of the Sherwood College on several charges, including rioting. Though the society has now asked the court to direct the police to help them take control, Sandhu has challenged it before the SC arguing that he wasn’t even heard in the matter when orders were passed. As reported by TOI earlier, the Diocese of Agra had suspended Sandhu in October for alleged financial irregularities and appointed Emmanuel as the interim principal. Emmanuel has since thrice tried to take charge of the school – once in October and twice earlier this month after HC’s orders. However, he was turned away each time from the school’s gate. The Diocese of Lucknow and the school’s staff have also filed impleadment applications in the HC saying that they want to be a party to the case. While the Diocese of Lucknow has argued that it has ownership of the school, the staff have said that they deserve to be heard in the case as well because police had booked them after Emmanuel failed to take charge. The court will decide on these applications after the SC passes its order in the SLP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sherwood-college-row-suspended-principal-knocks-on-sc-door/articleshow/79997291.cms||Prashant Jha
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s dry laws spoil excursion, make couple’s Canada return difficult||AHMEDABAD: Pooja Shukla, a dentist working as a hospital administrator in Vancouver in Canada, and Rohan Jani, an engineer settled in the same city, returned to India for their engagement. Their excursion to their native place was spoiled by Gujarat’s dry laws when they were allegedly caught boozing with their friends. While releasing them on bail, the court ordered to impound their passports, making it impossible for them to return to Canada and report at their workplaces in time. However, the court later permitted them to go to Canada, but they will have to return and deposit their passports again with the court after six months. Both Shukla and Jani hold permanent resident status in Canada. They returned two months ago for their engagement. They were caught by Changodar police on October 30, allegedly boozing with their friends at a water park. Jani had beer cans purchased from a permit shop. But he too was booked because others did not have permit to consume liquor. All of them were released on bail in the first week on November, but the court ordered them to surrender their passports. This posed a problem for Jani and Shukla. They approached the court again and submitted that it was by an oversight that they had supplied local addresses of their acquaintances while seeking bail, but they are permanent residents of Canada and their India visit was for their engagement, scheduled on November 22. They requested the court to return their passports so they could return to Canada and pursue their respective careers. Jani told the court that he was required to report at his workplace on December 7. Shukla said that she would have to appear in an examination on February 6 for her licence to practice as a dentist, and she was required to return in December for preparations. If they did not make it to Canada, their careers would suffer. The court ordered to return their passports on their depositing Rs 25,000 each, but for six months only. Both of them will have to return to India after six months and deposit the passports again. While they are abroad, their advocates will have to attend court proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dry-laws-spoil-excursion-make-couples-canada-return-difficult/articleshow/79999584.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Fire safety NOC process is all set to go online||DEHRADUN: Police headquarters on Monday announced that fire safety No Objection Certificates (NOC) issued by fire department will be issued online from February 1 onwards. The decision to launch an online system for submitting applications as well as issuance of fire safety no objection certificate (NOC) was taken during the review meeting of the fire department, which was chaired by director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar. Kumar directed the officials present in the meeting to ensure that the disposal of the applications is done within 15-days of application and in case of rejection, valid reasons must be provided to the applicant. It is to be noted that the fire department gives 29 types of NOC for the industrial units and commercial units. “The online system will bring in transparency in the whole process and time-bound service delivery to the applicants will be ensured,” said DGP Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fire-safety-noc-process-is-all-set-to-go-online/articleshow/79997279.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 29, 2020||Pune||Vaccine data upload nearly done ahead of dry runs||Pune: The state government, till late Monday evening, had uploaded names and details of 7.17 lakh health workers for the priority Covid vaccination phase next year. Officials said 99% of worker data from the government health sector had been uploaded. But data upload of names from the private sector was still at 95%. Almost all districts of the state have completed the data upload process. Pune and Mumbai, however, are yet to finish uploading names and details of people from private institutions. Officials said both districts were still at 85% of the data upload process. Commissioner of the National Health Mission N Ramaswami said out of 4,167 government facilities in the state, data had been uploaded from 4,133 facilities units with nearly 4.09 lakh beneficiaries. And out of 30,657 private facilities in the state, data had been uploaded from 28,849 units, with a total of 3.08 lakh beneficiaries. A dry run of the priority vaccination drive has been scheduled for four states: Punjab, Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat on Monday and Tuesday. Data from these pilots will be shared with other states, officials said. The state task force has been asked to ready a report based on these dry runs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccine-data-upload-nearly-done-ahead-of-dry-runs/articleshow/79999585.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 29, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Rape survivor, mother try to immolate selves fearing attack||TUTICORIN: The mother of a 14-year-old disabled rape survivor attempted to immolate herself along with the girl at the collectorate here on Monday, fearing they would be harmed by the accused and his family. Policemen who were on duty poured water on the duo soon after the woman doused themselves with kerosene. “The accused should not be granted bail. My daughter is spending sleepless nights and wakes up in the middle of the night due to the trauma she underwent after she was repeatedly raped and threatened by him,” the mother told TOI. The victim, from a village in Vilathikulam taluk, cannot walk, can make minimum use of her hands and has difficulty in talking and eating as well. She is dependent on her mother and others for her day-to-day needs. She is living with her mother and two younger brothers aged 11 and seven. Their secluded house is near a temple. While the mother works as a farmhand, the father works in a tyre workshop in another village. The accused, Ayyappan, 36, of the same village raped the girl when she was alone as her brothers went out to play. He threatened to murder her brothers if she told anyone. “He has been repeatedly raping the girl this month. We came to know about it in the second week when my eldest son caught the accused in a compromising position in our house and chased him,” she said and added that a fellow villager also spotted the son chasing the man from their house. She claimed that her son managed to record the accused leaving their house on a relative’s smartphone. Vilathikulam all-women police booked Ayyappan under sections of the Pocso Act and arrested him from Tirupur on December 17. “But since then we are facing threats,” the mother said. She said that the younger brother of the accused is a policeman and that the accused is also connected with a panchayat representative who is making efforts to take the accused on bail. “They have already started influencing witnesses and his family has threatened us. We are going to end our lives if we don’t get justice,” she said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rape-survivor-mother-try-to-immolate-selves-fearing-attack/articleshow/80000740.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||One held for ₹219 cr bogus billing scam||Ahmedabad: The enforcement wing of the state goods and services tax (SGST) department arrested Umang Patel on Sunday for his alleged involvement in the Rs 219.3 crore bogus billing scam. Patel, who was absconding since June 2019, had floated 21 bogus firms involved in supplying building materials. According to the SGST department officials, he was using invoices of his 12 firms and taking input tax credit in another nine firms by using these bogus bills. During the investigation the department had found that there were no inward supplies in these nine firms for which input tax credit worth Rs 40.33 crore was claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-held-for-219-cr-bogus-billing-scam/articleshow/79999591.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Sangeetha Nataka Akademi secretary removed||THRISSUR: State government has removed Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi secretary N Ramakrishnan Nair from the post. Nair was shown the door after Akademi’s rejection of dancer and actor RLV Ramakrishnan’s request for presenting Mohiniyattam as part of Sangeetha Nadaka Academy’s online festival trigged a controversy, sources said. According to the sources, Nair was removed from the post to avoid controversies in the final phase of the state government. Kerala Sahitya Akademi secretary K P Mohanan has been given the additional charge of Sangeetha Nataka Akademi and he will take charge on Monday. Mohanan said, “Nair has several health issues and is now under rest at his native place in Palakkad. I will quit the post when Nair returns to office. It is a temporary arrangement by the state government.” It was in October that the Akademi landed in controversy after it rejected an application from Ramakrishnan to present Mohiniyattam as part of the Sangeetha Nadaka Academy’s online festival. Ramakrishnan has alleged that his application was rejected due to the secretary’s gender and caste approach. Brother of late actor Kalabhavan Mani, Ramakrishnan said the decision by the secretary pained and disturbed him. The allegations by Ramakrishnan created a huge controversy and many leaders openly criticized the decision by the secretary. Earlier, academy’s CITU faction workers openly raised protest against the secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sangeetha-nataka-akademi-secretary-removed/articleshow/79998251.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Father & stepmom arrested for death of boy in Osmanabad||AURANGABAD: Three days after an eight-year-old boy was found dead in a well in the Songiri village of Bhoom tehsil in Osmanabad, the district police have arrested his father and stepmother on the charges of murder. Police said that on the night of December 25, Shubham’s dead body was found in a well behind his house where he resided with his father Mukesh Gawli and stepmother Radha. Inspector at the Bhoom police station Rameshwar Khanal told TOI, “Preliminary probe has revealed that the stepmother often nagged about having her stepson in the house. Even a slight mistake committed by the boy would lead to heated arguments between the man and his wife.” On Friday, a heated argument broke out following which Mukesh, in a fit of rage, jumped into the well, along with his son, to end his life. Mukesh somehow survived but Shubham drowned. Khanal said Mukesh had married Shubham’s mother Sakshi 10 years ago. However, due to growing differences, the couple parted way. Later, Sakshi married another man from Pune and settled there. Mukesh did not give Shubham to Sakshi and married Radha three years ago. “Since the birth of her child about an year ago, Radha started insisting on shifting Shubham to either an orphanage or send him to his mother’s place. Mukesh always opposed the idea, due to which they frequently quarelled,” said Khanal. Based on the complaint lodged by Sakshi, an offence was registered against the duo at the Bhoom police station following which they have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/father-stepmom-arrested-for-death-of-boy/articleshow/80000752.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||STF to track down UP’s ‘missing teachers’||Lucknow: The missed December 17 deadline for teachers in Uttar Pradesh to verify their service books has prompted the director general, school education, to issue a warning stressing that failure to comply with the orders by January 4 will result in a probe by the special task force (STF) to ascertain whether these working teachers were ‘fake’. Latest data with the education department shows 16,838 teachers haven’t checked their service records (personal and professional details) uploaded by the department on the Manav Sampada portal, an online database of teachers created for digitization of records. According to the December 23 status report, over 6.1 lakh teachers appointed in the basic education department were asked to verify their service books. The process was followed by around 5.9 lakh teachers, which is around 97.2% of the total verifications sought by the department. During this huge exercise, teachers had to make corrections in a Google sheet. They also had to upload their educational documents — from high school to degree level.The report shows that Pratapgarh district is the worst performer with 9.1% pending verifications, followed by Mau and Ayodhya with 6.7% and 6.3% verifications pending. Lakhimpur Kheri and Kushinagar are top performers with 99.9% and 99.8% verifications done. In Lucknow, 357 teachers out of 8,041 have not checked their records or uploaded documents. The education department intensified the digitisation process after TOI in June reported the ‘fake’ teacher scam wherein a full-time science teacher named Anamika Shukla was found working at 25 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBV) simultaneously for 13 months and taking home approximately Rs 1 crore as salary. Post the scam, an STF probe was initiated to identify fake teachers in the state. With arrests of over 350 primary teachers working on the credentials of other teachers, officials said this was just the tip of the iceberg. “There are some technical issues in uploading documents. But the figure of missing teachers is huge,” said an official. Post January 4, the list of missing teachers will be handed over to the STF for a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stf-to-track-down-ups-missing-teachers/articleshow/80001119.cms||Isha Jain
December 29, 2020||Goa||Rs 500cr contractors’ bills cleared using discounting system||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that contractors’ bills of Rs 500 crore have been cleared through the bill discounting system. “Bills up to March 31, 2020, have been cleared. Goa has become the first state in the country to give advance payment through this system,” Sawant said. Sawant told TOI that no additional burden was put on the government treasury. Contractors whose bills have been cleared were those engaged by the PWD, electricity and Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation. With the state government unable to pay contractors immediately due to a financial crunch, it was decided to adopt the ‘discounting bill’ method to clear the bills, Sawant said. The government will pay the bank Rs 500 crore without any interest, he said. The adoption of the discounting bill concept means that banks, contractors and the government through various departments have registered themselves on TReDS, an online electronic institutional mechanism aimed at facilitating the financing of trade receivables through multiple financiers. Big contractors who have taken up major works, including construction of bridges and roads, are benefited from the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rs-500cr-contractors-bills-cleared-using-discounting-system/articleshow/80000779.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corpn, grain merchants agree on storage space for biz||Madurai: As the Madurai Corporation and Tamil Nadu Food Grains Merchants Association have been in talks to a construct storage space, as the traders want to shift their wholesale business out of the busy East Masi Street and its surroundings to outside the city, a consensus has been reached on the location while negotiations on the rent are in progress. There are more than 200 shops in East Masi Streets and its adjacent areas selling grocery and the traders are finding it difficult with restriction of truck movement into the city during the day “We suggested the location at Vellakkal near sewage water treatment plant and they are happy about the location. It is next to the place where the fish market is proposed. Karimedu fish market, which is functioning at Mattuthavani temporarily, will be shifted there,” an official said. Officials from the corporation said that the association had approached them a few months ago seeking infrastructure on rental basis. They have submitted a requisition letter seeking 175 shops - 100 shops measuring 500sqft, 50 shops measuring 1,000sqft and 25 shops measuring 2,000sqft. “They are in need of infrastructure facility to store goods and do wholesale business, while the retail business will continue to take place in the existing place. Talks are now under way to finalise the rental rates,” said an official from Madurai Corporation.S P Jeyaprakasam, president of Tamil Nadu Food Grains Merchants Association, said the rental quotation given by the corporation is too high. “They have quoted around Rs 16 per sq ft, which is on par with the rent collected at Mattuthavani. On behalf of the association, we have sought around Rs 10 per sq ft,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-grain-merchants-agree-on-storage-space-for-biz/articleshow/80000750.cms||V Devanathan
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Scrapping village-level centres bad move: Experts||Hyderabad: Scrapping the village level collection centres introduced during the Covid-19 is hurting the TRS more than its decision of introducing regulated farming, say experts. These two decisions are unpopular with the state farmers. “There should have been incentive-based crops instead of regulated farming. This system is already in states like Andhra Pradesh and Sikkim. Though there is no assurance of MSP, this scheme encourages the farmer to produce a particular crop rather than influencing the decision of the farmer through regulated farming,” said Kiran Visa, state committee member Rythu Swaraja Vedika. Instead of following the Union laws, TRS regime should have brought a new law like the Chhattisgarh government. “After the three farm laws were passed by the Parliament, Chhattisgarh passed a new law declaring the the entire state as a regulated area,” Kiran said. Agro scientist and economist Dr G Ramanjaneyulu said that government should encourage the farmers to produce a variety of crops rather than regulated farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scrapping-village-level-centres-bad-move-experts/articleshow/79999629.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong seeks probe into agri purchases||Hyderabad: The Congress alleged that there is a scam with the state government claiming of suffering losses to the tune of Rs 7,500 crore due to purchase of agriculture produce from the farmers at MSP. It demanded a high-level probe into this alleged scam and the release of a white paper on crops purchased and a list of buyers. Former minister Mohd Ali Shabbir demanded a high-level probe into the purchase and sale of various agricultural products by the state government. “Chief minister KCR’s claim that the state government suffered losses of Rs 7,500 crore due to purchase of various crops is suspicious. He may be trying to cover up a major scam by claiming losses,” Shabbir Ali said in a media statement. The government did not do the farmers a favour by purchasing crops at minimum support price (MSP). However, TRS leaders have indulged in a major scam by selling the crop at lower prices by citing lack of demand. “It is ridiculous to say that there was no demand for paddy, sorghum, maize, redgram, bengal gram, sunflower seeds, etc. Their price in the retail market should have dropped significantly if there was no demand,” he added.  Meanwhile, Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy condemned KCR’s decision to wind up procurement centres in villages. “Many of these procurement centres were established by the previous Congress governments. It was KCR who imposed regulated farming and pushed farmers into huge crisis. The CM’s opposition to new farm laws of BJP government was a farce,” Uttam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-seeks-probe-into-agri-purchases/articleshow/79999648.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC seals 10 properties for tax default||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation sealed 10 properties whose owners have failed to pay property tax. The AMC has issued notices to the owners and asked them to pay their dues. AMC officials said that several schemes were launched by the AMC and state government giving rebates in property tax to defaulters. The AMC has also decided to lodge police complaints against such owners for not paying their taxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-seals-10-properties-for-tax-default/articleshow/79999656.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Mahalaxmi open in the day, two more gates also unlocked||KOLHAPUR: The four-fold increase in the turnout of visitors at the Mahalaxmi temple has forced the managment committee to keep the temple open during the day and also keep the other two entrances open to facilitate the movement of devotees. Till now, the temple was shut for two hours in the afternoon — mainly to sanitise the premises. Now, the sanitising work will continue all day in the presence of the visitors. Since Christmas, around 14,000 to 16,000 devotees have visited the temple per day against the turnout of 4,000 to 6,000 before the festival. Authorities said they expect the turnout to remain this high till at least the first few days of the new year. Mahesh Jadhav, chairman of Paschim Maharashtra Devasthan Samiti said, “Devotees are coming from far away places. Earlier, we had restricted entry to ensure social distancing. From Tuesday onwards, the temple will be open from 7am to 8pm. If the footfall increases further, we will extend the operation timings.” “However, the devotees must ensure that they follow social distancing, cover their face with masks and sanitise their hands at the entry and exit of the temple,” said Jadhav. Currently, only two of the four gates of the temple are open — one for entry and another for exit. The high turnout is causing congestion at these two gates and social distancing is not being followed. “We are opening the other two gates so that the devotees are not inconvenienced while entering or exiting the temple,” said Jadhav. The congestion at the entry and exit points also caused inconvenience to the local vendors and traders. Jadhav said more staff would be deployed to manage the devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mahalaxmi-open-in-the-day-2-more-gates-also-unlocked/articleshow/80000765.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Smashing collective heritage not endearing to the world’||A 1984 photograph of IIM-A by William J R Curtis (R)Ahmedabad: Following the IIM-A’s announcement that it plans to demolish most of its dormitories, renowned historian, critic, painter and photographer William J R Curtis has reacted strongly. The dormitories are considered to be among the finest creations of architect Louis Kahn in his mature years.In his reaction, Curtis cites Ahmedabad’s status as a World Heritage City. Curtis warns in his latest piece in the journal “The Architectural Review’: “This can only harm the institution’s international reputation.” He goes on to say: “Smashing up a world-class building which is in fact part of our collective heritage is scarcely the best way to endear oneself with the world community.” He adds, “Kahn’s IIM-A deserves nothing less, but what do you do when those who should be guardians turn out to be assassins? One never imagined that Kahn’s masterpiece could come under the wrecking ball, least of all at the instigation of its own proprietors.”Curtis elucidates the beauty of IIM-A’s structures: “Sober brick forms cut by deep shadows, primary geometries and layers of space animated by the movement of light,” He says: “It is an architecture inspired by historical references: from monasteries to the brick cylinders of Albi cathedral (1480), to the open-air rooms of the Palaces at Mandu (also from the 15th century), replete with shaded courts and streets.” Curtis explains that the IIM-A building is “a citadel of learning, with the library, administration and lecture hall blocks all on one side, and the diagonal flotilla of dormitories on the other.” He says they are linked and inseparable, all part of the same idea.While responding sharply to the IIM-A’s proposal to restore just four of the 18 dorms, Curtis writes, “The current administration’s suggestion that the former can represent ‘heritage’ once the latter is demolished quite simply beggars belief.” He goes on to say: “Can one imagine destroying the palaces of Fatehpur Sikri (dating from the 16th century) but keeping its mosque, or vice versa, and then claiming that the orphaned piece is an exemplary demonstration of the preservation of the past?”Curtis adds, “With time, the brick surfaces of Kahn’s structures have weathered. They were further deteriorated by the 2001 earthquake, when cracks also appeared.” But in 2014 the IIM-A assigned the restoration work to Somaya and Kalappa (SNK) Consultants. The library was restored first and it won a Unesco award in 2019. “The eighteen dormitories were part of the same contract and SNK deliberately chose the most degraded example in order to test techniques for the rest,” Curtis writes. He says that the sudden announcement to knock down all the dorms was on the “flimsy pretext that the results had not been ‘satisfactory”. In the end, Curtis blames the ‘virus’ of neoliberalism which “spreads so quickly, far and wide across the globe.” He continues: “Timeless architecture has no role to play, and preservation is a pesky nuisance that gets in the way of profiteering.” He then says: “The public interest, social values and any long-range sense of history are thrown to the winds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/smashing-collective-heritage-not-endearing-to-the-world/articleshow/79999867.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR keeps changing stand: Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar upped the ante against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, comparing his administration with ‘Tughlaq’ rule. Addressing reporters on Monday, Sanjay said the CM seems to be changing his opinion on every issue. “Some time back, he was strongly opposing the central farm laws and even supported the all-India bandh. Now, he is okay with the farm laws. He is creating confusion,” Sanjay said. Sanjay said the BJP has been opposing the regulating farming. “We demand that the state modernise market yards,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjay-kcr-keeps-changing-stand/articleshow/79999684.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Inform administration & police if you’re throwing New Year party||LUCKNOW: If you want to host large gatherings at a hotel, a pub, a restaurant, or any public place on the New Years’ eve, you will need to first inform the district administration and local police. The rules do not apply to house parties with the government having asked officials to convince people to gather in small groups at home to bring in the new year. The directions have been issued by chief secretary RK Tiwari to ensure that such gatherings do not become a Covid-19 hotspot. Tiwari said that it was natural for people to gather in large numbers for parties towards the year-end and for other festivals to be celebrated subsequently but in light of the ongoing pandemic, it was essential to follow all protocols so that these would not turn into super spreader events. “For any party being organised in hotels, pubs, clubs, halls, etc, the organiser must inform the local DM and police in advance, giving details about themselves, the number of invitees at the party and what measures have been taken in pursuance of Covid-19 protocols,” he said. The permission for hosting such an event will put the onus of everyone at the party following Covid protocols on the organiser. As per directions issued earlier, not more than 50% of the capacity of an enclosed space like a hall etc can be present at the party, not exceeding 100 people. Cops to patrol around all New Year party venuesIn an open area, this has been set at 40% of the area’s total capacity with provisions of social distancing, wearing of masks, use of sanitisers, thermal scanners etc. The CS has also said that to keep a check on the spread of Covid-19 during the New Year festivities, the administration and police must constantly broadcast advisories through PA systems and loudspeakers. Police patrolling will take place around all venues, including public places. Drone cameras will be used to keep a watch on public places as well. The directions also state that strict action must be taken against any person who is caught spreading rumours or news which can lead to violence or unrest. For this, a strict watch should also be kept on social media. Police presence will also be increased around liquor shops, restaurants, hotels, railway stations, bus stations, Metro, markets and along main roads. Checking of vehicles will also be increased during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/inform-admin-police-if-youre-throwing-ny-party/articleshow/80001129.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Veggie prices dip in Jaipur as local produce floods markets||JAIPUR: With the bumper arrival of locally harvested crops and movement of farmers at Mohana Mandi from districts like Alwar, there has been a major dip in the prices of vegetables. Wholesale traders at Mohana Mandi on Monday said compared to October, there is a dip of almost 40 per cent in prices of various vegetables. Prices of potatoes, tomatoes and onions continued to rise from July to mid-November until now. “The prices of potatoes in this season so far have gone as high as Rs 60 to Rs 70 per kg. But now with the arrival of potatoes in good numbers, it is being sold ar Rs 10 to Rs 15 per kg in the wholesale market while it is priced at Rs 20 to Rs 25 per kg in the retail market,” said Pappu Lal Prajapat, a wholesale trader at Mohana Mandi. Likewise, prices of onions skyrocketed to Rs 100 per kg but now it has come down to Rs 30 to Rs 40 per kg. “We have started getting onions from the local farms and supply from Nashik (Maharashtra) has also increased,” said a wholesale trader at Mohana Mandi. Wholesale traders said prices of vegetables will continue to be the same till February. “Till February, we will be continuously getting locally harvested crops and also from other states like Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradsh and Gujarat. Thus, prices till this period won’t rise,” said Lokesh Natani, a wholesale trader dealing with vegetables at Sodala situated Mandi. Coriander has been expensive among all as in this season its retail prices went upto Rs 250 per kg. “It is now available in Rs 30 to Rs 40 per kg,” Natani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/veggie-prices-dip-in-city-as-local-produce-floods-markets/articleshow/79999692.cms||Ashish Mehta
December 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Parbhani police seize 35 tonne rice meant for PDS||AURANGABAD: Parbhani police’s special squad intercepted a truck, which was illegally diverting 35 tonne of rice to the black market, at Mondha area in Gangakhed on Sunday night. Police suspect that this detection may unearth a major scam involving diversion of grains meant for public distribution system in Parbhani as well as in other parts of the state. Two people were nabbed from the spot and detained at Gangakhed police station. A probe has been initiated about the source of these rice bags as well as the destination to which they were being taken to. Sudarshan Mummaka, additional superintendent of Parbhani police, said in a majority of the cases, the diverted grains end up at Poha manufacturing units in Maharashtra as well as in Gujarat. Police authorities said that they were in the process of seeking details about the district supply officer responsible for the supervision of this batch of seized grain, which has a market valuation of over Rs 6 lakh. Police said during the preliminary investigation, the duo has spilled beans about other suspects involved in this alleged racket and their information has been taken on record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parbhani-police-seize-35-tonne-rice-meant-for-pds/articleshow/80000780.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Women’s panel members meet CM||Hyderabad: Newly-appointed chairperson and members of the Telangana women’s commission V Sunitha Lakshma Reddy met chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, ahead of assuming office on Monday. The newly-appointed chairperson and the members of the women’s commission will hold office till 2025. The move brought huge relief among social activists and denizens who have been fighting for the appointment of a women’s commission members. “It took almost close to 30 months of consistent efforts of participatory individuals for this to happen! Let’s rejoice this moment ! We the common citizens have made this happen. Persistence pays off,” tweeted women’s commission matters, a collective that steered the fight to seek a fully-functional women’s commission in the state.  Having a women’s commission in Telangana has been a longstanding demand of women’s groups in the last couple of years. The fight, which began from an online petition also reached the Telangana High Court which directed the government to act upon it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/womens-panel-members-meet-cm/articleshow/79999717.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||BTP to join farmers’ protest at Shahjahanpur||JAIPUR: Members and supporters of the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) from Rajasthan and Gujarat will soon march to Shahjahanpur-Keda border to support the protesting farmers. The party has termed the three farm laws damaging to everyone directly or indirectly, including tribals, who are mostly small-time farmers and depend on forests for livelihood. BTP national president Chottubhai Vasava said they had extended support to the protesting farmers since the beginning and now the time has come to stand with them in solidarity. “Our party’s view is very clear that these three farm laws are meant for the welfare of corporates. They will push farmers to the wall and make them slaves of corporates forever. Our support is in line with our party’s stand to be with the oppressed,” said Vasava, who is an MLA from Jhagadia in Gujarat. The party has claimed that their move was supported by all Schedule-5 areas in 10 states. Explaining the delay of a month in extending support to farmers, Vela Ram Ghogra, state president of BTP Rajasthan who has a bigger responsibility to mobilise the tribals at the border said, “The local polls and gram panchayat polls had kept us busy from the last two months. Thereafter, our party has held series of meetings to decide the format of our support. It has been unanimously decided to stand with farmers till the bills are repealed by the Modi government,” Ghogra said. He informed that the tribals will lead under the banner of BTP and they are mobilising youths for the march. Rajasthan BTP MLAs—Rajkumar Roat from Chorasi and Ramprasad Dindor from Sagwara — and newly elected 14 councillors of Dungarpur Municipal Corporation will lead the march followed by leaders from Gujarat. Formed in 2017, BTP’s main demand is formation of a separate state for tribals called Bhil Pradesh or Bhilistan by carving out of tribal dominated areas from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The party has entered into electoral politics in two of three states with two MLAs each in Gujarat and Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/btp-to-join-farmers-protest-at-shahjahanpur/articleshow/79999723.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||School operators in Rajasthan protest against RTE payment dues||JAIPUR: Thousands of school operators protested in front of district headquarters on Monday against the due amount under Right to Education (RTE). According to school operators the government has to pay around Rs 800 crore (pending for two years) to more than 50,000 schools. These schools are of small and medium economic capacity. Anil Sharma, president of School Shiksha Pariwar explained, “We are fed up of government’s lackadaisical attitude. We are teaching students free-of-cost under government program and now government is not paying us on time. We want a quick solution to this problem. Government has always given us false promises.” School authorities which are already facing financial problems due to lockdown and non-payment of fees by the parents now have to struggle to get money under RTE. Sharma said that government recently told them that they will not pay RTE money for the year 2020 as the schools are under lockdown. This did not go down well with the association. “When the court had ordered to let parents pay 70% of school fees then why is government denying us our rights. It is sheer injustice. We are providing them services in the form of online classes, the government must give us our money,” said Sharma. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra agreed to meet the school authorities after two days. A letter has been sent to the association members. Now the association has called all their district in-charges to Jaipur after which they will meet the minister. If the problem is not resolved, then another protest will be organised in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/school-operators-protest-against-rte-payment-dues/articleshow/79999712.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Meerut||Most parents say free school sweaters unsatisfactory||MEERUT: After getting an “unsatisfactory” feedback on sweater distribution from parents of children enrolled in state-run primary and upper primary schools, Uttar Pradesh government has asked the district education departments to redress IGRS complaints within three days or face action. “In a feedback session done via phone to find out the ground reality of distribution of sweaters, it was found that many parents were unsatisfied with the quality of the sweaters distributed in their respective districts,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, school education, UP. The sweaters were to be distributed among 1.59 crore students. The sweaters were to be procured keeping in mind the size and cost such that it did not exceed Rs 200 per unit. “All the complaints should be resolved within three days by the district authorities or else it will invite action,” warned Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/most-parents-say-free-school-sweaters-unsatisfactory/articleshow/79997361.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Key accused in Zalod councillor murder nabbed from Haryana||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Anti-terrorism Squad (ATS) on Monday arrested Imran Gudana from Mevat in Haryana for the murder of Zalod Nagarpalika councillor Hiren Patel, 48. Gudana alias Imu Dand, 35, hails from Zalod in Dahod district. The murder was a consequence of political rivalry between Amit Katara and the deceased Hiren Patel. ATS sources said on September 27, 2020, when Patel was on his morning walk near Titodi Ashram in Zalod, the accused ran him over with their vehicle. “He was rushed to a hospital, where he was declared dead by the doctors. The killers had made the murder look like a vehicle accident,” an ATS official said. However, as family members of the deceased asked for a thorough inquiry in the case, Dahod police swung into action and nabbed six accused. ATS sources said after going through the CCTV footage of the whole incident, Dahod police traced the vehicle and arrested Irfan Pada, a 2020 Godhra train carnage accused, Ajay Kalal, Mohammed Samir (of Madhya Pradesh), Sajjansingh Chauhan, Balram Bhilwara and Salim Shaikh. Gudana slipped from the net and fled to Haryana. ATS sources said days before the murder of Patel, Katara met Irfan Pada of Zalod and offered him the contract to kill Patel. “Pada agreed and Gudana took Pada and his henchmen to recce Patel’s house and told them about his morning walk schedule,” said a senior ATS official. On December 26, 2020, MoS (home) Pradeepsinh Jadeja called a meeting with senior police officials, including ATS DIG Himanshu Shukla, and directed them to catch whoever is absconding in the case. Several teams were formed under the leadership of SP Imtiaz Shaikh, who on Friday traced Gudana to Mevat, Haryana. “A team was dispatched to Mevat, which held Gudana. After a Covid-19 test, Gudana is to be handed over to Dahod police for further investigation,” said SP Imtiaz Shaikh. During primary interrogation, Gudana confessed that Amit Katara had planned to kill Patel due to political rivalry. “Before that, Patel was threatened of dire consequences many times,” said an ATS official. Irfan Pada had jumped parole, was paid Rs 2 lakh for murder ATS officials said Katara had paid Irfan Pada a sum of Rs 2 lakh to murder Patel. Pada had jumped parole and since then had committed several assaults and robberies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/key-accused-in-zalod-councillor-murder-nabbed-from-haryana/articleshow/79999726.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||Board, university exams will be held offline: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that the Std X and XII exams would be conducted in the same manner as it was held earlier this year. He said that routine exams would be conducted for Std X and XII, while other exams will also be held offline. “University exams would be conducted offline,” he said. The Class XII exam conducted by the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education will begin from April 26, and the Class X exam from May 13, 2021, as the state government has approved the delayed public exam dates. The late dates were proposed due to the late start to the 2020-21 academic year in the aftermath of the pandemic. “Date and subject-wise timetable for the 2021 exams will be notified by January 15,” board chairperson Ramkrishna Samant had said. As per the dates approved by the state government, theory examinations for Class XII will commence from April 26 and culminate on May 15, 2021. The theory exams for Class X will be held from May 13 to 31. Around 35,000 students register for the Class X and XII state board exams combined each year. In 2021, the practical examinations for Class XII will be held from April 1 to 24. For Class X, the practicals are scheduled from April 5 to 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/board-university-exams-will-be-held-offline-cm/articleshow/80000783.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Kochi||‘Operation P-Hunt': Techies among 41 arrested in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As many as 41 people, including white collar professionals, were arrested on Sunday and 339 cases were registered during a state-wide raid to bust the patrons of child pornography by the counter child exploitation team of the state police. The mission titled ‘Operation P-Hunt’ supervised by ADGP (headquarters) Manoj Abraham, who is also the nodal officer of cyberdome, the cyber security arm of the state police, 392 devices including mobile phones, tablets, modems, hard disks, memory cards, laptops, computers etc., containing graphic and illegal videos and pictures of children were seized. It was found that many videos and pictures appeared to be of local children between the age group of six and 15 years. According to ADGP Abraham, among the arrested were tech-savvy youth working in professional jobs, one of the reasons why they were using various kinds of encrypted handles to upload and download the material. “Some are suspected to be involved in trafficking of children as well as there are many chats to this effect in their devices. The details of rest of the people involved in circulating these images and videos are being collected. Strong action will be taken against all the individuals involved in this racket, continuing our policy of zero tolerance in these matters,” he said. The maximum number of cases were registered in Malappuram (46) followed by Palakkad (38), Alappuzha (32) and Thiruvananthapuram rural (30). The maximum number of devices were seized from Malappuram (48) followed by Alappuzha (43). The searches were conducted in as many as 50 places each in Kannur and Malappuram. The state police had constituted a CCSE (counter child sexual exploitation) unit for Kerala Police with special emphasis on preventing online child exploitation and child pornography. This unit has been fully functional since January 2020 and works on preventing and detecting online crimes against children. The team works in close contact with the Interpol-crimes against children unit and the international centre for missing and exploited children (ICMEC). The CCSE team functioning under cyberdome has been working on digital analysis of the virtual trends, particularly during the pandemic period. After identifying the culprits, a special operation titled P-hunt was launched. Over the past couple of years, more than 525 cases have been registered and more than 428 accused have been arrested for possession of child sexual abuse material (CSAM). As per the existing law, viewing, distributing or storing of any child pornographic content is a criminal offense can result in imprisonment up to five years and a fine of up to Rs.10 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/op-p-hunt-techies-among-41-arrested/articleshow/79998290.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Meerut||Four of a family killed in accident in UP’s Hapur, 5 others hurt||MEERUT: A couple and their two children were killed in a car crash in UP’s Hapur district near an over-bridge on National Highway 9. Five other members of the family were injured in the accident on Sunday night and were admitted to a hospital in Hapur. Anil (35), his wife Meena (34) and their children Rocky (3) and Sagun (2) died on the spot. According to police, the family from Bareilly was going to Delhi to be with their relatives, who are mourning a death. The front portion of the car, bearing Bareilly registration plate, was completely damaged due to the impact of the collision. There was no trace of the other vehicle with which the car collided in Hapur’s Pilkhuwa area. Police said that dense fog may have led to the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-of-a-family-killed-in-accident-in-ups-hapur-5-others-hurt/articleshow/79997346.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Meerut||UP Police plans outreach to farmers to ‘deter them’ from joining protesters||BIJNOR: As Uttar Pradesh’s border with Delhi continued to swell with protesters, state police have come up with a plan to "allay the fears and create awareness" about the Centre’s agriculture laws so that the farmers and their leaders “stay put in their region”. The new laws have riled a large section of farmers in the state, and thousands of them have been camping and protesting at Ghazipur and other border points with the national capital for the last several days. According to sources, a massive outreach programme has been chalked out by the state police brass for its rank and file, under which all the district police chiefs have been told to meet leaders of farmers’ unions of their region and address their grievances. “So that they stay in their region,” an order said. Policemen are also visiting the villages to gauge the mood of farmers and to know if they are planning to join the protest. A list of all the prominent farmer leaders will also be prepared in each district and senior police officers will meet them to “establish a dialogue”. Revenue and agriculture department officers have also been pressed into action. Police stations across the state will now have ‘kisan seva kendra’ where a dedicated officer will listen to and address the grievances of farmers, who will also be "educated about the new laws". On Monday, one such help desk was inaugurated by additional director of police (PHQ) BP Jogdand. The ADG and CEO of Noida Authority Ritu Maheshwari also reviewed law and order situation in the district. Jogdand also addressed some farmers at Nagina Dehat area and assured that their “interest will be safeguarded at any cost”. Several farmer groups from western UP districts like Meerut, Bijnor, Pilibhit, Hapur and Bulandshahr have extended support to the ongoing protest at the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-plans-outreach-to-farmers-to-deter-them-from-joining-protesters/articleshow/79997366.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 29, 2020||Meerut||Four undertrials escape during Covid-19 treatment, 3 caught later||Meerut: Four undertrials undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection at a government hospital fled from police custody in UP’s Bulandshahr district. Three of them were later caught, police said.Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police Santosh Kumar said, “Efforts are being made to trace the last one.”According to police, the accused were tested positive of Covid-19 in the test conducted soon after their arrest on December 19 and were admitted to L2 hospital facility in Khurja city from where they escaped on Sunday. Later, an FIR was registered at Khurja Nagar Kotwali. “On December 19, three accused were arrested from Khurja Nagar police station and one from Kotwali Dehat police station. Of the three suspects at Khurja Nagar, one was booked for alleged molestation while the remaining two for fraud. The one arrested from Kotwali Dehat was booked for theft," SSP Kumar said.After the alert, a massive manhunt was launched and three of the four absconding Covid-19 prisoners were arrested.“There was police deployment outside the hospital. In the facility, where they were kept, an alley leads to the terrace where the door was bolted from inside. The prisoners took off the bolt to the terrace and escaped on Sunday evening,” the SSP said. ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-undertrials-escape-during-covid-19-treatment-3-caught-later/articleshow/79997355.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘All buildings at IIM-A need to be conserved as a whole’||Ahmedabad: The recent decision of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, (IIM-A) to raze 14 of the 18 student dormitories designed by American architect Louis Kahn has not gone down well with the Indian chapter of ICOMOS. The advisory body to Unesco, has in a recent letter to the chairperson of the governing council to IIM-A, said the dormitories are an integral part of the masterpiece in modern architecture and need to be conserved along with all other buildings in the design. The ICOMOS letter explains that the situation at IIM-A was not much different to those that faced by other remarkable campuses around the world. “There are numerous examples of exemplary conservation management of landmark 20th century buildings, including those with experimental, low-cost constructions, which continue to be used for contemporary purposes without losing their cultural significance,” the letter said. Demolition and redesign is definitely not the preferred, or, the only choice, it added.A letter by the IIM-A director to alumni on December 23 cited multiple problems such as earthquake damage, leaks in the roof, dampness in the walls, leaks in toilet walls, slabs etc, to justify the decision to demolish most of the dormitories and build new structures in their place.The ICOMOS letter argues, “The entire group of buildings — the library, classrooms, faculty rooms, the plaza and the students’ dormitories — is a single design entity that needs to be conserved as a whole, maintaining the original relationships between the built masses and the open spaces.It adds, “Unfortunately, the absence of a scientific understanding of conservation theory, scope and procedures is also reflected in the decision to keep the peripheral dormitories while demolishing and redesigning the rest,” the letter said. Conservation vs re-development“IIM-A seems to be grappling with a dilemma of “Conservation vs Redevelopment”, choosing between one or the other. Conservation today is understood as being an integral part of all development activity and is the major driver of future plans for highly significant areas and groups of celebrated buildings such as the IIM-A campus,” wrote Navin Piplani, president of ICOMOS India, in the letter. ‘Vulnerable to earthquake’ argument “As regards the safety of the buildings under discussion, to state that the buildings under discussion are structurally inadequate and seismically vulnerable is a misplaced argument. There is adequate documentation to counter such perceptions of threat to life and property,” the letter stated. The way forwardA comprehensive conservation management plan needs to be undertaken in a scientific manner, by an inter-disciplinary team of experts, to address issues of future development, upgrading infrastructure as well as conservation of IIM-A’s unique built fabric and intangible values in an integrated manner. The addition of new designs, with a built-up area that (according to the tender document) would be some 160% to 170% of the existing, would substantially alter the original massing, disturb the human scale, impact the built and nature connect and impair the authenticity of the ensemble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-buildings-at-iim-a-need-to-be-conserved-as-a-whole/articleshow/79999777.cms||Maulik Pathak
December 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Guv gives approvalto convene specialassembly on Dec 31||Thiruvananthapuram: Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has given assent to convene special session of the state assembly on December 31. The one-hour session is being convened against Centre’s farm bill. The governor had earlier rejected the state government’s request to convene the session on December 23. The governor had written an open letter to the chief minister condemning the act of the government for putting him in the dark on the reason for convening the special session. The governor had also flayed the way the state government had to repeal the ordinances after getting the consent from the Raj Bhavan. However, after this incident, speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, parliamentary minister A K Balan and agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar had met the governor and held discussions with him. The state government had conveyed the message that it does not want to strain the relation with the governor. The chief minister himself had written a letter to the governor seeking his consent to convene the special assembly session on December 31. Now, the Raj Bhavan has given the consent as the state government had detailed about the emergency situation prevailing to discuss the farmer’s protest. The assembly session will pass a unanimous resolution against the farm bill. The UDF has also asked the government to come out with a legislation to overcome the farm bill. Already, the state government had made it clear that the stipulations brought under the new bill will not be executed in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/guv-gives-approvalto-convene-specialassembly-on-dec-31/articleshow/79998340.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Girl molested by employer and his friend||AHMEDABAD: A 40-year-old man from Meghaninagar lodged a police complaint on Sunday stating that his 14-year-old daughter was beaten and molested by the owner of the readymade garments shop where she worked, Mahesh Khatwani, a resident of Kubernagar and his friend Kamlesh Golwani. The complainant was distraught by their misbehaviour with his daughter and tried to commit suicide on Friday night. Meghaninagar police lodged an offence under Sections 354(b), 323, 294 (b), 506(1) and 114 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Inspector J L Chauhan said the complainant disappeared from the hospital he was being treated at and was also not at his house. “We will also invoke the Child labour Act, as the 14-year-old girl was employed by the accused, and abetment to suicide once the accused are arrested,” he added. According to the FIR, the complainant, who runs a snacks stall, on December 22 when he, his wife and their five-year-old son had gone to Ambaji, his daughter was home alone, as he had told her not to go to work that day. Police officials said the girl, who has studied up to Class IX, told her parents when they got back from Ambaji that Khatwani and his friend Golani had come to their house and asked her why she had not gone to the shop. “According to the FIR, the girl alleged that the two accused caught her hand and behaved indecently with her,” said a police official. According to the FIR, when the girl’s father went to the accused’s shop on December 26, the accused told him that he should forget the advance of Rs 20,000 that his daughter had taken from them and keep his mouth shut about what had happened with her. “When he told the accused he would be filing an FIR, the accused abused, assaulted and threatened him. That night he could not sleep and tried to commit suicide by ingesting phenyl. He was then rushed to Civil Hospital,” said a police official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/girl-molested-by-employer-and-his-friend/articleshow/79999773.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||IMD: Fog to engulf Hyderabad till January 3, mercury levels to drop further||Hyderabad: Foggy conditions are likely to continue over the city until January 3 as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicts a slight drop in mercury levels in the next few days. The IMD has warned of foggy or misty conditions at isolated places during the morning hours across Telangana. Meteorologists said that mercury levels are set to drop further as a cold wave condition are likely to prevail across Telangana for the next few days. Minimum temperatures are likely to be below normal by three to four degree Celsius at isolated places. “Low level of easterlies and south easterlies are prevailing over the state which is causing a drop in mercury levels. Minimum temperatures are expected to be in the range of 13 to 15 degree Celsius, while maximum temperatures are expected to be in the range of 28 to 30 degree Celsius,” read a weather report issued by the Telangana State Development Planning Society. Experts said that prevalence of warm and humid winds has resulted in advection fog over the city and its adjoining areas. Advection fog occurs when air, that is warmer and more moist than the ground, moves over the surface.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/imd-fog-to-engulf-city-till-jan-3-mercury-levels-to-drop-further/articleshow/79999759.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad air quality worsens as winter chill ups pollutants||HYDERABAD: As the city started to experience winter chill a week back, the air quality index (AQI) has started to increase inching closer to ‘poor’ category — 185 on Sunday as against 126 recorded a week ago. The AQI is rated good when it is between 0-50, satisfactory (51-100), moderate (101-200), poor (201-300), very poor (301-400) and severe (401-500). Track the pollution level in your cityEarlier this month, AQI was recorded between 95-120. As the mercury levels started to drop from the third week of December, there was a gradual rise in the AQI levels. Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) officials attributed it to low wind speed that trapped particulate matter in the atmosphere thereby deteriorating the air quality. “The wind pattern was stable in the last two days, due to which pollutants could not escape the atmosphere. Stable wind pattern trapped pollutants, slowing down its dispersion and resulting in smog during morning hours. Once wind keeps moving, the AQI automatically comes down,” said Prasad Dasari, senior scientist, TSPCB. Several parts of the city experienced severe fog during early morning hours, forcing walkers to stay indoors. “Earlier, I used to step out around 6-6.30 am for morning walks. But now, due to heavy fog, I wait for the sunlight for visibility to improve,” said Piyush Gupta, a resident of Nallagandla. Terming it an annual phenomena, environmentalists said government authorities should be vigilant in terms of emissions through different sources during this time of the year. “During this time, there needs to be increased regulation on garbage burning and industrial pollutants as dispersion is low,” said Subba Rao, an environmentalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-air-quality-worsens-as-winter-chill-ups-pollutants/articleshow/79999734.cms||Preeti Biswas
December 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Political workers declare candidature for KMC poll; leaders call for restraint||KOLHAPUR: Political workers and supporters declaring their own candidature for the upcoming Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC)  has become a cause for worry for the leaders. Some aspirants have already put up hoardings in their wards and have started campaigning on social media. Some have even started meeting voters. All of them have one thing in common — they all claim that they will be getting the official nomination from the political parties. Satej Patil, the Kolhapur district guardian minister and senior Congress functionary, said: “The political workers should show some restrain. They should not waste their energy fighting each other for tickets. The party will declare the official nominees, who must get support from all the workers.” Some former corporators and local satraps have declared that if they did not get the nomination, then they would contest the election as independent candidates. While, the Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena are going to contest separately, the BJP and Tararani Aghadi are going to team up for the polls and may face rebellion if the party workers are denied tickets. A senior Tararani Aghadi functionary, on the condition of anonymity, said, “It will be a tough task to select candidates. We had faced some rebellion last time. This time, we will ensure that tickets are given only to those with elective merit.” Shiv Sena divided Due to factions and differences among local leaders, the Shiv Sena is likely to face a tough election. The Sena in the city is divided between two camps — one of city president Sanjay Pawar and the other of former city MLA Rajesh Kshirsagar. On Sunday, minister Uday Samant tried to patch up things between the leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/political-workers-declare-candidature-for-kmc-poll-leaders-call-for-restraint/articleshow/80000782.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Luni river rejuvenation project to improve irrigation, drinking water supply in 9 districts||JAIPUR: A major rejuvenation project is likely to be carried out at seasonal river Luni to provide water for irrigation, drinking and to revive old streams in nine districts of the state. The central government run Arid Forest Research Institute (AFRI), Jodhpur, has prepared a detailed Luni River Rejuvenation project for the ministry of environment and climate change. The project will see the plantation of 60.77 lakh trees which will be different as per the landscape along its basin. The plantation will pass through hilly tracts, plains, urban area and agriculture fields. The project will cost around Rs 534 crore and directly and indirectly impact around 2 crore people spread in nine districts. Since ancient times, the river forms its basin extending over present-day Ajmer, Barmer, Bhilwara, Jalore, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Pali, Rajsamand, Sirohi and Udaipur districts of Rajasthan either full or in parts. It has always been an important habitat of wildlife like blackbuck, chinkara, leopard, crocodile, etc. Over the centuries, the basin region is facing climatic adversities - low and erratic rainfall, extremes of temperatures, wind velocity and evaporation and poor soil conditions. The situation has aggravated since human habitat and livestock populations have increased manifold in the basin region. It has given birth to problems like vegetation removal, overgrazing and groundwater depletion. “Most recently or in the last 3-4 decades, the new problem of industrial effluent has spoiled the water quality in the streams and in underground water. The problems have been analysed and experts have come to the conclusion that natural resources, which have been protecting the natural course and can reverse the damage caused in the last few hundred years ago, to be used to revive the ancient river,” said Genda Singh, scientist and head, forest and climate change division at AFRI. Plantation work will begin after it covers the first 100 km when the water quality changes from freshwater to saline due to run-off water from the salt-rich saline surfaces and industrial pollutants in the way. The forestry intervention will enhance the water conservation leading to the biological diversity and yield of non-timber forest produce (NTFPs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/luni-river-rejuvenation-project-to-improve-irrigation-drinking-water-supply-in-9-dists/articleshow/79999767.cms||Shoeb Khan
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||19 societies now micro-contained||Ahmedabad: The number of housing societies that have been notified micro-containment areas has begun to rise again in the city. On Monday, six new societies were added to the list, taking the total number of micro-contained societies to 19. On Monday, the city reported 168 fresh Covid-19 cases and three more Covid deaths. Some 175 patients who were under treatment were also discharged. As on Monday morning, the city has 2,451 active cases. In the last three days, a total of ten societies have been added to the micro-containment list. This has again led to speculation that infection is increasing in the city again. On Monday, the six societies added to the list were Shayona Green in Gota, Saint Xavier’s Society, Ranip, Devashy Avenue in Nikol, Ishwar Nagar in Piplaj and Nilkamal Society in Maninagar. In all, 93 families were micro-contained on Monday. Officials said that of the 2,451 active cases in the city, the South Zone — comprising the areas of Maninagar, Khokhra, Behrampura and Danilimda — had the highest number of cases, 422, while the West Zone — comprising Usmanpura, Paldi, Navrangpura, Naranpura and Ranip — had 402 active cases. The North West Zone — Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota and Ghatlodia — had 388 cases. The areas of Bopal, Jodhpur, Vejalpur and Sarkhej which make up the South Zest Zone had 375 cases. Also, officials said the walled city area saw a decline in active cases. The walled city area had 278 active cases on Monday. The other two zones of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, that is the North Zone (302 cases) and the East Zone (284 cases) accounted for 684 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/19-societies-now-micro-contained/articleshow/79999859.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cold wave in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, chill to linger||AHMEDABAD: The city woke up to cold winds on Monday, with a chill in the air after almost a fortnight. The maximum temperature of the city at 24.1 degrees celsius was 3.9 degrees lower than the normal, whereas the minimum temperature of 8.3 degrees was 4 degrees lower than the normal. The city along with other parts of the state will experience a cold wave for next three days, mentioned the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The forecast added that the region can experience an overall fall of 2-3 degrees celsius in the next two to three days. The reason for the change is northerly winds bringing in colder air from the northern regions, some of which have even experienced snow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cold-wave-in-city-state-chill-to-linger/articleshow/79999804.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Child panel to run awareness campaign on Pocso Act in January||JAIPUR: Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR) will launch an awareness campaign next month to educate people and children about their rights under the POCSO Act. It will also take into account as to how many children are unable to get access to education. The campaign called ‘Udyog Aapke Dwar’ is likely to take off in the first week of January. Sangeeta Beniwal, chairperson, RSCPCR told TOI, “We will launch the campaign next month in which our teams will visit villages and towns to educate people about children’s rights. In many instances we have found that parents are not even aware about the POCSO Act and the provisions under it. Moreover, there were also cases where sexual assaults on children were not reported as they feared the society’s reaction. So, we want to encourage them to come forward as it will help in getting the accused arrested and such incidents are prevented.” Rajasthan has been consistently in the news when it comes to crime against women. Recently a 14-year-old girl gave birth to a baby girl in Nagaur. She had accused her brother and his two friends of raping her multiple times before she got pregnant. The matter was only reported after she delivered the baby. The hospital staff reported the matter to the cops, though during nine months her parents had not done so. The commission’s campaign will also focus on girl education and child trafficking incidents. Beniwal said, “We found that in many areas girls are not encouraged to study. We want the parents to change this mindset and to empower the girls. The campaign will cover all aspects as well as issues faced by the children in the state.” The officials claimed that they would hold a meeting soon to decide the details of the campaign including the duration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/child-panel-to-run-awareness-campaign-on-pocso-act-in-jan/articleshow/79999788.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Night shift in times of WFH, fume sectt staff||Hyderabad: The graveyard shift introduced in the general administration department (GAD) of secretariat with a small group of employees working in night shifts — who will work even on holidays in two shifts —has not gone down well with the employees. The new system — perhaps a first in the county for secretariat employees — was introduced for both men and women employees (around 250) of GAD. “When everybody is working from home in view of the pandemic, what is the necessity to make us work in the night from office environs. There is no emergency situation now that it warrants a night shift,” a secretariat employee on the condition of anonymity said. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar, in a circular issued on December 3, said the employees would work from 8 pm to 8 am on all working days and in two shifts during holidays — from 8 am to 8 pm and 8 pm to 8 am. Reportedly, the idea was mooted when floods ravaged Hyderabad two months ago. During the initial days of Covid-19, a war room was set up in the GAD and the employees used to work till late into the night. After some time, the war room was closed. The need for such a war room was felt when the floods hit the city as many orders and directives were being issued in night. “But, the idea was kept on hold as the employees resisted. However, following orders from the highest level, the night shift system was finally introduced,” sources in the know of things said. The employees’ association had even approached the higher authorities opposing the introduction of the system. “We have given a representation to the top bosses to scrap the system. There is no need for the night shift as all issues are being resolved even without it,” A Narender Rao, Telangana Secretariat Employees’ Association president, said. The staff attending the night duties after completing the week on night duty will report to the office during the afternoon session the next working day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/night-shift-in-times-of-wfh-fume-sectt-staff/articleshow/79999794.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Guv: No need to panic about new strain||Hyderabad: Interacting with followers on Twitter on the new Covid-19 variant, governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said that the new strain of coronavirus was transmitting fast but there is no need to panic if all precautions are taken care. It is important to use a sanitizer and wear a mask religiously. Responding to a query, she said that the genome reports of the new strain from the UK returnees awaited. “Vaccine is only to prevent the spread. It will develop antibodies. Even those who got affected earlier need to take the vaccine. We must be proud that Hyderabad is taking a lead in vaccine research,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-no-need-to-panic-about-new-strain/articleshow/79999781.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Lectures on vaccine production by Serum Institute from January||PUNE: Pune Knowledge Cluster and the Serum Institute of India will conduct a short virtual course on basics of vaccine production to provide an industry perspective for basic academic knowledge that candidates have with real life setbacks and pitfalls. The lecture series will have a total of 10 lectures of 60 mins duration each which will include questions and answers sessions. The number of participants will be limited. The course starts on January 15, the last date for online application is January 5 and the candidates will get confirmation of selection by January 11. “Vaccines help boost an individual’s defence against infections and significantly reduce the risk of getting a disease. Designing, producing and distributing a vaccine, however, is a hard and arduous task. The course contents will enlighten the participants with basic knowledge of the process of designing and producing a vaccine. It will also focus on various aspects of vaccine production, including critical thinking and problem-solving. The course is designed for doctoral students, post-doctoral fellows, young investigators from industry and academia, research/science managers in and around Pune,” the official notification said. PKC’s functioning is facilitated by the office of the director of IUCAA, Somak Raychaudhury. “There are various verticals like short-term projects, internships and capacity building that the PKC will work on. We wanted to start a series of short courses and this is the first one in the series under the capacity building vertical. Our focus is on industry academic interaction and collaboration,” Raychoudhary said. The principal investigators of PKC are Ajit Kembhavi and L S Shashidhara. Kembhavi said all the 10 experts in the first short course are experts from Serum Institute. Surendra Ghaskadbi is heading the capacity building vertical under which this programme is set. “We are setting up 4-5 courses.Serum Institute has many experts but they don’t get time to interact with students and academicians but industry perspective is totally different. We are bridging the gap through these lectures,” Kembhavi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lectures-on-vaccine-production-by-serum-institute-from-january/articleshow/79999803.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 29, 2020||Nashik||Retired CBD staff stir for pension||Nashik: Retired employees of the Cantonment Board, Deolali (CBD), staged a token sit-in agitation in front of the CBD office on Monday to press the demand for their monthly pension which they have not received for the last two months. Over the past few months, the CBD is reeling under financial troubles as it is not getting the maintenance funds which it receives from the Ministry of Defence. The retired employees stated in a memorandum that it had become difficult for them to manage their household expenses since they have not received the pension for two months. Many of them have taken loans and were being charged a penalty by the finance companies for not being able to clear the instalments on time. CBD President Sachin Thakre told the pensioners that the administration and the people’s representatives were following up with the higher officials of the Cantonment board to allocate funds so that the salaries can be paid to the current employees and the pensioners. Kataria said, “The CBD has some pending dues with the Nashik zilla parishad, which are expected in a day or two after which the board will be in a capacity to pay the pension for November by December 31.” Kataria said the corporators were also planning to go to Delhi to meet senior officials of the ministry of defence to press for the funds so that the board could pay the salaries and pensions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/retired-cbd-staff-stir-for-pension/articleshow/80000786.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Automated driving track at Jagatpura on trial basis now||JAIPUR: State transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas visited the automated driving test track on Monday which has come up in Jagatpura RTO and has faced opposition since its launch last week. According to a transport department official, unlike conventional driving tests where applicants are required to drive on a straight road and examined by a motor inspector, the automated test track simulates tougher driving conditions that assesses an applicant’s driving skills. Khachariyawas said, “This was the first time I saw the track and heard the issues which the people were complaining about. I have assured them that in the next coming days, we will resolve all of them.” The track has been developed on PPP model and was initiated in the previous government’s tenure. There is no human intervention in the tests. They are fully computerised and the slightest deviation is caught by sensors. Failure to clear any of these tests within the stipulated time means the applicant has to reappear. “The automated track is being run on a trial basis and till we have not resolved all the issues, the officials will not have the right to fail anyone,” added the minister. According to officials, the track has the same tests as required in the manual tests and a few relaxations will be provided during the digital test. “In actuality, the automated test is better because firstly it will provide better drivers who have succeeded in passing the test without any outside help. Secondly, it will also provide corruption free testing as the middlemen will be out of the picture,” said an official. For two-wheeler drivers’ testing, Rs 100 will be charged while for four-wheeler drivers, Rs 150 will be charged. As many as 13 more automated tracks are expected to come up across the state in the next few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/automated-driving-track-at-jagatpura-on-trial-basis-now/articleshow/79999817.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Congress played vital role in Freedom movement: Govind Singh Dotasra||JAIPUR: The Congress has played a key role in the Freedom movement and after Independence, to make the country a strong emerging power in the comity of nations, said PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra, while speaking at a function commemorating the 166th foundation day of the party. He said the India of today is the outcome of the vision and strong polices of past Congress Prime Ministers — Jawaharlal Nehru, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, PV Narasimha Rao. He alleged that the present government is in a clutch of the RSS, and has forced the farmers to hit the streets for the past more than one month due to the black agriculture laws. He said now, the farmers are fighting to save their land while the ruling BJP is only shedding crocodile tears for the farmers. He said a dialogue programme on the three agriculture laws passed by the Centre, ‘Jai Jawan - Jai Kisan’ will be organized from December 28-30 at each assembly constituency. Dotasra hoisted the party flag at the party state headquarters, Indira Gandhi Bhawan at Station Road and administered oath to party workers to uphold the Congress ideology. He also flagged off the ‘tiranga yatra’ to the martyrs’ memorial at Janpath. The party also organised ‘tiranga yatras’ in block, district and towns on the directions of party’s central leadership and asked people to participate in the social media campaign of ‘selfie with flag’. He also flagged off the ‘Kisan sangharsh yatra’ spearheaded by the Congress Seva Dal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-played-vital-role-in-freedom-movement-dotasra/articleshow/79999809.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Ventilator occupancy down by 73% in a month||AHMEDABAD: In the latter half of November, the city and state saw a surge in Covid-19 cases and recorded the highest one-day tally of cases. The period was marked by over 90% occupancy of non-requisitioned (not acquired by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation) beds in private hospitals, with several patients and relatives going from pillar to post to find a bed. One month later, ventilator occupancy is down by 73% and ICU occupancy is down by 71%, revealed statistics from the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Monday. Compared to 431 patients in ICUs and 208 on ventilators on November 26, on December 28 these figures were 127 and 56, respectively. While the city added 548 beds over the past 32 days, overall bed occupancy reduced from 92% on November 26 to 17% on December 28. Experts point at factors such as night curfew and stricter enforcement, also urging the authorities and citizens to devise a sustainable model to ensure the trend continues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ventilator-occupancy-down-by-73-in-a-month/articleshow/79999856.cms||Parth Shastri
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 2 months on, Osman Nagar residents out of deep waters||HYDERABAD: Residents of Osman Nagar heaved a sigh of relief when flood water was finally drained out from their respective houses on Monday. Several inhabitants had to leave their homes after heavy rains wreaked havoc at Osman Nagar and its adjoining localities in October. Due to this, many families were rendered homeless and suffered huge losses.  The entire area was submerged in knee-deep water and residents were struggling to even step out of their houses.  With no electricity for over a month or clean drinking water, residents of every single house were requesting help from authorities. Jalpally municipal commissioner, GP Kumar told TOI that all efforts were being made to pump out flood-water and ensure a healthy atmosphere in the locality. "Currently, we are cleaning all roads and drains, fumigating surroundings, removing waste and silt from all the houses to control the spread of any kind of disease in the locality,’’ said Kumar. Rain water from almost 350 houses was finally drained out from Osman Nagar. “We have deputed a 30-member team with 8 vehicles and have set up an emergency cell in the affected localities. Medical camps were conducted at Osman Nagar, Habeeb Colony, Saif Colony, Nabeel Colony, Amreen Colony, Arafat Colony and other flood affected colonies in and around the Jalpally municipality. A total of 465 houses were affected in Osman Nagar. As of now, water from more than 70 per cent houses have been cleared,’’ commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-months-on-osman-nagar-residents-out-of-deep-waters/articleshow/79999815.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Nashik||Link Aadhaar, mobile number with ration card by Jan-end||Nashik: The district administration has announced that the beneficiaries of the public distribution scheme (PDS) and Antyoday scheme will have to link their mobile and Aadhaar numbers with their ration cards by January next year. Beneficiaries who fail to get this done will not be able to get the benefits promised under the public distribution scheme from February onwards till compliance. As per the government norms, at least one mobile number and the Aadhaar number of all the family members under the priority family scheme should be registered with the ration card so that the food grain distributed through PDS reach the concerned beneficiaries. Failure to get the Aadhaar number registered will mean the concerned card holder is non-existing. The quota of grains allotted to that card-holder will be removed from the quantum of food grain issued to the concerned fair price shop (FPS). In turn, the FPS will not give the grain to the concerned card-holder. The program of registration or Aadhaar seeding will be carried out through a special drive being implemented by the FPS. The shopkeepers will update the e-KYC when the card-holder or any of his family member come to the shop to take the grain in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/link-aadhaar-mobile-number-with-ration-card-by-jan-end/articleshow/80000788.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: CM's ex-aide Sivasankar misused official position, says Customs||KOCHI: The customs department, opposing the bail application of M Sivasankar in Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, submitted before the ACJM (economic offences) court, Ernakulam, that he “misused his privileged position as principal secretary to chief minister to aid, abet and support the smuggling activities”. Customs said that despite knowing the illegal activities by some officials of the United Arab Emirates consulate, Sivasankar never informed any governmental agencies about it, as was expected of a senior civil servant. “Even after knowing the seriousness of the activities, he did not move his little finger to curb the same but instead encouraged them. Customs has also collected ample materials to clearly prove the nexus between the petitioner [Sivasankar] and other accused in the gold smuggling,” said the statement submitted as objection to the bail application. Customs in the statement said that granting bail to Sivasankar is a threat to the lives of co-accused in the case. “If the petitioner is released on bail, he will be able to influence the witnesses, destroy evidence and will be potentially life threatening to the key co-accused Swapna Suresh and Sarith, in view of the disclosures made by them in the statements to the investigating officer under Customs Act,” the statement said. The agency said that Sivasankar, who enjoys a commanding and respectable status in society, has attempted to evade the process of law, which could only be due to his guilty conduct, which is becoming clearer every day. “The petitioner is a very influential person and he can influence, intimidate and frighten witnesses. He himself was adopting a non-cooperative attitude regarding the investigation. Investigation still has to be done to collect more details from India and abroad. If, at this stage of investigation, the petitioner is granted bail, considering the influence commanded by him, the investigation is likely to be impeded and hampered and even made an empty formality,” customs said. Customs, requesting the rejection of bail petition, submitted that a senior IAS officer being an accused in an offence, causes intense harm and injury to the country’s economy, and stands on a different footing from other culpable offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-misused-official-position-customs/articleshow/79998364.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||Colleges can send plans by Thursday||Pune: New affiliations, courses and satellite centres of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will get extended time till December 31 to submit their proposals. The earlier deadline was September 30. A notification issued by SPPU on December 16 said due to the Covid pandemic, the varsity has decided to give more time to colleges and institutions to make their proposals which can be made online on the varsity’s website ‘www.unipune.ac.in’ in the Board of Director online affiliation section. The institutions that have planned to introduce new subjects and courses, topics, divisions, branches, satellite centres affiliated to SPPU, and research centres within their colleges can fill up the online proposal forms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/colleges-can-send-plans-by-thursday/articleshow/79999851.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bareilly||UP farmer thrashed for refusing to ‘bribe’ procurement centre in-charge||BAREILLY: A 56-year-old farmer in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur district was first harassed and then brutally thrashed by a paddy procurement centre in-charge after he allegedly refused to pay a bribe as demanded by the official to provide the receipt for the crop procured at the centre. In a viral video purportedly of the incident, the centre in-charge can be seen beating up the farmer with the help of other staff at the centre after a heated argument in the Powayan area. Police registered cross FIRs on Sunday after the paddy in-charge alleged that he was assaulted too. The farmer and his young son have been booked under IPC’s sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assaulting a public servant on duty), 427 (mischief causing damage), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and the SC/ST Act while an FIR has been registered against the official and his aide as well under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 392 (robbery). Both the cases are being investigated by Powayan circle officer Navneet Kumar. The incident was reported on December 26 when a farmer was asked to pay Rs 200 per quintal in exchange of the purchase receipt. Initially, police attempted to settle the matter through a meeting but later an FIR was registered after a video of the incident surfaced on social media. The farmer, Charanjeet Singh, is a resident of Mukeempur village. He told TOI, “I had sold 287 quintals of paddy at the procurement centre on November 26. At the time of weighing, I was not given a proper receipt and was told that I will receive a message on my mobile. I waited for many days and then I was asked to pay Rs 200 per quintal as a bribe. When I refused, centre in-charge Ashish Singh, who was under the influence of alcohol, thrashed me with the support of five persons. I was rescued by my son and a local person. When I approached police, I was sent back despite having sustained visible injuries. Later, an FIR was registered against me and my son. My FIR was registered later. Police have been biased so far and trying everything possible to save the centre in-charge”. Meanwhile, centre in-charge Ashish Singh claimed, “The farmer was inebriated and attempted to disturb the procurement process. We were only asking for Rs 20 per quintal which is the labour charge". Charanjeet’s son has also shared a video with police in which the centre in-charge is purportedly seen demanding Rs 200 per quintal for providing the procurement receipt. Police are still verifying the authenticity of the video. CO Navneet Kumar said, “Both the cases are under investigation and the proofs provided by both the parties are being verified. No one has been arrested so far".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-farmer-thrashed-for-refusing-to-bribe-paddy-procurement-centre-in-charge-cross-firs-filed/articleshow/79997427.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||RHRC seeks report on ‘human sacrifice’||JAIPUR: The state human rights commission has taken suo motu congnizance of newspaper reports of an 11-year-old boy’s alleged human sacrifice by some occultists in Alwar and sought a factual report from the district administration and police officials. Acting commission chairman Justice Mahesh Chandra Sharma directed the district collector and DGP to furnish reports by January 11. The commission while condemning the incident and seeking severe punishment to the guilty called for launching a campaign against such superstitions prevalent in some sections of society. The boy’s body was found with his nose, ears chopped off and nails plugged out a day after he went missing under Malakhera police station in Alwar district on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rhrc-seeks-report-on-human-sacrifice/articleshow/79999858.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Udaipur||Travel trouble for commuters, locals protest road block||ALWAR/JAIPUR: The agitation against farm laws at Shahjahanpur border in Alwar district continued on Monday as the farmers stayed put at the border blocking traffic. On the other hand, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party convenor Hanuman Beniwal along with supporters has been camping at the border since December 26. Commuters are facing a lot of hardships as highway traffic movement is closed due to the protest. In many places, the diversion route is jammed repeatedly resulting in commuters being stuck for hours. Farmer leaders say that the movement will continue till the Central government withdraws the farm laws. Meanwhile, local people have come out at the protest site against the ongoing farmers’ movement, raising slogans of ‘farmers go back’. They complained that due to the agitation, they are facing a lot of hardship. “Talk to the government and resolve the matter, do not try to break the economy with blockade,” they demanded. Local people who have come out in protest have spoken in support of the bills. On the Haryana border of Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, RLP leader Hanuman Beniwal and his supporters are also staging a sit-in against the agriculture bills. A video of Beniwal supporters dancing at the dharna venue has gone viral on social media. Beniwal himself comes with his supporters during the day. After sitting at the picket site and discussion with his supporters for a while on future course of action, he moves around the villages to mobilise the public. He said based on the outcome of the scheduled talks with the farmers and government on December 29, the future course of action will be announced. Meanwhile, Beniwal’s brother Khivansar MLA Narayan Beniwal suffered injury after he met with an accident on Sunday. Beniwal visited his brother at Kailash Hospital, Behrod before coming to the dharna on Monday. Beniwal broke his party’s ties with the NDA on December 26 and has attacked the BJP. He has announced that he will agitate till the farm bills are withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/travel-trouble-for-commuters-locals-protest-road-block/articleshow/80004100.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Staff, aspirants & students stand together in protest||PUNE: Teaching aspirants, as well as employed teachers, are planning to protest at Savitribai Phule Pune University in January against the delay in the recruitment process and conducting interviews for the career advancement scheme. For the past three years, there has been no recruitment to the posts of college professors in the state leading many to take up contractual jobs or on a clock-hour basis which pays poorly. State higher education minister Uday Samant had talked about starting the recruitment process last year. K L Girmkar, president of SPPU College Teachers Organisation, said there are 485 eligible professors waiting for the CAS interviews. He said after 7th pay commission, it was decided CAS interviews would be held regularly based on which the associate professors may become professors if they fulfil all criteria. “The university earlier said that the interviews would be held in September, but were cancelled due to Covid 19. The December 22 interview was also postponed. We have decided to protest at the senate,” Girmkar, a professor at KJ Somaiya College of Arts, Commerce & Science, Kopargaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/staff-aspirants-students-stand-together-in-protest/articleshow/79999873.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: GHMC girds up with list of vaccine beneficiaries on app||HYDERABAD: GHMC has firmed up a plan to administer Covid-19 vaccination in the city. A total of 1,100 schools and colleges will be identified for vaccination. Instructions were given to GHMC officials to ensure the identification and mapping of all centres by January 10. A meeting was held at GHMC head office to discuss the vaccine administration. Health officials and GHMC authorities participated in the meeting. Instructions pertaining to identification and mapping of centres were given to civic officials at the meeting. “The buildings identified will have a waiting room, vaccination room and an observation room. An exclusive app will also be developed,” said city mayor, Bonthu Rammohan. An exclusive app is being developed to maintain a list of people who will be vaccinated. Awareness campaigns will be held in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Sangareddy and Medchal districts. “We are involving self-help groups to spread awareness. There are rumours that vaccination will have an adverse effect on people’s health. Awareness programmes will put an end to this,” a GHMC official said. Under the first phase, doctors, nurses and paramedical staff will be vaccinated. In the second phase, police and sanitation staff will be vaccinated, post which the vaccine will be administered to those above 50 years. “People below 50 years with comorbidities will also be on the preference list,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-girds-up-with-list-of-vaccine-beneficiaries-on-app/articleshow/79999839.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||VHR approaches cops against caller||Hyderabad: Senior Congress leader V Hanumantha Rao approached the police on Monday, days after an audio clip of a person abusing him went viral. He said that it was not a stray incident. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vhr-approaches-cops-against-caller/articleshow/79999879.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jodhpur||Travel trouble for commuters, locals protest road block||ALWAR/JAIPUR: The agitation against farm laws at Shahjahanpur border in Alwar district continued on Monday as the farmers stayed put at the border blocking traffic. On the other hand, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party convenor Hanuman Beniwal along with supporters has been camping at the border since December 26. Commuters are facing a lot of hardships as highway traffic movement is closed due to the protest. In many places, the diversion route is jammed repeatedly resulting in commuters being stuck for hours. Farmer leaders say that the movement will continue till the Central government withdraws the farm laws. Meanwhile, local people have come out at the protest site against the ongoing farmers’ movement, raising slogans of ‘farmers go back’. They complained that due to the agitation, they are facing a lot of hardship. “Talk to the government and resolve the matter, do not try to break the economy with blockade,” they demanded. Local people who have come out in protest have spoken in support of the bills. On the Haryana border of Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, RLP leader Hanuman Beniwal and his supporters are also staging a sit-in against the agriculture bills. A video of Beniwal supporters dancing at the dharna venue has gone viral on social media. Beniwal himself comes with his supporters during the day. After sitting at the picket site and discussion with his supporters for a while on future course of action, he moves around the villages to mobilise the public. He said based on the outcome of the scheduled talks with the farmers and government on December 29, the future course of action will be announced. Meanwhile, Beniwal’s brother Khivansar MLA Narayan Beniwal suffered injury after he met with an accident on Sunday. Beniwal visited his brother at Kailash Hospital, Behrod before coming to the dharna on Monday. Beniwal broke his party’s ties with the NDA on December 26 and has attacked the BJP. He has announced that he will agitate till the farm bills are withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/travel-trouble-for-commuters-locals-protest-road-block/articleshow/80004104.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ajmer||Travel trouble for commuters, locals protest road block||ALWAR/JAIPUR: The agitation against farm laws at Shahjahanpur border in Alwar district continued on Monday as the farmers stayed put at the border blocking traffic. On the other hand, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party convenor Hanuman Beniwal along with supporters has been camping at the border since December 26. Commuters are facing a lot of hardships as highway traffic movement is closed due to the protest. In many places, the diversion route is jammed repeatedly resulting in commuters being stuck for hours. Farmer leaders say that the movement will continue till the Central government withdraws the farm laws. Meanwhile, local people have come out at the protest site against the ongoing farmers’ movement, raising slogans of ‘farmers go back’. They complained that due to the agitation, they are facing a lot of hardship. “Talk to the government and resolve the matter, do not try to break the economy with blockade,” they demanded. Local people who have come out in protest have spoken in support of the bills. On the Haryana border of Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, RLP leader Hanuman Beniwal and his supporters are also staging a sit-in against the agriculture bills. A video of Beniwal supporters dancing at the dharna venue has gone viral on social media. Beniwal himself comes with his supporters during the day. After sitting at the picket site and discussion with his supporters for a while on future course of action, he moves around the villages to mobilise the public. He said based on the outcome of the scheduled talks with the farmers and government on December 29, the future course of action will be announced. Meanwhile, Beniwal’s brother Khivansar MLA Narayan Beniwal suffered injury after he met with an accident on Sunday. Beniwal visited his brother at Kailash Hospital, Behrod before coming to the dharna on Monday. Beniwal broke his party’s ties with the NDA on December 26 and has attacked the BJP. He has announced that he will agitate till the farm bills are withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/travel-trouble-for-commuters-locals-protest-road-block/articleshow/80004106.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Travel trouble for commuters, locals protest road block||ALWAR/JAIPUR: The agitation against farm laws at Shahjahanpur border in Alwar district continued on Monday as the farmers stayed put at the border blocking traffic. On the other hand, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party convenor Hanuman Beniwal along with supporters has been camping at the border since December 26. Commuters are facing a lot of hardships as highway traffic movement is closed due to the protest. In many places, the diversion route is jammed repeatedly resulting in commuters being stuck for hours. Farmer leaders say that the movement will continue till the Central government withdraws the farm laws. Meanwhile, local people have come out at the protest site against the ongoing farmers’ movement, raising slogans of ‘farmers go back’. They complained that due to the agitation, they are facing a lot of hardship. “Talk to the government and resolve the matter, do not try to break the economy with blockade,” they demanded. Local people who have come out in protest have spoken in support of the bills. On the Haryana border of Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, RLP leader Hanuman Beniwal and his supporters are also staging a sit-in against the agriculture bills. A video of Beniwal supporters dancing at the dharna venue has gone viral on social media. Beniwal himself comes with his supporters during the day. After sitting at the picket site and discussion with his supporters for a while on future course of action, he moves around the villages to mobilise the public. He said based on the outcome of the scheduled talks with the farmers and government on December 29, the future course of action will be announced. Meanwhile, Beniwal’s brother Khivansar MLA Narayan Beniwal suffered injury after he met with an accident on Sunday. Beniwal visited his brother at Kailash Hospital, Behrod before coming to the dharna on Monday. Beniwal broke his party’s ties with the NDA on December 26 and has attacked the BJP. He has announced that he will agitate till the farm bills are withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/travel-trouble-for-commuters-locals-protest-road-block/articleshow/79999846.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||NGT tells states to install reflectors within 4 months||AHMEDABAD: The National Green Tribunal in an order last week directed Rajasthan and Gujarat to not only install diverters (reflectors) on all existing power lines but also that new power lines in great Indian bustard habitat be pushed underground. The NGT in its directions stated “the main reason for mortality of GIBs is collisions with power lines laid by wind or solar energy projects, crisscrossing their paths”. The NGT observed that taking lines of completed projects underground was not viable, but bird diverters need to be installed expeditiously to prevent fatalities, preferably within four months. The NGT also directed the Wildlife Institute of India to monitor compliance at least twice a year. According to the Centre for Wildlife and Environment Litigation, the applicant, the GIB population has declined by 75% in the last thirty years. The main reason for the decline is fatal collisions with power lines. It was submitted that wind projects did not require any environment impact assessment studies. The court observed that, “If consent is not required, even then taking transmission lines underground may be ensured. While granting such consent, impact assessment of such projects on the biodiversity of the area, especially in the context of GIBs, be undertaken. The court directed the Union forest ministry, Central Pollution Control Board and the state pollution control board to act according to the action plan. The NGT also observed that the action plan proposed for the revival of the GIB has been delayed and needs to be finalised at the earliest, preferably within two months. The NGT noted that the Gujarat forest department has acquired 5,321ha of land from various agencies in the GIB landscape. In addition, 2,988ha has been acquired under the compensatory afforestation scheme. Therefore, collectively 8,511ha of area has been acquired and developed as great Indian bustard habitat. Due to the focused efforts of the department, the aforementioned area has been restored as GIB habitat. The NGT also took note of the WII recommendation for not allowing new wind turbines, solar farms on GIB habitats and to remove existing ones from critical areas. Too late for Gujarat?With less than five female GIBs left in Gujarat, the door for conservation of the GIB in the state has closed. With no male left, there is no possibility of new chicks being born in the state. The lone male went missing in December 2018. The Rajasthan government earlier refused to give Gujarat a male GIB. The WII, which is coordinating the bustard recovery programme in Rajasthan, has asked the state to make provisions to take high-tension lines underground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ngt-tells-states-to-install-reflectors-within-4-months/articleshow/79999888.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Over 700 students appear for mastre cadre English exam||Mehak Jain Ludhiana: As many as 914 candidates were registered for the recruitment test of master cadre in English held in government schools on Monday. For English, 782 candidates appeared in the morning shift (9.30am to 12 pm), where while 132 remained absent. Total attendance was recorded at 85.56%. The three deputed centres were Government Senior Secondary School, Jawahar Nagar (boys) (300), Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, PAU(450) and Shaheed-E-Azam Sukhdev Thapar Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar (164). Candidates underwent thermal screening at the entry gate and their hands were sanitised. In accordance with authorities’ instructions, 24 candidates were accommodated in every room, maintaining social distancing protocols. Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal has banned the assembly of five or more persons within a 200-metre radius of examination centres under Section 144 of the CrPC. Rajinder Kaur, district education officer (elementary), who is handling the charge of DEO secondary said, “The exam was conducted smoothly and I have personally visited a few schools as well.” DEO added, “Proper arrangements were made at all centres. We did not receive any complaint from any exam centre.” Candidates were seen violating Covid norms in many centres. Many of them were not even wearing masks. They were made to sit at a distance from each other in classrooms to ensure social distancing. Police personnel were deployed at the exam centres to maintain order. Later, candidates said the exam was easy. Harpreet Kaur, who appeared for the exam at Government School, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), said, “The paper was balanced and I was able to complete it in the allotted time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/over-700-students-appear-for-mastre-cadre-english-exam/articleshow/79997419.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||One more UK returnee tests positive, count goes up to 21||Hyderabad: One more UK returnee tested Covid-19 positive upon arrival in Hyderabad, raising the total number of positive cases to 21, even as the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) late on Monday submitted its report. After completion of genome sequencing, results of 18 UK returnee samples were dispatched to the Centre as well as the Telangana government. The samples of the latest returnee who tested positive in the RT-PCR test was also sent to the CCMB for genome sequencing. Health condition of all UK returnees is stable, confirmed state health authorities. Majority of the returnees are asymptomatic. So far, three contacts of the returnees have been infected by the virus. Authorities said an official announcement on the findings is likely to be made by the Union health ministry on Tuesday. Telangana health minister, Eatala Rajender said the Centre is directly dealing with cases of new strain of the virus. “If there are any cases of the new strain found, we qwill isolate them and will tackle it effectively,” he added. Telangana authorities also tracked down 1,060 of the returnees over the last 72 hours, while six have returned to other countries. Details of another 58 returnees from other states have also been forwarded to the respective states. “Telangana medical health department is on high alert in the wake of the arrival of a new strain of coronavirus in UK. Of those traced in our state, 996 were tested and 966 were diagnosed with corona negative. 21 turned out to be positive. Another nine results are expected,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-more-uk-returnee-tests-positive-count-goes-up-to-21/articleshow/79999855.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Those who turn 18 on January 1 can get their names added to voters’ list||JAIPUR: State Election Commissioner P S Mehra on Monday appealed to the youngsters who are turning 18 on January 1, 2020, to get their names added to the voter list. He further said that the new voters can exercise their franchise in the ensuing elections to 91 municipal bodies in 20 districts of the state. They can apply online or offline till 6pm on January 4, he added. The commission intends to add more eligible voters to strengthen grassroot democracy so that they can take part in the elections to the local bodies to be held after January 1, said Mehra. He said the voters could also apply online through the website of the commission from 3am to 4pm on January 3. The booth level officers (BLOs) will receive applications from eligible applicants at all polling stations. On other days, applications could be submitted to the Electoral Registration Officer (ERO) or AERO office. Mehra said eligible persons could apply online or offline for addition, deletion or modification of name till 6pm on January 4, 2021. He informed that the applications received had to be disposed of till the last date of submission of nomination papers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/those-who-turn-18-on-jan-1-can-get-their-names-added-to-voters-list/articleshow/79999894.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dry run for vaccine drive begins in Gandhinagar, Rajkot||Ahmedabad: The dry run for the Covid-19 vaccination drive was initiated in Gandhinagar and Rajkot districts at six locations for 19 sessions. For every session, 25 volunteers — totalling 475 — have been identified. Every session site will have officials from the state health department, UNDP, UNICEF and WHO, said Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health), on Monday. The state has six vaccine stores at the zonal level, 41 at district and corporation levels, and 2,189 cold chain points with the capacity to store a total of 1 crore shots, health department officials said. Ravi said a task force has been constituted for the vaccination drive in the state. In all, 16,000 health workers have been trained for the drive as one centre will be administering 100 shots a day. At optimal capacity, the state will be administering 16 lakh doses a day, she said. “Modules have been created for the beneficiaries. Citizens will have to register in advance. The dose will have to be taken twice with a gap of 14 days. Even after vaccination, protocols such as wearing masks, social distancing and use of sanitizers will continue,” she said. Gujarat is among the four states – the others being Assam, Andhra Pradesh and Punjab – where the dry run for testing the technology and logistics of the vaccine is taking place. Feedback of the trial run will be sent to the Union government based on which the drive will be designed for the national level. So far, the state has identified 4.31 lakh health workers, 6.3 lakh frontline workers, 1 crore citizens older than 50 years and 2.68 lakh citizens below 50 years of age who have co-morbidities. These groups will get priority in getting the shots, health department officials said. In India, five vaccines are in clinical trials - four in Phases II and III and one in Phases I and II. India is yet to officially identify a candidate for the mass vaccination drive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dry-run-for-vaccine-drive-begins-in-gandhinagar-rajkot/articleshow/80000075.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Chennai||In search of a silver lining||CHENNAI: Be it the financial crunch hitting teams or players losing their edge due to months of inaction, the sports universe has seen a lot of churning in the last one year. And back home, Chennai Super Kings have gone through everything that has haunted and reshaped outfits in different disciplines across nations. Till February 2020, we all knew that the CSK golden generation was on the cusp of grand swansong. The new IPL mega-auction with two new teams in the fray was supposed to take place for the 2021 season and all CSK fans were bracing to say goodbye to their stars with a final flourish. All that went topsy-turvy in the course of the next few months and the team that had been the most feared outfit for over a decade suddenly became whipping boys of the competition. The pandemic severely affected the preparation of the retired or semi-retired players in the team who had set themselves up for one final fling in March-April. Six months of wait took their sting away, MS Dhoni and Suresh Raina officially retired from international cricket, and by the time the IPL happened in UAE, the once-feared CSK was a pale shadow of its former self. A seventh-place finish and being out of contention for play-offs berth with three matches left was unthinkable by CSK standards, but it was a new reality that all the fans of the yellow brigade woke up to. Still, with BCCI deliberating about two new teams, there was a hope of a fresh auction and a new team in 2021. But on December 24, when it was announced that the IPL will continue to be an eight-team affair next year and will add two new teams only in 2022, the realisation dawned that CSK are well and truly stuck with the old team for another edition. But even as there is a sense of gloom, there are a few positives to look forward to. First things first, Dhoni, despite underperforming last year, will get a final chance to bid IPL adieu in front of his fans back home in Chennai. Add to that, the emergence of Ravindra Jadeja as the No. 1 allrounder of Indian cricket. As the left-hander went on playing a superb hand for India Down Under in the Melbourne Test, the CSK fans felt a relief that the man will probably take over the role of the finisher for the franchise from Dhoni. And with news emerging from the CSK camp that Suresh Raina, who returned home from Dubai due to “personal reasons” likely to be retained for 2021 despite deteriorating relations with the management, the fans felt a sigh of relief.  But then, CSK won’t be without its share of changes. Shane Watson, Dhoni’s trusted opener, won’t be there following his retirement from franchise cricket, while the team is unlikely to retain the likes of Kedar Jadhav, Piyush Chawla, M Vijay, Karn Sharma and M Vijay, among a few others. “It will mean that CSK will go into the mini-auction with funds of close to Rs 20 crores, which most teams won’t have. So the franchise will be in a better position to buy a few ‘targets’, which will be decided in the next few days,” a source close to the developments said. It’s likely that the management will try to get an attacking top-order batsman, a quality offspinner and a few good Indian talents on the basis of their performances in the domestic T20 competition. One hoped that the management would try to ‘trade’ local talents like Varun Chakravarthy (KKR) or Natarajan (Sunrisers Hyderabad) from their respective franchises, but it’s unlikely that the teams will sell such players before 2021. “But then, we had players like Ruturaj Gaikwad who shaped up very well last season. Players like him will give us more options and knowing Dhoni’s desperation to do well, CSK may actually shape up as a tough team to beat once again,” the source said. And not just that. A sea of yellow at Chepauk getting the chance to bid Dhoni adieu after a glittering final is the silver lining that all CSK fans are hoping for after a difficult year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-search-of-a-silver-lining/articleshow/79998458.cms||Dwaipayan Datta
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||New variant: 12 special wards for Covid positive people in Telangana||Hyderabad: Even as the status of samples of those who returned from the United Kingdom, and tested positive for Covid-19, is not known, authorities have earmarked 12 special wards for their isolation in case they are carrying the new variant (B.1.1.7). Twelve hospitals across five districts will have special isolation wards. The treatment protocol for the new variant of virus will remain the same.  “Currently, 85 per cent of the patients, who tested positive for Covid-19 are being quarantined at home and very few are put at institutional quarantine centres. However, suspected patients of the new variant will be quarantined and isolated separately to ensure that the spread is curtailed,” said an official from state health department. Meanwhile, state health authorities have asked Covid-19 positive UK returnees and citizens not to panic. “Patients suspected with new type of virus must be vigilant,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-variant-12-spl-wards-for-ve-people/articleshow/79999885.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jaipur||Fake foreign currency trader cheats icecream businessman||JAIPUR: A businessman dealing in ice-creams was cheated by a person in lieu of exchanging foreign currency at Shastri Nagar police station area. The conman had claimed that he can exchange up to Rs 1 lakh in lieu of foreign currency. The crime came to the notice when the businessman was left with a bag containing paper pieces. According to the police, Rahul Turpani and his employee Mukesh Bhagat have lodged a case of cheating at Shastri Nagar police station on Sunday evening “Three days ago a man met Mukesh at his office and told him that he can exchange foreign currency of value of Rs 1 lakh. Thus, Mukesh handed him the foreign currency of some countries and took the money as promised. After the man left, Mukesh was stunned to see papers in between currency notes,” said an officer on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fake-foreign-currency-trader-cheats-icecream-businessman/articleshow/79999899.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bareilly||Six-year-old Dalit girl raped by neighbour, 40, in UP’s Bareilly||BAREILLY: A six-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped by her 40-year-old neighbour — father of three — under Hafizganj police limits in Bareilly district on Sunday evening. The accused lured the girl with the promise of buying sweets, took her to a desolated place and raped her, said police. The family came to know about the sexual assault after the girl complained of pain in her private parts, and they rushed her to a doctor, said police. The girl’s family said the accused, a close acquaintance, had taken her out on the pretext of buying her sweets and dropped her back later in the evening. The family said they had never thought that the accused, who knew the girl since her birth, could sexually assault her. The girl’s father accused police of delaying the registering an FIR that let the accused escape from the village. Police said the FIR was delayed because the case, initially, appeared to be a result of old rivalry. After registering an FIR, police on Monday sent the girl to the district hospital for medical examination. Investigating officer inspector Mahendra Singh, meanwhile, recorded statements of the parents and residents. Additional superintendent of police (rural) Sansaar Singh said, “An FIR was registered immediately after the girl’s family approached police and the girl was taken to a community health centre. She was later referred to the district hospital, where her medico-legal examination was conducted. We have booked the accused under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the SC/ ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The accused is absconding, but he will be arrested soon.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/six-year-old-dalit-girl-raped-by-neighbour-40-in-ups-bareilly/articleshow/79997440.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 29, 2020||Trichy||MNM is a Dravidian party: Kamal Haasan||Trichy: Actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan on Monday asserted that his party, the Makkal Needhi Maiam, was a Dravidian party too. “Whoever speaks in Tamil is a Dravidian, there is no doubt about it,” Kamal said in response to questions at a press meet over his repeated criticism of Dravidian parties. He also released a ‘bribe tariff’ which is allegedly being sought in various government offices. On his frequent references to DK founder Periyar E V Ramasamy and AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran at public appearances, Kamal said that Dravidian governments have done more harm than good for the state in the last 50 years. He added that he will use former DMK president Karunanidhi’s reference when required. He dodged a question on whether he will be the chief minister candidate of the third front, saying the subject has to be discussed. M Muruganandam, one of the general secretaries of MNM, however said Kamal would be the CM candidate. On the second capital proposal, Kamal said there can be multiple capitals for the state, each unique for a particular sector. On law minister C Ve Shanmugam’s claim of a big conspiracy to freeze ‘two leaves’ symbol, Kamal said, “The ruling party is the group that can harm the party’s (AIADMK) symbol but they are thinking they protect the symbol.” He said legal measures will be taken to retain torchlight as the symbol of his party. Kamal said his party would promote predictive governance by providing laptops to every family. “Laptops are not freebies but an investment,” he claimed. Earlier, the actor met the youth and women’s wing of his party and vouched for equal representation and opportunities for women in administration. “People mocked at our proposal to provide salary for homemakers. Once we implement it, they will welcome it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mnm-is-a-dravidian-party-kamal-haasan/articleshow/79999907.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||15 skill devpt lessonsfor small fee in Camp||Pune: Students can now take up short courses in interior and fashion designing, hotel management, beautician, house-keeping among others at the newly inaugurated skill centre by the Camp Education Society at Veer Savarkar building in Camp. A separate facility on 8,000 sqft has been developed by the education society to train students in skills. According to director Walchand Sancheti the centre has been named as Dr Cyrus S. Poonawala Skill Development Centre and will be inaugurated by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and water and irrigation minister Jayant Patil on Monday. It will be under the chairmanship of Firoze Poonawala, director of the Leela Poonawala Foundation. A total of 15 courses including personality development, foreign language, spoken English, mobile and laptop repairing, spa and tailoring would be conducted at this centre. Sancheti said, "All courses will be at a nominal fee. The courses have been designed for the changing times. Students would be ready for a job or can set up their own business."  Each course will range from one to three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-skill-devpt-lessonsfor-small-fee-in-camp/articleshow/79999909.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||MIT ties up with TCS for 4 courses||Pune: The faculty of engineering and technology at MIT World Peace University has tied up with Tata Consultancy Services for four industry relevant courses. It will incorporate skills as per the market needs and minimize the overlapping of courses across all BTech programmes. A statement issued by the university said to keep the curriculum updated and applicable to the industry, MIT-WPU’s faculty of engineering and technology has restructured its engineering curriculum which enables students to choose a minor in computer engineering along with their BTech specialization. Students can learn industry practices through projects and lectures instead of theoretical learning. Suggestions from industries through its Centre for Industry Academia Partnerships were considered to address curriculum gaps. The courses include Linux-based Python Laboratory, Basic Internet of Things Laboratory, Data Science for Engineers and AI and ML . The course curriculum is designed by TCS which will conduct training sessions for the faculty members before commencement of each trimester. Leading academicians and TCS senior executives will take the sessions. TCS may offer internships based on performance in the assessment tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mit-ties-up-with-tcs-for-4-courses/articleshow/79999897.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Trichy||‘BJP trying to privatise agri sector’||Trichy: DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin has accused the central government of attempting to privatise the agriculture sector. Speaking at TVS toll gate in Trichy city on Monday as part of his second phase of Vidiyalai Nokki campaign, he said the enactment of the three farm laws was a step towards privatisation. “The 100 days of work under Mahatma Gandhi national rural employment guarantee scheme (MGNREGS) will be increased to 150 by the DMK government,” he said. The DMK leader continued his attack on NEET claiming that it had taken the lives of 15 MBBS aspirants in Tamil Nadu due to their failure to crack the test. At Manapparai, he said though DMK had differences with Jayalalithaa, the party will probe the episodes surrounding her death. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-trying-to-privatise-agri-sector/articleshow/79999898.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Furry friends help beat pandemic blues||AHMEDABAD: Priya Mitra always wanted to keep a pet. She thought it would be a great companion for her parents who put up in this city, especially for her mother, as she works in another city and her sibling and father too are out for work for most part of the day.  “I was never prepared to take time off and get the pet accustomed to the home environment. But lockdown changed things for the better. I spent more time at home and so did other family members. We saw an adoption post for a German Shephard dog who had been abandoned and later rescued. I instantly thought it’s perhaps the right time and we should bring her home,” said Priya. Thus, Aarya, her pet dog came home. “It is such a lovely companion for my mother who is alone for most part of the day,” said Priya. The #AdoptDontShop tag has been trending for a long time. But probably, it took the pandemic-induced lockdown, a compulsive slowing down and home-time and piling stress for many in Gujarat to realize the need for a companion, perhaps a furry companion. To cope with pandemic-inflicted loneliness and compulsive over-isolation has led many to seek furry companions and bring them home. Soon after the lockdown ended, several people brought home pets. Another case in point is that of Debashree Das, an HR professional with a multinational corporation based in Ahmedabad. “The idea of having a pet at home was always there, but I wasn’t prepared to give it the time it needed. But having spent a lot of time indoors during the lockdown gave me the courage to take the step. I didn’t have a mental health concern, but it gets on your nerves being in the same house, sitting on the same table working and doing the chores and my irritability had started going up,” she said. Three months ago after mulling over it long, she finally brought home a dog, Mojo. “There hasn’t been a single dull day in my life ever since we brought Mojo home. It is certainly a stress buster having him around and I have a lot worth looking forward to,” said Das. Besides adopting pets, a lot of people have also bought pets. “Many people who live alone have got home pets as they are now working from home and able to spare more time,” said the manager of a city-based pet shop, on condition of anonymity. Health experts of the United Nations had warned that the pandemic is expected to cause a global mental health crisis, and this has led many to adopt more pets. “Compulsive isolation inflicted by the pandemic has created a void in people’s life. A lot of psychological stress was also triggered due to uncertainty, excessive screen time and in some cases economic turmoil as well. People need to fill in this void and that has led to an increase in pet adoption for the sheer comfort and companionship,” said Dr Nimrat Singh, a city-based psychologist. Experts said that earlier, one could travel and socialize however, the same isn’t an option anymore. Concerns raised over pets getting abandoned later While the craze for getting home pets has seen an upsurge, there are concerns raised over pets getting abandoned later. “People have adopted puppies and adult dogs ranging from pure-bred dogs to even strays. It’s indeed endearing to see that more people are warming up towards pets. However, most people often fumble when the pet falls sick because medical care comes at a cost. Many a time we have seen people abandoning the pets but that is not done. They don’t realize they’re dealing with a life,” said Dr Dhaval Bhatt, a city-based veterinary doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/furry-friends-help-beat-pandemic-blues/articleshow/79999966.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 29, 2020||Chennai||Sentiments of farmers remain a poll enigma||Chennai: With the assembly elections round the corner, political parties are working hard to influence the farming community. Tamil Nadu, as per the national agriculture census 2015-16, has close to 80 lakh farmers. Their families put together form an influential chunk of voters that no party can ignore.Farmers in Tamil Nadu, however, have never presented a picture of unity and reading their political choice has always been an enigma for political pundits. Their issues and political considerations vary from region to region. Those in the western belt don’t share the concerns of farmers in the delta. If timely release of Cauvery water is the primary concern in the central districts, farmers in the southern districts have other preferences.Both former chief ministers M G Ramachandran and M Karunanidhi used to call on Narayanasamy Naidu, an influential farmer leader, seeking support for every election. The growing clout emboldened Naidu to launch Uzhavar Uzhaippali Katchi, a political outfit, in the 1980s, only to lose deposits in all the seats and realise it the hard way that his ilk does not blend politics with occupation.This year, opposition parties have been working hard to bring farmers to the streets against the three new farm laws, with the hope that it would become a poll plank and farmers would support them en bloc at the hustings. But the stir in Tamil Nadu remains largely driven by the DMK and its allies. "The DMK is trying hard to use the farm laws to strengthen the anti-Modi rhetoric in the state. It is not gaining much traction among farmers though," said analyst Raveenthiran Doraisamy.One may wonder how TN farmers can be less belligerent than their counterparts in Punjab or Haryana. The answer may lie in the progressive agricultural marketing system in TN. The new acts are aimed at evolving a ‘One Nation One Market’ system. It stems from the fact that farmers’ share in consumers’ price is diminishing owing to differential taxes and other regulations, some even whimsical, put in place by various states. For instance, permitting commission agents in Agricultural Produce and Livestock Market Committees (APMCs were established under the APML Act) by certain states adds to the cost of procurement.In a free economy, if farmers do not have the right to choose their market, it is denial of a level-playing field. The Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Act, 2020 permits farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country by doing away with the system that mandates farmers to sell produce only inside APMC mandis in some states. The commission agent system in these states may not thrive if the farmers choose other marketing channels.Tamil Nadu presents a contrasting picture as farmers here have the freedom to sell anywhere and the system of commission agents does not exist in regulated markets in the state. Here commodities like pulses, copra and cotton are sold over and above the minimum support price (MSP) outside the regulated markets. While the MSP for copra is `99.6 per kg, it sells for `110 per kg outside regulated mandis.Market fee collection is another hurdle for farmers in many states, but not so much in Tamil Nadu, which levies a market cess of just 1%, compared to 8% in Punjab. Even procurement under the MSP is done differently in Tamil Nadu. In Punjab, for instance, rice and wheat are procured under MSP for the Central pool through APMCs. The revenue for the state and commission agents in this exercise is substantial. But Tamil Nadu follows a decentralized procurement system and procurement is done through direct purchase centres for distribution under the public distribution system only. No market fee is charged for this procurement.Abolition of monopoly of APMCs and existence of commission agents in the agricultural marketing system is a prerequisite for farmers getting competitive prices for their produce. Introduction of electronic trading platforms will nullify inter-state trade barriers. Again, Tamil Nadu is a step ahead as it has e-trading platforms in regulated markets. Relaxation of stockholding limits under the Essential Commodities Amendment Act, 2020 would help farmers and business houses involved in food processing, especially when they do contract farming. The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 will pave the way for market-led production with assured and agreed price for the produce. It is in congruence with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2019. With TN working on agro processing clusters and food parks, the Union laws could help in its endeavour. So will the farm acts have an influence on the polls? Going by the history of elections in Tamil Nadu, socio-political issues and debates do not largely affect the electoral outcome in the state, said BJP state general secretary R Srinivasan. "Sri Lankan Tamils’ issue dominated political debates in the state for close to 40 years, but it never became a poll plank. Women continued to vote for the AIADMK even while agitating against Tasmac liquor shops. Political alliances and anti-incumbency factors have decided poll outcomes in Tamil Nadu," said Srinivasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sentiments-of-farmers-remain-a-poll-enigma/articleshow/79998466.cms||Jayaraj Sivan
December 29, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn okays Rs 40L for patchwork on damaged roads||Trichy:After receiving criticism from various quarters, Trichy Corporation has come forward to repair the roads damaged in the recent monsoon. The local body has sanctioned Rs 40 lakh for the patchwork to be done on the city roads before January.Even before the onset of monsoon in October, potholes appeared on several arterial and residential roads. Although the civic body took up the road project using the 14th central finance commission (CFC) grant, important roads were ignored. The rains further deteriorated the condition of roads including Vayalur Road, Sasthri Road, Anna Nagar Road and Cantonment Roads in the city. Pointing at the proposed underground drainage and drinking water projects, the civic body was delaying the repair work. Of late, people started displaying their anger against the civic body by planting saplings on the roads. They also had to fill craters on the roads from their pockets. This has prompted the civic body to sanction Rs 40 lakh towards the redevelopment of roads in all the four zones. Only patchwork will be carried out, while a new layer of the bitumen can be laid after the completion of proposed UGD work. Arterial roads will be given priority, a senior corporation official said. Apart from substandard work and adverse weather, unscientific way of laying roads is cited as a reason for the pathetic condition of the roads. The top surface of the road was not scarified before laying a new layer, which had led to the level of UGD manhole going to a low altitude from the road surface, causing a bump. Residents said that at least the potholes should be properly filled until a new layer is laid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-okays-rs-40l-for-patchwork-on-damaged-roads/articleshow/79999925.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 29, 2020||Nashik||Reduce fatalities on two highways: ADGP (traffic)||Nashik: Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, the additional director general of police (traffic), Maharashtra, has instructed the highway police to take all the necessary measures to reduce road fatalities on the Kasara Ghat section of the Mumbai-Agra highway and the Ghoti-Sinnar state highway. Upadhyay visited the Ghoti Traffic Aid Post (TAP) of the highway police on Sunday. He instructed the police to take strict action against motorists involved in rash driving and over-speeding, those driving on the wrong side of the highway and those who park their vehicles illegally.Amol Valzade, the assistant police inspector of Ghoti TAP, said, “We have been instructed to reduce the road fatalities by 10%. There were around 25 fatalities under our jurisdiction this year. We will ensure more effort is put to reduce the fatalities at five black spots under the Ghoti TAP.”Valzade said over-speeding is common on the highway and strict action is taken. With the help of the speed guns, which the highway police have received, they have challaned at least 1,500 motorists every month. The 45 km stretch from Kasara to Vilholi of the Mumbai Agra highway and the 30 km stretch from Ghoti to Sinnar of the state highway come under the Ghoti TAP. Both these stretches witness heavy vehicular traffic and many accidents take place.Valzade said as per the instructions, they will follow up with the departments concerned to take up infrastructure related works on both the highways to minimize the accidents and fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/reduce-fatalities-on-two-highways-adgp-traffic/articleshow/79997447.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 29, 2020||Pune||Truck driver assaulted & robbed, duo arrested||Pune: The Hinjewadi police on Monday arrested two men on the charge of assaulting and robbing a truck driver of Rs23,000. Truck driver Jagdish Totare (27) of Ambegaon taluka sustained injuries as the duo hit him with a stone and threw an empty beer bottle at him. The incident occurred near Wakad bridge on Sunday morning. The duo, Nitin Awtade (35) of Wakad and Arbaz Shaikh (23) of Gahunje, have been arrested under section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. Totare said he was transporting sugar from Kolhapur to a factory in Manchar on Sunday morning. “Around 7am, I reached near Wakad bridge. I had to stop because a car was parked improperly. As the vehicles behind me started honking, I too began honking. The car was parked in such a manner that the entire road was blocked,” he said. Totare said that two men stepped out of the car and one of them picked a stone and hurled it towards me. “The stone hit my righthand elbow as I evaded getting hit. Another of his accomplice hurled an empty beer bottle at me. When I got down, the duo hit me. They also robbed Rs23,000 from the truck’s cabin,” Totare said. Uddhav Khade, assistant inspector, Hinjewadi police, said, “The two men were arrested early on Monday. We are verifying whether they have any criminal record.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/truck-driver-assaulted-robbed-duo-arrested/articleshow/79999936.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Trichy||Trichy west RTO lags in crackdown against vehicles with bull bars||Trichy: Even as the rest of the state witnesses a synchronised crackdown on crash guards in vehicles following a directive from the transport department, Trichy city is yet to see a full-fledged drive to eliminate the unscientific accessory. While Srirangam and Trichy East regional transport offices (RTO) have enforced the directive, Trichy West RTO is yet to take it up due to “absence of motor vehicle inspector (MVI)”.Bull bars or crash guards that are additionally fitted as an accessory to vehicles including cars and load carriers are considered as illegal. They are touted to undermine the efficacy of safety air bag sensors, thus jeopardising lives. Even in vehicles that lack safety air bags, such crash guards protrude from them posing risk to pedestrians and two-wheeler riders. Hence, the transport department on a directive from Madras high court has insisted that RTOs remove crash guards from all types of cars and load vehicles. “As per the Motor Vehicle Act, the vehicle owner can be penalised up to Rs 500 for plying with bull bar. We disengage the bull bar and hand it over to the owner,” P Prabhakar, RTO, Srirangam said. They have booked 50 vehicles so far, mostly in rural parts of Lalgudi, Thuraiyur and Musiri while Trichy East RTO claimed bull bars were removed from 200 vehicles. Trichy West RTO, a major one in the district with a vast jurisdiction, is yet to act. Since MVI posts are vacant, an in-charge official from Karur RTO takes up additional responsibility and visits the West RTO two days a week. With many cargo carriers continuing to play with bull bars, road safety activists blamed the RTO and district administration for the lapses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-west-rto-lags-in-crackdown-against-vehicles-with-bull-bars/articleshow/79999934.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Swargate to Katraj BRTS route may start next week||PUNE: Service on the Swargate-Katraj Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor is likely to start next week. The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), which has declined to start the service on the lane over missing infrastructure, said it was planning stopgap arrangements so that buses could start running by next week on the much-delayed route. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, accompanied by senior PMPML officials, Pune Municipal Corporation officials and traffic police, inspected the corridor on Monday. The mayor has called a special meeting on Tuesday to discuss and finalize steps to make the corridor operational without delay. “We expect the corridor to start in a week,” PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap told TOI. These temporary arrangements include installing grilles or shutters to serve as doors at the bus stops, and CCTV cameras, Jagtap said. “PMC has not been able to fix the automated doors at the bus stops. Tenders were floated a year ago, but attracted no interest. The doors are extremely important for passenger safety, so shutters or grills can be installed until the automated doors are fitted,” Jagtap said. Earlier this month, a minor disagreement sprang up between PMPML and PMC after senior civic officials suggested that buses could run on the corridor even without the doors. PMPML dismissed the notion, refusing to start the service without the automated doors. The corridor was launched in 2007, and was among the first BRTS routes in the country. The construction of 13 bus stops on the 5.5km route began in 2016. Since then, PMC has missed multiple deadlines — in May 2018, August 2018, December 2018 and March 2019. This year, PMC said it would complete the work after Diwali, and missed that deadline too. “Once the corridor becomes operational, we need to ensure no other vehicles enter the lane. We have asked the Pune traffic police for help. Also, the junctions across the corridor need signals to allow passengers to safely cross the road. The mayor too pointed out many other things — footpaths, service roads and arrangements for pedestrians at Swargate junction, where Metro work is being carried out,” Jagtap said. Daily, 39 PMPML buses make 2,688 trips on this stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/swargate-to-katraj-brts-route-may-start-next-week/articleshow/79999928.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||A year of adversities & lessons learnt||Dehradun: Troubles can be teachers too. The year of the pandemic made the Uttarakhand government strengthen the hill state’s health infrastructure. Soon after Covid-19 struck the state, the state government ensured that each district had an ICU and hired 476 doctors across the state. Prior to the Covid-19 phase, barely one or two district hospitals across the state had the facility of an ICU. Further, the state government launched CM Swarozgar Yojana in a bid to provide employment opportunities to those who came back to the state in the wake of Covid-19. Out of the 3.75 lakh people, who came to Uttarakhand during the Covid-19 phase, around 1 lakh have stayed back, according to official data. A good number of people have applied to avail the benefits under CM Swarozgar Yojana. Similarly, another scheme — CM Solar Swarozgar Yojana — was launched to help locals set up small solar plants. Declaration of Gairsain as the summer capital of Uttarakhand was another major decision taken by the Trivendra Singh Rawat government. The move talked about since the state’s inception in 2000 failed to see the light of day despite both BJP and Congress serving two terms each in power in the state. The completion of Dobra-Chanti bridge — construction of which started in 2006 when ND Tiwari was the state CM — was another big development. The bridge connects Pratapnagar with Thaurdar in Tehri. CM Rawat dedicated the bridge to the people on November 9, 2020 — the statehood day. In another major move, the state government announced to provide piped line water connection under Jal Jeevan Mission to people in the hills at a charge of Re 1. The state government also tabled the Char Dham Devasthanam Board bill in the assembly this year. Thanks to BJP's comfortable majority in the state, the bill was passed smoothly. Chief minister Rawat told TOI, “We fulfilled our promise on the issue of Gairsain. The Devasthanam Board will help smoothen the process related to Char Dham Yatra. We also made sincere efforts to encourage reverse migration in the hills through CM Swarogzar Yojana and Solar Yojna. For the benefit of farmers, the state announced interest-free loans up to Rs 3 lakh.” However, many including the opposition Congress are dismissive of the state government’s “tall claims”.Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said, “A high number of youths are jobless. Gairsain has been made summer capital but no decision has been taken for Dehradun. And the projects announced are not getting a positive response.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/a-year-of-adversities-lessons-learnt/articleshow/79996757.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 29, 2020||Kochi||Kochi corporation: Anil Kumar elected mayor, Ansiya deputy||KOCHI: After a decade, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has wrested power from the United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kochi corporation. Adv M Anil Kumar of CPM has been elected as the new mayor of the corporation. Of the total 74 councillors, 73 cast their votes while K P Antony, an independent councillor, didn’t turn up. While 36 councillors polled their votes in favour of Kumar, UDF candidate Antony Kureethra of Congress got 32 votes. Sudha Dileep Kumar, the mayoral candidate of BJP, got five votes. It is for the first time in the history of Kochi corporation that the BJP contesting any elections, including the one to the mayoral post. As no candidate won more votes than the combined votes secured by other candidates, fresh round of  was conducted after avoiding the BJP candidate who won the least number of votes in the first round of voting. This had been done as stipulated by law. The voting procedures were started around 11am. In the second round of voting, 68 councillors took part and Kumar secured 36 votes while Kureethra won 32 votes. Five BJP members stood away from the voting. District collector Suhas, who is also the returning officer of the elections, declared Kumar as the winner. Given the narrow margin between the LDF and UDF, Kumar may have to face difficulties in running the show in the next five years. LDF, which had been in power for 32 years since 1978, lost elections in 2010. Then, Tony Chammany and B Bhadra of Congress were elected as the mayor and deputy mayor, respectively. In 2015, UDF retained the corporation rule and Soumini Jain of Congress became the mayor. CPM has 34 councillors, besides the support of two independents, including IUML rebel T K Asharaf. UDF has 31 councillors while an independent voted in favour of the UDF candidate. BJP has five councillors. Anil Kumar, an advocate by profession, is a four-time councillor. He is a member of Ernakulam district committee of CPM. He had been the chairman of development standing committee during 2000-2005. He was the LDF candidate from Ernakulam segment in the 2016 assembly polls. K A Ansiya of CPI won the deputy mayor election held in the afternoon. Ansiya, a first timer in the council, got elected from the fifth division of Kochi corporation. There has been dispute over the delay in starting elections to decide the deputy mayor in the evening. Though the election was originally scheduled at 2pm, it was started around 2.10pm only. Then, the UDF councillors alleged that the district collector delayed the election to help the LDF councillors, who allegedly arrived late to council hall, to cast their votes. UDF has lodged a complaint with the election commission in this regard. Meanwhile, the collector said that there had been a delay of just 10 minutes in starting the election as bare minimum number of members required for council tomeet had not turn up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/anil-kumar-elected-mayor-ansiya-deputy/articleshow/79997450.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Trichy||Plea to replace sugar with jaggery in gift hamper||Trichy: Though ‘Sakkarai Pongal’ is an integral part of Pongal festival, the government is yet to heed the appeal of smallscale producers of jaggery to include it in the Pongal gift hamper to be distributed from ration shops. The government has announced that each gift hamper will comprise Rs 2,500 cash, raw rice and white sugar (1 kg each), five-foot-long sugarcane, cashew and raisins (20 gm each) and cardamom (5 gm). However, it is common knowledge that jaggery is used by Tamil people for important occasions and festivals like Pongal, Diwali and Tamil New year for preparing sweets. To cash in on the occasion, farmers as well as tiny and small jaggery makers produce tonnes of jaggery as balls, cakes and powder during December-January. They have petitioned the government in the last three years to replace the white sugar in the hamper with jaggery purchased from them. Salem, Namakkal, Erode, Tirupur, Madurai, Vellore, Tirupatur, Virudhunagar and Thanjavur districts are the major jaggery producers in the state. More than 200 tiny jaggery units function in Papanasam taluk alone. However, they are forced to sell the product at low price in open market. Traders buy a kilogram of jaggery at Rs 35 from producers and sell them at Rs 60 a kg in open market. If the government would procure it at least for Rs 45 a kg, farmers would benefit, says G Srinivasan who runs a jaggery production unit at Ganapathi Agraharam in Thanjavur. S Parthiban, a cane farmer from Papanasam, said poor people who receive a kg of white sugar from the ration shops give them at maligai shops and replace it with half a kilogram of jaggery. District secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to CPI Ayilai Sivasuriyan said people should be encouraged to use healthy product during Pongal season for which government should replace white sugar with jaggery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plea-to-replace-sugar-with-jaggery-in-gift-hamper/articleshow/79999975.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
December 29, 2020||Pune||Discharges top new cases for eighth day on the trot||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region reported 723 recoveries and 328 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, making it the eighth straight day in which the daily recoveries outnumbered the new patient count. The total number of recovered people in the region crossed the 3.45 lakh-mark, while the progressive caseload stood at 3.61 lakh. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that Pune Municipal Corporation limits reported 409 recoveries and 148 new patients, while in Pimpri Chinchwad, 172 people were discharged and 58 tested positive for the virus. Eight patients succumbed to the infection on Monday. Of them, four were from PMC limits and three from the rural parts of the district. One person died in the Pimpri Chinchwad area. This pushed the region’s death toll to 8,785. Of these, PMC limits accounted for 4,788 (about 54%) fatalities, while 2,246 people died so far in the rural areas. In Pimpri Chinchwad, 1,751 patients succumbed to the contagion. The active caseload in PMR stood at 6,837 on Monday — 4,778 people were in home isolation and 2,059 were being treated in various hospitals across the region. As many as 4,842 samples were tested in the on Monday, pushing the total number of samples tested to 18.48 lakh. PMC conducted about 2,200 tests in this 24-hour window, while Pimpri Chinchwad and the rural areas tested 1,169 and 1,389 samples, respectively. Meanwhile, mayor Murlidhar Mohol has requested the police to help officials trace travellers who returned from the United Kingdom and European countries after November 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/discharges-top-new-cases-for-eighth-day-on-the-trot/articleshow/79999991.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 positive wife consents to organ donation from hospital||Ahmedabad: Bhupatsinh Ro, 54, a resident of Nava Vadaj, who was admitted to Civil Hospital, was declared brain dead. His wife, who is admitted to the 1,200-bed Covid-19 hospital, gave consent for the donation of his organs. On Sunday, the transplant of his liver took place at IKDRC.Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that health workers, sensitive to her condition, counselled her and also told her about the possibility of donating her husband’s organs. “Despite being in treatment herself and going through emotional turmoil, she understood the issue and consented for the transplant,” she said.Experts said that brain-dead patients can donate kidneys, lungs, liver, heart, pancreas and tissues, which can give life to five or six patients. The patients first undergo a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) test, which is required to be below five. Afterwards, an apnea test is performed to declare the person brain dead.Dr Pranjal Modi, vice chancellor of Gujarat University of Transplant Sciences (GUTS) and state convenor of State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (SOTTO), said that awareness plays a major role in taking an informed decision for the family. “Even with the Covid-19 scenario, the state has recorded a good number of donations and transplants, which is an encouraging trend. With the online system, procurement and disbursement of organs has become a transparent process,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-positive-wife-consents-to-organ-donation-from-hospital/articleshow/80000015.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Rajkot||Killer ‘manja’ slits Rajkot carpenter’s throat||Rajkot: A carpenter living on Morbi Road in Rajkot died after a kite thread slit his throat near Shastrinagar on Nana Mava Road on Sunday evening.The 39-year-old victim Vipul Barkraniya was returning home in his scooter after finishing work when the incident took place. Police said that Bakraniya did not see the thread due to which gashed his throat. He suffered a deep cut and fell unconscious and was rushed to a nearby private hospital where he succumbed during treatment. Bakraniya is survived by his wife and an eight-year-old daughter. A case of accidental death was registered at Rajkot Taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/killer-manja-slits-rajkot-carpenters-throat/articleshow/79998491.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Nashik||Man killed in bus-container collision||Nashik: A 50-year-old resident of Parole in Jalgaon district — identified as Ratnakar Patole — died on the Shirdi-Sinnar highway when the bus he was travelling by was hit by an unidentified container in the early hours of Sunday. Constable Prakash Gavali of the Wavi police station said the accident took place at 4 am near the Mirgaon Phata on the Shirdi Sinnar road. A container driver was speeding towards Shirdi from the Sinnar side when he hit an ST bus coming from the opposite direction. Patil, who was seated behind the ST bus driver’s cabin, suffered injuries and succumbed to the same. Gavali said there were not many passengers on the bus at the time and only two others suffered minor injuries. Meanwhile, the tanker driver fled the scene. The Wavi police have registered a case of causing death by negligence against the container driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-killed-in-bus-container-collision/articleshow/79997458.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Trichy||Mayiladuthurai becomes 38th district of Tamil Nadu||MAYILADUTHURAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday formally inaugurated the 38th district of Tamil Nadu, Mayiladuthurai, through video conferencing from Chennai, bringing much cheer to residents, traders and politicians who have been demanding it for two decades. Carved out from Nagapattinam, it consists of rural and semi-urban regions with a mix of traders, farmers, agriculture labourers and the fishing community which offer a lot of scope for development on the economic front. The district comprises Mayiladuthurai and Sirkazhi revenue divisions, Mayiladuthurai, Sirkazhi, Kuthalam and Tharangambadi taluks, 15 blocks and 287 revenue villages. Local people feel the realisation of their long-pending demand will bring more government funds and facilities besides opening up job opportunities for them. Nagapattinam’s long distance from Mayiladuthurai and Kollidam has been making it inaccessible for administrative purposes. People had to take a detour via Nannilam to reach the headquarters Nagapattinam. The chief minister had made the announcement on creation of the new district under Rule 110 in the assembly on March 24. Subsequently, the state government issued an order formally notifying the district on April 7. It appointed R Lalitha as special officer and N Shreenatha as superintendent of police on July 12. The inaugural event in Chennai was attended by deputy chief minister O Pannerselvam and revenue minister R B Udhayakumar. At a function held in Mayiladuthurai, textile and handloom minister O S Manian, special officer R Lalitha and superintendent of police N Shreenatha, MLAs S Pavunraj, P V Bharathi and Radhakrishnan participated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mayiladuthurai-becomes-38th-district-of-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79999963.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||Kolhapur man dupes youth on promise of job in Army||PUNE: A man from Kolhapur was arrested on Sunday night on the charge of cheating a Solapur youth of Rs30,000 since 2018 on the pretext of helping him secure a job in the Indian Army. The Swargate police recovered two fake appointment letters. An army vigilance squad from Ghorpadi confirmed to the police that the seized “appointment letters”, one in the name of the complainant and the other in the name of his cousin, were bogus. The police are verifying over 100 academic qualification documents seized from the suspect to check if he had cheated others. Senior inspector Bramhanand Naikwadi of the Swargate police said, “We intercepted Amit Ashok Nalawade (45) from Guruwar Peth in Kolhapur from Jedhe Chowk, where he had asked the victim, Ram Suresh Ubale, to meet him to collect the ‘appointment letters’ on December 25 evening. We have registered an offence of criminal breach of trust, cheating and forgery against him. A local court remanded him in police custody till December 30. The Vishrambaug and the Deccan Gymkhana police had arrested Nalawade on the charge of committing similar crimes in 2016.” The police said Ubale suspected Nalawade, who had rented a facility at Bhusari colony in Kothrud, after he gave him two forms — one for him and another for his cousin — for police verification at Jedhe Chowk. The suspect demanded Rs60,000 to help his cousin. Ubale then approached the police on the pretext of visiting the washroom. Ubale said in the FIR that he had participated in the army recruitment drive at Satara in 2018 and other places but could not clear the process. Fearing he might lose the job opportunity because of his growing age, he called Nalawade after he came to know that the latter was helping youths in getting jobs in the Army. The FIR stated Ubale paid Nalawade after the latter convinced him about contacts with higher-ups in the Army. Ubale earlier met Nalawade at Jedhe Chowk in May 2019. He assured Ubale he would receive an appointment letter within 60 days and asked him to suggest the name of a known person for filling up a vacant post in the Army. Nalawade again called him to Swargate in June and collected details for his medical examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kolhapur-man-dupes-youth-on-promise-of-job-in-army/articleshow/79999953.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Now, NTCA allows sterlisation of feral dogs to protect tigers||DEHRADUN: To deal with the fallout of a growing number of feral dogs in tiger reserves, the National Tiger Conservation Authority on Monday laid down a standard operating procedure — count them all, take them away, and vaccinate and sterilise them. And within all 50 tiger reserves in the country, all dogs, “stray” and “feral”, will be treated as “street dogs”. With this, according to the SOP released on Monday, all dogs within tiger reserves will be dealt with in keeping with the Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules, 2001. The set of rules, under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, say that street dogs are to be picked up, sterilised, vaccinated and released where they were picked up from. In case of tiger reserves, however, that won’t apply: “Feral/stray dogs captured from within tiger reserves should under no circumstance be released back and a suitable alternate site be selected for their rehabilitation.” In August, the latest tiger survey had found more dogs than tigers in 17 reserves across the country. Conservationists have flagged this because dogs can be carriers of canine distemper virus. When tigers prey on them or consume meat of animals dogs may have killed, the virus can be transmitted to tigers. “Feral dogs have become a major concern in wildlife conservation. In our report this year, we had shown how tigers were infected with the distemper virus because of feral dog populations in reserves,” Dr YV Jhala, senior scientist at Wildlife Institute of India in Dehradun, said. “Feral dogs are harmful in three ways. They spread diseases, they prey on wild ungulates (hoofed animals) in packs and they hybridise (cross-breed) with wild canids like jackals and wolves, contaminating the gene pool.” To keep track of diseases that need to be monitored, all canine diseases occurring in a region will be documented, especially those that are zoonotic (originated in animals), notifiable (which must be reported to authorities) and emerging (a new disease that has a significant public health impact). Wild animals at risk are to be identified, as are areas that feral dogs frequent. And a seven-member committee has to be formed, with veterinarians, civil society organisation, a panchayat member and the deputy director of the reserve. “The canines in our reserve were last vaccinated four years ago,” Corbett Tiger Reserve director Rahul told TOI. “We don’t know the population of feral dogs either. We are planning the counting and vaccination exercise in February.” Dog rescue workers, meanwhile, had reservations about the new SOP. “The NTCA wants reserves to get rid of dogs, but will it ensure they are rehabilitated and fed? The Uttarakhand high court had in 2016 asked each district to set up a shelter for stray animals. It has not been done in four years,” said Ashu Arora, founder of Doon Animal Welfare Foundation in Dehradun. They are also concerned about the possible impact on urban areas. Dishant Nayak, an animal welfare activist from Haridwar, said, “There have been many deaths caused by dog bites in urban areas. If wild dogs from forests are also released here, it could be worrying. Why should wild dogs be left to roam in the cities?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/to-protect-tigers-feral-dogs-in-reserves-to-be-treated-as-street-dogs-sterilised-vaccinatednew-sop-by-ntca-says-diseases-dogs-carry-pose-a-threat-to-tigers-who-prey-on-them/articleshow/79996760.cms||Shivani Azad
December 29, 2020||Bareilly||12-year-old boy goes missing in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A 12-year-old dalit boy, Shobhit Balmiki of Nakhasa locality in Pilibhit city, went missing on Sunday evening when he was playing outside his house. In his written complaint to police on Monday, his father, Rakesh Balmiki, expressed fears that the boy might have been kidnapped. Atar Singh, SHO of Sungarhi police station, said boy had been seen in Bareilly. A special team has been formed to trace him. An FIR had been lodged against an identified person under IPC section 363 (kidnapping) he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/12-year-old-boy-goes-missing-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79997449.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 29, 2020||Trichy||BJP tightening grip over weak AIADMK leadership: Cong MP||Trichy: The attempts by BJP to decide the chief minister candidate for the coalition led by AIADMK is a sign of BJP tightening its grip over the weak leadership in AIADMK, said Trichy Lok Sabha MP S Thirunavukkarasar on Monday. He was in Pudukottai to take part in events marking the 136th founding year celebration of the Indian National Congress . “AIADMK leaders say they lead the coalition and will contest in most of the assembly seats. But BJP is saying that they will announce the CM candidate. This is not the democratic way of dealing with members of coalition parties. Would the BJP react in the same way if M G Ramachandran or J Jayalalithaa was alive. It is because of the weak leadership and corrupt ministers in AIADMK that BJP is tightening its grip. No leader with self-respect will accept this. Even if the leaders of AIADMK accept this, party cadres will not accept,” he said. “Law Minister C Ve Shanmugam had raised apprehension over attempts to freeze party poll symbol. But only he can explain if he meant that the threat to two leaves symbol is because of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Paneerselvam or because of prime minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah,” he added.On Kalvi Tholaikatchi using Thiruvalluvar in saffron robe, he condemned such acts and said Thiruvalluvar is beyond religion. Criticising the AIADMK government for denying permissions to the gram sabha meetings by opposition leader M K Stalin, he urged governor Banwarilal Purohit to act on the corruption charges complaint against the AIADMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-tightening-grip-over-weak-aiadmk-leadership-cong-mp/articleshow/79999950.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam: UDF gets 8 municipal heads, LDF bags five||KOCHI/TRIPUNITHURA: Elections to the posts of chairpersons and vice-chairpersons to 13 municipalities in Ernakulam were held on Monday. While UDF chairpersons were elected to eight municipalities, the rest were secured by the LDF.  Luck favoured UDF in Kalamassery, where candidates of both the LDF and UDF secured 20 votes each.  UDF candidate Seema Kannan has been elected to the chairperson’s post through a toss against her LDF opponent Chithra Surendran. Election to ward number 37 is yet to be done. In Thrikkakara municipality, Ajitha Thankappan of the UDF was elected to the power securing 26 votes against LDF candidate Jayakumari. Thrikkakara witnessed both LDF and UDF ruling the local body multiple times in the last five years due to poor margin in majority. This time, UDF upped their performance by securing 21 seats. Five Congress rebels also supported UDF. LDF could garner only 17 seats. In Maradu, Antony Asanparambil, who was the vice-chairperson in the last term, has been elected as the chairperson. UDF’s P P Eldose has been elected to Muvattupuzha municipality securing 14 votes. T M Sakeer Hussain and M O John of the UDF have been selected as the chairmen of Perumbavoor and Aluva municipalities, respectively. Reji Mathew and Prabhavathi teacher of the UDF have been elected to lead Angamaly and North Paravur municipalities, respectively. Rema Santhosh of the LDF has been elected to Tripunithura municipality securing 24 votes against the 14 of the NDA candidate. Vote of one of the members got invalid. K K Tomy and A D Sujil of the LDF have been elected as the chairmen of Kothamangalam and Eloor municipalities, respectively. Eliamma Philip and Vijaya Sivan of the LDF will head Piravom and Koothattukulam municipalities, respectively.  K K Pradeep Kumar and K P Salim of the LDF were elected as the vice-chairmen of Tripunithura and Piravom municipalities, respectively. NDA vice-chairman candidate U Madhusoodhanan voted for Kumar by mistake. Salma Aboobacker and Jeby Methar of the UDF were elected as vice-chairperson of Kalamassery and Aluva municipalities, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/udf-gets-8-municipal-heads-ldf-bags-five/articleshow/79997481.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||AIIMS-R docs perform rare heart surgery to save 15-yr-old||Dehradun: The doctors at All India Institute Of Medical Science in Rishikesh (AIIMS-R) have successfully performed the complicated heart surgery to save a 15-year-old girl from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. The girl had a medical condition — Tetralogy of Fallot — under which oxygen-poor blood flows out of the heart into the rest of the body. The operation was successfully carried out under the leadership of Dr Aneesh Gupta of the CTVS Department. During the operation, the hole in the heart of the girl was closed, her lungs were enlarged, and the pulmonary valve was replaced. “Due to unnecessary delay in treatment, the teenager was having trouble in breathing which was further hampering her routine. Examination done by our team revealed that the girl had a congenital hole in her heart and her lung vein was contracted. One of her heart valves was also underdeveloped since birth. This condition is called Tetralogy of Fallot with Absent Pulmonary Valves in Medical Science. In this disease, respiratory arteries are obstructed as soon as many children are born. But incidentally, this teenager did not face any problem for 15 years. However, the delay in proper treatment made her condition critical,” said Dr Gupta. AIIMS-R director Professor Ravi Kant appreciated the team of the institute's CTVS and Cardiology Department for successfully performing the complex surgery, a first-of-its-kind in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-r-docs-perform-rare-heart-surgery-to-save-15-yr-old/articleshow/79996785.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 29, 2020||Trichy||Kamal tours Thanjavur||Thanjavur: Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan said that their politics was neither for taking revenge nor for blaming anyone, but for guiding everyone. Addressing cadres at Anna Nagar in Thanjavur on Monday, he said that participating in grama sabha meetings were the beginning of guiding politics. Two years ago we reminded others about the grama sabhas and now all are following us, he said. “In Tamil Nadu, politicians very carefully guard poverty in society. As long people are poor, politicians will get votes in return for money. When poverty is eradicated, people will start to cast their votes on their own,” he said.“Our candidates will not come to your doorsteps asking for votes, rather they will come to you to listen to your grievances and they would sign in an agreement, promising to fulfill the demands put forth by the elders,” he said.He also stressed the need for abandoning all the projects that would destroy agriculture. The Tamil University, which was inaugurated by former chief minister MGR, should be recovered.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kamal-tours-thanjavur/articleshow/80000017.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Trichy||BDU inks deal with academy to offer 5 aviation courses||Trichy: Bharathidasan University (BDU) and Madras Flying Club Aviation Academy have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to offer collaborative programmes on aviation industry. Five programmes including diploma and certificate courses will be offered by Madras Flying Club at their facility at the Trichy airport. BDU vice-chancellor P Manisankar exchanged the copy of MoU with Captain Jacob Selvaraj, honorary secretary of Madras Flying Club. Diploma courses will be offered from January in airport ground handling management, flight operation management, and cabin crew and hospitality management. The academy will offer collaborative programmes on aviation industry along with Institute of Entrepreneurship and Career Development (IECD) of BDU. The MoU is valid for three years and is likely to be renewed further. “IECD is one of the skill development centres in the country and it collaborates with industries for offering programmes in higher education cutting across different domains,” said IECD director E Ramganesh.The aviation academy is an approved training centre under Skill India scheme under the ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship, he said. “Aviation industry is growing fast which requires thousands of skilled aviation personnel. To fulfil the demands, we need to conduct aviation related courses,” said Jacob Selvaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-inks-deal-with-academy-to-offer-5-aviation-courses/articleshow/80000011.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kochi||Transform, disband or bring ‘idle’ GCDA under Kochi corp: Experts||Kochi: Calls for efficient utilization of Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA), which is idling away its assets and human resources, is not new. But the urgency for it is being felt with the city registering a fast growth. “It is a travesty that a development authority, which played a crucial role in the city’s development, is made to stay idle like this,” says May Mathew, former secretary, GCDA. She feels that there is a need to transform it into an agency for coordinating development work in the Kochi UA (urban agglomeration) region. A proposal for transforming GCDA into a Metropolitan Area Development Authority was mooted as early as 2013 but political consensus is key to such a proposal. “When Nagarpalika Act came into being, a lot of responsibilities of GCDA were taken away. It is up to the state government to decide what role it should play. There are a lot of things GCDA can do as it has both assets and resources. Transforming it into a development authority for the urban agglomerate region would be ideal,” said V Salim, chairman, GCDA. Experts point out that there are several gains to be made from such regional planning structures that unify neighbouring clusters and address their infrastructure woes but not all are in agreement. “It should be either shut down or should be brought under the Kochi municipal corporation. There is no reason why it should continue as a white elephant,” feels D Dhanuraj, chairman, centre for public policy research. A key strength of the authority is its assets — the shopping complex in prime waterfront Marine Drive, two stadiums in the name of Jawaharlal Nehru and B R Ambedkar and huge areas of land at Manappat Parambu in Kaloor and Mundamveli — with value running into thousands of crores. On the downside are the expenses it incurs every month on account of salary and pensions. GCDA no longer takes up any major development work but pays around Rs.1.5 crore as salaries and pensions every month to 1,700 employees and pensioners. Dhanuraj is of the view that instead of creating new institutions, it would be in the city's best interest to have it brought under corporation. “What we actually need is a powerful municipal corporation. All other bodies should be under the local body. At the top there should be only one office — that of the mayor and the supervision of the council,” says Dhanuraj. “In my opinion even bodies like KMRL should be under the direct control of the corporation,” he said. GCDA has also faced allegations of unwanted appointments due to political considerations. In 2017-18, it appointed 10 office attendants directly. Ten other employees posted as draughtsman/surveyor/overseer grade 11 employees in the year. This is apart from nine clerks being appointed despite the absence of workload giving rise to allegations that it has become a white elephant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/transform-disband-or-bring-idle-gcda-under-kochi-corp-experts/articleshow/79997500.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Chennai||Another Tamil Brahmi inscription stone found in a shambles||Chennai: Tamil Brahmi inscriptions, considered the earliest known writing system in Tamil Nadu, have been found in caverns, caves and on potsherds and in rare instances on memorial stones in ruins. A week ago, a team of heritage experts found one such slab stone with three-line Tamil Brahmi inscriptions dating to the 1st century in Kongapatti, a village in Usilampatti, 37km from Madurai. Giving a glimpse into the ancient way of life, the script acts as a window to the past. Though the newly-discovered stone slab is in ruins, senior epigraphist S Rajavelu could decipher the inscription. "The line drawings show it is related to a record of donation in connection with a building or a temple," he said, adding that the first and second lines are damaged. It was with the help of a local school teacher that a team led by rock art expert K T Gandhirajan discovered the ancient inscriptions on the slab stone in Kongapatti. On palaeographical grounds, it is dated 1st century according to Rajavelu. "The square lines in the inscription found in many temples of Tamil Nadu indicate the direction of some edifices. This kind of square symbols have been noticed in Gangaikonda Cholapuram as well," said Rajavelu. "The remaining letters are engraved deeply and in the first line, the word ‘katta’ could be associated with the square lines appearing at the end of the inscription. In the second line, the word ‘ippittaan’ may be read as ‘edupittan’ or ‘koduppittan’ by a person called ‘Parpan Tava Tantai.’ Only two letters in the third line are readable," said Rajavelu. A tentative reading of the damaged inscriptions, according to him, says the edifice might have been built by Parpana Tantai. While senior epigraphists have been trying to decipher the damaged letters, officials at the Tamil Nadu state archaeology department said they have taken the estampage of the inscriptions a couple of days ago. "We have experts who can read the Tamil Brahmi inscriptions. But here some letters have been damaged. We have filed a report on the findings. The commissioner of archaeology will release it soon," said an official from the state archaeology department in Madurai. The memorial stones with Brahmi inscriptions found in Pulimankombai and Thathapatty are considered the oldest ones found in Tamil Nadu. In July, a rare memorial pillar with Tamil Brahmi inscriptions was found on the premises of Ekanathan Mutt in Kinnimangalam, a village near Madurai.Though Tamil Brahmi inscriptions have been discovered by heritage experts and amateur archaeologists, they are not documented or protected. A year ago, TOI reported the oldest (300 BC) memorial stone with Tamil Brahmi inscriptions d in Tamil Nadu was lying neglected in Thathapatty, a remote village in Dindigul. It still lies covered with vegetation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/another-tamil-brahmi-inscription-stone-found-in-a-shambles/articleshow/79998508.cms||M T Saju
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||MSME advances up in Gujarat: Report||AHMEDABAD: With significant disbursal under the emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) by the government of India, the advances for Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Gujarat went up significantly in the second quarter of 2020-21.  According to the latest report by State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), released on Monday, MSME advances went up by Rs 10,956 crore (9%) from Rs 1.28 lakh crore in Q2 of 2019-20 to Rs 1.39 lakh crore in the corresponding period of 2020-21. Explaining this, MM Bansal, convener, SLBC – Gujarat, said, “MSMEs in the manufacturing sector have taken advantage of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme, announced by the government. In Gujarat, nearly Rs 9,941 crore worth of disbursement took place to the MSMEs under this scheme during the said quarter. Most companies availed loans to fulfil working capital requirements.” Agriculture advances grew by Rs 3,556 crore (4%) year on year from Rs 89,295 crore to Rs 92,851 crore during the same period. “Agri loans were availed on the other hand to fulfil expenditure requirements during the Rabi season. A number of farmers had availed loans for seasonal crops such as potato, cotton and even pulses,” said Bansal. Since bank deposits also grew by significant 12% during the quarter, the credit-to-deposit ratio marginally improved. In fact, the quarter also saw a decline in bad loans, however, that was no reflection of any improvement in either the agriculture sector or even the MSMEs. According to the report, MSME NPAs declined marginally by 1.25% year-on-year, from Rs 10,290 crore to Rs 10,161 crore. Bankers said that the main reason behind decline in MSMEs was the moratorium period extended by the government. “Besides extension of moratorium, banks cannot even classify the accounts as non-performing assets, till further notice by the Supreme Court. This is precisely why the NPA has declined. The sector continues to remain under stress,” said a source, on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/msme-advances-up-in-gujarat-report/articleshow/80000023.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records less than 250 cases after over a month||DEHRADUN: With 205 fresh cases of Covid-19, Uttarakhand’s coronavirus tally reached 89,850 on Monday. It was after more than a month that the state recorded less than 250 cases in a day. Also, the infection rate in the state remained 3.5%, higher than the national average of 2.2%. According to the health department, 11,650 samples were tested negative on Monday. Among the 205 positive cases, 83 were recorded in Dehradun followed by 36 in Nainital, 20 in Haridwar, 17 in Udham Singh Nagar, 13 in Champawat, 12 in Uttarkashi, eight in Pauri, seven in Chamoli, four in Bageshwar, three in Pithoragarh, and two in Tehri district. “With six more deaths, Covid-19 toll in Uttarakhand shot up to 1,489. Also, 305 people recovered from the infection on Monday. With this, the recovery tally reached 81,688. At present, as many as 5,511 active cases are under treatment in various hospitals or are in home isolation across the state,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Meanwhile, Anoop Nautiyal from Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state), said, “The infection rate of Uttarakhand has remained higher than the national average for two weeks now. Within the state, Nainital (6.8%), Almora (5.8%), and Dehradun (5.8%) districts have the highest infection rate while Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar, both at 1.2%, have the lowest infection rate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-less-than-250-cases-after-over-a-month/articleshow/79996773.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujaratis to throng watering holes for New Year’s||AHMEDABAD/ SURAT: Piyush Parekh, 29, a textile businessman, is all set to enjoy New Year in Daman. “If you want to celebrate New Year in Daman, then you need to plan things well in advance. I had booked the hotel for me and my friends two months ago as most of the hotels are booked by December,” Parekh said. Night curfew in four major cities of Gujarat coupled with the prohibition here has led many to escape their cities over the long weekend on New Year. While watering holes near the state including Udaipur, Mount Abu, Daman, Diu and Silvassa are near fully booked, many are also going to Goa and Puducherry. Anuj Pathak, secretary, Tour Operators’ and Travel Agents’ Association of Gujarat (TAG), said, “Nearby destinations are quite popular. People have booked their stays well in advance around Diwali itself. Most resorts in Udaipur, Daman, Kumbhalgarh and Jaisalmer are fully booked for the NY weekend. Since the New Year Day falls on a Friday, it becomes an extended weekend of three days and therefore, people have planned long travel. For the first time in the last decade, hotels across the Union territory of Daman are at full occupancy. Raju Choksi, a Surat-based tour operator, said, “The coronavirus pandemic had doomed the travel business. But this year the business is quite good. We got a lot of domestic travel inquiries from residents during the Christmas and for New Year festival.” For Mayur Patel, it is the time of the year to head out of the city. Last year, Patel had gone to Macau with his family. This year he is planning to celebrate New Year in Daman. Haresh Thalgal, secretary of Daman Hotel and Restaurant Association (DHRA) told TOI, “About 90% of the hotels in Daman have been booked for New Year. We are happy to get such heavy booking during the coronavirus pandemic” Those not willing to flock to watering holes but are willing to relax over the weekend are also booking stays at Saputara and Gir-Somnath. A general reluctance towards heading to an unknown destination remains in the wake of the pandemic. Nikunj Amin, a city-based professional, said, “I will be headed to Bengaluru to spend time with family and friends. I don’t think it is still safe to travel as freely as we used to before the pandemic. I am working from home most of the time, and I will be gone for some 10 days.” The traction for international travel was good initially, however, the bubble burst with a new strain of Covid-19 virus being reported in the UK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujaratis-to-throng-watering-holes-for-new-years/articleshow/80000073.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 29, 2020||Nashik||4 held for assaulting bus driver||Nashik: The Panchavati police arrested four people on the charges of assaulting a bus driver of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation(MSRTC) in the Amrutdham junction on the Mumbai Agra highway on Sunday evening. The accused have been identified as Navnit Patel (22), Angat Devre (20), Vaibhav Kardak (29) and Sachin Nikam (25). All of them are residents of Panchavati. On Monday, they were remanded in judicial custody. As per the complaint registered by Sunil Shinde, he was driving the ST bus headed towards Jalgaon from Nashik, when the incident took place. He was on the service road along the Mumbai Agra highway, when four people riding two motorcycles intercepted the bus near the Amrutdham junction. The suspects started arguing with Shinde for stopping the bus on the service road. Then they dragged him down from the bus and beat him up. His government uniform was also torn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-held-for-assaulting-bus-driver/articleshow/79997492.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Chennai||No meditation for Ilaiyaraaja one last time at ‘sacred’ place||CHENNAI: Maestro Ilaiyaraaja’s final sojourn at a place he considered sacred turned out to be a no-show after he learnt through his counsel that his personal chambers at Prasad Studios were dismantled and his belongings and awards, including the Padma Vibushan, were found stacked in a corner. A Saravanan and Thyagarajan, counsel representing Ilaiyaraaja, informed reporters outside Prasad Studios that the music composer was upset on learning that his chambers were dismantled. Ilaiyaraaja was using the recording theatre for more than three decades. “The place was sacred for him. He wanted to meditate there. But learning that there is no trace of the chambers, he is heartbroken and informed us that he will not be coming,” advocate Saravanan said. S Elambharathi, counsel representing the studio management, denied claims by Ilaiyaraaja’s counsel that the awards were kept in a godown. “When all personal belongings including the awards were being loaded in the truck, their counsel said they would carry the personal belongings with them. They photographed it then and circulated pictures making untrue claims,” Elambharathi said adding that the entire proceedings were videographed and photographed. Advocate commissioner Naveen Kumar Murthi told TOI that all articles were kept in separate rooms and in a safe manner. The high court-appointed advocate commissioners began work around 9.30am, according to sources. As submitted in the court, counsel for the studios informed the advocate commissioners that the recording theatre area, which was used by Ilaiyaraaja, has been altered and is now being used by the studio’s IT department for digitization of old prints. Sources said the proceedings at the studios ended around 6pm and over 600 photographs were taken which will be submitted before the high court. After months of legal battle, Ilaiyaraaja had got the approval of the court to enter Prasad Studios to collect his belongings. The court had permitted one-day access to the musician to the studio as he agreed to the conditions imposed by the owners to withdraw cases filed against them. Ilaiyaraaja’s team had said Prasad’s men have unlawfully stopped his entry into the recording theatre and to his personal chambers without giving proper time and notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-meditation-for-ilaiyaraaja-one-last-time-at-sacred-place/articleshow/79998571.cms||Srikkanth D
December 29, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon gets fresh list of 25 UK returnees||Nashik: The Jalgaon administration has received a fresh list of 25 persons who have returned from the United Kingdom after November 25 and must be tested for Covid-19 infection. “This new list is in addition to the list of seven flyers that was made available earlier. We are locating each flyer and conducting RT-PCR tests,” said Jalgaon civil surgeon N S Chavan. The new list includes six people who came to Jalgaon, five who returned to Bhusawal and four to Yawal taluka among others. So far, of the overall 32 UK returnees to the district, nine people have reached the Jalgaon taluka, six have reached Chalisgaon taluka and five have reached Bhusawal taluka. The administration has already tested seven people and all of them have tested negative. There is an additional focus on the UK returnees to check if they are carrying the new strain of the virus that has been reported in the United Kingdom. The aim is to contain the spread of this new strain. All the flyers, even if they test negative, will have to stay in home isolation and even secure themselves and their family members from each other during the period. The health teams will be keeping a close watch on the health of the family members as well. In case any UK returnee or their family member tests positive, the swab samples would be sent to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) to check for the presence of the new strain, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-gets-fresh-list-of-25-uk-returnees/articleshow/79997507.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM Narendra Modi likely to be in Gujarat on January 12||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Gujarat on January 12 to attend several events. The PM is likely to inaugurate the newly built railway station at Kevadia and preside over inauguration of other projects. According to reliable sources in the state government, the PM is also likely to inaugurate the newly built hotel at the Gandhinagar railway station, close to the Mahatma Mandir. PM Modi is likely to attend a social event and dedication of several community welfare projects at Sardar Dham in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-modi-likely-to-be-in-gujarat-on-january-12/articleshow/80000046.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bareilly||21 jail inmates among 121 test Covid-19 positive in Bareilly in 72 hours||BAREILLY: At least 121 people, including a foreign traveller and 21 inmates of Bareilly Central Jail, were reported positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly district in the past 72 hours. The overall cases in Bareilly have also crossed 14,000 after 35 people were tested positive on Monday. As many as 48 cases were reported on Sunday, and 38 the day before. Samples of the foreign traveller have been sent to Delhi to ascertain the presence of the new virus strain. Report is still pending. Moreover, despite a surge in the number of cases, people are continuing to violate Covid-19 guidelines by not maintaining social distancing and wearing face masks properly. People can be seen crowding in marketplaces without masks. Additional CMO Dr Ashok Kumar told TOI, “We are testing every person with foreign travel history, and the ones who returned from metro cities recently. The foreign traveller has been admitted to a Covid facility. His condition is said to be stable. We are trying to test those who may have come in contact with him.” “We collected 2,976 samples on Monday and 35 were tested positive. All the samples collected at Bareilly Central Jail were found negative. We are regularly requesting people to take precautions. Various campaigns are still being run by district administration,” Kumar further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/21-jail-inmates-among-121-test-covid-ve-in-bareilly-in-72-hours/articleshow/79997509.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 29, 2020||Trichy||New district has no proper infra, says Stalin||Tiruvarur: DMK president M K Stalin has alleged that the AIADMK government had inaugurated Mayiladuthurai district without establishing basic facilities. Addressing party cadres and farmers of Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts on Monday through video conferencing as part of “Thamizhagam Meetpom” campaign, he said there was no proper infrastructure for the collectorate and district police office. “Though the announcement bifurcating Nagapattinam to form Mayiladuthurai district came on March 24, there is no proper building for the district collector office or office of superintendent of police,” he said. The district collector's office is functioning from Tharangambadi RDO office building, while the SP’s office is functioning from the office of the agriculture department, he stated. He levelled various charges against textile and handloom minister O S Manian, reiterated his allegation of rice sale against food minister R Kamaraj. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/new-district-has-no-proper-infra-says-stalin/articleshow/80000039.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM airlifted to AIIMS Delhi due to Covid-19 complications||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat was airlifted to AIIMS Delhi due to Covid-19 complications, on Monday morning. His wife and daughter, who also tested positive for the virus along with him on December 18, accompanied him. After being in isolation for a week, Rawat developed fever on Sunday. After his chest scan revealed a mild lung infection, he was moved to Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) in the evening. Once a doctor treating him at GDMC concluded he had pneumonia, he was airlifted to Delhi. The CM’s physician, Dr NS Bisht, said, “He developed symptoms of the virus a week after he contracted it, which is not a great sign. So we consulted AIIMS Delhi and the director asked us to send him to Delhi for further evaluation.” Sources said the CM’s busy routine may have led to this condition. “He was working continuously after being diagnosed with Covid-19. He attended Assembly sessions through video conferences. He should have taken proper rest in the early days of contracting the virus,” said one of the doctors who attended the CM at GDMC. “The CM’s wife and daughter are still asymptomatic but were moved to Delhi along with him as a precautionary measure,” Darshan Rawat, officer on special duty (OSD) to the CM, told TOI. Meanwhile, as news of the CM being moved to AIIMS spread, prayers poured in from across the state. Members of the Sikh community organized “ardas” (special prayers) at the Gurdwara on Race Course. Notably, having come in contact with several Covid-positive ministers, MLAs and senior bureaucrats, the CM has undergone isolation several times in the past six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cm-airlifted-to-aiims-delhi-due-to-covid-19-complications/articleshow/79996796.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘No major side effects so far’||Ahmedabad: The state government has formed a task force for the vaccination drive. The task force members interacted with the media on Monday evening in Gandhinagar and said that the different vaccines have caused no major side effects and should be taken by all. Dr Navin Thakar said that every vaccination comes with the possibility of a fever or weakness for a while. These could be experienced after the Covid-19 vaccine as well. But so far no major side effects have been reported across the globe. Dr Nischal Bhatt said that the purpose of the vaccine is to acquaint the body to the virus so it can design a response when it encounters the virus again. “Don’t believe bogus claims like it can change the DNA. The vaccine is based on mRNA technology and the primary purpose is the safety of the taker,” he said. Dr Sapan Pandya said that the vaccination will be for all — including those with cancer, kidney disease, TB, and other diseases. In such patients, the antibody response might be lower, but it will be adequate for protection against the infection. Dr Bhadresh Vyas said that so far about 35 lakh persons have taken the vaccine across the globe and no major side effects have been documented. “Please avoid rumours and support the move to make our society Covid-resilient,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-major-side-effects-so-far/articleshow/80000070.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Nashik||Govt approves Rs 98 crore for devpt work on Ghoti-Bhandardara Road||Nashik: The state government has approved Rs 98 crore for developing the 13-km section of Ghoti-Bhandardara road in Igatpuri taluka of Nashik district.The road — starting from village Pimpalgaon More to Bari Ghat — will be redeveloped into a concrete road by the state public works department (PWD) with finance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB).“The road, which is now covered by tar, will be relaid by concrete and will have earthen shoulders of 1.5 on each side. The state government has sanctioned the construction during the recently held assembly station and it is now reflecting in December 2020 government budget booklet,” PWD superintendent engineer SN Rajbhoj said.It should be noted that the road branches out from Ghoti-Sinnar Road at Pimpalgaon More village and then travels through Bari Ghat in Igatpuri taluka towards Kalsubai — the highest peak of Maharashtra and then to Bhandardara — a very well-known tourist spot in Rajur taluka of neighbouring Ahmednagar district.The 13-kilometre section of the road is in Igatpuri taluka after which the border of Ahmednagar district begins. The road was constructed in 2004-05 when it was expanded from then 5.5 meter to seven meter. The entire stretch of 13-km of road will be constructed into seven-meter concrete road which will also include widening of 5-meter road that currently in the Ghat section. The road is in bad shape owing to lack of maintenance for the past 16 years.As per ADB consultants and conditions, the utilities along the road that include Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) power supply lines, water supply pipelines, fuel lines of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) and a couple of encroachments are to be removed and the process is being carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/govt-approves-rs-98-crore-for-devpt-work-on-ghoti-bhandardara-road/articleshow/79997513.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Contribute to welfare of poor: CM||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Monday addressed students on the occasion of the first convocation ceremony of Gokul Global University at Siddhpur. He expressed his commitment to build a skilled youth force in Gujarat through research and high quality education. The CM said, “It is necessary that students fulfill their responsibility towards the society and contribute to welfare of the poor and deprived. Gujarat has an ancient heritage of excellent education. We have set up various new dimensions of education and sectoral university facilities in Gujarat. Now a student from Gujarat can get higher education here instead of going to other states for study.” Rupani said that while there were seven universities in Gujaat during Congress regime, today there are 77 functional universities in the state. The CM expressed happiness that the youth of Gujarat and across the country are getting higher education from various universities like Forensic Science, Marine, Petroleum, Raksha Shakti, Railways, Tribal, etc. He congratulated the students who received their degrees and encouraged the students to work with their best efforts. President of Gokul Global University and GIDC chairman Balwantsinh Rajput said that years ago, there was only one college in Siddhpur. “The students here had to go to another city to study, but with the cooperation and guidance of the state government, Siddhpur has become a centre of education today,” he said. In all, 305 students from various faculties were handed over degrees at the first convocation of Gokul Global University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/contribute-to-welfare-of-poor-cm/articleshow/80000074.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Patna||NDA to complete full term under Nitish Kumar: Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: In less than 24 hours after JD(U) publicly expressed its “anguish” over the BJP inducting six of its seven MLAs into the party in Arunachal Pradesh, the saffron party on Monday went on a damage-control mode to ward off any threat to the continuance of the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar. “In Bihar, the BJP-JD(U) alliance is ‘atoot’ (unbreakable). We have firm belief that the NDA government will work for its full five-year term under the leadership of Nitish,” BJP senior leader and Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) said on Monday on the sidelines of a function to mark the birth anniversary of former Union finance minister Arun Jaitley at Kankarbagh here. Nitish is leading the NDA government of four parties — BJP, JD(U), Hindustani Awam Morcha- Secular (HAM-S) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP). Earlier, Nitish led the NDA government of JD(U) and BJP in Bihar for 11 of the last 15 years with SuMo as his deputy. Nitish on Monday relinquished the post of JD(U) national president and installed RCP Singh at the post, ostensibly to make it clear that he had no more stomach left to handle the differences that might crop up between the two parties in the future and, in that situation, it would be the responsibility of Singh to do it. Asked if the level of coordination between BJP and JD(U) has suffered due to his being elected to Rajya Sabha and consequent shift to Delhi, SuMo said, “No, there is no lack of coordination between the two parties. Even in the past (when he himself was deputy CM), there had occurred some differences on occasions, but the leadership of the two parties always resolved them. There will be ‘behtar taalmel’ (better coordination) between them. The leadership of the two parties are capable of it.” Congratulating RCP on his appointment as JD(U) president, SuMo hoped the “coordination between the two parties will become stronger”. All that notwithstanding, sources said the developments in Arunachal Pradesh had left Nitish “anguished” and “personally fuming”, as it had happened just a day before the start of the JD(U)’s two-day national executive meeting at Patna from December 26. For an immediate fallout of that, Nitish disclosed at the JD(U) national executive meet that given the party’s just 43 wins compared to BJP’s 74 in the recently held assembly elections, he had desired not to become the CM and it was under “pressure” from the BJP’s top national and state brass that he agreed to hold the post, again. “No, the reference to the ‘pressure’ meant that he did not want to become the CM, but BJP told him that the party had decided that Nitish will be the CM because the mandate the NDA had received was in his name. We all requested him, the JD(U), HAM(S) and VIP also did it, that the NDA government will work under the guidance of PM Narendra Modi and the leadership of Nitish. Also, that the number (wins or losses) did not matter, and the votes had come to the NDA on his name,” SuMo said. As to the confusions caused by the developments in Arunachal, SuMo said the “JD(U) people” have clarified that it there will have “no impact” on the NDA in Bihar. “We don’t have information as to what all happened in that state. Therefore, we will not comment on it,” SuMo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-nda-to-complete-full-term-under-nitish/articleshow/79997911.cms||Abhay Singh
December 29, 2020||Pune||Pune-based firm makes a mark in refurbished tractor segment||Pune: Sajith Abraham used to work in the tractor and farm equipment financing division of a large private sector. He used that expertise to start ‘Mera Tractor’, a firm specializing in selling refurbished tractors.The outfit, which Abraham started in 2018 with a couple of other partners, now has 30 outlets in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.“Up to 85% of Indian farmers have landholdings of five acres or smaller. It is not viable for them to buy new tractors, so they often buy old ones, often in a poor condition and for a high price, as the brokers arranging the sale take a large commission. Our firm aims to assure such farmers of good quality, affordable used tractors,” says Abraham. ‘Mera Tractor’ has a standard checklist to assess tractors for resale, similar to used car dealers and aggregators. It has also partnered with banks to sell the tractors, which cost an average of Rs3.5 lakh. “We check the condition of the engine, the gearbox, the hydraulics, and the tyres, and carry out the necessary repairs and replacements. We also sell farming implements and arrange financing through our partner banks,” adds Abraham.Despite 2020 being what Sajith referred to as a “washout” year, he still has ambitious plans for his company — expanding their presence to Karnataka, AP, Telangana and Gujarat, and increasing dealerships to 500. “We sold 680 tractors last year, and we are still trying to sell more than 1,000 this year. We are aiming at a Rs20 crore revenue next year,” Abraham said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-based-firm-makes-a-mark-in-refurbished-tractor-segment/articleshow/80000098.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 29, 2020||Nashik||Pvt hospitals asked to display boards with no. of vacant beds||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has directed the private hospitals involved in treating Covid patients to display boards at the entrance with the number of beds vacant in the hospitals . The civic body has reserved beds in private Covid hospitals, and they are expected to charge the Covid patients as per the government guidelines. According to the norms, these hospitals have to charge the rates prescribed by the government for 80% of the Covid beds reserved while they may charge their rate for the remaining 20% only after the consent of the patients’ relatives.As per the NMC, these hospitals are not charging as per the rates decided even though the Covid beds reserved by NMC are vacant. The hospitals may charge their rates only after 80% of the total beds are occupied. But some private hospitals do not follow this norm and charge more even though there 80% of the quota has not been filled.“We have received complaints that some private hospitals are not following the norms. We have directed all the private Covid hospitals to display information about the number of beds and the beds vacant,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, NMC’s medical superintendent.NMC has already issued a circular in this connection and has warned of legal action if they violate the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pvt-hospitals-asked-to-display-boards-with-no-of-vacant-beds/articleshow/79997525.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Uttarayan: Chinese strings severed||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad Police chief Sanjay Srivastava issued a notification on Monday urging people celebrating Uttarayan to heed the guidelines issued by various authorities. He cited the Covid guidelines and the directions given by the high court and the National Green Tribunal. Srivastava said in the notification that manufacturing, sale, and flying of Chinese lanterns have been prohibited. A similar ban has been imposed on nylon threads, threads coated with synthetic materials, and threads which are Chinese and non-degradable. The notification will stay in effect from December 29, 2020, to January 1, 2021. The notification further says that flying kites on public roads and dilapidated rooftops should be avoided. Provocative messages on kites that can hurt the sentiments of others are also prohibited. The violation of the notification will result in legal action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/uttarayan-chinese-strings-severed/articleshow/80000114.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Rajkot||Labourer, infant daughter found dead in well||Rajkot: A 25-year-old woman and her infant daughter were found dead from a well in Beraja village in Jamnagar district on Monday morning.The woman identified as Jamna Bhuriya left from home in the early hours with her daughter Laxmi to pluck cotton from farm. She and her husband Nanka are natives of Alirajpur district and work as farm labourers in Jamnagar. When Jamna did not reach the farm, Nanka searched for her and their daughter. Their bodies were found in a well nearby during the search. Police suspect that the mother-daughter duo accidentally fell in the well. “The deceased’s husband said that she did not have any problem nor an enmity with anyone so it is unlikely that she may have jumped or pushed in the well,” said sub-inspector M R Vala, the investigating officer. Nanka also told cops that she may not have noticed the well as she left the home when it was dark. “As of now we have registered a case of accidental death but if the woman’s family members will give a complaint, we will investigate the case,” Vala added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/labourer-infant-daughter-found-dead-in-well/articleshow/79998618.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Nashik||200 building plan proposals rejected over new DCPR||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has rejected 200 proposals of residential building plans and asked the applicants to resubmit the proposals as per the new Unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations (DCPR) that came into effect on December 2. The NMC approved around 10 proposals of building plans so far as per the new unified DCPR, which has been introduced by the state government for all municipal corporations, barring Mumbai. All municipal corporations, councils and nagar panchayats (excluding Mumbai) have been brought under the ambit of the new rule. The state government has come with the new rule to bring uniformity in the width of roads, size of rooms, etc. “Around 200 proposals for residential buildings were submitted as per the old DCPR rules. We have rejected all of them,” said R Aher, executive engineer, town planning department of NMC. Earlier, the NMC had developed auto DCPR for online submission and approval of building plans for builders. With the implementation of the new unified DCPR, the NMC has started the process offline, and is waiting for software from the urban development department. Meanwhile, the state town planning department has organised a workshop for officials of the town planning department from all municipal corporations, councils and nagar panchayats in the division on the implementation of the new unified DCPR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/200-building-plan-proposals-rejected-over-new-dcpr/articleshow/79997535.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 29, 2020||Delhi||The Covid paradox: As life gains momentum, travel speed slows||NEW DELHI: An analysis done by Centre for Science and Environment on the Covid-19 pandemic’s impact on mobility patterns in Delhi has revealed that road congestion returned to close to pre-lockdown levels after the lockdown was gradually relaxed and the economy reopened. Since traffic congestion has a direct impact on air pollution, the study said Delhi needed a massive mobility transition to cut vehicular pollution. CSE analysed Google mobility data and daily real-time information on Google Maps for 12 major roads: Mehrauli Gurgaon Road, NH44, Sardar Patel Marg, Outer Ring Road, Dr KB Hegdewar Marg, Sri Aurobindo Marg, NH 9, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, GT Karnal Road, Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg, Dwarka Marg and Najafgarh Marg. The travel times from origin to the destination was noted for every hour from 8am to 8pm for the pre-lockdown, lockdown and post-lockdown periods, which were later converted to speed. The analysis showed that mean travel speed on the stretches increased from 24 kmph during pre-lockdown period to 46 kmph during the lockdown, a 90% improvement. However, average speed slowed to 29 kmph after the lockdown was relaxed. In the peak hours during the lockdown, travel speed on the selected stretches rose from 23 kmph to 44 kmph, only to reduce to 27 kmph in the post-lockdown period. The off-peak traffic pace similarly quickened 92% during the lockdown but slackened by 34% thereafter. CSE also analysed the change in travel speeds on the same stretches and during the same time intervals during the operation of the odd-even road rationing exercise in November 2019. Comparisons with the normal or pre-lockdown speeds showed an average increase of 21% during the odd-even period on all stretches. The change from pre-lockdown to post-lockdown was also an identical 21% rise. The temporary reprieve from traffic congestion and exposure to pollution could not be sustained, rued Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (Research and Advocacy), CSE. “The scale and scope of action needed to transform public transportation, walking and cycling options and vehicle restraint measures like city-wide implementation of the parking management area plan and the notified parking rules have remained limited and inadequate,” Chowdhury said. “This is of serious concern as scientific studies in Delhi have shown that vehicles account for around 40% of the total pollution load in the city.” The study noted the congestion was back when public transport ridership in Delhi was still low due to Covid fears and that the scale of public transport options was still inadequate to meet the demand, prompting people to favour private modes of transport. “Delhi cannot meet its clean air targets if overall traffic and vehicle numbers are not controlled,” cautioned the study. According to the analysis, the travel pattern now is close to normal post-lockdown but hasn’t fully regained the pre-lockdown levels. Grocery trips and workplace commutes, for instance, recovered the most by November-end and were now only 15% lower than in the pre-lockdown phase. Transit station trips also rose, but were still 40% lower than before the lockdown. Trips to retail stores, which plummeted by 90% by April-end, had now recovered by more than 50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/the-covid-paradox-as-life-gains-momentum-travel-speed-slows/articleshow/80000120.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 29, 2020||Patna||Two men in Sitamarhi lynched for extortion||PATNA: Two youths in their late 20s were lynched by an irate mob at Myurba village under the Sonbarsa police station area in Sitamarhi district around 11am on Monday. The youths had allegedly gone to the village to collect extortion from Upendra Rai, a local trader. Rai, owner of a grocery shop, raised an alarm when the youths – Sonu Kumar and Suraj Kumar of Sonbarsa – allegedly pointed a country-made pistol at him after he refused to pay extortion. Locals caught hold of the criminals and thrashed them in full public view. Police rushed to the village after getting information and rescued the two youths from the frenzied mob. They were admitted to a primary health centre at Sonbarsa where one of the youths died. Another youth succumbed to his injuries on way to sadar hospital at Sitamarhi. SHO of Sonbarsa police station Gaurishankar Baitha said a country-made pistol and two live cartridges were recovered from the spot. He, however, denied that extortion was demanded from Rai. “The youths used to visit the village frequently and harass Rai’s family for marrying off a girl to another person,” he said, adding no complaint about extortion was lodged by the trader. Rai, on the other hand, said the youths were pressuring him to pay the extortion money. “I was threatened with dire consequences on several occasions,” he told reporters. This is the third incident of mob lynching in the state this month. One Jaishankar Singh (47) was lynched by an angry mob when he was fleeing after shooting a woman, Nitu Devi (35), at Ulao village under Singhaul police outpost in Begusarai district last week. On December 18, one Mohammad Alamgir (32) was lynched on suspicion of being a cattle thief at Phulwarisharif in Patna. Seven people were arrested in connection with the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-men-in-sitamarhi-lynched-for-extortion/articleshow/79997926.cms||Ramashankar
December 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Hotel rates at holiday spots back to pre-pandemic levels||PUNE: Popular holiday destinations are witnessing a year-end rush, which has sent hotel room rates soaring. Compared to the post-Diwali period, premium hotels in hotspots like Mahabaleshwar, Goa and Lonavla are witnessing a 40-60% increase in room tariffs, taking them back to pre-Covid levels for the first time since the pandemic started. Nilesh Bhansali, director at city-based travel firm Devam Tours And Travels Private Limited, said the increase was partly because hotels stopped offering steep discounts. In fact, he said, some hotels have hiked their room rates by 100% for the New Year’s Eve period, with the average increase in the 40-60% range. “A five-star hotel room in Mahabaleshwar, which during Diwali cost Rs12,000 per night, now costs Rs16,000-20,000 per night, depending on the time of booking,” Bhansali said. Similarly, a room in a premium hotel in Alibaug cost Rs9,000 (plus taxes) last week. The same room now costs Rs11,000 plus taxes, he said. “In Goa too, stay in a five star property will cost Rs24,000 per night. During Diwali, it would have cost Rs14,000 per night,” Bhansali said. Santosh Gupta, owner of city-based Shree Vinayak Holidays, said room rates have increased for the first time since the pandemic started. Vijay Thakkar, director of Hasmukh Travels, said, “The rush is so heavy that many of these hotels have no rooms available for the December 30-31 period.” On the other hand, hotel room rates in Pune have largely remained static. In cities, hotels have very low occupancy, hence the unchanged rates,” said Mehboob Shaikh, director of Travel Elect Private Limited, said, adding, “Hotels in tourist spots have been full since December 20, especially if the property is situated on a beach or a hill station. Rates at many hotels have gone to pre-Covid levels.” Nikhil Thakurdas, owner of Odyssey Tours and Travels said the increase in travel could be attributed to the recent restrictions imposed by the state government. “This prevents conventional restaurant/hotel celebrations on December 31. Many hotels follow a dynamic pricing model, under which prices go up as rooms get filled. It’s very likely that most hotels in these tourist destinations are almost full, so the rates are higher for the available rooms,” he said. 10pm NYE deadline in Mahabaleshwar Satara district collector Shekhar Singh issued has imposed a 10pm deadline on New Year’s Eve programmes to curb the spread of Covid-19 and maintain law and order in Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani. The order was issued under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hotel-rates-in-holiday-hotspot-see-sharp-increase/articleshow/79998640.cms||Neha Madaan
December 29, 2020||India||Covid-19: 40-50m shots stockpiled by SII, India to get most of it||NEW DELHI: India will initially get most of the 40-50 million ‘Covishield’ vaccine shots stockpiled by the Serum Institute of India (SII), since exports would require the World Health Organisation’s pre-qualification, which is likely to take around a month after regulatory approval. The Pune-based vaccine manufacturer SII is expects to recieve the emergency use authorisation for the vaccine in next few days and the stockpiled doses of 'Covishield' are being augmented every week, its chief executive Adar Poonawalla said. Poonawalla said the roll-out of the vaccine can be expected in January. “We will get some good news this new year...All the data has been submitted and we must respect the process as regulators are evaluating data,” Poonawalla said, underlining approvals are expected in the UK and India almost simultaneously. TOI had reported on Monday that authorities in India have found the data submitted by SII “satisfactory” and are likely to grant emergency use authorisation in a matter of days. SII plans to produce 100 million doses by March 2021 when its third facility becomes operational and this will allow it to reach 300 million doses by July. “Once we get regulatory approvals in a few days, it will depend upon the government to decide how much they can take and how fast,” Poonwalla said. He also added that while the vaccine will be priced at around Rs 1,000 in the private market, it will be sold at a far lower price to the government which will buy in bulk and ensure immunisation of a majority of people against the deadly infection. As per the Covid-19 vaccination plan drawn by the government, around 30 crore ‘priority’ population including healthcare and frontline workers, people above 50 years age and those below 50 but with co-morbidities will be inoculated in the first phase, likely to be over by July. While Covishield is a two-dose vaccine, this would translate into a demand of around 60 crore doses for the first phase. While Poonawalla said supplies are expected to ease from August when other manufacturers are also likely to ramp up production and start supplies, the government is hopeful that more than one vaccine will be approved for emergency use by end of January. In fact the government expects some four-five vaccines to recieve approval and availability to improve from March. SII is also into an agreement to supply 200 million doses of the anti-Covid vaccine to COVAX - the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access Facility - of which India is also a part. “There will be plenty of vaccine to go around Covax countries. Initially, we may give most of the volumes to India. We have said we would give 50% of everything we make to India and Covax,” Poonawalla said. SII also launched on Monday its Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine Pneumosil priced at $3 per dose for the public market and little over $10 per dose in the private market. The vaccine provides protection against 10 variants of pneumococcus bacteria that causes pneumonia, meningitis, ear, and blood infections in children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-40-50m-shots-stockpiled-by-sii-india-to-get-most-of-it/articleshow/80001537.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 29, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Evolve a mechanism to cap veg and fruit prices’||Col Jasjit Singh Gill (Retd) Farmers on the Delhi border are fighting for repeal of the three farm laws, including the much-discussed MSP. Even as fevered discussions take place on these issues, one subject that constantly escapes attention is the rise in prices of fruits and vegetables. The rise in prices of these commodities has a direct effect on people’s ability to feed their families. Now that the national focus is on these issues, we need to focus on the absence of a cap on profit levels of retailers. This issue has evaded the attention of almost everyone dealing with the various aspects of inflation, be they economists, policy planners or politicians. Since there is no regulatory mechanism to keep prices in check, we take inflation for granted. Most people involved in the trade of vegetables and fruits, other than wholesale traders and sub-traders, are almost invisible to financial institutions. These include pharri and rehri vendors, who are considered very poor. This is a pointer to how much money is in the hands of a few. Worst affected by the rampant profiteering are those who belong to poor and lower middle class backgrounds. The high profits have been made possible by lack of cold chain and storage facilities in mandis and distress selling by farmers who cannot take perishable vegetables back. With retail prices being fixed at whim, they are often out of the reach of poor consumers as the percentage of profit ranges between 40% and 100% . The prices are kept high artificially on one pretext or the other, such as less rain, strikes and bandh, failed transportation, hoarding by wholesale traders to create scarcity etc. There is no way a consumer can ascertain the actual cost and has to pay whatever price is demanded by the retailer. While it is agreed that MRP is not feasible, the regulator can fix prices on the lines of Maximum Selling Price or Consumer Price or Retail price. What we can still fix is the percentage of profit, which can be in the range of 5% to 25%, keeping in view the effort, man hours spent and capital put in. However, under no circumstances should it be allowed to reach 100% or more, as is happening now. Similarly, as and when minimum support/ selling price for vegetables is decided and fixed, the farmer or producer must get minimum 40% to 50% of the price depending on established quality levels. What needs to be done There has to be a mechanism by which all retailers will have to display the cost of bulk on display, which should be verifiable for a particular vegetable on the website/records of the market from which the retailer has bought or picked up the vegetable. This will provide relief to farmers trying to break the paddy-wheat cycle by adopting diversification. This will no doubt alienate a few but it will be in the larger interests of the rural and urban poor. It will also encourage farmers to get into retail on their own and get remunerative prices. (Writer is an environmentalist and a social activist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/evolve-a-mechanism-to-cap-veg-and-fruit-prices/articleshow/79997549.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Delhi||At 564, lowest number of Covid-19 cases in 4 months in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A total of 564 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday — the lowest in over four months — took the case tally in the capital to over 6.23 lakh. Meanwhile, with 21 fatalities being recorded over the past twenty four hours, the death toll due to the virus rose to 10,474. The positivity rate of the viral infection in the city currently stands at 0.98%. Monday’s cases emerged from 57,463 tests conducted, including 32,484 RT-PCR tests and 24,979 Rapid Antigen Tests. While the number of fresh cases has been dipping since November 20, barring few exceptions, the number of people recovering from Covid-19 has been higher than people testing positive. Death rate, however, has been a cause of concern even as fatalities are slowly coming down. December has recorded over 1,300 deaths, which is much lower than the 2,663 deaths that took place last month. The number of active Covid cases as on Monday stood at 6,297, of which most (3,153) are recuperating in home isolation. The capital has 18,774 Covid-19 beds. Of them, 16,305 (87%) are lying vacant, data shared on the Delhi Corona application showed. More than 4,000 ICU beds — with and without ventilator facility — are vacant at the moment. In November, when the infectious outbreak was at its peak, very few ICU beds were available for Covid patients. “The situation has improved significantly. It’s a big relief. We are now focusing on creating infrastructure for mass storage and vaccination once it’s available,” said a senior health department official. The official added that 90 freezers have been installed at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, which can accommodate 74 lakh dosage of the vaccine. Sources said a large storage facility for Covid-19 vaccines is being readied in Civil Lines. “From there, the vaccines will be transported to over 1,000 booths in the city where it will be administered to people. We will accord priority to healthcare workers, followed by the elderly and those with co-morbidities,” the official claimed. All details about the recipient’s disease history, time of vaccination and adverse events, if any, will be recorded in an app developed by the Union health ministry, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-564-lowest-number-of-covid-19-cases-in-4-months/articleshow/80000155.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: SOPs vague, say hotellers hoping for New Year business revival||BHOPAL: Even as the crisis management group of Bhopal on Monday cleared the air about organisation of New Year parties, confusion prevailed in the hotel industry as well as among those raring to go and welcome 2021 regarding the deadline for the parties. With no clarity in the guidelines, the sector already reeling under huge business losses and was pinning hopes on New Year eve bashes, may further incur losses of about Rs 10 crore, those in the business said. “How could there be two sets of rules, one for Indore and other for Bhopal when it comes to set a deadline for the New Year’s celebrations to contain the coronavirus spread,” said a hotelier seeking anonymity. District collector Avinash Lavania said that the parties will continue till they are permitted to in the licence they obtain for the party. As such, the liquor shops will remain opened till 11.30 pm and so are the hotels. “The last drink will be served at 11.30 pm”, said president of the Hotel Restaurant owners association Tejkul Pal Singh. A government official said, “They need to start the party early and wind up by 11.30 am. Welcome the New Year at home.” The confusion started when the district administration in Indore allowed the party deadline as 12 in the midnight. “Liquor to be served till 11.30 pm and to be consumed by 12 midnight,” an order issued on December 26 said. But there is no such clarity in Bhopal, said Aman Thakur, a college goer preparing for the yearender party. “The problem in Bhopal is that at 11.30 pm, the cops will enter the hotels and will ask the party to end,” said Ravish Singh, executive at a private company in Bhopal. “Will Covid spread only after 11.30 and will not before it,” he asks. The hospitality industry has incurred huge losses because of the pandemic. As the year end parties are the last business opportunity of the year and this too seems to be lost in the covid curb has bothered the hotel industry. “ The restaurant business is still 50 % to pre covid times and the room bookings are 25 %”, said the president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sops-vague-say-hotellers-hoping-for-ny-biz-revival/articleshow/79998617.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
December 29, 2020||Delhi||31 UK returnees +ve so far in Delhi, number likely to rise||NEW DELHI: There has been a rise in the number of people who have returned from the United Kingdom being infected with the novel coronavirus. While 21 people were admitted till Saturday in a special isolation ward at Lok Nayak Hospital, their number increased to 31 on Monday. Of these, 11 are common contacts of UK-returned Covid-positive people. Their numbers may increase further as contact tracing and tests are being conducted by health authorities in all 11 districts. A state health department official said the growth in the number of infected individuals was not an immediate cause of worry because it was not known if the infection was of the new Covid-19 variant, which is spreading fast in the United Kingdom. The samples of all Covid-positive people have been sent for genome sequencing to National Institute of Virology, Pune. The results, which are expected on Tuesday, would reveal whether they are infected with the new variant or not. In the past 24 hours, two contacts of UK returnees have tested positive for Covid-19. They were taken to Lok Nayak Hospital where eight contacts of the UK returnees were admitted on Sunday. The health of all 31 people is stable, but they are being monitored closely. The oldest Covid-positive patient is aged 55, while a woman has also been admitted along with her infant. A source said, “All people who came in contact with Covid-positive people who have returned from the UK are being traced and tested. The travel history and details of people they have met are being noted down and followed up. It seems the total number of Covid-positive people might increase.” Among the 31 infected people, 11 were positive in RT-PCR tests conducted at IGI Airport when they landed from the United Kingdom, while nine others were found positive after being tested at their house by Delhi government. Around 14,000 people have returned from the UK between November 25 and December 22. While many left for their native states, 1,500 people were found staying in Delhi. The government has decided to re-test all UK-returned individuals within 10 days from their first test to ensure they are not carrying the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/31-uk-returnees-ve-so-far-number-likely-to-rise/articleshow/80000137.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||Former city unit chief of Gawli’s political partyin police net||Pune: Shantanu Nitin Dange (34), former city unit president of Akhil Bharatiya Sena — a political party floated by Mumbai don Arun Gawli — was arrested last week on the charge of illegally possessing a country-made revolver. Dange, lodged in the Kolhapur jail in a case of jewellery robbery at Khambatki ghat in Khandala in 2017, was released on temporary bail in June this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Assistant inspector Sandip Jamdade from crime branch (Unit IV) said on Monday, “During our ongoing drive to check undertrials and convicts released from jails on temporary bail or parole, our team member Ramesh Rathod received a tip-off that Dange, who runs a vehicle repair garage, had concealed a firearm at the facility in Dhayari. We searched the garage on December 22 and recovered the revolver. Dange was taken into custody after he failed to offer an apt explanation.” Jamdade further said, “Dange initially told the police that one of his customers had forgotten the firearm at his garage. When asked why he did not inform the police about it, he claimed that he was waiting for the customer to come back and collect his firearm. But he could not share details like the name, address and the cellphone number of the customer, and the latter’s vehicle details.” He said, “Dange admitted during the questioning that he had received the revolver from a known person for selling it. We have registered an FIR against him under the relevant sections of the Arms Act and transferred his custody to the Sinhagad police for taking action.” The Khandala police had arrested five persons, including Dange, for intercepting the car of a jeweller and robbing 9kg gold ornaments at Khambatki ghat in 2017. Four suspects were earlier released on bail after the chargesheet was filed. Dange was the last suspect to be released on bail. Gawli, who in the 198os had links to a dominant political party in Mumbai, later fell out with that party’s chief and floated his own outfit, Akhil Bharatiya Sena, in 1997. Gawli is currently serving a life sentence afer he was convicted in 2012 for the murder of a politician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/former-city-unit-chief-of-gawlis-political-partyin-police-net/articleshow/79998669.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 29, 2020||Chennai||Re-laid road in west Chennai covers storm water drain inlets||CHENNAI: A recently laid major road, connecting important western parts of the city, has covered a few a storm water drain inlets among the shortcomings, residents of the area have pointed out. Alapakkam Main Road, which connects Porur and Maduravoyal and has educational institutions and residential localities in the vicinity, was ravaged during the recent spell of rain. The road, which is maintained by the state highways department in the area that falls under Valasaravakkam zone (11) of Greater Chennai Corporation, was left littered with potholes. After a petition was filed with the chief minister’s cell in November last year by P Satish, a resident of the area, the highways department said that the road was damaged due to a pipe-laying project by Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB). “Road-cut restoration would be done after the monsoon,” an official said. Another resident said two-wheeler riders struggled to use the road because of water-logging. The department then re-laid it, but the work was not properly done, said residents. Pugalventhan Venkatesan, a local activist, said the bitumen layer at many spots was laid over storm water drain entrances. “In the next spell of rain, there will be more water logging on this road,” Pugalventhan said. An official of the state highways wing said they would soon lay a trap which would be a collecting point for the rainwater and divert it to the drain. “There won’t be issues during the next rain spell,” he said. Videos and photographs show that the department had not shifted out the electrical poles that were in the path of the newly laid cover of bitumen during the relaying process. Now, in some spots, the poles lie in the carriageway, effectively reducing its size. The official said that Tangedco would soon lay underground electricity cables after removing the poles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/re-laid-road-in-west-chennai-covers-storm-water-drain-inlets/articleshow/80103091.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Pune||Frequent fires on Pune's Baner hill wreak havoc on local flora and fauna||PUNE: A series of fires have done considerable damage to the flora and fauna on Baner hill, where environmental NGO Vasundhara Abhiyan has been carrying out afforestation activities along with local residents over the past 14 years. Activists claimed that around 150 trees/saplings and many insects, reptiles etc have been destroyed in the fire. The environmental group has also appealed to people not to throw burning cigarettes or indulge in any activity that can lead to a fire on the hill and also requested the forest department for more protection in the area. “Fire has been set almost every day in the past five days, which makes it look like an intentional work of some antisocial elements. It generally happens in the afternoon when nobody is around because people go up the hill in the morning and evening. Almost 150 old and new plants as well as the entire ecosystem have been burnt to the ground. The new plants, planted 2-3 years ago and hardly 3-4ft tall, have been completely destroyed, while the old ones damaged badly,” said Pandurang C Bhujbal from Vasundhara Abhiyan. Bhujbal and 5,000 plus volunteers claimed to have planted over 450 plus varieties of 26,000 indigenous trees in the 240-acre land since 2014. The work did not even stop during the three months when the country was under lockdown due to Covid-19. The residents take pride in the hill and are vigilant of any smoke emanating from it. “The residents are alerted about fire through messages on WhatsApp group and whoever is available rushes to the spot without waiting for fire fighters. The response from fire-fighters is lukewarm as their vehicles cannot reach the hill tops or slopes. Post every monsoon, apart from planting activities, volunteers try to weed out grass which catches fire easily, but the area is very large to be covered by them in 2-3 hours daily. When there is a fire, we start watering the nearby areas, thereby cutting off the affected area. But without any protective gear, it is a tough task,” added Bhujbal. He said it was disheartening to see years of hard work going up in smoke just because of some miscreants and their twisted idea of having fun. “This is a people’s movement and the entire cost of these activities comes from volunteers’ pockets. More than that when you plant something and tend to it with love and care and watch it grow, it is particularly heart-breaking to see it being burnt to death,” said Bhujbal. Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forest, Pune region, said, “This is done by people who try to create nuisance either by choice or negligence. We are increasing patrolling in such areas. But more than that, we want to appeal to people not to indulge in such activities. The fire might seem small to them, but the damage it creates to biodiversity is large. People only talk about big animals and their protection, but forget that in such fires, many small insects and other types of living things are killed, creating irreparable damage to the nature that sustains our life, too. Finally, if anyone is caught indulging in such antisocial activities, criminal offences will be registered against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spate-of-fires-destroy-flora-and-fauna-on-baner-hill/articleshow/79998663.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid vaccination: ‘No dry run, just mock exercise’||LUDHIANA: Amid the confusion over conducting a dry run for administering Covid-19 vaccine, deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday, clarified that the dry run was just a mock exercise to rehearse the administration of the vaccine. “Although, the whole process of 72 hours, from preparing medicine boxes, sending SMS to beneficiaries to inviting them to the vaccine centres will be followed in this dry run, the actual vaccination drive will be carried out after receiving the vaccines only,” the DC said. Sharma accompanied by additional deputy commissioner (ADC), development, Sandeep Kumar, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga and SDM, Ludhiana East, Baljinder Singh Dhillon was here at the district civil hospital to inspect the dry run on the first day. During the dry run, SMS were sent to the beneficiaries to visit the vaccine centres. On Tuesday, the DC, while interacting with the media said that the dry run would be conducted at seven locations, including civil hospital, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, besides one in each sub division of Raikot, Jagraon, Machhiwara, Khanna and Payal. He said that this activity was aimed at testing the laid out mechanism for Covid vaccination roll-out in the health system. He said that the dry run would see end-to-end testing of Covid-19 vaccination process and would vaccinate pre-identified beneficiaries from specified groups supported by Co-WIN, an electronic application. The primary objective of the dry run included assessing the operational feasibility of using Co-WIN application in the field environment and to test linkages between planning. Implementation and reporting mechanisms would identify challenges and guide the way forward prior to actual implementation. Meanwhile, in the first phase, more than 30,000 healthcare workers (both government and private) of the district, who have registered themselves on the government portal, will be administered the vaccine. Meanwhile, the health department on Monday, put the system in place and made set up a waiting, vaccinating and observation rooms for the exercise on Tuesday. “As the immunization of Covid-19 vaccine is to be done in phases, so in the first phase it will be done to healthcare workers. Hence, at seven sites we will register 25 healthcare workers each for the dry run, wherein we will carry out the procedure in ideal manner. We will have a waiting room for such healthcare workers, then vaccinating room and an observation room,” district immunisation officer Dr Kiran said. “It is a dummy practice, wherein a healthcare worker will get a message about being vaccinated, then he/she will have to come with identity proof, which will be verified and the same will be entered in the system. Then the person will be taken to the vaccinating room, where again the procedure of vaccination will be followed and after that the person will be kept under observation in the observation room”. She added that to ensure social distancing, not more than five persons would be kept in the waiting room or observation room. The district immunization officer had said that a total of five officials would conduct the process in each centre. She added that whereas three officials, who may from health or other departments including police, NCC or other departments, would receive identity proof of the recipient, verify it and then enter the data on the system. There would be one vaccinator and observer, who are trained in such processes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-vaccination-no-dry-run-just-mock-exercise/articleshow/79998666.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||NIT-Goa campus to have four artificial lakes to recharge local groundwater||PANAJI: Four artificial lakes will be created within the new campus of National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, which is presently under construction in Cuncolim, director Gopal Mugeraya said. “These four artificial lakes will act as ground recharge points and will help improve the groundwater levels in surrounding areas,” Mugeraya said at the sixth annual convocation of the institute on Monday. Mugeraya said the new campus would be ready for use within a year’s time. He said the central PWD is carrying out the work on the new campus using prefabricated material, which will enable the work to be completed within a shorter period of time. “The permanent campus will be built on 120 acres at Cuncolim,” Mugeraya said, adding it would be a green campus with a built-up area of 7 lakh sq m. "We are planting more than 3,000 trees including mango, amla and sandalwood on the new campus premises,” he said. He said the new campus will have a capacity for 2,200 students. NIT is currently functioning from its temporary campus within the Goa Engineering College’s complex at Farmagudi, Ponda. Paying tribute to the former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, under whose tenure NIT was allotted the land and who laid the foundation stone for the new campus, Mugeraya said, “It was the dream of Parrikar to make Goa an educational hub of India. Goa is attracting many students and we are sure Goa’s ambience will make his dream come true very soon." He said the institute is now aiming to improve its rank from the current 77 in the National Institutional Ranking Framework of the Union education ministry. "The institute’s target is to feature within the top 50 institutes in the country," he said. He said that seven MoUs have been signed by the institute in the past four years to carry out various specialised research projects. Mugeraya also said 34 projects worth Rs 52 crore have been taken up by NIT Goa faculty, and many of the projects are funded by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nit-goa-campus-to-have-4-artificial-lakes-to-recharge-local-groundwater/articleshow/80000157.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Reduction in input tax credit will hit small scale industry’||Ludhiana: In a setback for businessmen, some major changes in the GST regime are being implemented from January 1, which will affect the businesses of the small scale industry, which have regular GST numbers. Though several changes have been slotted to take place from the new year, the biggest one which is likely to affect the small industry most is the reduction in the limit of taking input tax credit (ITC) with respect to invoices not showing in GSTR-2B from 10% to 5%. With the option of filing quarterly returns now available to the small tax payers having annual turnover of up to Rs 5 crore, those opting for quarterly returns will be at the receiving end as the ITC passed by them to their customers will reflect in customers’s GSTR-2B only after three months when the seller files his quarterly return. This will discourage the buyers to deal with them and instead look for vendors who file monthly returns. Giving more information, a taxation expert of the city NK Thamman said, “With effect from January 1, the limit of taking ITC with respect to invoices which are not showing in GSTR-2B has been reduced from 10% to 5%. Now, with respect to invoices which are not reflecting in GSTR-2B, the tax payers shall be eligible to claim ITC of only 5% of the tax invoices which are reflecting in GSTR-2B. This provision will be applicable on the ITC claimed with effect from January 1, 2021, and also will apply to GSTR-3B to be filed by February 20, 2021, for January. This development may have an impact on business dealings as the buyers will prefer dealing with those sellers who file their returns on monthly basis, so that they are able to claim ITC on their purchases on monthly basis rather than waiting till the end of the quarter to claim the ITC.” Speaking on the issue, Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) said, “This change is certainly going to impact the business of micro and small units. There is no doubt that opting for the quarterly return filing is need of the hour for the small industry as filing returns on monthly basis is not feasible for the small scale units which do not have enough resources. But with the onset of quarterly return filing, the limit of taking ITC with respect to invoices which are not showing in GSTR-2B has been halved. This change will have a huge negative impact on us as medium and large scale companies with which we conduct the dealings will prefer dealing with the firms which file monthly returns as they will be able to get the ITC in the same month and will rather have to wait for three months for the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/reduction-in-input-tax-credit-will-hit-small-scale-industry/articleshow/79998694.cms||Mohit Behl
December 29, 2020||Nashik||City sees marginal rise in Covid cases||Nashik: The city had recorded 181 cases per day on an average between December 20 and 26 indicating a marginal rise in the number of cases compared to 166 cases registered per day between December 12 and 19. There had been a spike in Covid cases in September as the city recorded 867 cases per day on an average. After the spike, the number of cases had dropped in October, which recorded 338 new cases per day. The cases further reduced in November as the city added 157 new cases per day on an average. But the cases increased to 214 cases per day after Diwali, and again dropped to 166 cases around a fortnight ago. Bapusaheb Nagargoje, NMC’s medical superintendent, said, “There have been fluctuations in the number of cases reported per day. Over 100 police personnel from the Maharashtra Police Academy had tested positive in the last week. This is one of the reasons for the rise in the cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-sees-marginal-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/79997566.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: 60% Bhama Askhed pipeline checked, chlorine tests next||PUNE: The infrastructure preparedness to fetch Bhama Askhed’s water for Pune’s eastern parts has moved ahead. After conducting the tests of water pipelines in the rural areas and in the limits of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far completed testing of the network on a 20km stretch of the 30km in its jurisdiction. The civic body said while it will initiate tests of the remaining pipeline network, there are plans to begin chlorine tests of the water that is to be supplied from the purification plant to the city. Washing and testing of pipeline network which has been underway for the last three weeks has not faced any major hurdles so far. The pipeline project is expected to supply 2.6 TMC water to the city from Bhama Askhed dam annually. Water will primarily be supplied to the city’s eastern parts which have been facing shortage and irregular supply. Pipelines to Lohegaon-Dhanori area near Pune have been commissioned, covering a distance of 16km from the treatment plant at Kuruli in the first week of December. Sudesh Kadu, executive engineer with the PMC, said the testing and washing has progressed as per the expectations. “Some minor leakages in the pipelines were detected during testing but there are no major faults, so far. The testing is being done to check for leakages,” Kadu said. Chlorine testing would begin soon for which preparations have started. “The tests are crucial to check the quality of water being supplied from the purification plant to the distribution network. We are getting all the technical parameters tested before the actual supply starts,” he said. Local MLA Sunil Tingre said he has been following up on the project with the PMC to get it operational at the earliest to minimize the hardships faced by local citizens. “The infrastructure required for seamless water supply is now in place. We are hoping that the water from Bhama Askhed will be distributed soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-checks-60-pipeline-for-bhama-akshed-water-chlorine-tests-to-begin/articleshow/79998704.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana businessmen oppose proposed hike in power tariff||LUDHIANA: City businessmen are up in arms against the proposed hike of 8% in the power charges demanded by Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). According to businessmen, the department in its annual revenue requirement (ARR) petition before the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has made this demand, which if accepted will ‘destroy’ the industry of Punjab. They are of the view that already the power charges for industry are among the highest in the country and even a hike of 1% will hit the already ailing industry. Giving more details, Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) said, “We strongly oppose the proposed hike in power tariff by the PSPCL in its ARR before the PSERC. If the hike is allowed, this will ruin the industrial sector of Punjab, especially when these are passing through the critical recovery phase after the months of lockdown and recession caused due to coronavirus. It is a fact that the industry in Punjab is getting the costliest power as compared to the neighbouring states. So, in the wake of such a situation, the decision to hike power even by 1% will hit the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) of the state.” According to KK Seth, chairman of FICO, “The industry of the state is passing through the worst phase ever in decades and as of now it is unclear that when will the industry will get back to normal. So, in such a scenario, even a small hike in our cost of production can lead to huge problems for us. If the PSPCL gets permission to hike the power tariff by 8%, it will be disastrous for the MSME industry, which is already reeling under huge pressure due to increased charges on several fronts like labour, fuel and raw material. Therefore, we plead before the government to not to let the PSPCL have a free run on this issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-oppose-proposed-hike-in-power-tariff/articleshow/79998713.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||Goa mulls over bill to grow cannabis for medicinal use||PANAJI: The Goa government may introduce a bill to permit cannabis to be grown in the state for medicinal purposes. The proposal, moved by the health department, has already been vetted by the law department. CM Pramod Sawant said that the state was looking at it as an industry but hasn’t taken any decision on the health department proposal. “Two to three states have allowed growing of cannabis... but we have not yet decided on it. I don’t think we will allow the growing of cannabis in the state,” he said. Law minister Nilesh Cabral, who confirmed to TOI that his department had vetted the file and sent it back, said that as per the proposal, the health department would be the nodal agency to permit people to grow cannabis. “The crops would be purchased directly by the pharmaceutical industry,” he said. Cabral said that the health department, under minister Vishwajit Rane, would bring the proposal to the cabinet and then it would be tabled in the assembly. Recently, India voted in favour of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs to reclassify cannabis and drop it from the ‘most strict’ drug control list. India has favoured the removal of cannabis from Schedule IV of the 1961 convention, where it has been listed alongside drugs like heroin. The decision to reclassify cannabis and drop it from the list followed a recommendation by the World Health Organisation for a change in the scope of control of cannabis and cannabis-related substances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-mulls-over-bill-to-grow-cannabis-for-medicinal-use/articleshow/80000188.cms||Murari Shetye
December 29, 2020||Agra||Agra: Administration nod must for new year eve parties||AGRA: Those wishing to host new year eve parties at hotels, restaurants, clubs and private properties will have to get permission from the district administration in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. A maximum of 100 people will be allowed at an outdoor gathering and 50 in closed premises. Following Covid protocol is mandatory at the gatherings. Those found not wearing a face mask will be fined Rs 500 on the spot. A special checking drive will be organized in the district on December 31 to ensure that Covid protocol is been followed. Drone cameras will be deployed at major markets and densely populated localities for surveillance. For the purpose, area-wise duties have been assigned to magistrates to ensure compliance with Covid protocol. Prabhu N Singh, district magistrate, said, “No new year party will be allowed to take place without prior permission of the district administration. For seeking permission, the organizer of the party will have to provide a list of guests invited and details of venue.” The DM warned of legal action if any party was held without prior permission or the guest limit was breached. “Police and administrative officials will be conducting spot inspection at hotels, restaurants and clubs. Dial 112 vehicles will be patrolling in markets. Cyber cell will be monitoring activities on social media,” At the same time, Singh advised people to stay at home and avoid attending any programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/admin-nod-must-for-new-year-eve-parties/articleshow/79997557.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 29, 2020||Bhopal||Active Covid cases drop below 10,000 after 37 days in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Count of active patients in the state dropped below 10,000 after 37 days as less than 1000 new cases were reported for second consecutive day in the state on Monday. It was on November 19, that there were less than 10,000 active patients in the state when there were only 9800 active patients. Since November 20, it had remained above 10,000. However, on December 28, it again dropped to 9874. Though Madhya Pradesh is reporting less cases and count of active patients is going down, it is still far away from other states which have reported large number of cases but are still having less active cases than MP, probably because they have done more than double and some even triple the tests done in MP. When it comes to states with maximum number of positive cases reported so far, Madhya Pradesh with 2.39 lakh cases is at 16th position, but state like Andhra Pradesh which has so far reported 8.81 lakh cases, is at third position in the country. Despite this, Andhra Pradesh only has 3625 active cases, compared to 9874 in MP. Andhra Pradesh close to 1.2 crore tests, while MP has only done around 45 lakh tests. Similarly, Delhi which had reported 6.23 lakh cases has only 6297 active cases and has tested 84 lakh people. Odisha which has also reported 3.28 lakh cases till now, only has 2753 active cases, it has also done 68 lakh tests. However, a total of 876 patients were tested positive in the state for Covid-19 on Monday with these new cases, the count of covid-19 patients in the state reached 239228. Apart from the fresh cases, 9 casualties were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 reached 3572 in state on Monday. On Monday, fresh cases were reported from 50 of the total 52 districts of the state. The districts where no new cases were reported include Dindori and Burhanpur . Of the 50 districts that reported fresh cases, new cases were reported in double figures from 19 districts. Maximum cases were reported from Indore where 293 new patients were found on Monday followed by Bhopal where 167 new patients were found, then Jabalpur where 43 new patients were found and Khargone where 29 new patients were found. A total of 26180 samples were tested on Monday, 876 tested positive. Thus the positivity rate — number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested — for Monday stood at 3.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/active-cases-drop-below-10k-after-37-days/articleshow/79998644.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Drunk driving: 2,351 cases booked in Cyberabad||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police have booked 2,351 cases against motorists in December for riding vehicles under the influence of alcohol. Among the persons who were caught, 1,763 were two-wheeler riders and 480 were driving four-wheelers. They would be chargesheeted in the court and driving licences (seized) will be referred to the Regional Transport Authority seeking their suspension, police said. Police resumed the drive against drunken driving recently after discontinuing it following the outbreak of Covid-19. In Cyberabad police limits, the one causing the road accident and the victim undergo the drunk driving test. Similarly, Rachakonda police in a press note said they booked 3,287 cases in connection with drunken driving in 2020. Additional DCP (traffic) Tajuddin said that in view of rise in road accidents caused by persons driving under the influence of alcohol, they have intensified the drive against drunken driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-driving-2351-cases-booked-in-dec/articleshow/80000158.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC pulls up CS, gives 6 weeks to settle 5-year-old Shaikpet land row||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Monday directed chief secretary (CS) Somesh Kumar to implement within six weeks a five-year-old order of the court passed in respect of 59 acres of prime land in Shaikpet village of Golconda mandal in city. Justice MS Ramachandra Rao said the delay on the part of the CS in settling the issue was contemptuous. When the CS sought six months’ time, the judge reminded him that he was asked to settle it five years ago and said the CS performing the role of principal secretary (revenue) was no ground to dodge the issue for so many years. The judge was dealing with a contempt petition filed by Mir Khurshid Ali, Mohammed Sadiq and 64 others from Hyderabad claiming rights over the land. According to their counsel Vedula Srinivas, the land belongs to petitioners’ ancestor Shaik Imam. The state rejected their representations in 2011 without hearing any of them. When they filed a petition in the high court, the court in June 2016 directed the state and revenue officials to hear the petitioners and pass orders on their representations seeking title over the land. When that was not done despite repeated reminders, the petitioners filed a contempt petition against the principal secretary of the revenue department. The court, in the last hearing, took a serious view of the enormous delay and directed him to be present before the court. As the CS is currently performing the duties of the revenue secretary also, he appeared before the court on Monday. State counsel Harender Pershad admitted that they could not implement the orders of the court till now and sought six months to comply with the court order. The judge questioned the state counsel as to why they need six months. The state counsel replied that the CS was monitoring all Covid-19 related issues and hence could not spare enough time for resolving the case of the petitioners. The judge did not agree with this and said that coronavirus was not there before March 2020. “The court order is a five-year-old order. If the CS is busy, let him delegate the work to some other officer and ensure that the order of the court is implemented,” the judge said. “You (CS) do not really need huge time in this era of Internet and technology. Start the work,” the judge said and gave six weeks to the state to complete the task and posted the case to February 15, 2021. The judge, however, dispensed with the requirement of the CS to be present before the court for the next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-pulls-up-cs-gives-6-weeks-to-settle-5-yr-old-shaikpet-land-row/articleshow/80000880.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
December 29, 2020||Pune||Duo snatch woman’s bag with items worth Rs 89k||Pune: Two persons riding on a motorcycle snatched a bag containing a laptop, cellphone and other valuables, collectively worth Rs89,000, of a 26-year-old scooter-borne woman on Saturday night on Baner Road. Sub-inspector Mohandas Jadhav of the Chatushrungi police station told TOI, “The woman, a resident of Baner, is an architect and works with a firm in Shivajinagar. She was heading towards Baner from the university junction on her scooter.” The officer said, “Around 9.15pm, the woman reached a spot near Rajwada Hotel when the two bike-borne men started riding close to her. The pillion rider snatched the woman’s shoulder bag, and the duo speeded towards Baner.” The officer added that the police were scouring footage from the CCTV cameras along the area to ascertain the bike’s registration number. The woman lodged a complaint on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-snatch-womans-bag-with-items-worth-rs-89k/articleshow/79998738.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||MC launches drive to make Buddha Nullah garbage free by Jan 26||Ludhiana: The municipal corporation has officially launched the Buddha Nullah cleanliness drive on Monday, which will continue for the next 15 days with the help of NSS/NCC volunteers from seven colleges of the city. These volunteers will knock at the doors of people living in the colonies along the banks of the drain and would make them aware that a Rs 5,000 penalty would be imposed for throwing garbage into the drain and if anybody was caught burning garbage near the drain, then the penalty would be between Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000. Moreover, now the civic body authorities are planning to get FIRs registered against offenders. There is a target to make Buddha Nullah garbage free by January 26, 2021. The students of SCD Government College, Government College for Girls, Kamla Lohtia Sanatan Dharam College, Arya College, Government ITI, SDP College and Government Polytechnic College will take part in this awareness drive. Among these volunteers, girls are also included, so keeping in view their safety, in particular, and of other students also, MC officials have also included cops in every group. In case of any emergency the officials will reach these students in quick time. One of the officials claimed that some girl volunteers were also in the team and while spreading awareness or knocking at people’s doors, they would have to ensure their safety. So, cops are there in these teams, besides, female MC employees will also remain there for quick response. Earlier, Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu flagged off the awareness rally from Chand Cinema on Monday. MLAs Rakesh Pandey, Surinder Dawar and Sanjay Talwar, mayor Balkar Sandhu, senior deputy mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra, deputy mayor Sarabjit Kaur, MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, several councillors, were also present on the occasion. Addressing the gathering, Ashu said that the work order related to the Rs 650-crore Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project had been released after the completion of the tendering process and chief minister Amarinder Singh would lay the foundation stone of this project next month. He said that cleaning of around 14-km-long stretch of Buddha Nullah was one of the foremost projects in his priority. He said that this project would start soon and once it got started, no person would be allowed to pollute the Buddha Nullah. The mayor said that pamphlets regarding the same had also been provided to these students and these would be distributed among the residents. He added that to educate the residents for not disposing solid waste into the nullah, several wall paintings had been prepared along the nullah, but if any person violated it, he would be fined up to Rs 5,000. Sandhu stated that 24 nodal officers and 63 marshals had been deputed by the MC for this purpose, who would keep round the clock vigil along the Buddha Nullah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-launches-drive-to-make-buddha-nullah-garbage-free-by-jan-26/articleshow/79998741.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||Now, a special police force to patrol Goa beaches||PANAJI: Goa tourism department is finally moving towards putting in place a dedicated tourist police force for deployment at beaches and other tourist spots. Tourism secretary J Ashok Kumar said deployment will be done during the ongoing season itself. “We have had a meeting with the police department. Police personnel to be deployed on beaches will be trained in tourism-related skills,” he said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who is also home minister, has approved the proposal. Presently, IRB personnel are posted at beaches, but are withdrawn at times for other duties. During the intervening period beaches are left unmanned. IRB personnel are required to keep a watch on rowdy behaviour, stop those found drinking on beaches, keep vendors and beggars away, and overall ensure that there are no illegalities happening. Of late, they are also required to check that those visiting beaches wear masks. “The ministry of home affairs has identified some destinations across the country where it has suggested the state consider deploying a dedicated police force. Colva is one such destination,” Kumar said. Kumar said that while the police department has been asked to assess the number of personnel that will need to be deployed at the state’s 35 to 40 big and small beaches, the tourism ministry feels that over 300 personnel will be needed. At some popular beaches, police will be required to be posted in three shifts, a point that will have to be factored while assessing the required personnel strength. Though the tourism department would like to have the force under it, it will be under the direct command of the parent department, he said. “They (police department) did not agree to it. However, we have made it clear that once police personnel are trained and brought under the tourist force, they should not be disturbed or transferred for a period of two to three years,” Kumar said. Tourist police manning beaches and other tourist places will need to have different sets of skills. So it has been agreed that they will have a fixed tenure, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-a-spl-police-force-to-patrol-goa-beaches/articleshow/80000213.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shopkeeper held on charge of raping air hostess||PUNE: A garment shop owner (31) was arrested on Sunday from Kalewadi after a 26-year-old air hostess lodged an FIR accusing him of raping her at his house on Saturday night after they came in contact through a dating application. Senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of the Wakad police said, “The woman stated in her complaint that the suspect forced her to drink liquor, brutally assaulted her and attempted to extort money. We have arrested him under sections 376 (rape), 385 (putting person in fear of injury to commit extortion), 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. A local court has ordered his remand in police custody till January 2.” Sub-inspector Sangita Gode of the Wakad police said, “The complainant, an air hostess with a private airline, has been staying in Pune for last three years. As it was her holiday on Saturday, she met the suspect through the dating application in the afternoon.” Gode cited the woman’s FIR and said, “The duo first met at restaurant in Hinjewadi and consumed liquor. The suspect then took her to his house at Kalewadi and tried to force himself on her. When the woman opposed, the suspect brutally beat her up. The woman suffered injuries to her left eye and ears. The suspect then raped her and allowed her leave the place late in the night.” Gode said the woman on Sunday afternoon approached the Wakad police and lodged the FIR. “We have referred her to medical authorities for a check-up. The report is awaited,” she added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-on-charge-of-raping-air-hostess-after-meeting-her-through-dating-app/articleshow/79998727.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Inebriated doctor escapes with police patrol vehicle, dashes it against autorickshaw||CHENNAI: This doctor gave the Chennai police a taste of their own medicine. Stopped and sent home in an autorickshaw for driving drunk, he came back after a while and drove away the cops’ vehicle when they refused to return his car. He then dashed the police jeep against an autorickshaw at Kilpauk, injuring three people. Police said Dr S Muthu Ganesh, 31, a resident of Arakonam who practices at a private hospital in Kundrathur, was caught driving drunk at 1.30 am on Monday on Harrington road. He was returning from a friend’s house when the police stopped him. Initially he refused to blow into the breathalyzer and tried to convince the cops to let him go by flashing his identity card. However, the police refused to budge and made him blow into the breathalyzer. Since he tested drunk, the police asked him to park his car by the road and sent him off in an autorickshaw. Police said the doctor turned up at the Ega signal on Poonamallee high road around 3.30am and asked them to return his car, saying he would not go home without it. The traffic cops, who were supervising road marking work on Poonamallee High Road, told him he could collect his car in the morning after paying a fine. The doctor then started calling someone on his phone and police went back to their work. But the doctor then got into their patrol vehicle and drove away. One of the sub-inspectors flagged down a biker and gave chase. The doctor, meanwhile, dashed against an autorickshaw near the Gengu Reddy subway, a few minutes away. The SI reached the scene and apprehended Muthu Ganesh. The injured were taken to the Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital and the doctor was sent to Puzhal prison by a city court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/inebriated-doctor-escapes-with-police-patrol-vehicle-dashes-it-against-autorickshaw/articleshow/79998748.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||LIT asks MC to manage water supply, sewerage of scheme areas||Ludhiana: Having failed in managing the water supply and the sewerage in scheme areas, the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has asked the civic body to take over these schemes for maintenance of the same. Though the civic body is to take a final call by putting a resolution in the general house meeting, residents in these scheme areas have requested that the MC should take over these schemes completely because LIT does not have that much staff or infrastructure to get maintenance works done. LIT has asked it to handle the water supply and sewerage system in schemes at Rishi Nagar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Rajguru Nagar and Sant Isher Singh flats. It is not for the first time that any such proposal has been put up before civic body officials as earlier the proposal to take over these schemes was discussed and approved in the MC general house in 2013. But then LIT had refused to hand over the scheme areas by saying that if these would go to the MC, then they would not have much to do as no other area is being managed by LIT at the moment. A resident of SBS Nagar, Arvind Sharma, said, “Not only water supply and sewerage maintenance works, but the rest of the services should also go to the MC. At least, the MC will check illegal construction work or take care of garbage, parks or streetlights for which the LIT does not have staff.” He said the civic body should give it consideration and take over these scheme areas completely. Another resident from Rajguru Nagar Mahinder Gupta said getting works done from LIT was difficult, whereas in the MC it was easier. He said LIT does not care about basic maintenance works in the colonies, so what else could be expected from them. The executive engineer of LIT, Boota Ram, said, “We have sent a letter to the MC for managing the water supply and sewerage because Punjab water supply and sewerage board is looking after it at present and they are not performing properly.” He said they would work out the rest of things once the MC would go ahead with this proposal. The mayor, Balkar Sandhu, said, “We have to put up a proposal in the MC general house but we can take over maintenance work because at present LIT is unable to do the same. Moreover, they will pay maintenance charges to the civic body.” Regarding residents’ demand, he said they could not take over colonies for all services at the moment because even they do not have enough funds for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lit-asks-mc-to-manage-water-supply-sewerage-of-scheme-areas/articleshow/79998768.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Newly laid water supply lines get damaged||Ludhiana: Almost one month is about to pass when the water supply lines in Model Town market were laid and shopkeepers are complaining that there is leakage in these. The shopkeepers claimed that due to traffic the newly laid water supply lines had got damaged. They said officials did not keep the pipes at the required depth and that is why these were getting damaged. A shopkeeper in the market, Arvind Sharma, said, “A lot of water gets wasted when water supply line gets damaged and roads also become slippery.” He said the officials did not pay attention towards these issues in time and potable water gets wasted. He said now the pipeline was damaged at three locations and after rainfall things get worse. Another shopkeeper said it could lead to some major accident or even the road could get damaged with frequent water seepage into the ground. Meanwhile, area councillor Parvinder Lapran admitted that the water supply line had got damaged again and claimed that he had taken up this matter with the officials concerned. He said he would get it resolved as soon as possible as he had called up the officials for a meeting on Tuesday. The civic body officials had started laying the water supply lines in Model Town market by replacing old ones because people were facing water scarcity. Initially, the work moved at slow pace and due to digging of road the shopkeepers and visitors in the market faced tough time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/newly-laid-water-supply-lines-get-damaged/articleshow/79998752.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Meerut||Husband and in-laws booked, allegedly killed wife for dowry & inability to conceive||BIJNOR: A man allegdly killed his wife on Monday morning, allegedly for not being able to conceive three years into their marriage, and for not bringing dowry. Police have filed a case against him and three others, and have set up a probe in the matter. According to police, the wife, Priti (30), died under suspicious circumstances in Mukarpuri village under Seohara police station of Bijnor district. The woman’s father alleged he had married off his daughter to Rohit Kumar of Mukarpuri three years ago. At the time, he had given whatever he could afford as dowry to Rohit. But Rohit and his family kept demanding more dowry, and used to torture her. They also taunted her for not conceiving three years into their marriage. The father of the deceased said, “My daughter’s husband Rohit Kumar and her in-laws, including Rohit’s brother, mother and father, had killed her on Monday. We rushed to their house when we were informed of my daughter’s death, and saw her body lying on a bed with a rope around her throat, whose other end was hanging from the fan.” Seohara station house officer Narendra Kumar Gaur said, “Police have sent the body of the deceased to district hospital for autopsy, to ascertain the cause of her death. A case was registered against four persons, including her husband, under sections 498A (cruelty on wife by husband, his relatives), 204B (destruction of evidence), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of IPC and the Dowry Act. Two of the accused, including the husband, were arrested. Rest will also be arrested soon. A probe is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/husband-and-in-laws-booked-allegedly-killed-wife-for-dowry-inability-to-conceive/articleshow/79997598.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 29, 2020||Pune||PMC to draft separate DP after 23 villages’ merger||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will prepare a separate development plan (DP) once the remaining 23 villages are merged in the civic limits. The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) is in the process of drafting the development plan for villages in its jurisdiction. “The civic body has the rights and power to prepare the DP for areas under its jurisdiction. We will use it and draft the plan for 23 merged villages,” said Ganesh Bidkar, leader of the house in PMC, while addressing a news conference. The draft notification for merger of these villages has been issued and suggestions and objections sought. The area of PMC is likely to increase to 480sqkm with this merger. A decision to merge 34 fringe villages in civic areas was first taken in 2013-14. The civic body merged 11 villages - two fully and remaining partly in PMC areas in 2017. BJP will retain power in PMC: Bapat Member of Parliament from Pune Girish Bapat on Monday said that the BJP will retain power in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). “Many projects our party promised have been delivered. The citizens’ mandate will be on our side,” Bapat said while speaking to reporters. A meeting of BJP corporators was organised in PMC where Bapat reviewed the work of the elected members. The BJP had emerged the single largest party in the municipal elections in 2017 with 98 corporators. The next election is likely in February 2022. “We will repeat the past performance even in the upcoming elections, rather perform even better. The development work carried out by our corporators will be rewarded by voters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-draft-separate-dp-after-23-villages-merger/articleshow/79998790.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Ranchi||GA govt completes 1 year in office, Hemant says ‘All’s well’||Ranchi: The Hemant Soren-led JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government in Jharkhand completes its first year in office on Tuesday. The second majority government in the state’s history, following the previous BJP led government, is unique in terms of support by 50MLAs in the 81-member House. No previous government has enjoyed this strength in the House. With 18 MLAs from Congress, one each from RJD, CPIML and NCP, the current dispensation is the first non-BJP government enjoying majority. With seven ministers from JMM, four from Congress and one from RJD, the government has been working without any common minimum programme. When asked about any hiccups in the alliance, chief minister Soren said, “All is well till date.” He also said it might take some more time to fill up the vacancies in his cabinet. Currently, there are two vacancies for ministerial posts after Haji Hussain Ansari died of illness and one left deliberately left unfilled. Moreover, with Jagarnath Mahto battling Covid-19, the education portfolio is also without any charge. “We will soon decide on how to go about with the vacancies,” Soren said, denying that there are differences among the alliance over the matter. JMM, the lead party in the ruling alliance, has grown stronger and Congress, too, has also performed its best in past 20 years of the state’s history in terms of legislators’ strength. JMM, which started with 12 MLAs in first Jharkhand assembly, continuously improved its performance in every election it contested. With 17 MLAs in the second, 18 in the third and 19 in the fourth, the tribal party finally won 30 seats in the current assembly. The party has now evolved from its rural and forest-based image and started winning seats even in urban pockets. Both JMM and Congress also profited from their pre-poll alliances. During the past 20 years, the party got the chance to lead the government on five occasions, but could not complete the five-year terms. The first JMM-led government in 2005 under Shibu Soren collapsed in 10 days. The second government in 2008, also under Guruji came down in 145 days and similar was the fate of the third JMM government in 2009 when Guruji had to step down in 153 days. It was in 2013 when Hemant held on to the reins, the government lasted for one-and-half years. Soon after taking charge, the government had to face many challenges apart from the Covid-19 pandemic. “We inherited a bankrupt economy from the previous BJP government. We had to bring in a white paper during first budget session to explain how the state’s resources were wasted in extravagant events but by then the lockdown was announced,” said JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya to explain why the government could not perform as per its expectations. In contrast, the opposition and a few insiders criticised the government as a failure on all aspects. BJP has often trained its guns at the government for “not fulfilling” its poll promises of providing employment and over the “deteriorating” law and order. “The government has failed miserably in curbing crime, particularly against women,” said BJP’s state spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo while extending support to agitating candidates for police service who are demanding regularization. Meanwhile, some insiders find JMM meek and often undeceive on many occasions. “We need not look up to Congress or other states for every small decision,” said a JMM leader on condition of anonymity while quoting instances about the government taking delayed decisions over the unlock protocols. A few party workers also find the bureaucracy becoming more reluctant towards service delivery and red-tapism becoming the order of the day. “There is a lot our government needs to do to make the administrative machinery people-friendly. We are on the ground and often had to bear with public complaints,” said a JMM district office bearer. Soren said he is being aware of the situation. “I have myself come across an elderly woman whose money was siphoned from her account by touts in the Pragya Kendra and no one helped her out,” he said, adding that things need to be streamlined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ga-govt-completes-1-year-in-office-hemant-says-alls-well/articleshow/79999156.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 29, 2020||Ranchi||‘Current govt has nothing to show as its achievement’||Jharkhand’s first chief minister and BJP leader Babulal Marandi says the JMM-led Mahagathbandhan government seemed visionless in its one year in office and claimed that it has failed in all aspects. In a conversation with TOI’s Rajesh Pandey, Marandi, who represents Dhanwar assembly seat, explains why he feels so. Excerpts: Q: How does the opposition assess the work of the coalition government in the last one year? A: The current government has completely failed in all aspects — be it maintaining law and order, reigning in corruption or activities to ensure the basic needs of the people for their well-being. In the last one year, the government only shifted the blame to others and tried to hide its failure behind the Covid-19 pandemic. It doesn't have anything to show as achievement on the ground. Q: Can you elaborate with examples? A: There is a general feeling among the public that the state is heading towards lawlessness again. See the spikes in the crime data. There is an increase in the crimes against women and child, apart from unabated incidents of loot, theft and Naxal incidents. The way state DGP M V Rao had to rush to Dumka recently following an extortion threat to a stone trader is a testimony of the shoddy policing at the ground level. Extremism which had almost been uprooted during the previous BJP government is rearing up its head again. Corruption is spreading like a virus an even block, circle offices and police stations are afflicted by it. Q: The relationship between the Centre and the state seems to have suffered in the past year. The state government has been accusing the Centre of step brotherly treatment in terms of financial assistance. How would you describe it? A: I don’t subscribe to such views. There are established channels for revenue sharing between the Centre and the states and the former has provided enough help in Jharkhand too despite the fall in overall revenues nationally. As far as revenue generation in the state is concerned during the pandemic, the Mahagathbandhan government has failed due to the lack of governance and control on leakages. For instance, illegal mining is taking place unabated across the state, making losses to the state exchequer. The finance department is under chief minister Hemant Soren himself but he has failed to curb the illegal activities. Illegal mining and transportation of the illegally mined minerals is an open secret in Dumka, which is a stronghold of the CM’s party — JMM. I would say it is being patronised by the CM and his party. Q: To what factors would you attribute BJP's losses in the two recent bypolls? A: We have managed to establish the confidence of electorates in the bypolls as there has been a significant rise in the number of votes for our candidates both in Dumka and Bermo. Even the tribal voters have switched over to BJP in significant numbers. Q: Your party is accusing the Jharkhand assembly speaker of playing a partisan role for not granting the status of leader of the opposition to you. Any comments? A: Despite the Election Commission approving the merger of my former party (JVM-P) with BJP, the speaker is deliberately delaying the approval by running separate hearings in his court. With the absence of the leader of the opposition, appointments on the important constitutional posts are withheld.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/current-govt-has-nothing-to-show-as-its-achievement/articleshow/79999852.cms||Rajesh Pandey
December 29, 2020||Ranchi||152 cases, 154 recoveries in state||Ranchi: As many as 152 new cases were recorded in the state on Monday while 154 recoveries were reported during the same period, taking the entire caseload to 11,44,20. Only one casualty was reported in the entire state (from Khunti), taking the death toll to 1,020. However, the death of former Jharkhand high court judge Justice Vikramaditya Prasad, who died from the infection at a hospital in the city on Monday, was not included in the Covid bulletin. Expressing his astonishment on the matter, Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said, “ Justice Prasad died at Pulse hospital in Bariatu after suffering from the disease for the past four days but the hospital authorities did not report it to us. Perhaps they do so tomorrow.” Meanwhile, the Ranchi district continued to have the lion’s share of cases with 71 people testing positive for Covid-19. East Singhbhum recorded 30 cases and Bokaro 10. As many as 16 districts reported cases in single digits while Godda, Khunti, Koderma, Pakur and Sahebganj did not report any fresh case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/152-cases-154-recoveries-in-state/articleshow/79999693.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Ranchi||Former Jharkhand HC justice dies of Covid||Ranchi: Jharkhand lost one of its legal luminaries, Justice (retired) Vikramaditya Prasad (78), to the Covid-19 virus on Monday. Justice Prasad, a former judge of the Jharkhand high court, was admitted to a hospital here four days ago with breathing complications. He was cremated in compliance with the Covid-19 protocols at the Harmu burning ghat. Justice Prasad joined the Bihar judicial service in 1974 and became the first registrar general of the Jharkhand high court. After retirement, he headed various judicial commissions He headed the one-man commissions to probe irregularities in the appointments at Jharkhand assembly and the Birsa Agriculture University. He also headed the Jharkhand Andolankari Chinhitkaran Aayog to identify and honour people who had played a crucial role in the Jharkhand statehood movement. He also chaired the commercial taxes tribunal. Justice Prasad was also known for his keen interest in literature. He authored many stories for children and reproduced the biography of Bhagwan Birsa Munda in poetry form and authored an English novel titled ‘The Undaunted Nirbhaya.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/former-jharkhand-hc-justice-dies-of-covid/articleshow/79999178.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 29, 2020||Ranchi||In Mann Ki Baat, PM hails Garhwa man for Korwa dictionary||GARHWA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed Hiraman Korwa, a resident of the remote Sinjo village under Ranka police station of Garhwa district, for compiling a dictionary in Korwa language during his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address to the nation on Sunday. Hiraman Korwa (35), who is a para-teacher in a local school, compiled the dictionary after 12 years of hard work. The Korwa language is on the verge of extinction and there are only 6,000 Korwa tribals left in Garhwa district. Talking to TOI, Hiraman expressed hope that the 50-page Korwa dictionary will keep alive the language, which is on the verge of extinction. "Since I do not have the financial resources to publish the dictionary, it was published by the Palamu-based Multi Art Association," he said. While talking about the PM’s address, Hiraman said, “I am happy that the prime minister mentioned my work in his speech. The support of the Union government would help tribal cultures and languages — including Korwa — to survive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pms-support-will-keep-korwa-language-alive/articleshow/79999901.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur’s leading Covid hospital ready to tackle new virus strain||JAMSHEDPUR: After a new strain of the coronavirus was detected in the United Kingdom (UK), officials at the Tata Main Hospital (TMH), which is one of the leading Covid-19 hospitals in Jharkhand, said the hospital is ready to tackle the mutated virus but urged people of the state to take utmost care. Highlighting that the new strain is capable of spreading fast, Dr Rajan Chaudhry, the medical advisor of Tata Steel which runs TMH, said, "Unlike the Covid-19 virus prevailing in the country, the mutated virus detected in the UK is far more infective and medical experts are still studying its fatality in laboratories across the globe. We need to be extra careful for the next three months or till the vaccine is ready." He stressed that a second wave of the virus cannot be ruled out and that the state government is yet to come up with an official communication on the preparations for the new strain. "TMH is always ready to tackle any exigency arising out of it," the official said. Noting that TMH has conducted one lakh Covid tests so far, Chaudhry said the total tests comprises 52,000 Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) and 48,000 RT-PCR tests. He further said there is a considerable drop in the number of Covid cases in East Singhbhum district as compared to the peak of the pandemic in the state (mid-July to early October) when an average of 350 positive cases was reported every week. "Currently, the district reports 35 cases per week," Chaudhry said. The medical advisor also said currently 44 Covid patients are under treatment at the hospital and about 20 recovered patients visited the post-Covid care centre daily. "Fifty per cent of these recovered patients came to our centre because of some post-recovery symptoms like fatigue and the rest reported body ache and other respiratory ailments like pneumonia," Chaudhry said. He added, "It takes close to four weeks for the recovered patients to recuperate from these post-recovery symptoms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jamshedpurs-leading-covid-hosp-ready-to-tackle-new-virus-strain/articleshow/79999744.cms||B Sridhar
December 29, 2020||Ranchi||‘Will soon promise our poll promise of providing 100 units of free electricity’||Finance minister Rameshwar Oraon says despite the heavy financial crunch coupled with the Covid-19 pandemic, the government’s biggest achievement in its first year in office has been its concerted efforts to ensure that the life support system for the state’s people remains uninterrupted. On the eve of the first anniversary of the JMM-Congress-RJD grand alliance government on Tuesday, Oraon tells TOI’s ASRP Mukesh how the government managed to pull through the crises and fulfilled some of the key poll promises. Excerpts: Q: What would you describe as the government’s achievement for the past year? A: Despite facing acute financial crunch coupled with the vagaries of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government ensured that the basic welfare programmes required for life support and livelihood system of the people remain uninterrupted. For instance, we ensured ration for over nine lakh more poor people, who didn’t have PDS entitlement, through state funds. This is besides providing ration to 58 lakh ration cardholders. There is also not a single report of a Covid patient being denied a hospital bed. Perhaps for the first time, farmers managed to get seeds on time during the khariff season and as a result, we are expecting a bumper harvest. Through different revenue generation measures, the government managed to run special trains, flights and buses to bring the migrants back during the lockdown. When other states deducted salaries, we ensured that our staff don’t have to suffer pay cuts or delay in getting pensions. In the nutshell, we took all the challenges head-on to ensure that the basic life and livelihood support system for the people remain uninterrupted. We have also managed to fulfil the promises made to the voters during the election. Q: Please elaborate on the promises fulfilled. A: The state government will launch a farm loan waiver scheme on the occasion of the first anniversary. This was one of the biggest poll promises which the grand alliance had made. We could have done it much earlier had the pandemic not added strain on the already weak state treasury. Opposition BJP, which was questioning it, is now rattled after the cabinet sanctioned the farm loan waiver, thinking how we could manage to do so with the limited resources. This apart, we promised to pass a resolution for the Sarna code, which we did. Soon, we will fulfil another promise of giving 100 units free electricity. Q: What would be the government’s priorities now? A: The focus for 2021 will be on education, health, food security and access to other basic requirements. To bring several poor families, who do not have ration cards, under the PDS, the government has decided to spend from the state’s coffers. Now, 15 lakh more ration cards (green cards) under the National Food Security Act will be issued from January 2021. In the education sector, we are the first state to approve sending of ST students to study in foreign universities from next year. Q: What about infrastructural growth and investment promotion? A: As our revenues have just begun to gradually improve, we are now slowly focussing on the making of roads and other assets in a phased manner. For investment promotion, different policies are already underway to attract investors. Q: In the past year, your government has been accusing the Centre of not providing financial assistance. How far is this true? A: At a time when we are already hard-pressed, the Centre, instead of providing us funds, has auto debited bill amounts from our account in RBI to pay for the pending dues to DVC. Jharkhand owed the power bills to DVC even before our government came to office but during the earlier BJP regime, the Centre remained silent. Uttar Pradesh, where BJP is in power, also owes hefty electricity dues, but the Centre is silent on it. On the other hand, when we ask for our shares and pending royalties, we don’t get them on time. Q: How has been the coordination among the ruling alliance partners? A: People have given us the mandate to run the government under Hemant Soren and it will complete its full term. Even if any bickering exists, all partners are open enough to settle the issues amicably at a proper platform. There has been no coordination crisis so far and Congress is committed to respecting the people’s mandate. We will not cheat them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/will-soon-promise-our-poll-promise-of-providing-100-units-of-free-electricity/articleshow/79999790.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 29, 2020||Ranchi||As Bokaro airport nears completion, AAI asks BSL to clear decks for flight ops||Bokaro: The Airports Authority of India (AAI) on Monday directed Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) — which owns and maintains Bokaro airport — to initiate the process for obtaining an aerodrome license from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in order to commence commercial flight operations from March since AAI’s ongoing developmental work at the airport is expected to be done by then, officials said on Monday. As per DGCA rules, if flight operations are to begin from March, then the application for obtaining an aerodrome license needs to be submitted at least three months in advance. Nearly 90% of AAI’s work in the airport is done and the rest is expected to be completed by March next year. On Monday, AAI’s Ranchi officials and BSL’s aviation department in-charge Laxmi Das, among others, held a meeting in the state capital to discuss on expediting the remaining construction work. Ranchi airport director Vinod Sharma, who was also part of the meeting, said, “The only tasks remaining now are constructing a boundary wall and cutting trees, which are already underway.” He added, “The work was delayed owing to the Covid-induced lockdown, otherwise the airport would have been ready by this December. We were already in the process of constructing the boundary wall and the forest department had even started felling the trees when the pandemic struck.” Meanwhile, sources said that if all the documents submitted by BSL are in order, then the aerodrome license shall be issued within a period of three months from the date of application. Once issued, the license needs to be renewed every two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/as-bokaro-airport-nears-completion-aai-asks-bsl-to-clear-decks-for-flight-ops/articleshow/79999098.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Ranchi||Hazaribag BJP MLA tables report card||Hazaribag: BJP’s Hazaribag MLA Manish Jaiswal on Monday presented his one year report card wherehe claimed to have distributed 50,000 ration packets not only in his own constituency but also in areas like Barhi, Ramgarh and Barkagaon during the Covid-induced lockdown. Terming his achievement as Seva Varsh 2020, Jaiswal said, “I feel content to have served the needy which is in sync with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s policy of serving the people. I also ran several free kitchens for the poor from March 23 to July 3.” He added that he provided Rs 25 lakh from the MLA quota funds to the district administration to arrange for food at the quarantine centres. He attacked the Hemant Soren-led government for “its failure in fulfilling the poll promises it had made last year”. “In the past one year not a single unemployed person was given a job while the law and order situation in Hazaribag took a turn for the worse. The government even scrapped some of the good policies and schemes that were initiated by the previous BJP-led regime,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hazaribag-bjp-mla-tables-report-card/articleshow/79999089.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Ranchi||With no Cov SOP in sight, Steel City hotels, clubs plan muted NY bash||Jamshedpur: With the district authorities not issuing any guidelines so far for clubs and hotels on hosting New Year Eve (NYE) parties, hoteliers here are in a fix. Several hotel managers said they have received enquiries from residents pertaining to NYE programmes but have avoided making any announcement in the absence of government guidelines. “Owing to the lack of guidelines, we have decided not to organise elaborate programmes on NYE this year,” Aysha Kumari, a front office executive at the Alcor Hotel, said. She added that a DJ show was being considered for the guests at the bar, but that, too, was tentative. The staff at the Citi Inn hotel said makeshift bonfire pits will be arranged around the swimming pool for guests on the night of December 31. “A DJ programme will also be organised at the bar,” the manager of Citi Inn, Satya Dey, said. He said in the wake of the pandemic, the hotel has decided not to have loud music and dance programmes in the open. The owner of Wave International hotel, Raja Singh, said they have decided to keep the celebrations simple. “The lack of a government guideline is a secondary issue. We decided on our own not to go for a big celebration considering the prevailing pandemic,” Singh added. Singh said on this NYE, they will offer a variety of cuisine at a budget price to their guests. The Kannelite hotel, a unit of Jharkhand Tourism Development Corporation (JTDC), has not yet finalised their NYE programme. “If the administration announces guidelines on Tuesday, we will still be able to put in place the necessary arrangements,” said an executive at the hotel on the condition of anonymity. The staff at a few other hotels in the city said food and drinks will be served but no special arrangements have been planned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/with-no-cov-sop-in-sight-steel-city-hotels-clubs-plan-muted-ny-bash/articleshow/79999139.cms||B Sridhar
December 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Minimum temperature to dip, may touch 3°C on New Year-eve||NEW DELHI: The minimum temperature is predicted to dip from Tuesday due to the passage of a western disturbance. Cold wave conditions are likely to return. However, Met officials said people may get relief in the first week of January. Track the pollution level in your cityBoth minimum and maximum temperatures may remain above normal on January 3 and 4. According to IMD, the minimum temperature may remain 4 degrees Celsius from Tuesday to Friday but it may dip to 3 degrees Celsius on December 31. City blows hot and cold, temp may rise in first 5 days of 2021However, as another western disturbance is predicted in January, the temperatures are expected to go up in the first five days of next month. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “As the influence of western disturbance is over, the wind direction would change its direction from easterly to north-westerly. Hence, cold winds from mountains which received fresh snowfall would blow to Delhi and cause fall in temperature and cold wave conditions in parts of Delhi.” On Monday, the minimum temperature recorded was 5.6 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal, while the maximum temperature was 20.9 degrees Celsius. The lowest minimum temperature on Monday was recorded at Aya Nagar station at 4 degrees Celsius. “Both minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to remain above normal on January 2 and 3. The minimum temperature may rise to 6 degrees Celsius on January 2 and 8 degrees Celsius on January 3. Very light rain is predicted for January 3,” said an official. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality, which remained at the higher end of ‘very poor’ category, on Sunday improved to ‘poor’ due to strong winds during day and night. Air Quality Index (AQI) of the capital was 253 on Monday as against 396 on Sunday. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, said, “Elevated night-time boundary layer height and better surface winds helped to disperse accumulated pollutants. AQI is likely to improve to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category on Tuesday. AQI is likely to deteriorate thereafter to the middle-end of the ‘very poor’ category by Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-minimum-temperature-to-dip-may-touch-3c-on-new-year-eve/articleshow/80001570.cms||---
December 29, 2020||India||Tourists throw caution to the wind, govt fears Covid surge||NEW DELHI: The government is bracing for a possible post-holiday surge in Covid-19 cases around mid-January with reports of people violating various Covid norms to gather in large numbers at tourist destinations and a rise in travel. The Centre has asked the states to increase alert levels of surveillance and containment systems and keep a close watch on any super-spreading events, particularly in the light of the new UK strain, so far not detected here but whose presence in India cannot be ruled out, official sources said. “Covid numbers are likely to go up because of weddings, parties and rising level of mobility without adequate precaution. In some of the states, we have observed considerable violation of Covid appropriate behavior. This will soon manifest itself in numbers by mid-January,” a senior official said. India has been registering daily new cases below 30,000 for last 15 days. On Sunday, 20,021 new cases were registered and of this, Kerala alone recorded 4,905, whereas Maharashtra registered the second highest at 3,314. The government is particularly concerned because of the new variant of SARS-COV2 discovered in UK and which is likely to have higher transmissibility. While the government has initiated various measures including stringent testing and isolation of international passengers and genome sequencing of Covid positive samples to detect any presence of the strain in the country, crowding and violation of physical distancing norms during Christmas, New Year and the tourist "season" has led to concerns among the health authorities. Cautioning against any complacency, officials also said cases are also likely to be more severe during January due to cold weather that intensifies respiratory problems. The country’s overall Covid-19 burden stood at 1,02,07,871, with 2,77,301 active cases on Sunday. With 279 fresh fatalities the overall death toll stood at 1,47,901.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tourists-throw-caution-to-the-wind-govt-fears-covid-surge/articleshow/80001555.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 29, 2020||India||Kerala governor nod for December 31 House session on farm laws||THIRUVANATHAPURAM: Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan has acceded to a second request by the state government to convene a special onehour assembly session on December 31 to pass a resolution against the new farm laws. He had earlier rejected the LDF government’s request to convene a session on December 23. The governor had written an open letter to CM Pinarayi Vijayan, accusing the government of keeping him in the dark about the reason behind convening a special assembly session. Khan relented only after Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and ministers A K Balan and V S Sunilkumar met with him to convey the message that the government does not want to put its relations with Raj Bhavan under strain. The CM personally wrote to the governor, seeking his consent to convene the special assembly session on December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-governor-nod-for-december-31-house-session-on-farm-laws/articleshow/80001589.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Mumbai||Cops seek to close case against ‘Free Kashmir’ placard holder||MUMBAI: Almost a year after thousands joined in a protest at the Gateway of India against the brutal attack on Delhi’s JNU students by a masked mob, Colaba police recently submitted a C summary report before the Esplanade court stating that the allegations against Mehak Mirza Prabhu (37) who was holding a ‘Free Kashmir’ placard were not found true. On Monday, however, the police submitted a chargesheet against 36 people—mostly lawyers, activists, students, artists and academicians—for their alleged participation in the January 5-6 protest where slogans against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), National Register of Citizens (NRC) and National Population Register (NPR) were also raised. Of the 36 chargesheeted, 29 appeared before the court and were granted bail on furnishing personal bond of Rs 10,000. The matter will be next heard on March 23. Prabhu, who was booked on January 7 under Section 153B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for assertions prejudicial to national integration, is likely to be exonerated as the police have not found any malicious motive. A police source said they have filed the C summary report and the court will subsequently decide to accept or reject it. A C Summary report says a person was booked by mistake or an erroneous complaint was made. Mehak, a storytelling artist, had earlier told TOI that she was speaking of “basic constitutional rights” and “freedom of expression” in J&K in view of the “internet shutdown” there. The police had scanned Mehak’s social media accounts, but did not find anything that connects her to the crime. The police had also sought legal opinion about this case. Among those named in the chargesheet submitted on Monday are lawyers Mihir Desai, Lara Jesani, and Susan Abraham, journalist Jatin Desai, and activists Suvarna Salve, Salim Sabuwala and Feroze Mithiborwala. They have been booked under IPC section 143 (unlawful assembly) and the Maharashtra Police Act. The police, in its chargesheet, said that despite being informed that the protest was not allowed at the Gateway of India and they could protest at Azad Maidan instead, they continued their agitation. The chargesheet further said that those present also protested against the Delhi Police, ABVP, CAA, NCR and NPR, and during sloganeering, protesters also took the names of PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. The chargesheet added that pictures were taken from three private photographers present at the spot, and CCTV footage was obtained from public spots. Mithiborwala later said, “A delegation...had met the state home minister a few days back who has assured that this case as well as all other criminal cases in connection with the anti-CAA NPR NRC protests and those concerning the violence on JNU students will be withdrawn by the government...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-seek-to-close-case-against-free-kashmir-placard-holder/articleshow/80001593.cms||Mateen Hafeez
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Classes 10 & 12 to restart on January 1 as planned, says Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: The stage is set for resumption of campus learning in Karnataka with chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday declaring that Class 10 and 12 will restart on January 1. “There’s no more debate on it,” he said. Many private schools in Karnataka are yet to decide on reopening as they are still awaiting parents’ feedback on whether to send their children to campuses. Earlier in the month, the state government had decided to resume Class 10 and 12 after a nine-month lull forced by Covid-induced lockdown and social-distancing norms. Vidyagama — a continuous learning programme that was suspended in October over fears of Covid infection spreading among students and teachers — for Class 6-9 will restart on January 1. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said a decision will be taken on starting remaining classes by January 15 based on the success of reopening of these classes. “Preparations (for reopening of Class 10 and 12) are being made in view of the opinion of the Technical Advisory Committee and the chief minister,” he added. SSLC syllabus to be released next week: MinHe said the syllabus for SSLC students will be released next week and it will have the minimum content required for pre-university education. Health minister K Sudhakar, who had said the school-reopening decision would be reviewed on December 28 in view of a new strain of Covid-19 virus emerging in the United Kingdom, said any change in schedule was unlikely as fresh Covid-19 cases had dropped in most districts. The education department has written to elected representatives and district ministers seeking their cooperation to oversee preparations made by district authorities with regard to school reopening. “It’s important that schools reopen so that children are engaged in continuous learning. Reopening of schools is not an activity restricted to a day or month. It is a year-long process,” it said, citing the example of how SSLC exams were successfully conducted with the help of local authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/classes-10-12-to-restart-on-january-1-as-planned-says-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa/articleshow/80001595.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 34 years later, 800 flat-buyers get Rs 24 crore back||MUMBAI: In a long-drawn legal battle with a builder, around 800 buyers, who booked flats in an affordable housing scheme in Virar in 1986, finally started receiving refund cheques totalling Rs 24 crore. Over three decades ago, they had paid builder, Paranjape Construction, Rs 1 lakh to Rs 11 lakh for homes at the J P Nagar project at Kofrad village, Virar. The developer completed some buildings but was unable to finish the project, forcing stranded purchasers to approach the consumer court from 1998. They were represented by the consumer rights group, Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP). Following a national consumer disputes redressal commission court order in favour of buyers in 2012, the builder’s land was auctioned for Rs 24 crore that year but he challenged the auction in Bombay high court. The HC did not stay the auction but directed that money not be disbursed to the buyers till the final order. In February 2019, the court ordered that the amount be paid to the buyers. But due to parliamentary and assembly elections, the local collector’s office was unable to start the process. Early this year, the pandemic lockdown further delayed the payment. Recently, Vasai tehsildar Ujwala Bhagat transferred the amounts to Bandra Consumer Commission’s office for disbursal to the buyers. “We started returning the money two months back,’’ she said. “It is a historic and landmark case where 800 home-buyers led by MGP fought against the builder. This case speaks volumes about the very poor functioning of consumer courts, which are expected to redress consumer grievances in three to five months. During this long period, few purchasers expired,’’ MGP chairman advocate Shirish Deshpande told TOI. “Most buyers had given up hope of getting their hard-earned money but MGP ultimately succeeded in getting it back,’’ he said. The developer could not be reached for a comment. In 1986-87, Paranjpae Construction announced an affordable housing scheme in Virar, offering homes at “very reasonable prices’’. Many middle-class families were tempted to book flats/row houses and paid substantial amounts. The developer completed around a dozen buildings and gave possession to buyers. But he was unable to finish the entire project, leaving 800 buyers in the lurch. MGP filed cases in consumer courts at the district forum and national commission level on behalf of the buyers in five batches between 1998-2002. The builder was ordered to refund the money along with compensation, but did not comply with orders. MGP invoked Section 25 of Consumer Protection Act, 1986, and got Paranjape’s property at Virar auctioned through the collector. “The developer challenged the auction in HC in 2012, so money received through it could not be paid to the buyers. After seven years, the HC dismissed Paranjape’s challenge, observing that there was no irregularity in the auction and cleared the way for a refund,’’ said MGP secretary Anita Khanolkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-34-years-later-800-flat-buyers-get-rs-24-crore-back/articleshow/80001603.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
December 29, 2020||Goa||Physical exam scheduled in Jan for final year BPharm deferred||Panaji: Goa University has decided to postpone the physical exam scheduled for final year students of BPharm programme in its affiliated colleges from January 5 to 18. “In accordance with the special ordinance OS-01 (pertaining to the pandemic) and partial modification to the earlier circulars issued to the extent applicable, in view of the present Covid-19 situation and to permit additional time to students for preparation, the University has decided to postpone the offline examinations,” the Goa University notification stated. Earlier last week, Goa University had postponed the physical exam for final year degree students of arts,commerce and science, scheduled to begin from January 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/physical-exam-scheduled-in-jan-for-final-year-bpharm-deferred/articleshow/79999463.cms||---
December 29, 2020||India||New Year ahead, MHA extends ‘strict vigil’ guidelines till Jan 31||NEW DELHI: The existing guidelines of the home ministry for surveillance, containment and caution against Covid-19 were on Monday extended to January 31, 2021 even as the ministry asked states and Union Territories to maintain "strict vigil" to avert a fresh surge in cases in wake of gatherings expected during the New Year celebrations. The ministry, while extending validity of the norms last announced on November 25, noted that though the overall situation in the country appeared optimistic with a steady decline in active cases over the past 2-3 months, there was need to maintain caution and strict surveillance in view of the surge in cases globally and emergence of new variant of the virus in the UK. “Strict vigil is also needed to be maintained to prevent any fresh surge in cases in wake of upcoming New Year celebrations and ongoing winter season which are favourable for the spread of the virus,” home secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a letter to the chief secretaries/administrators of all states/UTs. Bhalla said the states and UTs shall continue to have the leeway to impose local restrictions such as night curfew, depending on their own assessment of the situation. Importantly, with the government having started preparations for rollout of the vaccine for Covid-19, the home secretary asked the states/UTs to instruct the authorities concerned to offer active support to the ministry of health and family welfare in identification, preparation of database of beneficiaries, vaccine delivery, storage, security, shipment and vaccination process. The National Expert Group of Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended giving the vaccine on priority to healthcare workers, front-line workers, persons aged 50 years and above and those under 50 years with co-morbidities. The current set of guidelines allow all activities outside containment zones with some curbs; such as international air travel as permitted by MHA; cinema halls and theatres to run with 50% capacity; swimming pools only for training of sportspersons; exhibitions only for business-to-business purposes; and social, religious, sports & cultural gatherings up to a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity, with a ceiling of 200 persons, in closed spaces and keeping the size of the ground in view, in open spaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-year-ahead-mha-extends-strict-vigil-guidelines-till-jan-31/articleshow/80001490.cms||Bharti Jain
December 29, 2020||Goa||‘Need to start sugar factory immediately’||Ponda: The Sugarcane Farmers’ Facilitation Committee, headed by former MP Narendra Sawaikar, on Monday submitted its preliminary report to chief minister Pramod Sawant. The report has suggested immediate action to start operations at the Sanjivani sugar factory at Dharbandora. It has suggested hiring of the services of Deccan Sugar Technology Association, Pune, to decide whether the factory could be modernised with available minimum resources or a new plant is needed. Committee members Ramesh Tawadkar, Subhash Faldessai, Aitin Mascarenhas, Harshad Prabhudesai and Satish Tendulkar were also present. Sawaikar said they have also suggested to the government to think over the possibility of producing ethanol as well in the factory, so that the unit can run for at least 300 days in a year. During some crushing seasons in the recent past, the factory could not run for around 100 days. “Considering the state does not produce the required quantity of canes to produce ethanol, we have suggested that the molasses or cane syrup be imported from other countries,” Sawaikar told TOI. Services of expert organisations like Deccan Sugar Technology Association, Pune, and Jaggery Research Station, Sankeshwar, be engaged to study the technical feasibility for new emerging concepts like ethanol and organic jaggery production so that sugarcane cultivation can be more profitable, Sawaikar said. The report has also suggested that the agriculture department be entrusted with the work to strengthen the agricultural wing of the sugar factory. Seed cum demonstration plot of high yielding varieties of sugarcane of Sanjivani sugar factory be developed immediately, so that by October or November next year seed can be made available to existing and prospective sugarcane growers. During the discussion, the chief minister assured that an amount of Rs 600 per tonne towards harvesting cost will be disbursed to farmers shortly. Further, the government has already initiated steps like assessment of sugarcane for payment of compensation and the same will be paid to sugarcane growers, Sawaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-to-start-sugar-factory-immediately/articleshow/79999564.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Car designer Dilip Chhabria held in cheating, forgery case||MUMBAI: The city police on Monday arrested Dilip Chhabria, India’s top car designer and founder of the car modification studio ‘DC Design’, in a cheating and forgery case pertaining to a multiple car registration racket. Police have seized a highend sports car worth around Rs 75 lakh, which is registered in the name of Indermal Ramani with the Tamil Nadu Regional Transport Office, from him. Police said they have registered an FIR of cheating, forgery, breach of trust and criminal conspiracy in the case and more arrests are likely soon. Sources said that police are probing a racket where the registration documents were forged and used to register multiple vehicles. Chhabria has designed and modified the vanity vans of several celebrities, particularly Bollywood personalities. In fact, one of the five complainants is an actress who has accused him of cheating and forgery. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe late Monday confirmed the case, but declined to provide details as the investigation was at preliminary stage. Assistant police inspector Sachin Waze is probing the case. Chhabria will be produced before the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate on Tuesday, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/car-designer-dilip-chhabria-held-in-cheating-forgery-case/articleshow/80001644.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 29, 2020||Goa||Siolim’s lone park to get facelift yet again||Saligao: The only recreational park in Siolim, which was set up in 2016 under the WRD, near the St Anthony Church, is lying in neglect. Owing to its poor condition and lack of maintenance works, children as well as senior citizens, who used to frequent the park, have stopped visiting it. The park is strewn with waste and empty beer bottles lie in the water fountain. Local Premanand Arolkar said that the panchayat has not been carrying out maintenance of the park and not ensuring that it is regularly cleaned up. Beautification at the park was taken up around 2016 during the tenure of former MLA Dayanand Mandrekar, when he was the WRD minister. In 2018, once again a grand ceremony was held for the inauguration of the fountain installed in the park by the new MLA and then WRD minister Vinod Paliencar. The solar panel system, which powered water supply to the park and fountain, shut down within a month of its inauguration and is yet to be repaired. Paliencar said that he is going to take up beautification work at the park again, which will be at least the third such attempt, even as no maintenance works are ensured once the beautification is completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/siolims-lone-park-to-get-facelift-yet-again/articleshow/79999589.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||Pace of devpt works picked up again: CM||Bicholim: The pace of developmental works in the state has picked up again as compared to the early days of the pandemic, chief minister Pramod Sawant recently said in Bicholim. “The development work has been going on since pandemic started. However, the only difference now is that the pace of development has accelerated,” Sawant said, speaking at Kudne, after inaugurating road construction and other works. Sawant said his government is working 24X7 to provide modern facilities in every panchayat in the state. “The BJP government at the Centre and the state is committed to bring prosperity to every household. The aim of the government is to make every village ideal and inspire self-reliance,” he said. Kudne sarpanch Mahendra Ekawade appealed to the villagers to bring waste land in the village under use and also to give impetus to various small scale industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pace-of-devpt-works-picked-up-again-cm/articleshow/79999676.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Delhi||Teen held for killing grandmother in Delhi's Rohtas Nagar||DELHI: A 19-year-old boy allegedly bludgeoned his 73-year-old grandmother to death at her house in Rohtas Nagar near Shahadra on Saturday night. According to police, the teenager killed the woman as she refused to lend him money. He had borrowed a sum from his friends and wanted to repay his debt. The murder was reported on Sunday morning when Kumari’s family went to check on her. Since the door was bolted from inside, they had to break it. The woman had injury marks on her hand with blood splatter on the floor. Cops found that the woman’s grandson was the last person to see her and had been missing since then. DCP(Shahdara) Amit Sharma said following a few raids, the teenager was arrested. “The accused said when his grandmother refused to lend him money, he hit her with a hammer repeatedly until she died,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teen-held-for-killing-grandmom-in-delhi/articleshow/80001664.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami paid BARC ex-CEO to rig Republic TRPs: Mumbai cops||MUMBAI: In their remand application seeking further custody of arrested former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), Partho Dasgupta, the Mumbai police said Arnab Goswami of Republic TV had paid Dasgupta to rig the channel’s TRPs since its launch in 2017. On Monday, a metropolitan court extended Dasgupta’s police custody till December 30. He was arrested on December 24. Assistant police inspector Sachin Waze, who is heading the probe into the TRP scam, claimed the police have obtained evidence of a number of payments. “In 2017, Goswami paid him 6,000 US dollars at a star hotel in Lower Parel and sponsored a trip for Dasgupta and his family to Switzerland and Denmark; in 2018, he paid Rs 20 lakh in cash; and in 2019 he paid Rs 10 lakh at a hotel near the airport,” Waze alleged. The crime branch of the city police is probing the TRP manipulation scam where viewership figures for some channels were artificially inflated by bribing people involved in the process. BARC India measures viewership of TV channels, which is crucial for broadcasters to decide on advertising. Waze said that when Goswami launched Republic TV in 2017, he sought Dasgupta’s help in manipulating ratings and took the channel to the No. 1 slot. They knew each other from 2004, Waze said. The remand application said Dasgupta used BARC’s measurement science analytics division – used to track viewership of TV channels – to manipulate TRPs. “Those who helped Dasgupta in his office were handsomely rewarded with cash, gifts and promotions. Initially they adopted a simple modus operandi wherein during BARC sampling, the raw data gathered was edited and fed to obtain a favourable output,’’ Waze said. Waze claimed Dasgupta has told the police he invested the money in immovable properties as well as ornaments. Police have seized Dasgupta’s laptop, mobile phones, a wrist watch, and silver jewellery. While Dasgupta's lawyer Kailash Gumre was not available for comment, Arnab Goswami did not respond to emails. One of Goswami's lawyers, Sanket Shukla, said he would get back but he had not responded till the time of going to press. Waze said the police have also stumbled upon certain email exchanges and WhatsApp chats between Dasgupta and arrested COO of BARC, Romil Ramgarhia, discussing TRP manipulations. The development comes two days after joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe said ratings were manipulated to push English news channel Times Now from the top slot to the No. 2 position and make Republic TV the No. 1 news channel. Similarly, another news channel, CNN-News 18 (formerly CNN-IBN) was pushed to the third slot from its second position, Bharambe had said. The crime branch is probing the role of six channels for inflating viewership figures: Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema, News Nation, Mahamovies and Wow music channel. Police have made 15 arrests in the case so far and accused the arrested persons of conniving with each other. The crime branch registered an FIR in the case on October 6 and filed a chargesheet in court on November 24 naming the six channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/arnab-goswami-paid-barc-ex-ceo-to-rig-republic-trps-mumbai-cops/articleshow/80001662.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 29, 2020||Goa||Will resolve water woes by January 15: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday assured the people of the state that water shortage issues would be resolved by January 15. Pointing to a mismatch in the rationing of water, Sawant said that according to PWD officials, 85% of the water supply is used by residences and 6.7% for commercial purposes. “I have asked the PWD’s engineers to verify this. The percentage of commercial water use is definitely higher. They have told me they will check this,” he said, even as he warned of strict punitive action against errant engineers. The chief minister was speaking after meeting with PWD minister Deepak Pauskar and department officials over the shortage of water supply. He said that many parts of the state were experiencing a shortfall of 2-3 MLD. “Mapusa, for instance, gets only 12MLD of water instead of 15MLD. Unless we provide the additional 3MLD, the problem will not get resolved,” Sawant said. Short-term and long-term plans to overcome water shortage in the state were also chalked out at the meeting, the chief minister said. Detailed discussions on 19 pumping stations, purification plants and rural schemes which could help bridge the supply shortfall were held, he said. “For example, if the Siolim constituency requires 14MLD of water and we provide 11MLD right now, we will see if we can provide 3MLD through a rural scheme,” Sawant explained. Instructions have been given to the superintending engineer, executive engineer and assistant engineer of each division to provide details of shortfalls and suggest how they can be rectified, the chief minister said. “We will have three more rural schemes to cover the shortfall. In next 15-20 days, we will reduce the water shortage problem and in eight days a constituency-wise plan will be submitted to me,” he said, adding that he will call for yet another meeting after receiving the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-resolve-water-woes-by-jan-15-cm/articleshow/79999754.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Goa||‘Of new NITs, Goa institute showing fastest progress’||Panaji: Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said that the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, is among the fastest progressing from the new NITs. Pokhriyal presided over the 6th annual convocation ceremony of NIT-Goa. The event was held through the virtual mode on Monday due to the pandemic restrictions. “NIT Goa’s ranking in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) is very good and it is improving year-on-year. It is second best among the new NITs. This shows the great progress being made by the NIT,” Pokhriyal said. He also said that a new campus being readied for the NIT at Cuncolim on land allotted by the Goa government will open a new even more glorious chapter for the institute. During the convocation, BTech degrees were awarded to 69 students, MTech degrees to 36 students, besides doctorates to six students. “I am confident that you will become job creators rather than job takers,” Pokhriyal said in his address to the students. He said that the new National Education Policy (NEP) is set to be the biggest educational reform in the world. “From school you will be taught artificial intelligence. Vocational and skill training will be introduced from Class VI onwards itself. There will be a credit bank where your credits will be saved and it will give students flexibility to complete programmes as per their convenience. If someone has to leave midway, they need not worry. They can join again and pick up from where they left,” Pokhriyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/of-new-nits-goa-institute-showing-fastest-progress/articleshow/79999807.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Delhi||Submit Covid bed quota status by January 5: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: With Delhi government reducing 80% ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients to 60% in 33 private hospitals, Delhi High Court on Monday directed the AAP government to file a status report on the review of its decision on January 5 over the same. Justice Subramonium Prasad adjourned to January 8, the hearing in a petition of the Association of Healthcare Providers (India), challenging the September 12 order passed by Delhi government on the mandatory reservation of 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals. Times ViewIn the war against Covid-19, tactical flexibility is imperative. Since the number of patients has fallen dramatically in recent days, it would be smart to lower the number of reserved beds at the moment. This would help the serious, non-Covid patients, get better treatment. If the coronavirus cases increase sharply in future, the authorities can raise the number of Covid-19 beds again.The government had sought views of Dr V K Paul, member, NITI Aayog and Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS. The experts endorsed the recommendations made by the de-escalation committee of Delhi Disaster Management Committee with regards to de-escalation of Covid-19 ICU beds. An order over the de-escalation issued on Sunday by Amit Singla, secretary, health and family, Delhi government, relied on the opinions of Dr Guleria and Dr Paul, besides the committee. The experts had opined that they were ready to review the situation by January 15, for by then the situation with respect to the UK strain will be better understood, impact of the New Year celebrations would have played out and the overall pandemic situation in Delhi may have settled. The government affidavit, referring to the experts, said, "The new UK strain of Covid-19 is a new development. About 20,622 people have landed from the UK (combined list of APHO and nodal officer, Vande Bharat Mission, GNCT of Delhi) in Delhi, from November 25 to December 23. Further, till now about 19 UK returnees have tested positive and their genome sequencing is underway." Therefore, it highlighted that at this juncture it was required to "abundant precaution" and "abrupt de-escalation" was not advisable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/submit-covid-bed-quota-status-by-january-5-delhi-hc/articleshow/80001686.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Business||NCW issues content advisory to Amazon||NEW DELHI: The National Commission for Women has written to Amazon India to take all measures to stop the transmission of any content that may "perpetrate and promote crime against women and convey a wrong message to the society". “Moreover, e-commerce websites shall not be instrumental in dissemination of pornographic and rape content as it violates provisions of law,” the NCW said in a statement. The NCW has written the letter after taking suo motu cognisance of a Twitter post wherein it is alleged that Amazon’s Kindle contains e-books on porn literature & even rape fantasies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ncw-issues-content-advisory-to-amazon/articleshow/80001674.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man lit fire at temple, killing three, after petty row with mandal chief||MUMBAI: A fire at a temple in Charkop that left three people dead early on Sunday has turned out to be a well-planned case of murder. Police on Monday arrested a 20-year-old resident, Bhavesh Chandurkar, and detained a 17-year-old boy. Investigators said Chandurkar did not see eyeto-eye with the temple’s president, Yuvraj Pawar (28). The trigger was an incident on Christmas, when Pawar hit Chandurkar (20) over a trivial issue. Early on Sunday, Charkop police and fire brigade were informed about a fire at Shri Sai Sachhidanand Mitra Mandal’s temple in Bandar Pakhadi. Pawar was killed on the spot due to severe burns along with co-worker, Subhash Khode (28). Their friend, Mahesh Gupta (24) succumbed during treatment at a hospital. Forensic experts said a cooler exploded due to the presence of an inflammable substance. “This alerted us to the possibility of arson,” said additional commissioner Dilip Sawant. Police made inquiries in the neighbourhood and learnt that Pawar and Chandurkar had been at loggerheads for a year-and-a-half. Once, Pawar had assaulted Chandurkar with a weapon and left him with a bloody nose. But the latter’s family discouraged him from filing a police complaint out of fear. Residents told police that Pawar would fight with Chandurkar over petty issues and abuse him. Pawar told Chandurkar to fetch cigarettes for him on December 25, and when he refused, Pawar hit him. “Chandurkar wanted to teach Pawar a lesson and plotted with his teenaged friend,” said inspector Ghanshyam Nair. Chandurkar was an office boy with a material supplier and had been given a scooter by his employer. He took five litres of petrol from the vehicle and stored it in a can. With the teen’s help, he kept an eye on Pawar. On Sunday night, after Pawar, Khode and Gupta went to sleep at the temple, Chandurkar poured the liquid into the temple and struck a match around 4am. The petrol came in contact with the cooler which exploded and burned Chandurkar’s hands and feet. Chandurkar and the teen fled to the latter’s home in Kandivli (E). From there, Chandurkar moved to his aunt’s home in Vaijapur, Aurangabad. Police tracked him down through technical surveillance and arrested him on Monday. He has been treated for minor burns while the juvenile has been sent to an observation home at Dongri. Chandurkar told police he only wanted to scald Pawar’s limbs. “Chandurkar and the teen were aware that Pawar was not alone in the temple and they were harming three people,” said Sawant. Chandurkar provided police a detailed timeline, which will form a part of evidence. Investigators have also accessed CCTV footage around the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-man-lit-fire-at-temple-killing-three-after-petty-row-with-mandal-chief/articleshow/80001683.cms||Nitasha Natu
December 29, 2020||Chennai||Board exams on, dates soon, says Tamil Nadu education minister||CHENNAI: Ruling out declaring 2020-21 a 'zero academic year' due to Covid-19, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Monday said board exams for Classes X, XI and XII will be conducted for the academic year. A zero academic year is one during which no academic activities are conducted, including exams and classes. Some reports said the state government is considering declaring a complete holiday for this academic year in view of pandemic. Speaking to reporters, Sengottaiyan said the government will release the schedule for board exams soon. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank had said that the schedule for CBSE Class X and XII board exams would be announced on December 31. The state government will decide on the schedule considering the CBSE exam dates since the dates of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) 2021 and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) 2021 will be decided based on these dates, the minister said. When asked about the reopening of schools, Sengottaiyan said some states have had to shut down schools after reopening following the rise in Covid-19 cases among students. "The state will take a decision considering all these aspects," he said. On the issue of showing Tamil poet-philosopher Thiruvalluvar in a saffron attire, the minister said the school education department will seek an explanation from the official and initiate departmental action against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/board-exams-on-dates-soon-says-tamil-nadu-education-minister/articleshow/80005377.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Matua MP tones down CAA rhetoric after BJP brass prod||Kolkata: Senior BJP leaders on Monday stepped in to restrain Bongaon MP Shantanu Thakur from repeatedly voicing his dissatisfaction in public over the party dragging its feet on CAA. Increasing their unease, Trinamool Congress has started making public overtures to the first-time BJP MP, who is also an All India Matua Mahasangha leader. After being prodded by BJP leadership, Thakur on Monday clarified he was answerable to people and not willing to join a party that opposes Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). “There is no question of switching sides to a party (Trinamool) that has been opposing CAA. Any leader can invite me to join the party, but let them support CAA first. I am answerable to people who have elected me,” Thakur said. The Bengal BJP is likely to organise a meeting of Union home minister Amit Shah in Bongaon during his visit in January. On Monday, BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and national joint general secretary Shiv Prakash asked Thakur to exercise some restraint. “I am aware of the dilemma Matuas are in. Thakur, who is a Matua leader, is also concerned. The process got delayed due to the pandemic. But we will implement it soon,” state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. Thakur started voicing his displeasure over the past two months, asking the Centre to come out with a clear timeline for CAA implementation. He failed to get any clarity on the issue even during Shah’s November visit. Meanwhile, a few key Trinamool leaders reportedly initiated a dialogue with the Matua leader. On Sunday, Bengal food minister Jyotipriyo Mallick invited him to join Trinamool. Former Bongaon MP and Trinamool leader Mamata Bala Thakur, who is Thakur’s aunt, said: “He should explain why BJP failed to implement CAA for the Matua community. Matuas are already Indian citizens. If he must work for the betterment of the community, he should leave BJP first.” Support of the Matua community is crucial to both BJP and Trinamool, who are fighting to gain ground in the state. Thakur said: “I supported BJP when they brought CAA. Why should I desert the party now? I am asking for some clarification from the central government for the sake of 6 crore Matuas.”. (With inputs from Sanjib Chakraborty)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/matua-mp-tones-down-caa-rhetoric-after-bjp-brass-prod/articleshow/80000965.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Day after Sourav’s ‘courtesy call’, TMC & BJP react warily||Kolkata: BCCI president Sourav Ganguly and Union home minister Amit Shah sharing a dais in Delhi on Monday had its political reverberations in Kolkata. Trinamool Congress reacted cautiously. Bengal minister Subrata Mukherjee said: “As far as I know, India is playing well now. In the last match, they didn’t play well.” He added: “In politics, we cannot comment on who meets whom. We can comment only if there is any outcome of those meetings.” Asked about Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh’s remark that BJP was “ready” for Sourav Ganguly, Mukherjee said: “He may be ready. The question is whether Sourav is ready.” Ghosh, asked about Sourav, said: “We cannot say what Sourav Ganguly will do or not do. But he was India’s captain. He is a respected citizen. We are ready for him.” Ghosh added that “BJP is a big party in Bengal now and people from all walks of life are taking interest in BJP”. “Let him join BJP first and then we will decide on his post. Unlike TMC, here everyone must work their way from a worker to a post-holder,” he added. Sourav had on Sunday met Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in Raj Bhavan for nearly two hours but urged reporters “not to speculate” over a “courtesy call”. Dhankhar said he had an interaction with Dada “on varied issues”. On Monday, speaking to reporters in Delhi, Sourav was quoted as saying: “Don’t put words in my mouth.” He added he was invited by the governor to Raj Bhavan and so he went. “That’s about it,” he said. According to political observers, though Sourav has never shown any active interest to take the political plunge, he has always had a good rapport with the former Left Front government, and then the Trinamool government. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had played a key role in Sourav’s unanimous selection as CAB president, succeeding Jagmohan Dalmiya. It is largely believed that Union home minister Shah had played a key role in his subsequent appointment as BCCI president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/day-after-souravs-courtesy-call-tmc-bjp-react-warily/articleshow/80001003.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka cabinet OKs ordinance to prohibit cow slaughter||BENGALURU: The Karnataka cabinet on Monday decided to promulgate an ordinance against cow slaughter soon, but clarified that there will be no curbs on beef consumption in the state. Sources said the ordinance will be sent to the governor for his nod within a day, and it takes effect immediately. According to law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy and animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan, the earlier law banned slaughter of cows till age of 13. “We have extended it with an intention that older cows should not be left out. Since the prohibition does not extend to buffaloes aged above 13, there is no ban on beef consumption,” they said. Govt plans to build shelters for aged cowsThe government was forced to take the ordinance route as the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill 2020, passed by the legislative assembly earlier in the month during the winter session, did not win the approval of the council as JD(S) backed out at the last minute. The cow slaughter ban move has already created ripples among farmers, meat traders and in neighbouring Goa. Karnataka and Maharashtra have been the biggest meat suppliers to Goa. A delegation of meat traders recently met Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant in this regard. Animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan said the new law will go a long way in improving the cow population. Citing the 2019 cattle census, Chauhan said 2.4 lakh cows are slaughtered every year in the state. “Stopping illegal transportation and slaughtering is our priority,” he said. The government is considering building cow shelters to ensure aged cows do not become a burden on farmers. The new law proposes up to seven years in jail and a fine of Rs 5 lakh for offenders. It seeks to ban slaughter of cows and proposes stringent punishment to those who indulge in smuggling, illegal transportation, atrocities on cows and slaughtering them. Joint session likely to be held on January 18The customary joint session of the state legislature is likely to be held on January 18. The first session of the New Year will generally be a joint one and the government will address members and list its achievements and future roadmap for the remaining tenure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-cabinet-oks-ordinance-to-prohibit-cow-slaughter/articleshow/80001440.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Your voice a great source of strength, Amartya Sen tells West Bengal CM||BOLPUR/KOLKATA: Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, in a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, has conveyed his “personal affection and admiration” for finding time to reassure “people under attack”. The letter comes two days after Banerjee had written to him with her unstinting support over an allegation by Visva-Bharati that Sen’s ancestral home in Santiniketan was illegally occ-upying land. “Your strong voice, along with your full understanding of what is going on, is, for me, a tremendous source of strength,” the 1998 Nobel winner, who was awarded the Bharat Ratna in 1999, wrote. Visva-Bharati had informed the state government that Sen’s home, Pratichi, was illegally occupying 13 decimals of land, in addition to the 125 decimals legally leased to his late father, Ashutosh Sen. Banerjee, in her letter, expressed “surprise and anguish over some recent developments” reported in the media over his ancestral links in Santiniketan. “Kindly count me as your sister and friend in your just war against intolerance and totalitarianism. Let us not be daunted by their untrue accusations and unfair attacks. We shall overcome,” she wrote in the letter, sent to Pratichi. Banerjee had reacted sharply on Thursday itself on the reports that Visva-Bharati had written to the Bengal government on land encroachment, including the alleged “unauthorised” land parcel of 13 dec-imals at Pratichi. “On behalf of Bengal, I apologise to you, Amartya Da, for this,” she had said. Sen, in his letter, adressed Banerjee as “Dear Mamata (if I may call you that)”, and went on to express his happiness at her “wonderfully supportive letter. I am not only most touched, but also very reassured that despite your busy life you have to lead, you can find time for reassuring people under attack. Your strong voice, along with your full understanding of what is going on, is for me, a tremendous source of strength.... May I send you my deep appreciation of the warmth of your extremely kind letter. I also take the liberty of conveying to you my thanks as well as my personal affection and admiration.” When asked about Sen’s mail, Banerjee said: “Amartya Sen is Bengal’s pride. People like Amartya Sen, and the other Nobel laureates like Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee and Mother Teresa have a standing in society. They are known and respected across the world. What they will say or not say is their choice. My ideology is against the BJP. I can speak against them. Similarly, they can speak against me.” Asked whether Sen was being targeted, she said: “Here, everyone is made a target. I am their biggest target politically, and Amartya Sen is targeted as an educationist. It is not only him; so many educated people are made targets. Even the (Santiniketan) ashramites are feeling isolated. They (the BJP) are trying to make the people forget Rabindranath.” “It pains me that everything has been stopped... from Basanta Utsav to Pous Mela. A few outsiders have captured Visva Bharati. They are total outsiders. They have captured the ashram,” she said, adding, “We have a culture and that is Bengali culture. The culture that Swami Vivekananda took to Chicago and eventually the people of the world came to know. The culture that Rabindranath Tagore took to the world arena and brought Bengal its first Nobel prize.... They are trying to bring in different cultures. I have been told many times that we should not forget our history.” (With inputs from Someshwar Boral)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/your-voice-a-great-source-of-strength-amartya-tells-cm/articleshow/80000949.cms||Saibal Gupta
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Workers in fracas outside Netaji Indoor||Kolkata: Tension flared up in front of two Bengal ministers — Firhad Hakim and Moloy Ghatak — when workers of self-employed labour organisations, who earn their livelihood by filling up forms of various government social security schemes, threw chairs and blocked the road outside Netaji Indoor Stadium on Monday. The incident happened when the senior ministers called the organisations to a meeting to listen to their demands. Contractual labourers said they attended the meeting only after there were “assurances” of fulfilment of their demands. Though nobody was arrested, organisation members blocked Shahid Khudiram Bose Road after police rescued Ghatak and escorted him out of the venue. Bengal power minister Sovondeb Chattopadhyay, who was present at the meeting, said: “They have a legitimate demand and I hope the matter will be settled amicably.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/workers-in-fracas-outside-netaji-indoor/articleshow/80000884.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Diamond Harbour SP, S Bengal IG in IPS shuffle||Kolkata: The state government on Monday transferred Diamond Harbour police superintendent Bholanath Pandey as SP, Home Guard, while South Bengal IG Rajeev Mishra was promoted as South Bengal additional director-general of police. The Centre had wanted both officers to be relieved of their current engagements to take up central deputations — Pandey as SP in Bureau of Police Research and Development and Mishra as IG, Indo-Tibetan Border Police. The Bengal government refused to relieve these officers, along with Praveen Tripathi who is DIG (Presidency Range). Damayanti Sen was promoted as Kolkata Police special commissioner-II. Barasat SP Avijit Banerjee will replace Pandey as Diamond Harbour SP while DC South Zone (Howrah) Raj Narayan Mukherjee take Banerjee’s place in Barasat. The state government also promoted Ajay Kumar Nand from IG (CF) to ADG and IG (CF); Mahender Sigh Poonia from IG and adviser (Security, HRBC) to ADG and adviser (Security, HRBC); Pranav Kumar from DIG (CID) to IG (CID); and Nishat Pervez from DIG (Traffic, North Bengal) to IG (Traffic, North Bengal).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/diamond-harbour-sp-s-bengal-ig-in-ips-shuffle/articleshow/80001011.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||CBI searches Kol premises in cattle, coal cases||Kolkata: The CBI, which is looking into cross-border cattle smuggling and illegal coal mining cases in Bengal, on Monday conducted a search on at least two premises in Kolkata in connection with its ongoing investigations. The agency had on Sunday quizzed two cops — an ASI and a constable, both posted in Malda — over the involvement of Enamul Haque in cattle smuggling. It is now likely to quiz a few IPS officers as well. CBI sources on Monday indicated that they wanted to question at least three officers to piece together missing links in the probe. Haque will be in CBI custody till December 30. In the coal case, the agency has sent a notice to a businessman said to be close to Anup Maji, alias Lala. Last week, it had conducted searches at the businessman’s the Kolkata home. Following the search, the businessman was summoned to the agency’s Nizam Palace office. Despite repeated notices during probe, he has failed to appear before the agency. The CBI has already summoned a few businessmen close to Lala. They are trying to get hold of a businessman who stayed in close contact with both Lala and Haque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cbi-searches-kol-premises-in-cattle-coal-cases/articleshow/80000879.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||‘Outsider’ barb opposes ‘alien’ culture bid: Didi||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the “outsider” barb was aimed against an attempt to impose a culture “alien” to Bengal and not to differentiate on the basis of language. Referring to “teleprompter speeches”, Banerjee said anyone could speak in any language using a teleprompter, but it was more important to know the people. “Looking at a teleprompter and reading out something doesn’t mean anything,” she said. “This isn’t being Bengali or a non-Bengali. None in this country is an outsider,” the CM said responding to a query on the ‘outsider’ narrative. “Bengal is the cultural capital of India. They want to break our cultural spine. They want to break our self-respect. They want to obliterate our history. They want to change geographical boundaries. They want to impose a political ideology that resonates with riots. Our sensitivities are alien to their ideology. Gandhiji was in Beliaghata, not Delhi, when India became independent. It was Rabindranath Tagore who broke his fast. This is Bengal,” she said. The CM made it clear that she never called people of this country outsiders. “Every person of this nation has the right to go wherever he wants,” she said. Continuing on Bengali culture, Banerjee said: “It is this ethos which is valued worldwide.” “If Mumbai is the financial capital of the country, then Bengal is the cultural capital,” she added. “We have led the freedom struggle and accepted the renaissance.” Banerjee further said: “It is not only the case of Bengal but everywhere, they are doing the same thing. Educational institutions like Jawaharlal Nehru University or Nalanda University are being targeted. Even Pondicherry Ashram was not spared. They have this reputation.” The “outsider” narrative in Bengal politics has led to a political diatribe between Trinamool Congress and BJP. The saffron party has countered Trinamool’s “outsider barbs” by saying Indians could not be dubbed outsiders in any Indian state. Meanwhile, Banerjee’s planned January 7 rally at Tekhali in Nandigram, East Midnapore, has been put on hold as Trinamool Congress MLA Akhil Giri, who was supposed to play a key role in organising the event, has tested Covid-positive. Bengal panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee said this at a press conference in Kolkata on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/outsider-barb-opposes-alien-culture-bid-didi/articleshow/80000974.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||Arjun is BJP poll observer for N Kolkata||Kolkata: A day after former mayor Sovan Chatterjee was made observer of the Kolkata zone, BJP’s vice-president and Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh was on Monday appointed observer for north Kolkata, where the party lost to Trinamool Congress in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Singh will have a tough time cobbling numbers in favour of the BJP in minority-dominated constituencies. “The big challenge lies in Chowringhee and Entally. The minority population is an important factor in these two constituencies,” he said. In the 2019 elections, BJP’s Rahul Sinha lost despite the party gaining nearly 11% votes in the constituency. In the 2016 assembly polls, BJP had come third both in Chowringhee and Entally, securing 13% and 10% votes respectively. “There are other reasons as well behind the poor performance in north Kolkata. I have already held meetings in a few areas,” Singh said. The MP believes it is a myth BJP does not have any acceptance among the Bengali-speaking population. “People who speak Bangla do not want to turn West Bengal into Bangladesh. They will have to choose wisely this time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/arjun-is-bjp-poll-observer-for-n-kolkata/articleshow/80000946.cms||---
December 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal takes back 2.9km road on VB campus||By: Someshwar Boral BOLPUR: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the Bengal PWD was taking over the 2.9km road stretch that it had given to Visva-Bharati in 2017, after ashramites appealed to her saying university authorities had banned vehicles on the road, thus causing hardship. The road from Siksha Bhavana to Kanch Mandir splits the VB campus into two and is home to, among others, Nobel laureate Amartya Sen. “The state will be responsible for maintaining the road and its upkeep,” the CM said. At an administrative meeting in Bolpur, Banerjee said: “I have received a letter from some ashramites.” Reading out from the letter, she said: “They have referred to the ugly wall that is being erected here and there (around the campus)… their roads are being closed causing hardship. They have referred to this decade-old road.” “Earlier, there was a 6am-6pm vehicular restriction on this road from Sangit Bhavana to Kanch Mandir,” she continued. “Now there is a restriction all day. This road passes along the homes of Amartya Sen, Nandalal Bose, Santidev Ghosh…” The CM added that “people are unable to work, unable to repair their homes” and said “I signed the file (taking back the road) at the helipad (in Kolkata) when told about it today”. Supriyo Tagore, an ashramite and former principal of Patha Bhavana who was one of the signatories to the letter to the CM, said: “When it was controlled by Visva-Bharati, we found trouble in moving as per our requirement. Now we can move freely.” After repeated requests by the university authorities, the state government had handed over control of the road in March 2017 when Swapan Kumar Dutta was officiating vice-chancellor. Incidentally, Dutta, as the new vice-chancellor of Bolpur-based Biswa Bangla University, was present at the CM’s administrative meeting on Monday. VB did not officially react to this. A university official, refusing to be named, said: “This (VB’s control of the road) was needed for several reasons. Firstly, both sides of the road were encroached by hawkers. Secondly, several heritage structures and artifacts including those by Ramkinkar Baij, Upasana Mandir, Sangit Bhavana, Uttarayan complex (where Rabindra Bhavana and other Tagore houses are situated), Chatimtala are very close to this road. Movement of heavy vehicles may cause harm to these. Thirdly, schoolchildren use the road frequently. Decontrol will again affect the campus’ sanctity and security.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-takes-back-2-9km-road-on-vb-campus/articleshow/80000924.cms||---
