December 30, 2020||Business||Cargo traffic at ports may decline by 10% this fiscal: Report||MUMBAI: Cargo traffic at domestic ports is expected to shrink about 10 per cent this fiscal owing to significant under-performance in the first half of the fiscal even the October-March period is expected to put up a better show in terms of volumes, a report said on Tuesday. The ports for the first time after seven months reported a positive growth in the months of October and November when the cargo traffic went up by 3 per cent and 1 per cent, year-on-on-year, respectively, ratings agency Icra said in a release. Also, according to Icra, container cargo has witnessed a better than anticipated trade volume growth, which is expected to push the decline in growth downward to 10-12 per cent in the fiscal than the earlier projections of a 12-15 per cent decline. “Petrolium, oil and lubricant (POL), coal and container segment have witnessed a contraction with about 13 per cent, 23 per cent and 12 per cent year-on-year decline during the April-November period of FY2021. However, there are definite signs of recovery given that in October-November these three segments recorded significantly better performance than previous months," said Ankit Patel, Vice President and Co-Head, ICRA Ratings. During March-September, the period, the port sector has been adversely impacted due to the COVID-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown introduced by India and other major economies. Although the sector was classified under essential services and remained operational post the initial period of lockdown, the adverse impact on the domestic economic activity as well as slowdown in global trade has resulted in steep contraction in cargo volumes at the Indian ports, Icra said in the release. While positive growth in the past two months is positive, for the 8M FY2021, cargo has reported a 12 per cent decline however, the same is significant improvement compared to the 22 per cent decline recorded in Q1 FY2021, Icra said. The pace of decline has moderated sequentially every month for key cargo segments, indicating continuing signs of a recovery, it added. "The pace of recovery in the port sector will be contingent on the pace of recovery of the domestic industrial activity and the global economy. Further, factors like changes in the global supply chain pattern during the recovery phase will also have an impact on the cargo profile," said Patel. Despite the expectation of a better H2FY2021, due to the significant under-performance in H1FY2021, ICRA expects volume contraction of about 10% in full year FY2021, he said. "We had earlier anticipated the recovery in essential products like POL and thermal coal to be relatively faster than containers. Containers are also facing a challenge in terms of shortage of containers on intra-Asian and certain other trade routes due to supply chain and trade imbalance issues," K Ravichandran, Executive VP and Dy.Chief Rating Officer at ICRA Ratings. Ravichandran said, however, container cargo at Indian ports has seen a better than anticipated trade volume growth and "hence compared to the earlier expectation of a 12-15 per cent decline, FY2021 is now likely to see a 10-12 per cent decline". This is largely driven by the quicker than earlier expected pickup in industrial output and consequently higher exim volumes, he added. ICRA also said that the credit profile of port sector companies is expected to continue under pressure on account of the lower than anticipated cargo volumes during FY2021, especially those that have just commenced operations or concluded debt funded capacity expansions or have a concentrated cargo profile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cargo-traffic-at-ports-may-decline-by-10-this-fiscal-report/articleshow/80015951.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Business||Government approves 15th tranche of electoral bonds; sale closes on January 10||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday approved the 15th tranche of electoral bonds which will be open for sale between January 1 and January 10. Electoral bonds have been pitched as an alternative to cash donations made to political parties as part of efforts to bring transparency in political funding. "The State Bank of India (SBI), in the XV Phase of sale, has been authorised to issue and encash Electoral Bonds through its 29 Authorised Branches (as per list enclosed) w.e.f. 01.01.2021 to 10.01.2021," the finance ministry said in a statement. The 29 specified SBI branches are in cities such as Patna, New Delhi, Chandigarh, Shimla, Srinagar, Dehradun, Gandhinagar, Bhopal, Raipur, Mumbai, and Lucknow. The sale of the first batch of electoral bonds took place from March 1-10, 2018. According to provisions of the scheme, electoral bonds can be purchased by a person who is a citizen of India or entities incorporated or established in India. Registered political parties that have secured not less than 1 per cent of the votes polled in the last election of the Lok Sabha or legislative assembly are eligible to receive electoral bonds. SBI is the only authorised bank to issue such bonds. An electoral bond will be valid for 15 days from the date of issue. No payment would be made to any payee political party if the bond is deposited after expiry of the validity period, it said, adding, the bond deposited by any eligible political party into its account would be credited on the same day. The last issuance was done in October ahead of Bihar assembly election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-approves-15th-tranche-of-electoral-bonds-sale-closes-on-january-10/articleshow/80015969.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Five of gang stealing tractors land in custody; 14 vehicles seized||BENGALURU: In November, west division police had arrested a 48-year-old man, Bore Gowda, from Mandya, and recovered 12 stolen tractors from him. Now, his five associates have landed in police net and 14 other tractors, stolen in and around the city, have been recovered from them. Along with the tractors, police have also seized four cars and seven two-wheelers from the accused. In all, the value of the recovered vehicles, including the tractors, is around Rs 1.4 crore, said police. The 26 tractors were stolen from different parts of the city and the outskirts, including Tumakuru district, over the past two years. The accused arrested now are Anand alias Umesh, 35, B Yakub Khan, 30, both residents of Kadabagere Cross; B Lingappa, 35, V Lokesh, 34, and Lokesh Kumar, 37, all residents of Mandya. DCP (west) Sanjeev M Patil told TOI: “When we caught Bore Gowda, he revealed the role of his associates. We had formed special teams to nab them. We traced the accused members of the gang in and around Mandya and Kadabagere Cross. Then we started recovering the stolen tractors, which the accused had sold.” According to police, all the stolen tractors were parked on inclined roads and the accused drove them away around 2am. They would roam around in a stolen Maruti Omini, looking for tractors and return post-midnight to commit the offence. “At 2am, most people will be fast asleep. The accused would push the tractors parked down-slope for some distance and then start by tampering with the ignition wiring. To ensure they don’t run out of fuel, they’d carry a 25-litre can with diesel in it. Before daybreak, they would reach the outskirts of Mandya and hide the tractor in the agricultural fields of their acquaintances,” an investigating officer said. Usually, Yakub Khan, V Lokesh and Lokesh Kumar were given the responsibility of driving away the tractors. Anand alias Umesh and Bore Gowda would take up the next job. “Anand entered police records in 2006 after stealing a two-wheeler in Madiwala. Till 2012, he continued lifting vehicles and often got arrested. Wishing to bid adieu to crime life, Anand ran a vegetable shop in Kadabagere Cross between 2013 and 2017. However, his lavish lifestyle drew him back to the crime world. It was Anand’s idea to steal tractors as it was not done before by any known miscreants,” said police. Anand and Bore Gowda would tamper with the numbers mentioned on the chassis and engine of the tractors. “They would then approach RTO officials and get a new licence plate for the stolen vehicles. Finally, they would sell them to agriculturists for around Rs 4 lakh, while brand new tractors cost more than Rs 7 lakh,” said police. The stolen tractors were sold to farmers at Mandya, Mysuru and Tumakuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/5-of-gang-stealing-tractors-land-in-custody-14-vehicles-seized/articleshow/80016603.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: PU dept creates videos to instil confidence in students||BENGALURU: The department of pre-university education (DPUE) has created videos to encourage students to start attending physical classes. Classes 10 and 12 are set to resume across the state on January 1, 2021. Through the series of videos, the DPUE aims to build confidence in parents and students about the safety measures undertaken by the department. For instance, in one video, a PU student is seen discussing with his working parents about how they are leaving the house, but he is forced to stay indoors and attend online classes. “I am suffering from headache and feel disconnected. Why should I not start attending college when the government is making sure all safety measures like thermal scanning and sanitisation are in place?” the student asks. “I am a PU student, not a kid. I can take responsibility for my safety. Please don’t worry,” the boy says, convincing his parents to allow him to start attending college, while triumphant music plays in the background. Another animated video explains the safety measures that the colleges have undertaken. S Suresh Kumar, education minister and Snehal R, director DPUE, too feature in one of the videos instilling confidence and encouraging parents and urging students to attend colleges when they reopen. “The government cares for the students just as much as their parents do. We have made sure that neither their health not education will be compromised. There is no need for fear,” says Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pu-dept-creates-videos-to-instil-confidence-in-students/articleshow/80016622.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bitcoin as ransom: Hotel receptionist from Bengaluru held||BENGALURU: The Dakshina Kannada district police have arrested another person in connection with the kidnapping of an eight-year-old boy for bitcoins as ransom. The arrested person has been identified as Naveen, a resident of Bengaluru. Police said Naveen, a receptionist at a hotel in Bengaluru, was contacted by the main accused and mastermind. The mastermind reportedly told Naveena that the boy’s father owed him Rs 1.5 crore. He promised Naveena Rs 30 lakh if the latter helped him recover the money. Naveena roped in a cab driver to kidnap the boy. The minor was kidnapped from his house in Ujire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bitcoin-as-ransom-hotel-receptionistfrom-bluru-held/articleshow/80016628.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada district has zero Covid deaths for 11 days; dip in new cases too||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district, which has recorded 732 Covid-19 deaths after the pandemic broke out in March this year, has not reported a single fatality in the past 11 days. The district, which recorded 3.2% CFR (case fatality rate) with 226 deaths in August, was maintaining an average CFR of 2.2% till recently. The district reported one death after December 14, and none since December 17. There is a decrease in number of fresh cases too. The district has been reporting new cases in single digits in the recent past. However, the district had had 53 fresh cases on December 12 and 35 on December 29, indicating it would be too early to predict a trend of cases on a constant decline. The health department is now concentrating its drive on college campuses and daily commuters from Kerala. Dr Ashok H, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada, told TOI that most of the campuses in the district have been not following SOPs related to Covid-19. “We have been visiting campuses every day and urging managements to adhere to the SOP. We have warned colleges of action in case of violations. The cases are on the decline, but we must remain vigilant about daily commuters, especially students who are travelling into Karnataka. We are planning to visit all hostels in the city. Our department cannot control the spread of the virus. Equally important is cooperation from people,” he said. 77 of 96 UK flyers test -veThe district health department has identified 96 passengers from the UK who arrived at Mangaluru International Airport in flights via Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai and airports of Maharashtra and Kerala so far. Of them, 77 have tested negative for the virus. “We have collected samples of six UK passengers on Tuesday and six more will be collected Wednesday. As many as 82 are under home quarantine in the district,” said Dr Ashok H, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-dist-has-zero-covid-deaths-for-11-days-dip-in-new-cases-too/articleshow/80016636.cms||Vinobha K T
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Dept crowdsources ideas to redesign two Bengaluru roads||BENGALURU: A road each in Jayanagar and Wilson Garden may soon get better pedestrian facilities as the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) has identified them under the ‘Streets for people challenge’, an initiative by the Smart Cities Mission and Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). The Centre is encouraging cities to create walking-friendly streets through quick measures in response to Covid-19. ‘Streets for people challenge’ aims to crowdsource innovative ideas from professionals and students from architecture, urban planning and other relevant fields to design streets. “The winning designs will be tested on ground using cost-effective tools in collaboration with the local community,” said DULT . Cities will test at least one pilot: comprising a flagship public space project and a liveable neighbourhood. “The call for ideas includes sites for both components. Participants can select either or both of the sites to provide design solutions,” it said. Under the flagship pilot site, 450m of Jayanagar 10th Main has been selected. “The pilot stretch comprises 10th Main Road extending between 27th Cross and 30th Cross along Jayanagar shopping complex. This street thrives on continuous flow of pedestrians encouraging street vendors, food stalls and retail stores. However, shoppers face issues like limited parking spaces, unorganised vendors and lack of basic infrastructure,” it said. The 0.5 sqkm stretch of Wilson Garden has been identified under livable neighbourhood category. “Though Wilson Garden is a planned residential neighbourhood, heavy traffic, unregulated parking and hard institutional edges make it unsafe for walking. The design interventions should explore strategies to improve the quality of existing public spaces and their network, through lively pedestrian linkages and pedestrian-friendly streets & plazas that are accessible by all groups of people,” it added. For further details, visit smartnet.niua.org||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dept-crowdsources-ideas-to-redesign-2-city-roads/articleshow/80016663.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bangalore University VC relieves finance officer; govt says it’s against norms||BENGALURU: A controversy has erupted at Bangalore University after the vice-chancellor issued an order relieving the finance officer of her duties on Monday. On Tuesday, the principal director, Karnataka audit and accounts department, wrote to the VC saying the transfer is against norms. The registrar, K Jyothi, and finance officer Parvathi HB have been alerting authorities on irregularities in the administration in the recent past. Sources said they have issued notices to staff and written to the government. These include issues like a non-teaching staffer drawing salary as a driver. The non-teaching staff have been protesting on campus for the past one week. They accused the registrar and the finance officer of “interfering in their work”. Sources said vice-chancellor KR Venugopal had informed the accounts department that the teaching and non-teaching staff want the current officers removed. Later, he issued a letter to the finance officer relieving her of her duties “in consultation with the audit and accounts department”. On Tuesday, the letter issued by the department said Parvathi HB was posted through a government order and her tenure is up to July 17, 2022. The removal from a statutory post demands a reason and she has been transferred without valid reason, making the act illegal, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bu-vc-relieves-finance-officer-govt-says-its-against-norms/articleshow/80016671.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Air India to fly to San Francisco & Chicago from January||BENGALURU: Air India on Tuesday said it is set to spread its wings further in the US with the commencement of its first non-stop service between Bengaluru and San Francisco and between Hyderabad and Chicago from January 9 and 13, respectively. “The flight from Bengaluru to San Francisco — AI-175 — will operate with a Boeing 777-200LR aircraft twice a week on Mondays and Thursdays departing from Bengaluru at 2.30pm to arrive in San Francisco at 5pm on the same day. The return flight, AI-176, from San Francisco to Bengaluru will operate on Saturdays and Tuesdays leaving San Francisco at 8.30pm to arrive in Bengaluru at between 2.30am and 3am,” Air India stated. The flight from Hyderabad to Chicago will operate once a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ai-to-fly-to-sf-chicago-from-january/articleshow/80016679.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Did chair incident during session drive SL Dharmegowda to take extreme step?||BENGALURU: Legislative council deputy chairman SL Dharmegowda, who allegedly died by suicide on Tuesday, was reportedly depressed over the December 15 incident in the House in which he was pulled down from the chair during the one-day session. It was marked by a ruckus between MLCs of Congress and BJP. His family members and some JD(S) legislators said he was extremely introverted and sensitive and couldn’t handle the humiliation. His brother SL Bojegowda, also an MLC, said the death note recovered by police briefly mentioned he was saddened by the council incident when BJP members attempted to move a no-confidence motion against chairman K Pratapchandra Shetty, a Congressman. Though he was reluctant to sit in the chair, Bojegowda said a few members of the ruling BJP compelled him to occupy it to take control of the House before Shetty entered the House. Congress members pulled him out of the chair and in the melee, he tumbled. “He was depressed when I met him after that. He didn’t want any position. He seemed to indicate he was influenced to sit on the chair by someone,” JD(S) MLC BM Farooq alleged. Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy dubbed it a “political murder”. “Dharmegowda told me he was not interested in sitting in the chair as he knew it was against rules. All those involved in this political game, including me, are guilty of his death. It’s time for introspection,” he added. Kumaraswamy said Bojegowda told him a couple days ago that his brother had gone into depression and needed counselling. Kumaraswamy and party supremo HD Deve Gowda called Dharmegowda and consoled him, saying he was not responsible for what happened in the House. “It’s not the time for a blame-game. What they did in the House was wrong according to the rules of business,” said Shetty. Another factor was legislative council secretary Mahalakshmi’s reply to Shetty’s query. She reportedly said she handed Dharmegowda a copy of Rule 10 A that explains under what circumstances the deputy chairman can occupy the chair but he couldn’t look at it due to the din. Based on the reply, the chairman constituted a special House panel to probe the incident and Dharmegowda was reportedly concerned about the outcome.“He was hurt since he was forced to act on someone’s behalf and had lost his self-respect,” said JD(S) MLC KA Thippeswamy, adding: “He was also upset at some TV channels repeatedly showing the incident.” However, some MLCs said: “There could be a personal reason and only a probe can unravel it.” (With inputs from Shrinivasa M & Udaya Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/did-chair-incident-during-session-drivedharmegowda-to-take-extreme-step/articleshow/80016783.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Buffalo exemption a relief for meat traders||BENGALURU: Meat traders, beef consumers and farmers in Karnataka heaved a sigh of relief after the government issued an anti-cow slaughter ordinance with certain exemptions. As per the new law, cows, their calves, bulls and bullocks are prohibited from being slaughtered irrespective of age. Only a male or female buffalo above the age of 13 will be allowed to be slaughtered. Earlier, the state had mooted a blanket ban on bovine slaughtering by including clauses that no person could bring any bovine to the market for slaughter and that an animal could only be sold if not for slaughter. “It is good that the government has at last understood the importance of this meat trade and made much-needed modifications. Because of the stringent rules, the disposal of economically unviable buffaloes would have created a huge problem for farmers,” said some meat traders in Shivajinagar. The move has also offered some respite to secondary stakeholders, like butchers and people from the leather industry or those who depend on cattle products. “This has come as a relief to dairy farmers because they can sell buffaloes to slaughterhouses while they don’t know what to do with a dry cow (past its milk cycle),” said some dairy industry officials. “Generally, farmers don’t know what to do with male cattle or non-productive buffaloes. So they abandon them even as they go on destroying crops and creating ruckus on roads. At least by selling them, they can invest in new livestock or use the money for emergencies,” said Hanumanthappa, a farmer leader from Chamarajnagar. According to meat industry sources, Karnataka dropped the stringent clauses not due to pressure from meat traders or farmers but the Goa government. After Maharashtra banned cow slaughter in 2015, Goa relied almost entirely on Karnataka for beef supply as it’s their staple food and due to demand from hotels and restaurants, which mainly cater to foreign tourists. According to animal husbandry department officials, traders either bring in freshly slaughtered beef from North Karnataka where buffalo population is huge or take the cattle from here as locally available cattle are not enough to meet the state’s daily demand. Quoting the 2019 livestock census data, animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan had said the new law will go a long way in improving the cow population because about 2.4 lakh of them are slaughtered every year in the state. Disputing this, dairy industry insiders feel it may shift in favour of buffaloes. “The new law is expected to push up the buffalo population in the state as farmers may prefer to breed them since they can survive on low-quality fodder. They can also sell them off to slaughterhouses. While the average milk yield for indigenous cows is around 2.5 litres per day, it’s 3-4 litres in case of buffaloes. Seer welcomes ordinance to ban cow slaughterUdupi Pejawar Mutt seer Sri Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha swamiji has welcomed the ordinance to ban cow slaughter in Karnataka. “The government has taken the right decision to protect cows, which is a sacred animal,” he said while attending a programme organised by the Sangh Parivar on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/buffalo-exemption-a-relief-for-meat-traders/articleshow/80016788.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
December 30, 2020||India||In a first, BARC-developed plaque therapy successfully used on eye cancer patients in AIIMS, says minister||NEW DELHI: Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC)-developed eye cancer therapy has been successfully used for the first time for the treatment of patients with ocular tumours in AIIMS-Delhi and the results of using Ruthenium 106 plaque for treatment of a patient with choroidal hemangioma (benign tumour in blood vessels) have been found to be satisfactory. Union minister of state for atomic energy Jitendra Singh, who facilitated the collaboration between the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) and Dr Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, AIIMS, Delhi, informed about the breakthrough and lauded the BARC for developing the “simple and cost-effective therapy” for eye cancer patients. The handling of BARC-developed plaque is very convenient for surgeons and it is said to be on a par with international standards, a statement of the DAE said. Ruthenium plaque therapy involves placing a radioactive source like Ruthenium-106 (a radioisotope) in contact with the surface of the eyeball for cancer therapy. Ru-106 is recovered from radioactive waste and has a simple and slim design. One plaque can treat about 50 patients and its usable life is one year. Besides AIIMS, it has been made available free of cost to two more hospitals, Hyderabad-based Centre for Sight and Sankara Eye Hospital in Bengaluru. Being indigenously developed by BARC, the Ruthenium-106 plaque also gives a boost to PM Narendra Modi's ‘vocal for local’ call. It all started in October last year when DAE chairman K N Vyas held a detailed discussion with Jitendra Singh regarding the feasibility of developing this regimen of ophthalmic patches. Following this, minister Jitendra Singh, who himself is a doctor, facilitated the collaboration between the DAE and AIIMS. According to Dr Atul Kumar, professor and head of Dr Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, AIIMS, the BARC plaques have been used in seven cases of ocular cancer till now. Out of them, two were used in cases of retinoblastoma, two for choroidal melanoma, two for ocular surface squamous neoplasia and one for choroidal hemangioma. Jitendra Singh said that in the last five years, DAE has striven to diversify its activities and applications for the benefit of the common man. He said developing the indigenous plaque brachytherapy for eye cancer patients is also one such initiative in the area of medical management. Jitendra Singh, who also handles the ministry of development of North Eastern Region, also informed that the Borooah Cancer Hospital in Guwahati has been co-opted with the Tata Memorial Cancer Hospital, Mumbai, which functions under the aegis of the DAE. The DAE is also contributing in other areas. For example, BARC is developing an advanced bulletproof jacket for security personnel and in the farm sector, it is sharing with food companies its irradiation technique to extend shelf life of vegetables and other perishable food products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-first-barc-developed-plaque-therapy-successfully-used-on-eye-cancer-patients-in-aiims-says-minister/articleshow/80017862.cms||Surendra Singh
December 30, 2020||India||At 20.5k, India sees slight rise in fresh cases; 287 deaths||A day after dropping to a low of nearly six months, India’s daily Covid-19 count rose to over 20,500 on Tuesday, along with a marginal increase in the death toll. The country recorded 20,517 fresh cases, the highest in four days, as several states detected a higher number of positive cases on increased testing. Kerala’s count jumped from 3,047 on Monday to 5,887. With this, India’s total caseload rose to 1,02,45,387. The case count drops sharply every Monday due to lower testing and staff shortages over the weekend. More than 9.8 lakh tests were done across the country on Monday, an increase of nearly 2.7 lakh from the previous day, as per the covid19india.org tracker. As many as 287 deaths were recorded on Tuesday. This was the highest daily toll in five days although the increase wasn’t substantially more than the previous day’s count of 251. The last time India recorded a toll of more than 300 was six days ago, when 337 Covid fatalities entered in the records. The total toll from the pandemic in India stood at 1,48,422. While Kerala continued to report the highest number of fresh cases, Maharashtra was at second spot with 3,018 new infections on Tuesday, followed by Bengal (1,244), Chhattisgarh (1,134) and Uttar Pradesh (1,044). The daily death toll remained the highest in Maharashtra (68), followed by Bengal (30), Delhi (28), Kerala (24) and Uttar Pradesh (18). Fresh Covid cases in Tamil Nadu dropped below 1,000 for the first time in 212 days on Tuesday while 12 deaths were recorded. The daily count of fresh cases touched four digits for the first time on June 1. In Rajasthan, Covid infections have been continuously dipping, with 626 fresh ones recorded on Tuesday. Except for Jaipur, where 108 cases were reported, the number was below 100 at a majority of districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-20-5k-india-sees-slight-rise-in-fresh-cases-287-deaths/articleshow/80018044.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||#Surviving2020: How the pandemic helped this city restaurateur turn his biz around||From a cloud kitchen to a 300-sqft eatery on Prince Anwar Shah Road to two bigger restaurants in Jodhpur Park and Rajarhat, Swarnaditya Das’s passion for food, coupled with his entrepreneurial skills, sheer grit and strong resolve, helped him realise his dreams despite all odds, including the threats posed by the pandemic. As he and his newly found partner, Subhabrata Biswas, continue to make the city’s foodies happy with lip-smacking food and beverages, Swarnaditya walks us through the ups and downs of his career and tells us how this year changed from the worst to the best for him. Excerpts: ‘Lost my job, found my calling’ In 2013, I was fresh out of law college and joined an IT firm. Soon after, I got fired for taking medical leave during my probation period. I was probably the only person who was ecstatic after losing his job. Though my cooking skills were limited to boiling potatoes, I wanted to own a food business and managed to start a stall at an IT office. Since I was required to have a proper shop and trade licence, I started a cloud kitchen based on my nickname. Biz hit by the lockdown After an accident in 2014, I had to shut down my business. With a broken heart, I moved to Mumbai for a central government job. But my mind kept buzzing with business ideas. I would complete my work in three hours and spend the rest of my office hours planning my next venture. My parents were against it as they couldn’t bear to see their lawyer son selling sandwiches. I quit the job and finally started my dine-in restaurant at a 300-sqft space in 2016. Within a year, we reached the optimum level. I started looking for a bigger facility but couldn’t find one. Things were the same till 2020 as our daily sales hovered around `25,000 to `30,000. But when the lockdown started, all hell broke loose. Our sales came down to less than `2,000 a day and we could no longer afford to pay the salaries to our employees. Crowdfunding comes to the rescue As I was planning to shut down operations, a young boy claiming to be an ardent fan of our food, approached me. He had recently landed a job and offered to send me Rs 3,000 from his first salary. And so he did. That incident led me to explore the concept of crowdfunding and I started approaching people on social media. The deal was whoever paid Rs 1,000 would get food worth Rs 1,200 in the next one year. Within a few weeks, more than 100 people came forward to help and we raised almost Rs 2.10 lakh. That money helped the business stay afloat. New partner on board Seeing that ad, another young man (Subhabrata Biswas) who was planning to start a business after his MSc in mathematics, also approached me. After several failed meetings with investors, I had a business meeting with this guy on the main road in his car. He was more than eager to invest and become our partner. By August, we opened another outlet in Rajarhat and moved to a bigger facility in Jodhpur Park in November. Pandemic a blessing in disguise After starting it in 2016, this is for the first time that our restaurant is flying high – all thanks to the lockdown. It is true that the pandemic pushed us over the edge and we were on the verge of closing down, but the same pandemic also taught us to be self-sufficient and innovative. Had it not been for the pandemic, we’d have still been just a small 300-sqft eatery in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/surviving2020-how-the-pandemic-helped-this-city-restaurateur-turn-his-biz-around/articleshow/80013316.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
December 30, 2020||India||Harm to public property is an attack on common man: PM||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday lashed out at the “mindset” of protesters damaging infrastructure and public property saying these cause loss to the nation. Inaugurating the first section of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC), the PM also attacked the UPA dispensation for slow progress of the project during its tenure and termed it an example of the earlier government’s “work culture”. In a veiled reference to the damage of nearly 1,500 mobile towers in Punjab and also earlier reports of protesters targeting trains during the farmer protests, the PM said, “I would like to talk about the mindset which we often see during protests. This mindset is to cause damage to the country’s infrastructure and public properties. We must remember that these infrastructures are not of any leader, party or government. These are national properties. These have been made with the sweat of every poor, taxpayer, middle class and every section of the society. Any harm to these properties is a straight attack on the poor and every common man.” Modi said while exercising the democratic rights, people must not forget about their national duties. In what could be seen as a reference to the protesters taking over the railway tracks and stopping rail operations in Punjab during “Rail Roko”, the PM also said railways is often targeted by protesters. He cited how the national transporter moved stranded migrants back to their homes and ensured supply of essential items during the Covid pandemic. Virtually flagging off freight train on the 351-km new Bhaupur-New Khurja section of EDFC and the high-tech operation control centre set up at Prayagraj, Modi also accused the UPA of delaying the dedicated freight corridor project and ignoring modernisation of railways, and said politics should be kept away from infrastructure development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/harm-to-public-property-is-an-attack-on-common-man-pm/articleshow/80018137.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||UP epicentre of hate politics: 104 former bureaucrats to Yogi||NEW DELHI: Over 100 former bureaucrats have written a letter to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, saying the anti-conversion ordinance had transformed the state into an “epicentre of politics of hate, division and bigotry” and demanded its immediate withdrawal. The open letter with 104 signatories, including former national security adviser Shivshankar Menon, former foreign secretary Nirupama Rao and former adviser to the PM TKA Nair, said, “...UP, once... the cradle of the Ganga-Jamuna civilisation, has become the epicentre of politics of hate, division and bigotry, and institutions of governance are now steeped in communal poison.” The letter cited instances of minorities being allegedly targeted, including the case from Moradabad in which two men were allegedly dragged by Bajrang Dal activists to police who arrested them on allegations that one of them had forced a Hindu girl to marry him. “What is inexcusable is the police remained mute as vigilantes harassed and interrogated the innocent couple. (The woman) suffered a miscarriage, possibly as a result of harassment,” the letter said, quoting a newspaper report. It said the anti-conversion ordinance is “being used as a stick to victimise especially those Indian men who are Muslims and women who dare to exercise their freedom of choice”. While the various high courts, including the Allahabad HC, have ruled unequivocally that choosing one’s life partner is a fundamental right guaranteed under the Constitution, UP is blithely undermining that very Constitution,” the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-epicentre-of-hate-politics-104-former-bureaucrats-to-yogi/articleshow/80018473.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||Covid-19: 7 who arrived from UK test positive for mutated strain||NEW DELHI: The new UK variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus — which is 70% more transmissible — has been detected in India with at least seven returnees from the country, including a 2-year-old girl, testing positive for the mutant variant, the government said on Tuesday even as it assured that vaccines under evaluation will work against the new strain. "Most vaccines do target the spike protein (and) there are changes in the variants. But vaccines stimulate our immune system to produce a wide range of protective antibodies," principal scientific adviser K Vijay Raghavan said. The changes seen in the variant virus allow it to attack and enter human cells more effectively. "All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by states and UTs to RT-PCR tests. So far, only 114 have been found positive. These positive samples have been sent to 10 genome sequencing labs. Six samples of UK returnees found to be positive with the new UK variant genome are in Bengaluru (3), CCMB Hyderabad (2) and NIV Pune (1), the health ministry said in a statement. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh confirmed its first case of the mutant strain with a two-year-old girl, who recently returned to Meerut with her parents from the UK, was found to be infected with it. Her parents, however, were found to be infected with the old Covid-19 variant, the UP health department said. The child is in an isolation ward with her parents at Meerut’s Subharti Medical College. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore. The government has amplified testing, surveillance and containment measures along with genome sequencing of positive samples and also urged people to strictly adhere to Covid-appropriate norms even after vaccine becomes available. The government has set up the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium of 10 government labs to test and sequence 5% of the positive samples, including those of all international passengers. Though currently the evidence indicates higher infectiousness of the new strain with no increase in severity of the disease caused by it, the government will initiate studies to see the relationship between the new variant and the virulence. Raghavan said the increased transmissibility of the UK variant is a cause of concern. Of the 17 changes in the virus, eight are in the spike protein and are important. "One change, N501Y, increases affinity for the ACE2 receptor, used for viral entry into human cells. N501Y has been linked earlier to increased infectivity and transmission in animal models," he said. He added that South Africa, which has also discovered various mutations in the virus, shared the N501Y change with the UK variant, in addition to other distinct changes. In the UK, prevalence of the spike gene variant was found in all positive results from samples collected from the field since October, validating that this strain is more transmissible. India has suspended all flights coming from the UK with effect from midnight December 23 till December 31. From November 25 till midnight December 23, about 33,000 passengers from the UK disembarked at various Indian airports. All persons with the UK strain are in single-room isolation in designated healthcare facilities of respective state governments. Their close contacts have also been put under quarantine. Comprehensive contact-tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, the ministry said. "The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing, dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs," the government said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-7-who-arrived-from-uk-test-positive-for-mutated-strain/articleshow/80017975.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||On eve of talks, farmers power up their demands||NEW DELHI: Ahead of their fresh round of talks with the Centre on Wednesday, farm unions opposed to the new agri laws revised one of their four demands — replacing “necessary changes” to the proposed electricity amendment bill with a call to withdraw it altogether. In a letter to the government while formally accepting its invitation for the seventh round of talks, the 40 agitating unions on Tuesday claimed their earlier stance over the electricity bill was due to a “mistake”. The communication baffled agriculture ministry officials, who saw it as an instance of goalposts being moved, making resolution of the standoff tougher. If the latest talks don’t result in any progress, both the Centre and the unions seem prepared to sit it out. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways and food & consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal met home minister Amit Shah. They are learnt to have discussed the government’s strategy for the talks. Though sources claimed the meeting of the group of ministers was meant for routine discussion on issues of prices and availability of essential commodities, both Tomar and Goyal will attend the agri talks on Wednesday. So far, both the sides have held six meetings, including the last one on December 8, with Shah in attendance. Though the Electricity (Amendment) Bill had not been a major sticking point with the Centre ready to consider changes, the call for its withdrawal makes it a more complicated issue. The Centre had on Monday invited the unions for talks, saying the agriculture ministry is committed to find “logical solutions to relevant matters” that could be acceptable to all. Responding, the unions on Tuesday wrote that the talks must be held on their four specific agenda points in a certain order to find the solutions. The agenda points include "modalities to repeal" the three central farm laws, mechanism to ensure "legal guarantee" to higher MSP, keeping farmers outside the ambit of penalty provision on stubble burning and now a mechanism to "withdraw" the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill to protect the "interests of farmers". “Farmer organisations have once again requested that the government must focus on the demands raised instead of reacting to any imaginary demand. The discussions must be held in the sequence set out in their two letters (December 26 and December 29),” said Avik Saha, national convenor of Jai Kisan Andolan and general secretary of the farm groups umbrella body, AIKSCC. Asked about change in the context of fourth demand relating to the Electricity (Amendment) Bill in Tuesday’s letter, Saha told TOI the unions merely clarified the position which they held for long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-eve-of-talks-farmers-power-up-their-demands/articleshow/80018489.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 30, 2020||India||Co-WIN app gets tested in 4-state vaccine dry run||The dry run of Covid-19 vaccination was carried out in selected districts in four states — Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Assam — for two days since Monday. The end-to-end drill was carried out to assess the readiness for the massive vaccination exercise that is expected to begin in January once the vaccine gets regulatory approval for use. During the dry runs, the government also checked the use of Co-WIN in field environment as the platform is expected to play a significant role in real-time co-ordination during the exercise. Recipients were subjected to temperature check, physical distancing and sanitation protocol before enrolling their names into the Co-Win. They were also educated on the potential side-effects of the vaccine and what they have to monitor on the health front for the next three months. (With inputs from Ahmedabad, Chandigarh, Visakhapatnam & Guwahati)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/co-win-app-gets-tested-in-4-state-vaccine-dry-run/articleshow/80018551.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||Careless use of therapies may lead to mutations, says ICMR||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday warned against non-judicious use of therapies that have not been established for treating Covid-19 because it can lead to immune pressure on SARS-CoV2 virus, which may result in mutations. ICMR director general Balram Bhargava also said that even vaccine administration has to be watched carefully because immunity breakthrough might happen because of vaccine. “The vaccines that are the front-runners are targeting the S-protein and also targeting the M-RNA but we find that they will continue to be effective. We have to be very careful to look for any immunity breakthrough that may happen by vaccination,” Bhargava said. The government conducted a two-day dry run for Covid-19 vaccination in four states Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat on December 28 and 29. Bhargava said genetic mutations occur in the respiratory viruses but higher transmissibility is a point of concern. “Genetic mutations occur in the respiratory viruses and these minor drifts may occur from time to time but once several drifts occur it has higher transmissibility rate as it happened in the United Kingdom. So that is a point of concern although we are testing in India for virus variants regularly,” Bhargava said. Non-judicious use of therapies that have not been established for Covid-19 treatment are responsible for putting “immune pressure on virus” and leads to virus mutations, he said. Experts say immune pressure on the virus can be related to the environment but it is often related to therapies or drug used for treatment which cause this immune pressure on the virus helping it develop resistance and mutate. “So it is important for our scientific community also that we do not put too much immune pressure on the virus and we have to maintain the judicious use of therapies which are going to benefit,” Bhargava said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/careless-use-of-therapies-may-lead-to-mutations-says-icmr/articleshow/80018554.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||Covid toll in working age group at 10% now||NEW DELHI: Older persons above 60 years continue to be at higher risk of deaths even though they now account for a reduced share of positive cases, analysis of official age-wise data for infected cases and mortality from Covid shows. People above 60 account for 55% of total Covid-19 deaths in the country, up from 53% reported on October 13 and 51% on August 25. On the other hand, those in the age band of 45-60 now account for a lower share of 33% deaths, as against 35% and 36% in October and August.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The analysis shows that those in the 18-44 age band account for only 10% deaths, though they contributed 52% of all positive cases. This is significant because this is the working age population, more mobile and therefore likely spreaders of infection too.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Overall, a decline in number of new Covid cases, active cases and deaths is reassuring, particularly at a time when several nations are facing a significant surge, the government said on Tuesday even as it cautioned against complacency in the wake of the new UK variant that has now been detected in India too. The number of active cases has been registered at 2.7 lakh, sliding to a low after six months. The cumulative positivity rate stands at 6.02% while the positivity rate during last week was 2.25%. The current active caseload in India is much lower at 194 per million population, as compared to the US (23,321), Italy (9,521), Germany (4,568), Russia (3,778), Brazil (3,499) and Turkey (1,241), the health ministry said. Dr V K Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, said that people have to very careful with the variant of the coronavirus detected in the UK. “The major population is still susceptible to Covid-19. This particular virus variant may have its own run and we have to very careful. One cannot be careless,” Paul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-toll-in-working-age-group-at-11-now/articleshow/80018558.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Brace for biting cold on New Year||PATNA: Residents should brace for biting cold on New Year, as India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday issued warning for cold wave conditions at isolated places in Bihar from December 30 till January 1. Besides, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall along with thunderstorm is likely at isolated places from January 3 to 5. The cold wave conditions over the next three days have been attributed to strengthening of cold northwesterly or northerly winds in the lower level of the atmosphere. Weathermen have predicted slight fall in temperature along with light to moderate fog over the next two days. Gaya had the lowest minimum temperature at 6.1 degrees C. The minimum temperature at Patna was 8.8 degrees C, which was three notches lower than the corresponding normal for the day. Nisan Ansari of Patna Meteorological Centre said: “As per numerical observation, a western disturbance was situated over Jammu and Kashmir and adjoining areas. It is likely to lead to slight change in minimum temperature.” Moderate fog is likely to prevail at one or two places over southwest and south-central parts of Bihar and shallow fog at one or two places over rest parts of the state during next two days. Distribution of blankets: The officials of Patna Meteorological Centre have undertaken a drive to provide blankets to the poor by pooling up their own resources. Blankets were provided to around 60 needy pavement dwellers at different places in the city on Monday and Tuesday nights. It was planned under the leadership of S K Patel and Amit Kumar and executed with the help of Pankaj Kumar and Abhishek Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/brace-for-biting-cold-on-new-year/articleshow/80014765.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Sarpanch held for involvement in liquor trade||PATNA: Police arrested one Savita Devi, the sarpanch of Barkagaon Uttari panchayat, from Muzaffarpur district on Tuesday for her alleged involvement in an illicit liquor trade. Acting on a tip-off, the cops conducted a raid at the sarpanch’s residence that falls under the Karja police station area and arrested her. However, her husband, Umesh Sahni, managed to dodge the members of the raiding team. Police also recovered a sum of Rs 7.5 lakh and 644 litres of liquor that had been stocked in the sarpanch’s house for delivery to some local suppliers for New Year celebrations. During interrogation, Savita confessed that the seized money was used for purchasing and selling the liquor. Karja police station SHO Saroj Kumar told this newspaper that the sarpanch’s husband had earlier been booked for operating the liquor trade in violation of the Bihar Excise and Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 2016. “Raids are being conducted to arrest the four other accused,” Saroj added. The sarpanch was later produced in a local court that remanded her in judicial custody for 14 days. Meanwhile, raids have been intensified in the district in the wake of inputs from intelligence agencies that a huge stock of liquor has been stored by smugglers for New Year celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sarpanch-held-for-involvement-in-liquor-trade/articleshow/80014815.cms||Ramashankar
December 30, 2020||Patna||Former mukhiya among four gunned down in Bihar||PATNA: At least four people, including a former mukhiya, were shot dead in separate incidents in the state in the last 24 hours. Two people, on the other hand, were shot at in Saharsa and Samatipur. Niranjan Singh (59), a former mukhiya, was shot dead near his house at Noni village under the Chandradeep police station area in Jamui district on Tuesday. SHO of Chandradeep police station Vijay Kumar said Niranjan was killed over political rivalry with one Shambhu Singh of the same village. “Niranjan was set to contest the upcoming panchayat election for the post of mukhiya from Kolma panchayat once again,” he said, adding Niranjan had been the mukhiya for three consecutive terms until he lost to Ajay Yadav in 2016. “Shambhu allegedly killed Niranjan as he considered the latter as his biggest political rival. Shambhu and his associates fled the village after committing the crime. Raids are on to arrest them. Two empty cartridges were recovered from the spot,” the SHO added. In Araria, one Pawan Kedia (55), a medicine trader, was shot dead when he was returning home on a two-wheeler with his elder brother from Forbesganj on Monday night. Forbesganj SDPO Gautam Kumar said three motorcycle-borne criminals intercepted Pawan on R V Road around 8pm and pumped two bullets into his body. “Pawan was rushed to hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead,” the SDPO said. In Muzaffarpur, police recovered the body of a seed trader, Paras Nath Prasad (40), from a roadside ditch near Shahpur Mor under the Minapur police station area on Monday night. SHO of Minapur police station Prabhat Ranjan Saxena said Paras was shot in head and his body was thrown into the ditch. “He was returning home on a bicycle from Narwa when the incident occurred,” SHO said, adding the victim had an old enmity with some locals. “Four people have been named in the FIR. However, they are absconding,” he added. In another incident, criminals shot dead a youth, Amit Yadav (22), on a village road connecting Hareli and Sonbarsa under the Udakishunganj police station area in Madhepura on Monday night. Udakishunganj SDPO Satish Kumar said Yadav, a daily wager, was returning home on a cycle when the incident occurred. In Saharsa, one Deepak Sah (16) was shot at near NCC Chowk under the Sadar police station area around 6am on Tuesday. Sah was on way to a coaching institute when the incident occurred. In Samastipur, one Junaid Alam (22), allegedly shot at his uncle Munna Alam at Rahimpur village under the Bangra police station area around 8pm on Monday. SHO of Bangra police station Anil Kumar said Munna, who owns an iron grill manufacturing shop, had a land dispute with Junaid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/former-mukhiya-among-four-gunned-down-in-bihar/articleshow/80014840.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 30, 2020||Patna||Police lathicharge protesters seeking repeal of farm laws in Patna||PATNA: The police on Tuesday resorted to heavy lathicharge on the members of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) at the Dak Bungalow crossing to prevent their march to the Raj Bhavan. The march had been organized as part of the nationwide programme to submit to the governor a memorandum demanding the repeal of the three farm laws passed by the Centre, guaranteed purchase of agriculture produce of farmers at the MSP and the withdrawal of the proposed Electricity Bill, among others. All India Kisan Mahasabha state president Visheshwar Yadav, CPI(ML) politburo member Dhirendra Jha and one Ravindra Ram from Gopalganj sustained injuries in the lathicharge, their spokesman Pervej said. A five-member AIKSCC delegation led by CPI(ML) MLA from Ghoshi Rambali Yadav submitted a memorandum to the secretary of the governor at the Raj Bhavan. Earlier, around 10,000 members of various farmer organizations and the CPI(ML), CPI and CPM started for the Raj Bhavan from Gandhi Maidan. Among those who led the AIKSCC march were its incharge for Bihar and Jharkhand, Rajaran Singh, Ashok Prasad, Ramadhar Singh and Visheshwar Prasad, among others. They were stopped by police near the JP statue, but broke the police cordon and marched towards Dak Bungalow crossing on Fraser Road. Subsequently, the police resorted to lathicharge at the Dak Bungalow crossing to disperse them. Soon, the protesters organized a rally that was addressed by Tarari MLA Sudama Prasad, who had returned from Punjab. AIKSCC incharge Singh and CPI(ML) state secretary condemned the police lathicharge. Singh said the state government had resorted to repression of the farmers’ agitation. Singh also said the Primary Agriculture Credit Societies (PACS) were not purchasing paddy from the farmers. He asked the state government to ensure that the PACS should purchase paddy from the farmers at the MSP rates. He said the Nitish Kumar government had first abolished the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act in the country in 2006, which led to the winding up of the Bazaar Samitis. It had worsened the farmers’ plight in the state, and the three new Centre’s farm laws would further aggravate the crisis facing the farmers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-lathicharge-protesters-seeking-repeal-of-farm-laws-in-patna/articleshow/80014877.cms||Abhay Singh
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kalighat garbha griha reopens after 9 months||KOLKATA: After remaining closed for over nine months, the garbha griha (sanctum sanctorum) of the Kalighat temple reopened to devotees on Tuesday. The temple had reopened in July, like others in the state, but devotees could only stand outside the garbha griha and offer their prayers. Kalighat temple is now allowing devotees to enter the sanctum sanctorum and offer their prayers. In most other temples, like Dakshineswar, the garbha griha is out of bounds for devotees. Hundreds of calls and mails to the temple committee and requests from the sevayats or the priests who serve the temple, coaxed the authorities to reopen the garbha griha. “The moment I heard that the garbha griha has re-opened, I went to offer my prayers. I couldn’t wait to be near Maa finally,” said a happy Anasuya Banerjee, a Harish Mukherjee Road resident who runs a dance academy. According to an official statement of the temple committee, devotees can enter the temple via Gate No. 2 to visit the garbha griha. Only 10 devotees are allowed at a time. The batches are being strictly monitored by volunteers and the Kalighat police. On Tuesday, devotees who entered with sevayats were allowed in through Gate No. 3. Gates 4 and 5 were used as exits and way to Jor Bungalow. “However, these rules will not be effective on January 1, since the crowd is expected to swell that day,” said an official of the committee. “We told the temple authorities that they should open the garbha griha. Even Tarapith, where the situation is similar to ours, has opened up,” said Dipankar Chatterjee, secretary of the Sevayat Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kalighat-garbha-griha-reopens-after-9-months/articleshow/80015952.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 30, 2020||Business||Drop ‘culture-fit’ hiring to get fresh perspective at work||By Prabir JhaAs I listen to various companies share their organisational challenges, the one common worry is about engaging their talent. And the more I reflect, the more I realise ‘engagement’ is too passive, too momentary and too transactional to truly make organisations secure their underlying strategic outcome. The time has come to reframe our perspective and efforts. And as I tell my clients, let the New Year be about ‘unleashing’ their talent, and not just about engaging them. Let me articulate my high-level approach in some clear themes: People do things for their reasons, not yours: The parental tinge, whether paternal or even maternal, in our leadership thinking is obvious. It makes leaders believe they know what is good and effective for their workforce. This then leads to symbolic concessions and practices, even fads, that do not necessarily get people to unleash their power, creativity or effort within, as they would. Some of these gestures or interventions may be well-meaning or even have a short-term ‘high’. But they still are received as benevolence. Today’s talent finds that too patronising to believe in the honesty of the intent. And the lunch table conversations, or more likely the digital conversations, seem skeptical, if not irreverent. Leadership must uncover the reasons that appeal to their talent, not just to the companies. It must change its traditional frame of reference, howsoever difficult it seems. Just don’t transact, assimilate with your talent: Too often, employee engagement is seen as a calendarised set of events — from Rangolis and parties to recognition nights. While the moment cannot be denied, it falls short of being sustaining. There is little that most leadership teams do to assimilate themselves with their talent. Often the current is expected to flow the other way. This is a suspect practice. If you damn the flow of your assimilation with the people you lead, you are more likely to be damned by them. Move beyond symbolic transactions. Try to understand their world. Assimilate your leadership with their passion and dreams. The more you become one with them, the more you have a chance to build a powerful unleash of energy. Otherwise, tokenism and engagement surveys will continue in isolation. Engagement is too incremental. Disrupt: Most companies plan their employee engagement thinking — that is too incremental. Some changes in policies. Some variants of mentoring programmes. Some diversity & inclusion actions. These are symbolism, and do not strategically unleash the power of your talent. Companies must disrupt their thinking and doing. What truly matters to your talent? How does the job design, the quality of managers, the freedom to operate, the understanding of a stronger purpose impact the sense of charge? What makes each one feel unleashed to make the impact one dreams to make? Can we atomise corporate actions and behaviour to enable individual triggers, rather than cookie-cutter practices for large demographic groups? Can we question every historical practice on its huge necessity to still exist? Can we simplify and enable lives of our people rather than control, track and measure anything and everything? It is possible if one is willing to go beyond the classical naysaying by power brokers in corporations. Just simplify. Everything. From my own experience, I can guarantee it works. Revamp your culture beyond ‘fit & engagement’: One of the biggest myths I observe with leaders and HR teams of companies is the misplaced reminder about ‘culture fit’. It is convenient, but quite erroneous to be pivoted around ‘fit’ in a world of disruptive upheaval. My top-level advice is to at least shift thinking to ‘culture-plus’. Talent is too free-minded and disparate to be conformist today. And you make a strategic mistake of building a sterile culture by hiring or keeping talent which is a ‘culture fit’. You must make culture your priority and genuinely build pluralism if you want to unleash the power within. If we robotise our culture, it will be boring in the least and fairly irrelevant to help win your new-age corporate war, in its worst. Talent is your business, not just HR’s: Yet another palpable problem I observe is the inability of leaders to understand the difference between HR (the function) and HR (the agenda). Talent is your organisation’s strategic HR agenda, which a great CHRO and team can help with. But it is not a responsibility to be outsourced to the HR function. Most of the experience of a company happens with their managers, not HR. Managers must be held accountable to know their team beyond task delivery. The best ones indeed find the time and interest. But these are a handful. Unless managers and leaders are coached and held accountable for the way they unleash the power of the talent they are entrusted with, little gimmicks of engagement are, at best, just that. Short-term results cannot obviate the more strategic responsibility of a manager — to build the talent potential for one’s firm. If talent indeed is a strategic imperative as most corporates claim, leadership will need to redesign their thinking about getting what talent is expected to deliver — breakthrough impact. It needs to move beyond pedestrian and worn-out gimmicks to a deeper insight and expectation if firms want to get truly talent-ready. And they must recognise their job is not just to engage their talent for the ritual, but to truly unleash it for the effect. (The writer is founder & CEO, Prabir Jha People Advisory)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/drop-culture-fit-hiring-to-get-fresh-perspective-at-work/articleshow/80018234.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Business||Overheated startup sectors may see a reset||Chennai: 2020 was a year of polarisation for startups and will not be forgotten in a hurry by founders and investors alike. While mobility, travel and hospitality startups struggled to stay afloat, it was a moment of reckoning for edtech, social content, and enterprise software innovators who emerged as the flavour of the season.Entrepreneurs and investors TOI spoke to said the startup ecosystem, like all spheres of the economy, saw a ‘K-shaped recovery curve’ in 2020. The strong got stronger and the weak kept getting weaker, they said. While the year of Covid gave rise to 11 unicorns, it simultaneously sounded the death knell for numerous upstarts. Even as entrepreneurs joined forces through M&As to tackle the pandemic, the absence of Chinese money in the ecosystem resulted in muted large dollar deals in an already difficult year.Venture Intelligence (VI) founder & MD Arun Natarajan said that the year dealt a blow to later-stage tech ventures looking for growth capital as geopolitical tensions affected investment by Chinese investors in startups. According to VI data, Chinese investors participated in 24 deals in 2020, investing $410 million in all, compared to over $1 billion across 35 deals in 2019. However, with the digital revolution picking up in the second half of the year, 2021 is expected to see demand and funding action return to the worst-hit sectors with a vengeance, and also reset the stakes of overheated sectors such as edtech, stakeholders said. Natarajan believes unit economics is going to be the guiding mantra in the startup world in 2021. “The days of deep discounts are behind us, and consolidation activity will continue as strong companies are likely to close massive bargains,” Natarajan said. According to Krish Subramanian, co-founder of SaaS firm Chargebee, which raised a $55-million round in 2020 from American VC firm Insight Partners, the absence of Chinese investors may impact certain segments, but not enterprise SaaS — the biggest gainer of the pandemic. Subramanian said the automation and digitisation boom brought on by Covid is a huge positive for the SaaS sector. “SaaS firms are continuing to grow even in verticals that were massively affected by the pandemic in March-April like retail, spas & salons, etc. Digitisation is accelerating across industry verticals — whether it is front-office technology or back-office infrastructure,” he said.Orios Venture Partners managing partner Anup Jain predicted a return to business for discretionary spend sectors like fashion, travel, real estate and entertainment from around June 2021. “In the interim, the hot sectors will continue to be edtech, health tech, agri tech, gaming, retail tech and wealth tech platforms,” he said. “Edtech will start cooling down, vernacular social network platforms will see investor interest, and entertainment action will shift from OTT platforms to gaming,” 3One4 Capital founding partner Siddarth Pai predicted. The end of 2020 already saw two new unicorns in the social content space with Dailyhunt and InMobi’s Glance raising over $100-million rounds from Google and others.Matrix’s Davda believes users who transacted online for the first time during the pandemic will be hooked to consuming services on the internet, widening the customer base for tech startups. “I expect this trend to continue and grow even more,” he said.In 2020, as of November, about 140 investment proposals valued at over $1.75 billion — mostly from China and Hong Kong — were on hold, boutique law firm Burgeon Law’s founder Roma Priya said. However, China’s loss was the US and Jio’s gain. “There has been renewed interest from the US, Japanese and Middle East investors in the Indian startup ecosystem, and this is likely to pick up in 2021 in the absence of the Chinese,” Pai said. Tarun Davda, MD of PE firm Matrix India, said the ecosystem was still buoyant despite restrictions on Chinese capital. “The recent fund-raise exercise by Jio has brought India on the radar of several marquee foreign investors and I think we all should recognise this is a big validation for the ecosystem,” he said.The year also saw startups engage in heightened consolidation moves. Over 87 M&A deals worth more than $1.3 billion involved at least one startup in 2020, according to VI. In addition to marquee deals such as Byju’s buying WhiteHat Jr, and Reliance acquiring majority stake in Netmeds, there were several smaller strategic acqui-hires and distress sales among startups.“The pandemic readjusted valuations to make an attractive proposition for acquisitions and help companies ramp up service offerings and increase market share,” said EY India e-commerce sector leader Ankur Pahwa. 3one4 Capital’s Pai believes consolidation action is just getting started, and will reach its peak in the first quarter of 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/overheated-startup-sectors-may-see-a-reset/articleshow/80015934.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad-based Skyroot test-fires solid propulsion rocket stage Kalam-5||HYDERABAD: City-based spacetech startup Skyroot Aerospace said it has successfully test-fired a solid propulsion rocket stage, Kalam-5, named after India’s missile man and former President APJ Abdul Kalam. The testing was conducted at a private test facility in Nagpur, owned by Skyroot’s investor Solar Industries, on December 22. The startup said with this testing it has become India’s first private player to have successfully designed, developed and tested a full solid propulsion rocket stage. Kalam-5 consists of an advanced carbon composite structure, which is five times lighter than steel and is the first of five Kalam series of solid rocket motors, said the startup founded by former ISRO scientists. It uses 15 different advanced materials, nine different manufacturing processes, and has zero moving parts. According to Skyroot Aerospace co-founder & CEO Pawan Kumar Chandana, the remaining four motors are in various stages of manufacturing and will be tested in 2021. He also said that their first launch vehicle Vikram-I is under active manufacturing and is targeting a launch in December 2021 with the help of ISRO. With this test, including the Raman engine test firing done in August 2020, Skyroot has successfully demonstrated all propulsion technologies in Vikram-1 vehicle, he added. The test firing of Vikram-1 launch vehicle’s 3rd stage — Kalam-100 — is planned in few months at ISRO facilities, said Naga Bharath Daka, founder & COO, Skyroot Aerospace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-based-skyroot-test-fires-solid-propulsion-rocket-stage-kalam-5/articleshow/80018109.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Business||Sebi imposes additional Rs 5 crore fine on NDTV||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi on Tuesday imposed a fine of Rs 5 crore on media house NDTV for not disclosing the details of a loan agreement between its promoters Prannoy Roy, Radhika Roy and RRPR Holdings, and Vishvapradhan Commercial (VCPL), which the regulator found to be price-sensitive information. An investigation by Sebi had found that the company had failed to disclose price-sensitive material information, relating to the VCPL loan agreements, to the stock exchanges in a timely manner. Last week, Sebi had imposed a fine of Rs 27 crore on the three promoters of NDTV for a similar incident, about their failure to disclose price-sensitive information relating to three loans that they had taken, two from VCPL and one from ICICI Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-imposes-additional-rs-5cr-fine-on-ndtv/articleshow/80017202.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Business||‘Low usage of Jan Dhan accounts still a concern’||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has expressed concern at the low usage of PM Jan Dhan Yojana accounts and the lack of growth in the average balance. According to the RBI report on ‘Trend and progress of banking in India’, in six years of its implementation, the number of accounts opened under Jan Dhan Yojana reached 41.4 crore, with Rs 1.3 lakh crore of deposits as on December 2, 2020. Of these accounts, nearly two-thirds are operational in rural and semi-urban areas. As of September 2020, more than 60% of Jan Dhan accounts were with public sector banks. RBI’s report shows that average balances in Jan Dhan accounts have increased only marginally over the years and is still below Rs 3,500. This is despite government transfers to these accounts, including the Rs 1,500 into every woman’s account during the lockdown. “Usage of these accounts remains a concern, with lacklustre growth in the average balance in these accounts,” the banking regulator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/low-usage-of-jan-dhan-a/cs-still-a-concern/articleshow/80017237.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Vadodara||Rajkot: Two inmates injured after fight in jail||RAJKOT: Two undertrials of Rajkot Central Jail tried to hurt themselves after entering into a heated argument on Monday night. ‘Stone killer’ Hitesh Ramavat, who shares the same barrack with Harishchandrasinh Vaghela, a notorious extortionist from Bhachau, do not get along. Ramavat, who has been in jail since 2016, consumed tablets used for controlling blood pressure, while Vaghela hit his own head against the barrack wall numerous times. Vaghela is lodged in the jail for quite some time now. In the past too, the duo have had verbal altercations but never tried to hurt themselves or each other. On Monday night after the arguments, Vaghela started hitting his head while Ramavat started vomiting after taking the pills. They were rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital where they are currently under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-inmates-injured-after-fight-in-jail/articleshow/80015374.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Business||AirAsia to sell 33% in local JV to partner Tata||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Malaysia’s AirAsia has agreed to sell a 32.7% stake in its India venture to partner Tata Sons for 153 million ringgit (about Rs 278 crore), which will lower its interest in the budget carrier to 16.3% from 49%. AirAsia also has the option to sell the remainder 16.3% in the local JV to Tata Sons in two years for 76.3 million ringgit (Rs 139 crore). A review of the JV has been on after the Malaysian company, which created the low-cost airline revolution in Asia, was not keen on infusing funds in the India unit due to its financial difficulties triggered by the Covid pandemic, as TOI reported on October 5. The proposed changes in the shareholding structure of AirAsia India comes more than two years after Tata Sons raised its stake to 51% from 49%, becoming the budget carrier’s majority owner. When the JV was formed in 2013, the Malaysian company was its largest shareholder with an equity holding of 49%. On Tuesday, AirAsia said, “Since the start of the Covid pandemic, the aviation industry has been one of the hardest hit industries. Airlines around the world have cancelled flights and grounded planes and the India unit is no exception. Due to this, the company expects further capital requirements for the India business. As India is a non-core market for the company...the transaction will reduce its cash burn in the short term.” TOI on December 21 reported that AirAsia will be reduced to a financial investor, holding a ‘teen’ stake in the India unit, as it prioritises its geographical play. Sources said AirAsia is continuing with a share in the local venture as it wants to be “part of the Indian aviation action with minimum investment”. The Malaysian company has also allowed the India unit to continue to use the AirAsia brand for some time even as it has agreed to “waive off the unpaid brand licence fee” payable by the arm to it. The latest development places Tata Sons firmly in the cockpit of AirAsia India, which is going to be the bid vehicle for Air India (AI), as TOI reported on December 14. Besides, Tata Sons’s other aviation partner Singapore Airlines, with whom it operates the full-service carrier Vistara, has shown reluctance in participating in the AI bid due to financial difficulties induced by the public health crisis. AirAsia India has been unprofitable since it started to fly in 2014. The Malaysian company added that its India investment has been accounted using the equity method, under which the original cost of investment is adjusted for its share of profit or loss in subsequent years. “The share of losses over the years have resulted in the carrying value of the investment at the date of transaction to be nil.” On Tuesday, AirAsia’s flamboyant founder Tony Fernandes is learned to have told the India unit employees that he has a good relationship with the Tatas and that “Ratan (Tata) is like my brother”. “I was very positive for India and the Indian market is very good. But some people were after me in India (perhaps referring to him being named in criminal conspiracy and money laundering cases). While we are reducing stake in the company, we will explore in future. Nothing is impossible,” Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/airasia-to-sell-33-in-local-jv-to-partner-tata/articleshow/80018092.cms||Reeba Zachariah
December 30, 2020||Business||Fraud cases drop in first half of FY21||MUMBAI: There has been a sharp drop in both the number and value of banking frauds reported in the first half of FY21. According to RBI data, based on occurrence date, the first half of FY21 saw 1,132 fraud cases worth Rs 1,182 crore. Last year, the same period saw an occurrence of 4,493 cases amounting to Rs 21,990 crore. Only 817 card and internet frauds worth Rs 26 crore were reported during the first half compared to 2,463 frauds for Rs 119 crore under the same category last year. In terms of reporting, the first half saw only 3,488 cases of frauds worth Rs 64,681 crore compared to 4,410 cases of Rs 1.9 lakh crore in the first half of the previous year. As for volume and value, fraud in loans continued to be the biggest component, accounting for over 98% of the value of all reported cases. There appears to be a time lag in the RBI gathering data on online and card fraud. While there was a dip in fraud occurrence, the number of internet- and card-related frauds reported increased marginally despite a sharp drop in card usage during the lockdown. According to the data, there were 1,244 cases of fraud reported amounting to Rs 49 crore as compared to 1,234 cases of Rs 53 crore in the first half of the previous year. The discrepancy between the occurred frauds and reported frauds reflects the delay in reporting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fraud-cases-drop-in-first-half-of-fy21/articleshow/80017254.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Business||Finance, IT stocks take sensex to record levels||TNN Mumbai: Strong buying in financials and software stocks pushed the sensex up for the fifth consecutive session with the index, closing 259 points higher on Tuesday at 47,613 — a record close. Earlier in the session, the sensex had touched 47,715 intraday, its all-time high, as foreign funds continued to buy stocks in the domestic market. On the NSE, the Nifty gained 59 points to end close to the 14k mark, at 13,933 points. End of the session data showed a net foreign fund buying figure of Rs 2,350 crore, taking the month’s total net inflow to nearly Rs 60,200 crore and close to the record monthly figure of Rs 60,357 crore in November this year. According to Geojit Financial head (research) Vinod Nair, most global developments like the US stimulus and the Brexit deal are priced into the market. “In the absence of major domestic or global events expected in the near term, the market will focus on the upcoming Q3 earnings and stock-specific updates,” Nair wrote in a note. The day’s rally on Dalal Street also got a boost after the Nikkei index in Japan hit a 30-year high, market players said. The index closed at 27,568. A smooth roll out of Covid-19 vaccination in Europe also added to the feel good factor on the street, they said. In Tuesday’s session, HDFC, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Infosys and Axis Bank contributed the most to the sensex’s gain, while profit-taking in Reliance Industries and Nestle India partially neutralised the gain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/finance-it-stocks-take-sensex-to-record-levels/articleshow/80017116.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Business||Prices of tin plate up 16% in last 3 months||Chennai: The average price of tin plate — used to make tin cans for the FMCG and food sector among others — has increased by Rs 12,000 per tonne or 16% in the past 3 months thanks to a recent quality control order (QCO) issued by the ministry of steel. MCMA (Metal Container Manufacturers’ Association), officials said that the demand-supply gap has pushed prices up from Rs 73,000 per tonne to Rs 85,000 per tonne from January onwards due to two back-to-back markups by domestic suppliers. “With the total price increase being around 16%, tin can prices for companies (like Marico, Danone, ITC, Amul, Nestle, Reckitt Benckiser, Asian Paints among others) will go up by 9%-10% because tin plate comprises 60% of the cost of a tin can. Because it is a packaging material, it might prompt them to opt for cheaper but less environment friendly options like paper or plastic,” said Sanjay Bhatia, president, MCMA which has been lobbying the government to defer a quality control order which they claim is the reason for the price spurt, till March 2022. The QCO has imposed mandatory BIS Certification on both tin plate as well as steel products like easy open ends, peel off ends on tin cans which the industry is importing from various countries. Japan and Korea are the biggest source of tin plate imports while China is an important source for steel products like ‘easy open ends’ for tin cans. The QCO on tin plates had earlier been introduced in 2008, 2015 and 2017 but were withdrawn following requests from the local industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/prices-of-tin-plate-up-16-in-last-3-months/articleshow/80016080.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
December 30, 2020||Patna||Pollution causes 1.95% of GDP loss to Bihar: Study||PATNA: Bihar is the second worst hit state in the country when it comes to gross domestic product (GDP) loss due to increasing air pollution (outdoor and household), which affect health of people and lead to premature deaths of many. According to a latest study published in medical journal Lancet, Bihar stands at the second position among all the states in the country where GDP loss is recorded at 1.95%, exactly 0.59% higher than the national average of 1.36%. At 2.15%, Uttar Pradesh has suffered the maximum GDP loss. The economic loss per capita in Bihar was to the tune of $26.5. It was highest in Delhi at $62. The study, ‘Health and economic impact of air pollution in the states of India: The global burden of disease study 2019’, written as a collaborative effort by Indian institutions, including ICMR, says that the economic loss due to lost output from premature deaths and morbidity attributable to household air pollution as a percentage of state GDP in Bihar was 0.98%. Around 70% population in Bihar is still dependent on traditional method of cooking, such as wood, dung, agricultural residues, coal and charcoal. D M Diwakar, former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said it’s surprising that despite Centre’s claim that Ujjwala Yojana has reached everyone, traditional cooking method is still used extensively in the state. “People are so poor that they can’t afford rising prices of LPG cylinder,” he said. “The population using traditional cooking method is much higher than what the report says. In Bihar, there is only 11.3% urban population. The rural population is largely dependent on traditional cooking method,” Diwakar added. Ashok Ghosh, chairman of Bihar State Pollution Control Board, said, “We are trying our best to cut down the sources of air pollutants. We had conducted a study to know the sources of pollutants and based on the report, a comprehensive action plan was prepared in 2019,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pollution-causes-1-95-of-gdp-loss-to-bihar-study/articleshow/80014802.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP woman, who disappeared from Delhi airport, tests positive for UK variant of coronavirus||VISAKHAPATNAM: The AP government is on high alert after laboratory reports confirmed the UK strain of novel coronavirus in the 47-year-old woman who gave a slip to health authorities at Delhi airport last week after landing from the UK. The woman from Rajahmundry had boarded the Visakhapatnam-bound special train from New Delhi after testing positive and switched off her mobile phone, making it difficult to track her. However, she was later traced and kept in quarantine. Officials had also lodged a police complaint against her. On Tuesday, the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, which tested her swab samples, confirmed the presence of the UK strain. AP has a few variants of Covid-19 virus, the predominant being N440K, accounting for 33% of the pandemic cases. The woman had boarded the train on December 22 and reached Rajahmundry in the early hours of December 24. Her son, who received her at the Delhi airport and accompanied her in the train journey, tested negative. Officials are hoping she did not come in contact with too many people during the nearly 1,800-km train journey as she travelled in a coupe. Both mother and son were kept at the Rajahmundry government hospital in different isolation rooms. The woman with no symptoms is doing well. She reportedly went to the UK in November with her daughter to spend time with her husband who lives there. So far, about a dozen UK returnees and their 12 contacts have tested positive for Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh. Their samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune and CCMB. The reports of some of these samples are yet to come in. Health and family welfare commissioner K Bhaskar said that there has been no transmission of new coronavirus strain in AP other than the woman from Rajahmundry. “Even the woman’s son tested negative for Covid. People should not panic as we are continuously monitoring the situation,” he said. Bhaskar added that the health department has so far traced 1,406 UK returnees out of the identified 1,423. “The department also identified 6,364 contacts,” said Bhaskar. The National Task Force (NTF) on Covid-19, in its meeting on December 26, concluded that there was no need to change either the existing treatment or testing protocols in view of the mutant variant. But the NTF recommended enhanced genomic surveillance in addition to the existing surveillance strategy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-woman-who-disappeared-from-delhi-airport-tests-ve-for-uk-variant-of-virus/articleshow/80017455.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 30, 2020||Patna||622 new Covid cases take Bihar’s tally to 2,51,926||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state rose to 2,51,926 on Tuesday with 622 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. With three fresh deaths, the state’s Covid toll has mounted to 1,389. There were, however, just 4,707 active cases in the state on Tuesday as 2,45,828 people have recovered from the virus so far. According to the state health department, Patna, Madhubani and Purnia recorded one death each in the last 24 hours. With this, Covid toll in Patna has increased to 378. AIIMS-Patna reported two fresh deaths and both the victims were from Siwan – a 55-year-old man from Belao and a 57-year-old man from of Mauli. Hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 24 patients were admitted to the hospital and 12 discharged on Tuesday. Among those admitted to the hospital included people from various localities in Patna like Kankarbagh, Jagdeopath, Patrakar Nagar, Mithila Colony, Hanuman Nagar, Nageshwar Colony and North Krishnapuri. At Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, a 78-year-old man from Beldari Tola in Patna died. Of the 622 new Covid-19 cases, Patna accounted for 241. Aurangabad recorded 47 fresh cases, Muzaffarpur 46, Begusarai 27, Samastipur 21 and Nalanda 17. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 523 more people recovered from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.58%. ‘Prevent spread of new Covid variant’: State home department on Tuesday issued an order for implementing fresh guidelines issued by the Centre for surveillance and tracking of new mutated strain of coronavirus. The fresh orders will remain effective till January 31, 2021. The MHA’s new guidelines are specifically for the containment zones in the country. Officials have been asked to strictly enforce the rules and ensure social distancing at public places, especially during New Year celebrations. Amir Subhani, additional chef secretary of state home department, has asked all the departments of the Bihar government and authorities of all districts to strictly follow the orders of the Centre. As per the new guidelines, the containment zones continue to be demarcated carefully. “While there has been a continuous decline in the active and new Covid-19 cases, there is need to maintain surveillance,’ says the Centre’s guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/622-new-covid-cases-take-bihars-tally-to-251926/articleshow/80014820.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Patna||Junior doctors to continue stir in Bihar||PATNA: The junior doctors’ strike in state government medical college and hospitals continued for the 7th consecutive day on Tuesday despite health minister Mangal Pandey’s assurance to look into their demand for stipend hike. Several planned operations at PMCH were postponed. Even OPD, emergency and other services in the wards were hampered across the government hospitals. After a meeting with Pandey at his residence, PMCH junior doctors’ association (JDA) president Dr Harendra Kumar said the minister assured them that he will have a thought over their demand and asked them to resume work. “However, we want our demand to be implemented as simply verbal talks will not work,” said Dr Harendra. Later, JDA also held a meeting with the PMCH administration. IMA state president Dr Bimal Karak, who is also the PMCH superintendent, was present at both the meetings. Dr Karak said they also had a telephonic conversation with the principal secretary (health). “Even the principal secretary asked them to get back to work on humanitarian grounds. But JDA members told me they will continue with the strike. However, some PG students have agreed to work. One thing is clear that IMA will no longer support their strike, From Wednesday, I will take action against them in the capacity of PMH superintendent,” he said. However, a doctor at PMCH said, “There are nearly 550 junior doctors here. Even roping in 20 to 30 additional doctors will not serve the purpose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/junior-doctors-to-continue-stir/articleshow/80014792.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 30, 2020||Business||Banks need Rs 1 lakh crore for NPAs, growth||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said that banks will need additional capital of up to one and a half percentage points of risk-weighted assets in its assessment of the impact of Covid-19 on lenders. Given that total bank loans are around Rs 104 lakh crore, the capital requirement would be more than Rs 1 lakh crore. “Preliminary estimates suggested that potential recapitalisation requirements for meeting regulatory purposes as well as for growth capital may be to the extent of 150 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) of the common equity tier I (CET I) ratio for the banking system,” the RBI said in its report on ‘Trend and progress of banking in India’ released on Tuesday. According to the RBI, gross non-performing assets (NPAs) declined from 9.1% as of March 2019 to 8.2% at end-March 2020 and further down to 7.5% in end-September 2020. However, the central bank has said that these bad loan numbers are yet to reflect the Covid stress as the same has been “obscured under asset quality standstill with attendant financial stability implications”. Had this standstill not been there, the asset gross NPAs would have been 0.10% to 0.66% higher as of end-September 2020. In the report, the RBI said that around 40% of borrowers in India availed of the moratorium on loan repayment allowed for six months of the lockdown period, which is higher than estimated by analysts. Among the lender groups that have extended moratorium, small finance banks and urban cooperative banks have the highest share of borrowers availing of the stay on repayment at 68% and 64% respectively. Among other lenders, finance companies have the highest share with 44.9% of borrowers opting to defer their payments. This was followed by public sector banks (PSBs), which had 41.3% of borrowers availing the moratorium. Private banks and foreign banks had a relatively lower share at 34% and 20% respectively. The RBI has pointed out that in the case of PSBs, while the government has budgeted Rs 20,000 crore as recapitalisation funds, they need to raise more resources from the market as an optimal capital-raising strategy. “Prudently, some major private sector banks (PVBs) have already raised capital, and some large PSBs have announced plans to raise resources in a staggered manner, depending on the prevailing market circumstances,” the RBI said in its report. As a result of this capital-raising, the capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of banks rose to 15.8% as of end-September 2020 from 14.7% as of end March 2020, and 14.2% at end-March 2019. Most sectors reported lower outstanding loans under moratorium in August 2020 compared to April 2020. However, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) registered a marginal increase and the number of MSMEs customers availing moratorium increased to 78% in August 2020, reflecting the stress in the sector. The distribution of moratorium sought in MSME loans indicate that urban cooperative banks (UCBs) bore the brunt of incipient stress, followed by PSBs and NBFCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-need-rs-1l-cr-for-npas-growth/articleshow/80018084.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||File FIR against Popular Builders: I-T to cops||Ahmedabad: In a letter to the city police commissioner, senior Income Tax (I-T) department officials asked city police to file a fresh FIR against the promoters of Popular Builders on multiple counts including cheating and forgery. The details came to light after a major search operation on the group and subsequent investigations. The letter stated that the accused violated the Prohibition of Benami Properties Transaction Act, 1988; Gujarat Agricultural Land Ceiling Act, 1960; Gujarat Cooperative Societies Act; Gujarat Tenancy and Agricultural Land Act, 1948; in addition to various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The letter named Ramanlal B Patel, Chhaganlal B Patel and their family members, in conspiracy with Prathmesh C Patel (on behalf of Saranga Co-op Housing Society). The I-T department during a search had found a huge cache of documents from a residence in Satellite. The department then pieced together the overall plan of the group to make entities such as khedut sahkari mandalis (KSMs) on paper to deal in/ purchase lands, and then ‘purchasing’ it for development. Department sources said that it was a thought-out plan to hoodwink the authorities and evade tax. The letter mentioned dubious transactions for 4.22 lakh square metres of land on the periphery of Ahmedabad city. The officials argued that the financial transactions on behalf of various societies were conducted by a handful of people and all incriminating documents were seized during the search operation. The letter also mentioned ‘misrepresentation of facts and production of false affidavits for transfer of land’ by the accused. Majority of the KSMs and subsequent cooperative societies were found to have similar members. The books of account were also not audited according to the existing laws. The I-T department also sought support of other departments and financial institutions involved to collect evidence. The Patel family members are already facing multiple charges after an FIR was filed earlier this year for domestic violence. Vastrapur police are probing multiple angles to the case, said senior city police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/file-fir-against-popular-builders-i-t-to-cops/articleshow/80015958.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Avishikta traffic trial run likely next week||KOLKATA: The three-day trial run of the new traffic diversion at the Avishikta crossing may be conducted in the first week of 2021, Kolkata traffic police indicated on Tuesday. Senior officers at Lalbazar said that the exact date of the trial will be decided on Wednesday morning. “The area will witness a lot of movement around the coming weekend. We will need our men to man other spots to manage the weekend crowd surge and may not be able to post enough personnel at that crossing till the New Year celebrations are over,” said a cop. A traffic block for four months is required to facilitate construction of a 120m viaduct gap near the Anwar Shah Road-Avishikta crossing, which can be filled up to build the five pillars, once the traffic department hands over the site to Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), implementing agency of the 32km New Garia-Airport Metro corridor. “The plan will include movement of vehicles via the bylanes adjoining the Bypass. Provisions for U-turns at the Ruby and the Ajoynagar crossings are being looked into,” explained an officer. A senior RVNL official said: “We are expecting the traffic block in 10 days.” To ease traffic while the new plan is implemented, RVNL paid Rs 37 lakh to KMDA to widen a 200m stretch parallel to Kavi Sukanta station at the Avishikta crossing. Work for the widening has just been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/avishikta-traffic-trial-run-likely-next-week/articleshow/80015942.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 30, 2020||Patna||Patna: Three held in loco pilot murder case||PATNA: Police on Tuesday arrested three people for their alleged involvement in the murder of Satyendra Singh alias Satyendra Mahto (55), a loco pilot, who was shot dead by criminals at his home at Jamaluddinchak under the Khagaul police station area in Patna around 9.30pm on Monday. Satyendra’s 16-year-old son Abhijeet Kumar had also received a gunshot injury while trying to save his father. SHO of Khagaul police station Mukesh Kumar said three of the four accused have been arrested by the police in connection with the murder. The SHO said primary investigations revealed that Satyendra was killed over a land dispute. “Satyendra’s father had bought a 16 kattha plot at Jamaluddinchak. Some of Satyendra’s relatives and co-villagers were eyeing the land,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-held-in-loco-pilot-murder-case/articleshow/80014853.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Jadavpur University departments to open from January 4||Kolkata: Jadavpur University has decided to keep all schools, libraries, sections, offices and departments open from January 4. All the staff have been asked to attend office at least three days a week during the regular office hours between 10am and 5.30pm. The respective heads have been asked to prepare a roster. Earlier, Calcutta University had also issued a circular and asked 70% attendance in the individual offices and departments every day from December 3. The officers and staffers were asked to record their attendance. “Education minister Partha Chatterjee towards the end of November had instructed the universities and colleges to reopen their offices, libraries and departments. Though most of the faculty and officials attended the university, the decision will now mean that even other staffers have to be regular,” said a JU teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-depts-to-open-from-january-4/articleshow/80015956.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Business||Will use supervision tech to keep up with entities: RBI||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said that it will start using SupTech (supervisory technology) and RegTech — a subset of fintech that uses technology to scale up supervision — to keep up with the entities it regulates. The central bank will soon conduct a survey on RegTech adoption and, based on the findings, will come out with broad principles to encourage adoption of these tools. Currently, entities regulated by the RBI use technological tools like artificial intelligence, machine learning, big data analysis for know your customer & asset liability management (KYC/ALM) purposes, regulatory reporting & management information system, payments & account aggregation. Such tools are also used to judge the creditworthiness of borrowers. “Notwithstanding its many advantages in terms of data and privacy protection, cyber risks are a major challenge in technology adoption,” the RBI said. The use of technology for supervision has become crucial in light of the growing number of entities, including cooperative banks and finance companies, that are directly coming under the RBI’s lens. The central bank has indicated that on-site supervision will be largely for entities that are systemically important, while for most others it will depend on technology and analytics. “Recognising that cutting-edge technology has enormous potential for preventive compliance, transaction monitoring and automated data flows, the RBI has accorded priority to adoption of RegTech,” the central bank said in a report. This will require regulated entities to submit information in machine-readable format. Currently, the RBI’s offsite supervision depends heavily upon pre-defined templates to collect data. These are susceptible to inaccuracies and incomplete reporting. The RBI is trying to establish mechanisms to extract specific data directly from the source system to be more proactive in its risk-based supervision. “The use of artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques are being explored to identify anomalies in the regulatory/supervisory reporting data, which can be used for predictive analysis. These techniques should pre-emptively help in micro-prudential supervision, identifying vulnerable branches, stressed exposures, unmitigated operational risks, suspicious transactions and misdemeanours,” the RBI said. This kind of technology, where the regulator directly accesses data from the regulated entities’ system, is known as SupTech or supervisory technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/will-use-supervision-tech-to-keep-up-with-entities-rbi/articleshow/80017270.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: 2 cops under lens for running away from crime scene||PUNE: The city police on Tuesday ordered an inquiry against two constables, a day after they allegedly ran away when they saw four burglars were threatening the watchman of Shailesh Tower society in Aundh instead of confronting them. The four burglars then stole a television set, cash and a silver chain, totally worth Rs21,000, from five locked flats of the society in the early hours of Monday. The Chatushrungi police are searching for the robbers. Pune commissioner of police (CP) Amitabh Gupta said, “I have ordered an inquiry against the two constables. They will be suspended for their unprofessional behaviour and neglecting their duties. They failed to react to the situation.” The two police constables went to the Shailesh Tower society in Aundh around 3am on Monday, when the four robbers carrying rods and knife came out of the building’s main entrance. The duo reached the crime scene on their motorcycle. The constable riding pillion alighted from the bike and ran towards the right side of the building, while the other sped away from the spot. “The entire incident was recorded in the CCTV cameras of the society. Their footage revealed the two policemen fled the scene instead of confronting the robbers. One of the policeman was armed with an automatic rifle,” said Gupta. “I have sent a default report of the two constables — Anil Awaghade and Santosh Gore — to the senior police officers. They have ordered an inquiry into the matter,” said senior police inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police on Tuesday. The society’s watchman, Govind Hiraman Yadav (44), lodged a complaint with the police. Yadav said “I was sitting near the entrance of the building when the four men entered through the main gate. They charged at me and slapped me. One of them pushed me hard and I fell on the ground. The one carrying a knife sat on my chest after I fell on the floor. I screamed seeking help from the residents. Someone from the neighbouring building called the police.” He said, “The three other suspects went upstairs in the meantime and broke open the locks of the five flats and stole the valuables. All these flats are occupied by tenants. They were not at home when the burglars struck. The incident frightened me.” Yadav said there were 25 flats in the society and half of them were occupied by tenants. Most of the tenants moved out temporarily because of the Covid-induced lockdown, he added. The Chatushrungi police said the suspects had arrived at the spot in a four-wheeler. They had parked the vehicle on the main road, about 50 metres away from the society. After the police constables fled the scene, the suspects boarded their four-wheeler and left the spot. The police suspect the robbers could have stolen the four-wheeler earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-cops-under-lens-for-running-away-from-crime-scene/articleshow/80017506.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Goa||NCP, locals protest poor condition of Baina park||Vasco: To protest the poor condition of the municipal garden at Baina and the supposed neglect of other areas in the vicinity by Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC), members of the National Congress Party (NCP) and some locals gathered on Tuesday to garland the clock at the market junction, which has stopped working. Minority cell head of NCP Nazir Khan along with voters from the area gathered at the garden in Baina to inspect its condition. The group found it strewn with garbage, including empty beer bottles and broken pieces of glasses.  NCP criticised former MMC chairperson Deepak Naik for the poor state of the garden. Santosh Chodankar, a local, said, “The councillor should take initiative with the MMC and the council should intimate the police about the things happening in the garden. But, nobody seems to be bothered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncp-locals-protest-poor-condition-of-baina-park/articleshow/80017572.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||397 Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths in state||Hyderabad: After a gap of six months, the number of active cases dropped below 6,000 on Monday, even as Telangana recorded 397 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths. Telangana’s coronavirus caseload stands at 2,85,465, while the death toll rose to 1,535 with the latest fatalities. The recovery rate stood at 97.36%. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/397-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-in-state/articleshow/80018143.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Low year-end airfares sweet surprise for last-minute flyers||PUNE: Airfares to different destinations from the city are on the lower side this year-end compared to previous years, prompting many last-minute flyers hailing the departure in trend on the back of probable reluctance to travel by air among some people as well as the prevailing uncertainties. Divya Gangwane from Hadapsar was surprised when he checked the airfares from Pune to Goa recently. “I just scanned the airfares between Pune and Goa for December 30 though I have no plans to travel. The one-way fare of most airlines was not more than Rs6,000 despite there being no direct flights. When I had travelled to Goa during the same time last year, the one-way fare was between Rs20,000 and Rs22,000 for the last-minute bookings,” Gangwane, a working professional, said. The one-way airfare from Pune to Delhi for December 30 was in the range of Rs4,000-4,500 on Tuesday. Similarly, the cost of a one-way ticket from Pune to Bengaluru was between Rs3,500 and Rs4,500 and that for the Pune-Hyderabad sector was in the range of Rs3,500-4,000. Only, the Pune-Kolkata sector quoted one-way fare between Rs6500 and Rs7,000 for December 30 on Tuesday. Confirming the low airfares for the year-end, Nilesh Bhansali, the director of Travel Agents Association of Pune (TAAP), said, “The travel industry is recovering, and more people are travelling, but the uncertainty remains. There are several regulations like carrying an RT-PCR negative report or getting tested at airports. So, some people are preferring to travel by road or not travelling at all.” An official of an airline having many flights from Pune said, “Airfares are always dynamic and depend on the number of bookings. Beyond this, no comments can be made,” the official said. Siddharth Singh, who plans to visit his hometown Lucknow early next year, said the low airfares were encouraging. “The one-way ticket from Pune to Lucknow is around Rs4,300 this year-end. Earlier, the airfares on this sector would always be over Rs5,000. I shall wait for a day or two and see if the price goes down further and then book my ticket,” Singh said. Anshika D, a travel planner with the Shree Vinayak Travels, said the recent travel ban to and from the UK, and the strict quarantine protocols for those travelling from European and Middle East countries were also the reasons. Another factor, according to the travel agents, was the airlines’ cancellation and refund policy. “The process has become complicated. Some travellers are yet to get refunds. In such a scenario, they don’t want to risk it,” Bhansali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/low-year-end-airfares-sweet-surprise-for-last-minute-flyers/articleshow/80017510.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||False plaints to implicate hubby, in-laws rising: HC||Nagpur: Expressing concern over false complaints filed by wives against husbands and in-laws, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court observed that such tendency is growing and the judiciary must be extremely cautious while handling matrimonial disputes. “Nowadays, the tendency of falsely implicating husband and all his immediate relations in over enthusiasm and anxiety to seek conviction for maximum people without visualizing that such complaint can lead to insurmountable agony and pain to the entire family has developed,” a division bench comprising justices Vinay Deshpande and Anil Kilor said. Quoting the Supreme Court, the bench added that the courts must take pragmatic realities into consideration while dealing with matrimonial cases. “The overt acts attributed to persons other than husband are required to be proved beyond reasonable doubt. By mere conjectures and implications, such relations can’t be held guilty. The harassment allegation against the husband’s close relations, who had been living in different cities and never or rarely visited the wife’s place, would have an entirely different complexion. Such allegations are required to be scrutinized with great care and circumspection.” Allowing two petitions filed by the husband and his parents and other by his relatives through counsel Kartik Shukul, the bench said if wife’s complaint is considered, no prudent man would arrive at a conclusion that the father-in-law and mother-in-law, who have been driven away from their house, the husband who was forced to close down his business and to work as a security guard in a private company, by creating such compelling circumstances at her instance would ill-treat or maltreat her. Pointing towards earlier FIR lodged by a husband against wife in 2016, the judges said he had given a complete narration regarding ill-treatment meted out to him and parents. “From wife’s conduct, this court without any hesitation or doubt can say that her FIR is nothing but a counter blast to the husband’s complaint. It was also an outcome of eviction order passed by a sub-divisional officer in a case filed by in-laws against her for driving them out from their own house.” While quashing the wife’s police complaint against the husband and in-laws, the judges made it clear that by compelling the petitioners to face the trial before criminal court will amount to miscarriage of justice. “The wife’s FIR registered with Wadgaon Road Police Station in Yavatmal under Sections 498-A, 504, 506 read with Section 34 of the IPC is nothing but an abuse of process of law. We find the present case as a fit one to exercise jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/false-plaints-to-implicate-hubby-in-laws-rising-hc/articleshow/80015960.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seaplane returns, service to resume today||Ahmedabad: After being away for over a month, the seaplane is finally back to Ahmedabad. The aircraft arrived at the Sabarmati riverfront on Tuesday afternoon, from Goa. It had come to Kochi on Monday from the Maldives and then flew to Goa. According to SpiceJet officials, the seaplane service is to resume on Wednesday with two round trips a day from Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad to the Statue of Unity in Kevadia. “Bookings have opened online. One can also book tickets at the ticket window,” said a source in the airline. On checking the ticket window at the waterdrome, TOI learnt that passengers are encouraged to make bookings online only. Airline officials did not comment on the number of bookings received for Wednesday’s flights or any other day. Sources said one of the two flights has bookings for at least 13 passengers. After being inaugurated on October 31, India’s first seaplane service between Ahmedabad and Kevadia stopped operating from November 29, as the aircraft had been sent for maintenance to the Maldives. Airline officials said that a wet and dry dock – required for thorough maintenance every four months – is not currently available in India. Now, after exactly a month, the service is resuming. After undergoing maintenance in Maldives, the aircraft operated as a regular flight there. SpiceJet, the airline whose 100% subsidiary, SpiceShuttle, operates the aircraft, had told TOI in December, “It is not viable to bring the aircraft from the Maldives and send it back once again for maintenance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seaplane-returns-service-to-resume-today/articleshow/80015965.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat gets new solar policy||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government on Tuesday announced introduction of Gujarat Solar Power Policy, 2021. CM Vijay Rupani, while announcing the new policy said, that it will reduce dependence on coal-based generation of power and enable industries and particularly, the MSME sector to be globally competitive. The CM said, “The state government had implemented solar policy in 2015 to give an impetus to solar energy sector and provide affordable electricity to people. Considering the overwhelming response to this policy, the state government will now implement the new “Gujarat Solar Power Policy 2021” to ensure clean, environmentally friendly and sustainable energy in the state.” He added that Gujarat has taken various proactive measures and made rapid strides to promote renewable energy, which has resulted in overall growth of renewable energy sector and made Gujarat a leader in the country. Increase in consumption and production of solar energy in the state will bring down production cost for industries and accelerate the ‘Made in Gujarat’ brand, thus increasing its presence in global market, Rupani said. Giving details about the policy, the CM added that increased solar energy generation will reduce dependence on conventional power resources like coal-based plants and in turn promote environment friendly – green & clean energy generation. “MSMEs will be able to reduce their cost of production due to solar energy usage and large-scale industries too will be able to compete in the global market,” he said. The new solar power policy will be operative for five years, i.e. up to December 31, 2025 and benefits of solar projects set up under this policy can be availed for a project life of 25 years. Energy minister Saurabh Patel said the new policy will boost development of pollution-free renewable energy and help accelerate the sector. He added that this policy will take Gujarat forward in becoming the ‘Energy Hub’ of the country. “This policy will enable everyone, be it residential consumers, farmers, commercial consumers, small and medium industrial houses, religious & educational institutes, to generate electricity and sell it after their own consumption,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-gets-new-solar-policy/articleshow/80015975.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Flourishing youth: Nirman develops unique assessment model||Nagpur: Based on their experiments and learning from over a decade, Gadchiroli-based youth initiative Nirman, running through NGO Search, has developed a unique scientific assessment model for youth and emerging adults in the 18-29 age group. The youth development group has proposed ‘Nirman Youth Flourishing Framework’ comprising seven key domains, including physical health, psychological well being, character development, social relationships, professional development, life skills and social contribution. The seven indicators are further distinguished into 50 more aspects of overall development ranging from personality to professional skills. The NGO believes the first-of-its-kind framework would help youth, practitioners of youth development, academicians and policymakers, and any Indian citizen dealing with young population to engage with them and work on their overall well-being. They believe this will eventually help in nation building. Nirman program director Amrut Bang said the framework ensures youth are not merely assessed on exams, marks, jobs, pay packages or wealth they possess. “Under Nirman, we have been working on some of these domains as part of our first goal on over 150 youths every year. Through the new framework, we wish to reach a wider youth base. India has 26 crore youths and such large group’s developmental grooming needs can’t be addressed one on one by a single organization. Right now, nobody talks about youth’s development the way we talk about other burning topics,” he said. Bang said there are several parameters to understand a child’s development. “But to know if our youth is flourishing there is no intervention, forget about a framework. We wish to make the invisible visible. Generally, materially visible indicators are observed to assess someone’s development. But what about internal indicators. The framework attempts to assess youth’s social relationships on par with a university degree or bungalow,” he said. Bang added that 22% of India’s population, which is more than 261 million people, is young, larder than the entire population of Pakistan. “Capitalizing on this demographic dividend is absolutely critical for India as these young people are going to be the face, force and future of the country. Government and business interest in the youth does not go beyond looking at them as a vote bank or a potential customer.” Even in the social sector, youth development occupies a minor place on the fringes. Apart from the fact that we don't have many robust interventions targeted at grooming the youth, a major problem is that India does not even have a theory or framework about the healthy growth of this group, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flourishing-youth-nirman-develops-unique-assessment-model/articleshow/80029411.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Over 21,000 healthcare workers enlist for vaccination||Nagpur: The number of healthcare workers in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), government and private hospitals willing to take the Covid-19 vaccine has crossed 21,000. The number is likely to rise further as over 50% private hospitals are yet to be submit their list of staffers. The ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) had announced it would vaccinate healthcare workers in phase-I, and asked local governments to compile the list. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B had appealed to government and private hospitals to send the list on or before October 28. The civic body received list of around 13,000 workers, of which majority were from NMC and government hospitals. Only 209 of 650 private hospitals had submitted the list by end of the deadline. Then, Radhakrishnan and additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar held talks with private hospitals and also clarified their confusions. Now, the number has crossed 21,000 and likely to increase further. On December 15, Radhakrishnan had directed NMC officials to finalize 50 centres for vaccinating around 20,000 healthcare workers and submit a list within a week. However, assistant commissioners and zonal medical officers of ten zones are yet to finalize the centres and submit the list. The civic body is also yet to identify places for storage of vaccines. It has been delayed due to lack of guidelines related to storage from the central or state government. Also, NMC is yet to receive any tentative schedule for starting the vaccination programme. NMC had given training to medical officers who will further train vaccinators and other staff to be engaged in the vaccination programme. NMC has also started to prepare list of front-line workers who will be vaccinated in phase-II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-21000-healthcare-workers-enlist-for-vaccination/articleshow/80015970.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hub for remote operated vehicles set up in IIT||Hyderabad: Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) set up a new technology innovation hub on autonomous navigation (TiHAN) for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) and remotely operated vehicles following a funding of Rs 135 crore from the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. The foundation stone of ‘TiHAN-IIT’ Hyderabad, a testbed for autonomous navigation systems (terrestrial and aerial), was laid by the Union minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal virtually on Tuesday. The new hub has been established in two acres of land within the campus and the facilities are planned in phases. It will facilitate research grounds to investigate the functioning of unmanned and connected vehicles in a controlled environment by replicating different scenarios, ranging from frequently occurring to extreme cases that may ensue in real-life traffic operations. “With an essential focus on the research and development of interdisciplinary technologies in the specific domain area of autonomous navigation and data acquisition systems, this hub focuses on addressing various challenges hindering the real-time adoption of unmanned autonomous vehicles for both terrestrial and aerial applications,” said Pokhriyal. The testbed inaugurated by the IIT-H is a first-of-its-kind facility in any academic institution in the country. “One major requirement to make unmanned and connected vehicles more acceptable to the consumer society and demonstrate its performance in real-life scenarios. However, it may become dangerous,” said BS Murty, director, IIT-H. “In general, both UAV and UGV testing may include crashes and collisions with obstacles, resulting in damage to costly sensors and other components. Hence, it is important to test new technologies developed in a safe, controlled environment before deployment,” he added. All smart poles within the institute are enabled with communication providing technology with some poles designed with sprinklers to simulate rain scenario. “At present, there is no such testbed facility in India to evaluate the autonomous navigation of vehicles. Therefore, it is envisioned to address this gap by developing a fully functional and exemplary testbed facility dedicated to connected autonomous vehicles - CAVs - in a portion of IIT-H campus,” said P Rajalakshmi, project director - TiHAN and professor, department of electrical engineering, IIT-H.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hub-for-remote-operated-vehicles-set-up-in-iit/articleshow/80018163.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Pune||Convict booked on charge of conspiring to kill corporator||Pune: The Chatushrungi police on Monday booked Anil Yashwante — a convict in a robbery case — and two others on the charge of allegedly conspiring to kill NCP corporator Baburao Chandere between December 22 and 23.“The motive as to why Yashwante had allegedly conspired to kill Chandere is not known. We shall move the court seeking his custody from the jail for questioning him and establishing the identity of his accomplices,” senior inspector Anil Shewale, the Chatushrungi police station in-charge, said on Tuesday.Yashwante is undergoing 10-year imprisonment at the Yerawada central prison in a robbery case registered with the Shrirampur police in Ahmednagar district.Citing preliminary investigations, Shewale said, “Yashwante stayed at Baner in 2013-14. He and Chandere knew each other. There is an old rivalry between them over political reasons.”He said, “Chandere’s suspicion that Yashwante had given supari (money) to kill him stems from seeing some suspicious persons monitoring his movement in three functions in his ward over past 20 days. An elected representative of Balewadi-Pashan ward, he learnt from his sources that Yashwante had allegedly conspired to eliminate him. He then decided to register an FIR.”Subsequently, an FIR was lodged under sections 120B, 115, 506 (2) and 34 of the Indian Penal Code. Chandere said, “I don’t know who is Yashwante, and why he and his aides want to kill me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/convict-booked-on-charge-of-conspiring-to-kill-corporator/articleshow/80017534.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 30, 2020||Pune||Action sought for allocation of trash processor without tender||Pune: Citizens’ groups in the city have approached the chief minister’s office, demanding action against official(s) for allegedly awarding garbage processing work to a private contractor without inviting tenders.The civic standing committee has approved the proposal for which Rs9crore of taxpayers’ money will be spent. They have written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking action in the matter.“An inquiry should be ordered into this matter. Any official found guilty should be punished,” said Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch.“Contracts are issued under the garb of essential works. This practice should be stopped,” said Vijay Kumbhar of Surajya Sangharsha Samiti.Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee, said, “The capacity of the processing plants has reduced due to Covid-19 pandemic. It has led to piling of trash in huge quantity. The contract has been given to resolve the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/action-sought-for-allocation-of-trash-processor-without-tender/articleshow/80017533.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||MERC’s new supply code is anti-consumer: Hogade||Nagpur: From the cost of poles and cables for getting new connection to meter (whether new one or replacement after damage due to high voltage fluctuations in MSEDCL supply), everything will have to be borne by the consumer, says Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission’s (MERC’s) draft electricity supply code and standards of performance for distribution licensees. Stating that most of the provisions are in favour of distribution licensees and against the interest of consumers, activist Pratap Hogade has alleged these provisions are against the Consumer Protection Act and Electricity Act. As per present laws, the cost of poles, cables and other electrical equipment for a new connection has to be borne by the power supply company. As per the draft code, this cost will have to borne by the consumer under the name of dedicated distribution facility (DDF). According to Electricity Act, the cost of the meter has to be borne by the distribution licensee, but according to MERC’s draft code it will have to be borne by the consumer. The cost of metering cubicle will also have to be paid by the consumer. As per present laws, if a power transformer is installed at the place of a consumer for common use, then the power supply company had to pay rent as per market rates. MERC has proposed that now the discom will pay only Re1 per year as token rent. MERC has proposed that if a consumer takes over a property where dues are owed to the power company by the previous owner, then the new consumer will have to pay the entire amount even if it is under litigation. This will lead to trouble for thousands of consumers. The security deposit for consumers paying monthly bills is proposed to be doubled while the deposit of those paying trimonthly bills will be hiked by 50%, says the draft code. A large number of meters get damaged due to high voltage fluctuations in MSEDCL supply. Now, consumers will have to pay for replacing the meter, even if it is the discom’s fault. There is provision in present rules which prohibit the discom from issuing average bill for more than two months. However, as per the draft code, the discoms will not be penalized if this provision is violated. If the discom fails to provide a new connection within stipulated time, there is provision of penalty in present rules. However, MERC proposes to impose a cap on such penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mercs-new-supply-code-is-anti-consumer-hogade/articleshow/80029423.cms||Ashish Roy
December 30, 2020||Business||India-UK flights likely to stay suspended beyond Dec 31: Aviation minister||NEW DELHI: The temporary suspension of India-UK flights may be extended by some time beyond December 31, Union aviation minister H S Puri said on Tuesday. Last week, India had suspended passenger flights to and from the UK between December 23 and 31, following many others countries like Canada, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark and Italy due to the Coronavirus variant found in the United Kingdom. “I personally foresee a slight extension of the temporary suspension beyond December 31. I don’t expect that extension to be a long or an indefinite one. In the next day or two, we will find out if any additional steps need to be taken, or when we can start easing the current suspension,” said Puri. India and the UK have 67 weekly flights operated by four airlines. Almost 2,000-2,500 passengers fly daily on these flights. “We went back to November 25 and did contact tracing and gene sequencing of passengers who had directly or indirectly come from the UK since that date. So far, six people who came from the UK have been detected with the new Covid strain,” added Puri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-uk-flights-likely-to-stay-suspended-beyond-dec-31-aviation-minister/articleshow/80018588.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Pune||KCB serves 13 owners notices over cell towers||Pune: The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) has issued notices to the owners of 13 properties for installation of unauthorized cellphone tower structures in violation of terms of their land lease. The board has asked the owners to seek regularization of these structures after getting them inspected for safety and other related concerns. The KCB’s building by-laws state that a structure cannot be raised on leased land without prior permission of the board. “In these cases, the properties owners allowed installation of static towers without any authorization from the board,” KCB’s CEO Pramod Kumar Singh said, adding, “We will impose a hefty penalty on the owners.”  “We have received the notice and are ready to regularise the structure,” a property owner who had allowed setting up of a tower in 2012, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcb-serves-13-owners-notices-over-cell-towers/articleshow/80017553.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 30, 2020||Pune||Some housing society rules simmer down New Year’s Eve celebrations||PUNE: Housing societies in the city have put in place strict rules regarding celebrations on New Year’s Eve for their members. Some societies have asked members not to allow any guests to arrive after 11pm. A few others have asked members to bid adieu to guests before midnight. Common place gathering have also been banned by some societies while renting out of club houses has been stopped for any celebration in the wake of the pandemic. At Kalyaninagar, housing societies have been issuing instructions to members since a week regarding the rules to celebrate New Year’s Eve within the premises. Neeraj Dadlani, secretary of Central Avenue, said, “All members have been told to adhere to the rules. We have not had a single Covid-19 case so far and we would like to maintain our record. We have told members that the New Year’s Eve celebrations should be held outside. If the party is at someone’s residence, then it should be limited until 11pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/some-housing-society-rules-simmer-down-new-years-eve-celebrations/articleshow/80017578.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 30, 2020||Pune||Eateries, bars likely to be shut at 10.45pm tomorrow||Pune: City police commissioner Amitabh Gupta on Tuesday evening said hotels, restaurant and bars, eateries and other commercial establishments hosting New Year Eve’s parties would be asked to shut down at 10.45pm on December 31. The police would implement the curfew orders after 11pm, he said. “Night curfew banning movement and gathering of five or more persons will be implemented after 11pm. The amended curfew orders till January 5, 2021, have been issued already. In this situation, hotels, restaurants, bars, eateries and other commercial establishing hosting a New Year Eve’s party will have to shut business at 10.45pm,” Gupta said. All police stations and patrolling parties have been issued instructions in this regard. On December 25, the Pune police had issued amended night curfew orders banning movement and gathering of people on roads or at public places between 11pm and 6am. “We will communicate the closing deadline with commercial establishments, where parties are be organized,” Gupta said. The police plans to ensure a strong bundobust of 5,000 personnel on city roads, at various entry and exit points of the city, at spots where people usually gather in large numbers such as Camp, Deccan, Koregaon Park, Chandani Chowk, and others. According to the commissioner, police teams will be equipped with breathalysers to catch drunk drivers. The city police will also strive to avert incidents of eve teasing on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eateries-bars-likely-to-be-shut-at-10-45pm-tomorrow/articleshow/80017563.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||2 NMC doctors test Covid-19 +ve 2nd time after 3 months||Nagpur: Two top officials in the health department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) have tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time in a span of little over three months. This also indicates that the antibodies developed after the first infection last for 2.5-3 months, at least in some people. The two doctors have been working on the Covid front since the city registered its first case on March 11. The duo, along with others, has been engaged in ensuring availability of beds, treatment to Covid patients and also development of NMC’s Covid Hospitals etc. They also monitored cremation of the Covid victims. One of the two had tested positive for the first time on September 7. Another tested positive on September 10. The two Covid warriors had severe symptoms and were treated in hospital. One of the officials of Tata Trusts, who has been working with NMC in tackling the pandemic, started showing symptoms and tested positive on December 25. Following this, some NMC officials got themselves tested for Covid and reports of one of them came positive on December 27. A few more NMC officials were tested for Covid and result of one of them came positive on December 29. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had earlier said antibodies last up to 3-5 months. During the launch of plasma and blood donation project, secretary of Hedgewar Blood Bank Ashok Patki had told TOI that antibodies last for a minimum two-and-a-half months. TOI had highlighted how many persons had tested Covid positive twice. In majority of the cases, the persons were asymptomatic and had mild infection during the first time and hence did not develop enough antibodies. Such persons showed severe symptoms when they tested positive for the second time. Chairman of NMC’s health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja was one such patient. In the case of two NMC officials, they are having mild symptoms like soar throat etc during the second infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-nmc-doctors-test-covid-19-ve-2nd-time-after-3-months/articleshow/80015979.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 30, 2020||Goa||Many desi tourists carrying drugs for self use, say Goa cops||PANAJI: Tourist footfalls have picked up with a bang as the year draws to an end, and while tourism stakeholders are smiling, Goa police find themselves face to face with a new problem. Tourists are bringing along with them their own stash of drugs to keep their enjoyment high, Goa police said. “They (tourists) come to Goa only to enjoy. They carry with them drugs from places like Uttar Karnataka or Maharashtra,” superintendent of police (SP), anti-narcotics cell (ANC), Mahesh Gaonkar, told TOI. The trend was unearthed following several raids conducted by Goa police in which tourists were found in possession of drugs. Domestic tourist footfalls have increased. Most of them coming in from the neighbouring states are travelling in their own vehicles. Gaonkar said that they have also found that many local youth are involved in the drug trade. “Most locals are found trading in natural drugs, like ganja, as it is easy to get it into the state from the neighbouring states where it is grown,” he said. Furthermore, natural drugs are cheaper, which is why it percolates among the labour class, and the punishment for being found in possession of it is also lesser, Gaonkar said. “These things go in favour of drug traders and they take advantage of it to deal in natural drugs rather than chemical drugs where even a small quantity is treated as a commercial quantity and it is difficult to get bail,” he said. Asked if unemployment is pushing locals into the drug trade, Gaonkar disagreed. “There are many income avenues for Goans. For outsiders it is a different issue. But Goans based in Goa definitely don’t have to depend on the drug trade for their livelihood,” Gaonkar said. Ganja mostly comes in from Karnataka, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, while charas comes in from Manali, he said. “There is a proper route established and we are linking it to places like Manali, Karnataka, UP, etc,” Gaonkar said. The ANC SP said that foreigners mostly indulge in synthetic drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/many-desi-tourists-carrying-drugs-for-self-use-say-cops/articleshow/80017599.cms||Murari Shetye
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Airfares stay grounded, cars drive New Year’s trips||Ahmedabad: Airfares usually surge ahead of the New Year’s Eve, but this year those who are planning corona-appropriate travel over the long weekend will find that prices of flight tickets are not soaring. Apprehensions about air travel stoked by the pandemic and changing quarantine and curfew rules have deterred most people from flying. The lack of demand has kept the ticket-price surge modest. Compared to normal tariffs, roundtrip airfares from Ahmedabad to destinations such as Bengaluru, Goa, and Delhi have gone up only 6-33%, even when bookings were made just two days prior to travel. Tour operators said that Mumbai, often the preferred New Year’s Eve destination, has fallen off the map for vacationers due to the curfew there. Explaining the trend, Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India, Gujarat, said: “Repeated changes in quarantine rules coupled with frequent imposition of curfew have made people avoid long-haul air travel.” Sharma added: “Instead, people are choosing locations they can drive to. The reason is if they need to alter their plans at the last minute because of pandemic exigencies they can do so easily.” Sharma said getting refunds for cancelled flights is a gruelling task which most travellers don’t want to deal with. “So airfares to most destinations have remained well under control as there is no demand,” Sharma said. “Dynamic pricing and surge pricing apply to air ticket bookings only when there is a rush.” Reluctance to fly is evident in the dwindling passenger footfalls at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport in Ahmedabad. According to the data provided by the Airports Authority of India, merely 4.33 lakh domestic passengers travelled through the city airport in November 2020, about 50% less than in November last year. In the same month in 2019, about 8.57 lakh passengers used the city airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/airfares-stay-grounded-cars-drive-new-years-trips/articleshow/80015983.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops to be on all-day vigil for drunk drivers||Ahmedabad: Every year, city traffic police held an intensified drive on the night of December 31 to nab drunk drivers. With night curfew imposed this year due to Covid, in a bid to achieve their targets cops began a week-long drive from December 24 to nab drunk drivers, with surprise checks at various entry points to the city. The cops will also hold all-day drives to nab drunk drivers on December 30 and 31 in various parts of the city. A city traffic police officer said they started the drive at entry points to the city to prevent drunk driving cases. “We have identified certain points near Sarkhej, Bopal, Sabarmati, Naroda and Odhav where drunk driving cases were reported in large numbers in the past. As movement in night is barred this year, we presume there will be little to no movement of people on December 31, and have decided to hold surprise checks for this final week of 2020 and all-day drives on the last two days of the year,” said a traffic police officer. This time police will also book drunk drivers for rash driving apart from other charges under the Motor Vehicles Act. “It has been witnessed that most of the time, drunk people drive negligently and at speed, which attracts the charge of rash driving,” said a police officer. Police officers said they have also used speed guns to catch cases of rash driving. “Offenders, whether suspected of rash driving or drunk driving, will be captured through CCTV cameras and will be sent e-challans for the offence,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-to-be-on-all-day-vigil-for-drunk-drivers/articleshow/80016001.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Pune||Youth held for spate of burglaries||Pune: A 21-year-old youth from Osmanabad, who implemented burglary tricks learnt by watching related videos online while stealing vehicles and valuables from shops, was arrested on Monday evening. Police said the arrested youth, Rohan Sontakke, had successfully executed a spate of burglaries and vehicle thefts in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Osmanabad since April this year. He, however, ran out of luck after a Pune police crime branch team caught him selling stolen cellphones behind Amanora mall in Hadapsar on Monday evening. Senior inspector Hemant Patil from the crime branch (unit V) said on Tuesday, “Sontakke’s questioning led to the detection of nine burglary and vehicle thefts, apart from recovery of the booty worth Rs13.4 lakh. We have recovered two cars, a motorcycle, 18 cellphones, three laptops, 30 saris and 12 other garments, from the former cab driver.”  The officer said Sontakke sometimes used to ferry passengers in the stolen vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-held-for-spate-of-burglaries/articleshow/80017602.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||NIV test results of city’s suspected new Covid-19 strain patients likely on Fri||Nagpur: The results of city’s suspected patients of mutated Covid-19 variant are likely to come on Friday. Total 24 city residents who returned from countries in Europe, Middle East and South Africa tested negative for novel coronavirus on Tuesday. The central government on Tuesday announced six UK returnees had found positive for the new variant which emerged in UK. Immediately after this announcement, an official from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) contacted top officials of National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, to know about results of swab samples of city’s five suspected patients. The official told TOI, “NIV is likely to give the results of first three suspected patients on Friday. Results of remaining two patients may take more time.” Sources from NMC told TOI, “NIV started testing of swab samples of city’s first three suspected patients on Monday. It will take four days for results of the genome sequencing.” They added, “NIV did not start genome sequencing of city’s samples citing government holiday from Friday to Sunday.” Following an appeal by municipal commissioner Radhakrisnan B, 28-year-old man from Nandanwan had informed NMC that he returned from UK on December 2 and tested positive on December 15. He was admitted in special ward at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on December 23. His swab samples were not sent to NIV for two days due to confusion between officials of NMC and GMCH. On December 25, IGGMCH has sent samples of the patient to NIV. The next day, mother-daughter duo from Trimurti Nagar tested positive, followed by a man from Narendra Nagar on Saturday, and another man from Mahal on Sunday. All are admitted in GMCH’s special ward. GMCH had sent samples of these four suspected patients on the day of admission to NIV. NMC on Monday clarified that suspected patients will not need to stay in special ward of GMCH till results come from NIV. The civic body has left it to GMCH to decide on discharge of these patients as per government guidelines. GMCH officials said, “Nandanwan youth had tested negative on December 23. Guidelines say patient can be discharged after seven days subject to various health parameters. CAT scan of chest was done on Tuesday. His core in CAT scan increased on Tuesday so he was not discharged.” Remaining suspected patients are yet to complete seven days. From two lists of 137 flyers (who returned from particular countries between November 25 and December 23) received from Bureau of Immigration, 62 have been tested as on Monday, of which four came positive and remaining 58 were negative. On Tuesday, results of 23 more flyers came and all were negative. NMC is tracing remaining 52 flyers to get them tested. On December 24, a person from France had arrived at city’s airport and was quarantined at one of the nine hotels here. Total 14 more flyers arrived on December 26 and 27. As per SoPs of the government, RT-PCR test will be conducted on these flyers between 5 and 7 days after arrival. Test of France returnee was conducted on Monday and his results came negative on Tuesday. Tests of remaining flyers will be conducted as per SoPs. No new flyer arrived in the city on Monday and Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/niv-test-results-of-citys-suspected-new-covid-19-strain-patients-likely-on-fri/articleshow/80016020.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 30, 2020||Pune||7 in net for buying 2-wheelers on loan using fake papers||Pune: The Sahakarnagar police on Tuesday arrested seven men and claimed to have cracked multiple cases of cheating and forgery. Police said the suspects purchased two-wheelers after taking vehicle loans using fake documents. Police have recovered as many as 28 two-wheelers, registered across Maharashtra and totally worth Rs30 lakh, from the suspects. A team headed by senior police inspector Arun Waykar arrested Kirankumar Shashikant Pednekar, Anil Namdevrao Navthale, Pravin Vijay Khadakban, Devendrakumar Keshav Manzi, Bhushan Rajendra Surve, Suresh Harischandra More and Pankajkumar Rajendraprasad Singh. Pritesh Subhas Shinde of Thane lodged a complaint with the Sahakarnagar police last week. As per the complaint, Shinde was on a visit to Pune about a month ago, when he received an SMS stating that his vehicle loan application was processed by a private bank. He visited the bank the next day and found forged documents bearing his PAN, Aadhaar number and other ID proofs with the bank. Unidentified persons used these forged documents to obtain a loan, he stated.Waykar said “Pankajkumar was working with an IT company which provides back-end support to banks. He would use his position to gain access to ID proofs of different people. He would sell this information to Manzi, a DTP operator. Manzi would then to prepare forgeries bearing the correct details, but different names. He would sell them to More, who in turn would apply for two-wheeler loans using these papers.”The suspects would then sell these new vehicles at lower rates to people by claiming that they were impounded by the bank Waykar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-in-net-for-buying-2-wheelers-on-loan-using-fake-papers/articleshow/80017601.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bareilly||Minor Dalit girl confined, raped by 20-year-old youth in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A 14-year-old Dalit girl of a village under Gajraula police station was allegedly confined to a house and raped by a 20-year-old youth of another village under the same police station. Following a written complaint filed by the girl’s father, police registered an FIR on Tuesday morning and sent her for medical examination. The complainant stated that the accused, along with a colleague, visited his house around 5 pm on December 26 when his wife had gone to a market and he was busy with work at a farmhouse. They convinced the girl to come along with them on their bike to a house, where they confined her, and one of them raped her, alleged the father. The next day, the accused dropped her at a market near her village and threatened her with life if she disclosed the matter to anyone, alleged the father, adding that his daughter narrated her ordeal to him upon reaching home. SHO Jai Prakash Singh said the accused were booked under sections 363 (kidnapping), 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The main accused was arrested, he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-dalit-girl-confined-raped-by-20-year-old-youth-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80014210.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 30, 2020||Bareilly||Probe ordered into illegal collection of forest produces from PTR core areas||Pilibhit: Taking serious cognisance of the illegal collection of forest produces in Deuria forest range of the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve, a protected and prohibited area, National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) member secretary Dr SP Yadav instructed chief conservator of forest, Bareilly zone, Lalit Verma to review the situation. Later, the CCF ordered an inquiry by PTR officiating field director into the matter following Yadav's directions. Yadav raised his concern after a local wildlife enthusiast on Monday evening sent him a few videos of alleged illegal collection of forest produces on a massive scale from the PTR core forest range. The wildlife enthusiast reportedly even underlined that “such activities are causing immense disturbance to the tigers’ habitats and forcing the feline to move outside the forest area”.According to law, the collection of forest produce, felling of trees, fishing, hunting, etc, are strictly prohibited in the tiger reserve. No person, except an authorised forest staff, can even enter the core forest area without valid permission from a competent forest authority. Despite that wildlife enthusiasts have time and again been releasing videos of illegal felling of forest trees of secondary growth and transportation of timbers from the forest range. As recent as on December 19, a flying squad of officiating PTR field director Javed Akhtar had seized a tractor-trolley laden with forest produce collected from the core forest area of the Deuria range.“Range officer Girish Chandra has confessed his fault and carelessness in this connection. We have decided to take strict departmental action against him and to file a charge-sheet against the forest inspector concerned and the forest guards under ‘zero-tolerance policy’ in matters of the forest and wildlife crimes,” Verma told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/probe-ordered-into-illegal-collection-of-forest-produces-from-ptr-core-areas/articleshow/80014230.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 30, 2020||Goa||College students panic after Goa CM talks about offline exams||PANAJI: There was panic among the student community right from late Monday evening and all through Tuesday after a clip of chief minister Pramod Sawant saying that first and second-year college exams will be held offline went viral. There was confusion as the statement came days before the scheduled online exams are set to begin for first and second-year general stream students from January 4. “We will have the Class XI exams through offline mode. Class XII exams will surely be held offline. And first and second-year exams too are to be held offline,” Sawant said in the clip that began going viral from Monday evening. As decided by the Goa University, the January exams are to be held in the physical mode only for final year general stream degree students. “The January exams for first and second-year students will continue to be online as per the schedule,” Goa University registrar Radhika Nayak told TOI. Sources in Goa University said that after they were flooded with queries from colleges, students, and teachers on Tuesday, they had to orally clarify to colleges that first and second-year exams in January will take place in the online mode as already decided. College principals were asked to communicate the information to students to calm their fears. Sources said that the chief minister in the clip appeared to be referring to plans for the April exams. They said there appear to be plans to hold the year-end exam for the academic year 2020-21 for first-year and second-year students too in the physical mode. “Already due to the pandemic, the first exams for the academic year, which were to take place in November, are being held in January. For the final year students, the January exam dates were postponed so they begin on January 18 instead of January 4. This was done to give students more time to prepare in view of the pandemic. When the CM’s statement came in, it added to the confusion for students, who are already gripped with uncertainty in the current situation,” a college teacher said. College teachers had panicked as all preparations for the exams have already been completed. Besides this, many institutes do not have the infrastructure to conduct both first and second-year exams in the physical mode at the eleventh hour. “We have 120 first-year students and some of our classrooms have only 16 benches, which means we can accommodate only four students while ensuring social distancing. This will make conducting exams in physical mode at the last minute nearly impossible and so we panicked when we started getting flooded with calls from students based on the CM’s video,” a teacher of a college in North Goa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fy-sy-students-panic-after-cm-talks-about-offline-exams/articleshow/80023322.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman says husband beat her over unusual sexual positions||AHMEDABAD: A 28-year-old woman from New Maninagar on Monday filed a complaint with Ramol police alleging that her husband, a clerk with a nationalized bank, harassed her by trying different sexual positions on her and when she protested as she was not comfortable, he allegedly thrashed her. In her FIR, she stated that she married to accused on December 11, 2019, and her parents gave dowry including cash, valuables and vehicles worth Rs 20 lakh to her husband and his parents. She alleged that her husband and in-laws began harassing her just 15 days after their wedding, after which she went to stay with her parents for two months. She said that when she returned to the marital home, her in-laws thrashed her frequently. “My husband would try unusual sex positions on me and as I was not comfortable in those ways, he would get angry at me and thrash me,” she alleged in the FIR. She said she had gone to the police station to file a complaint against her husband earlier, but due to the intervention of family members did not file an FIR. On Monday, her husband again pressured her to have sex in an unusual way and thrashed her. She went to Ramol police station and filed a complaint of domestic violence against him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-says-husband-beat-her-over-unusual-sexual-positions/articleshow/80016018.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM recovering fast, say doctors at AIIMS-Delhi||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat is recovering fast and except a minor cold, has no other symptoms of Covid-19, said doctors on Tuesday at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS-Delhi), where he is currently undergoing treatment. The CM was moved to Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) on Sunday evening, a week after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had developed a fever and a mild lung infection. After the doctor treating him at GDMC said he had pneumonia, the CM was airlifted to AIIMS Delhi on Monday morning. The CM’s physician Dr NS Bisht told TOI that he had been administered antibiotics at AIIMS. “Reports of his CT scan and X-Rays were normal. He only had a mild cold till Tuesday evening,” Bisht said. Doctors added that the CM’s wife and daughter are also stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-recovering-fast-say-doctors-at-aiims-delhi/articleshow/80014207.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 30, 2020||Meerut||UP CM announces ex-gratia for kin of jawan killed in J&K||MEERUT: Anil Tomar, a Hawaldar posted with the Indian Army’s 44 Rashtriya Rifles in Srinagar, was killed during an encounter with terrorists in Sophian district of Jammu and Kashmir. A resident of Sisauli village in Meerut, Tomar’s mortal remains were flown to his native place Tuesday night. The slain soldier is survived by his wife, a 14-year-old daughter and an eight-year-old son. Fatally injured in the encounter on December 26, Tomar was immediately flown to the base hospital in Srinagar, where he breathed his last on Monday morning. The mortal remains of the slain soldier were expected to reach his native place for the last rites in the afternoon, but inclement weather in Srinagar hit several flights. A wave of grief swept Sisauli village as soon as the news of Tomar’s death broke, and locals throng his house to console the bereaved family. Several leaders and a team of local police and district administration also met the inconsolable family and relatives. Meanwhile, a team led by district magistrate K Balaji took stock of the preparations for the last rites, ceremonial honours and other arrangements. According to officials, Tomar’s late rites will be held with full state honours. Inducted into the Army in 2000, Tomar was planning retirement earlier this year but sought an extension for three years after being promoted as Hawaldar. His younger brother Anil Tomar is also serving the Indian Army. He is currently posted in Ganganagar in Rajasthan. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has, meanwhile, announced an ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh for the next of kin, a road to the soldier’s name and a government job to one of the family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/army-jawan-from-meerut-killedin-terrorist-encounter-in-valley/articleshow/80014926.cms||Piyush Rai
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three held for cheating Facebook ‘friend’ of Rs 31L||Ahmedabad: Cyber crime police on Monday nabbed three men from Delhi, for allegedly cheating a resident of Krishnanagar of Rs 31 lakh. The complainant was first befriended on Facebook by someone pretending to be a woman from London, who later turned out to be a man from Nigeria. The person later took money from the victim saying that a parcel was stuck with Customs. Cyber crime police said that the three accused were identified as Udechukwu Eugene Onyebuch, 32, a resident of Vasant Vihar in New Delhi and a Nigerian national, and two residents of Munirka in New Delhi who are from Manipur, Mangkholun Khothnag Haokip, 21, and Henkholam Paosei Hamar, 24. Officials said the three accused made a profile of a woman from England named ‘Minda Wilfred’ and befriended the complainant, Dashrath Patel, 45 on April 1. The three then began chatting with Patel and in one of the chats, one of them told him a gift would be sent to him. On April 14, one of the three called Patel using a voice changing software and said that the gift parcel was stuck with Customs at the Delhi airport and asked for money. Patel followed their instructions and kept sending money to various accounts. He ended up paying Rs 31.44 lakh. Cyber crime police began investigation and traced the three persons to Delhi. They were brought to the city on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-held-for-cheating-facebook-friend-of-rs-31l/articleshow/80016022.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Pune||Sambar takes refuge in factory; rescued and released in forest||Pune: The forest officials of the Chakan range, along with experts from the RESQ charitable trust and Wildlife SOS non-government organization (NGO), rescued an adult male sambar from a factory in Chakan recently and later released it into the wild.Employees of a private factory at the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) area in Chakan had a surprise visitor when the large deer was chased into the facility by stray dogs in the neighbourhood. The matter was first reported to the forest department, which, in turn, contacted the trust and the NGO for assistance in rescue and release of itA three-member team from the NGO, along with a team of forest officers and RESQ experts, went to the location. In the meantime the village rescue team, which has been trained by Wildlife SOS and the forest department in conflict mitigation, arrived at the site to help set up safety nets along the periphery of the factory.The Wildlife SOS veterinary officer, Nikhil Bangar, immobilized the sambar using a tranquillizer dart from a safe distance. The sambar had not sustained any injuries and was found fit for release by the veterinary experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sambar-takes-refuge-in-factory-rescued-and-released-in-forest/articleshow/80017622.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Lucknow||City air turns ‘severe’, most polluted in India||Lucknow: The city was the most air-polluted in the country on Sunday, with the air quality turning “severe” for the first time in the New Year.The state capital was the only one out of 123 cities monitored by the Central Pollution Control Board, where Air Quality Index (AQI) was above 400 (‘severe’ category).The most polluted place in the city was Lalbagh, where peak value of PM2.5 concentration reached 693 micrograms per cubic metre of air, followed by Talkatora 415 micrograms, Aliganj 401 micrograms, and Gomtinagar 370 micrograms.Experts said increase in the vehicular rush and fireworks on the New Year could be behind gradual rise in air pollution levels. While Lucknow’s AQI was 408, Rohtak in Haryana was at the second place with AQI 385, followed by Ghaziabad (384), Bulandshahr (363), Moradabad (367), Kanpur ( 366), and Noida ( 364). When AQI is between 301-400, the air quality is described as ‘very poor’.Environment expert and a faculty of Lucknow University’s geology department Prof KK Agarwal said, “New Year day witnessed massive traffic in the city which could have led to a rise in pollutants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-air-turns-severe-most-polluted-in-india/articleshow/80087993.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Dissension in safai worker ranks||AHMEDABAD: There was dissension in the ranks of striking safai (sanitation) workers, with one group claiming that the strike was to continue and another saying it was called off. Office bearers of the association were also divided on the issue. The workers, who had gheraoed the AMC office, even damaged vehicles used by the AMC for door-to-door garbage collection. At least three vehicles were damaged. The association had formed a committee to meet senior deputy municipal commissioners and hold talks. However, after the meeting, the corporation issued a detailed statement saying that several of the demands made were policy decisions and had to be taken in consultation with the standing committee. On Monday night, workers reached Riverfront House and tried to gherao (picket) the office. However, the presence of police foiled them. On Tuesday, the workers reached the AMC office and gheraoed it. After the meeting, the Ahmedabad Municipal Servants’ Association announced their decision to call off the strike while one faction, from the North West Zone, announced that the strike would continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dissension-in-safai-worker-ranks/articleshow/80016052.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||City’s two faces: Resilient & casual||Hyderabad: One year since the detection of the first Covid-19 case, people in Telugu states have learnt to live with the novel coronavirus and its variants. Even as Covid-19 has become part of the human virome, people in Telangana and AP have adapted to the pandemic, forgetting the nightmarish experience it had brought in its wake. From abandoning their dear dead ones in hospital morgues to refusing funeral rites in crematoria and graveyards, and stigmatising the Covid-19 patients in the initial stages of the pandemic, people in Telugu states have overcome the unprecedented challenges taking the virus in their stride. The pandemic has also helped in the overhaul of the health system in both states. From shortage of beds and lack of oxygen facility, the Telugu states have come a long way to modernise infrastructure in hospitals, providing doctors with a handful of repurpose drugs and a new line of medicare to face any major pandemic in the future. Hyderabad’s first death: When the first ever Covid-19 death was reported in Hyderabad in March there was only one relative attending the last rites. While all the family members of Covid-19 victim were in quarantine, neighbours and friends feared attending the burial. The victim’s cousin and a handful of municipal workers wearing PPE kits were present. Exclusive burials: As the stigma of Covid-19 spread fast, people living in the neighbourhood of graveyards/crematoriums prevented last rites of Covid-19 patients. Exclusive burial sites were opened outside cities and towns. Health workers would simply throw bodies into the graves using pieces of cloth as a sling. But, today the dead get a decent burial. Containment zones: Quarantine centres and containment zones were the most dreaded terms. Barricades were seen everywhere restricting movement of people. Ambulances rushed in to take Covid-19 patients to quarantine centres under strict vigil. A year later, now patients simply walk into hospitals or remain in isolation at home. No vacancy in hospitals: As the number of cases surged, hospital infrastructure came under strain till the government opened new Covid-19 treatment centres. For the first time, AP and Telangana added new hospital infrastructure at an unprecedented fast pace. Today, hospital beds are empty, and many covid-19 hospitals are denotified. Repurpose drugs: The new millennium has thus far witnessed two pandemics – Swine flu in 2009 and Covid-19 now. However, never in any pandemic in the past have doctors used so many repurpose drugs to treat an ailment. Drugs that are originally meant for one disease, if used for treatment of another, are called repurpose drugs. This pandemic has seen at least a dozen such medicines ranging from hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir, Ivermectin to Fabiflu. PPE kits: The sight of doctors and health workers wearing PPE kits is now largely passé. The ubiquitousness of PPE kits and loneliness in quarantine centres resulted in mental trauma. This often caused the patients to either escape or commit suicide. Today, Covid-19 has become part of one’s close environs. Fever clinics: Many hospitals created exclusive fever clinics outside the main buildings to contain Covid-19 spread. People with fever were not allowed inside hospital and referred to these exclusive centres. Long queues: With people learning to live with Covid-19 long queues at grocery stores and medical shops have become a thing of the past. Even social distancing has been given a go by.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citys-two-faces-resilient-casual/articleshow/80018256.cms||Syed Akbar
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Cyber crooks on the prowl with Covid vaccine trap||Nagpur: Cyber tricksters have started trapping unassuming citizens, luring them with fake registration calls for Covid vaccination. Some senior officers of city police have taken to social media to alert citizens informally, but no complaints have been lodged so far. The pranksters call up random mobile users asking for their Aadhaar number, voter ID, e-mail ID and such details (often including their bank account number on the pretext of getting them registered for Covid-19 vaccine. They also take their victims into confidence before asking them to share the one-time password (OTP) for verifying Aadhaar numbers. Police said money is debited from the accounts of the victims once the crucial personal information and OTPs are shared. “Many times, links are sent to the targeted persons and they are asked to click on them. Clicking the links installs some software or app in the cell phone of the users which helps the tricksters take control of the gadget,” said an officer. “Through the app, the tricksters procure the banking details. Later, as soon as the OTP is generated and shared, the amounts gets debited,” the officer added. Nagpur police cyber cell sources said that though no such complaints of fraud are yet to be lodged, the possibility cannot be ruled out given the innovative modus operandi of the tricksters, who are switching to newer tactics and techniques to dupe the citizens on a regular basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cyber-crooks-on-the-prowl-with-covid-vaccine-trap/articleshow/80016057.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Protest rages over couple’s death||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government will take over the guardianship of the two children of the couple who lost their life while resisting the attachment of the three cents of land in which they were residing at Neyyattinkara. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the government would provide complete protection to the children and promised a free house for them. He said that the government would also bear their educational expenses. He said that the government would examine the lapses in connection with the incident. The state police chief has entrusted SP (rural) B Ashokan to inquire into the matter. The state human rights commission has also asked the police to file a detailed report in the matter within four weeks. Aruvikkara MLA and Youth Congress vice-president K S Sabarinadhan visited the children and offered that the Youth Congress would build a house for them. The couple, Rajan, 42, and Ambili, 36, were threatening to self-immolate when the police had arrived to evacuate them from the property at Nettathottam Laksham Veedu Colony, Pongil, near Neyyattinkara, based on a court order on December 22. The fire spread when the police tried to snatch the lighter from the couple. The duo had succumbed to the burn injuries later at the medical college hospital. Rajan breathed his last on Sunday night and Ambili on Monday. Their elder son Renjith works in a workshop and younger son Rahul is a higher secondary student. According to Rahul, the policemen who reached the house with the court order, forced Rajan to leave the house while he was having lunch. “He was not allowed to finish his lunch. He told them that the high court was considering his appeal on that day and a stay order is expected. But the police were unwilling to listen to anything,” Rahul told reporters. After the incident, the high court, in the afternoon, issued a stay order till January 15. Rajan and his neighbour Vasantha were involved in a legal dispute over the ownership of the property. Rajan had recently built a temporary shed on the land and on Vasantha’s plea, the munsiff court ordered to demolish the shed. On Tuesday, Vasantha told reporters that she had absolute ownership of the land and she would continue the legal battle. As residents staged a protest seeking her arrest, police moved her to a secret location. Tense scenes prevailed in the evening as residents blocked the ambulance, which was carrying the body Ambili, for over three hours. The protest ended only after district collector Navjot Khosa visiting the place and holding talks with Rajan’s relatives. The collector assured that all their demands, including action against policemen who forced Rajan to vacate the house without waiting for the HC order, would be considered favourably. Later, the body was buried in the same plot beside the grave of Rajan. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that the state government was the main culprit in the incident. “The police committed homicide in the name of eviction and implementation of court order. Despite the victims pleading that they would get a favourable order in half an hour, the police tried to forcibly evict them even without allowing them to complete their lunch,” Chennithala said. Demanding a stern action against the police officers, the opposition leader also spoke to the elder son and pledged all support. BJP state present K Surendran blamed the government for the tragedy. He said that it was a shame that the government is now claiming that it would protect the family. “The police tried to hurriedly evacuate the couple,” he said, adding that the government has once again proven that it is a government without any humanitarian concerns. He demanded immediate action against the responsible police officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/protest-rages-over-couples-death/articleshow/80015059.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: District authorities permitted to take call on night curfew||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash late on Tuesday evening issued fresh directives for strict compliance of the set norms and guidelines to prevent the spread of Covid-19. In a letter to the top bureaucrats, district and police authorities, the chief secretary wrote, “Keeping in mind the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases globally and emergence of a new strain of virus in the United Kingdom, there is a need for maintaining caution and strict surveillance.” The CS pointed out that strict vigil also needs to be maintained to prevent any fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in the wake of upcoming new year celebrations. In this regard, appropriate measures should be taken by district administration and other concerned authorities. The district authorities have been permitted to decide on imposing local restrictions like night curfew. The letter further stated, “Districts, on the basis of the assessment of their situation, may impose local restrictions with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19 such as the night curfew. However, there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, including those for cross-land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries.” The CS also directed state authorities to ensure strict compliance of social distancing and wearing of masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/district-authorities-permitted-to-take-call-on-night-curfew-no-restrictions-on-inter-state-intra-state-movement/articleshow/80014224.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 30, 2020||Goa||SC to hear Cong petition on Mon||Panaji: The Congress plea filed before the Supreme Court seeking direction to expedite the disqualification petition against its former 10 MLAs before the speaker is likely to come up for hearing on Monday. GPCC president Girish Chodankar had approached the apex court pointing out to the nearly nine-month delay by the speaker in deciding the disqualification petition filed against the MLAs. Chodankar in his plea had cited an order in the Manipur assembly case passed by the Supreme Court in March and sought direction to restrain the MLAs from attending the assembly proceedings during the pendency of the disqualification petition. In August 2019, Congress filed a disqualification petition before the speaker against the 10 rebel MLAs who quit and joined BJP in July 2019. Chodankar, who has filed the petition before the speaker, had sought that the 10 MLAs be restrained from attending assembly proceedings and holding constitutional posts till the case is decided by the speaker. Congress MLAs led by deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar joined BJP claiming that the Congress had split. The remaining nine MLAs were Isidore Fernandes, Nilkanth Halarnkar, Jennifer Monserrate, Antonio Fernandes, Francisco Silveira, Wilfred D’Sa, Clafasio Dias, Filipe Neri Rodrigues and Antanasio Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-to-hear-cong-petition-on-mon/articleshow/80017732.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Dehradun||BJP MLAs in contact with us: Congress||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh triggered a controversy by claiming that the state Congress is in touch with some BJP MLAs who are “willing to change sides”. The senior Congress leader maintained that their names will be revealed in due course of time. On Tuesday, Hridayesh told TOI, “The issue will be discussed with the party’s national leadership and thereafter, a decision will be taken. The issue would also be discussed with the state Congress leaders.” Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat said that he, too, had heard that some 18 BJP MLAs are in talks with Congress. He said that it would be “good for the democracy” if there is a split in the BJP and that “it should happen soon”. Earlier in 2016, 10 Congress MLAs had left the party to join the BJP. Soon after this, two legislators had left the BJP to join the Congress. Meanwhile, dismissing Hridayesh’s claims, BJP’s state chief Bansidhar Bhagat said, “The fear of losing elections has started bothering the Congress leaders. Therefore, they are issuing statements which do not make any sense.” Bhagat added that Harish Rawat, who has tasted many defeats, and that he should brace for another one in the 2022 polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-mlas-in-contact-with-us-willing-to-switch-sides-claim-senior-ukhand-congress-leader-former-cm/articleshow/80014232.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Process begins to clear pending citizenship pleas of Pak Hindus||Nagpur: Bebooram Katariya, who came to India from Pakistan’s Sindh province in 2009, had filed for citizenship after completing the mandatory period of stay, but was waiting for a final decision on his case. The plea was neither approved nor turned down. His wife’s is a further complicated case. She has no option to even go back to Pakistan if India did not grant her citizenship. Going by the earlier rules, she had even surrendered her Pakistani passport and got a no-objection certificate from the country’s high commission. The delay in granting citizenship had left her stranded. There were some others like her too. On Monday, Bebooram was among the 11 Pakistani Hindu immigrants who took the oath of allegiance to Indian Constitution in the presence of district collector Ravindra Thakre. His wife’s name is in the next list of persons to take oath this week. This will take up the process further in lines with the December 2016 order which empowered collectors of Nagpur, Pune, Mumbai and Thane to grant citizenship to minorities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. This was later extended to 16 districts. As the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is yet to come into force, Hindus from Pakistan have been banking on the regular procedure to get citizenship here. There are over 250 of them in Nagpur, who had been waiting for a decision on their application for at least 15 months. Even as some immigrants had surrendered their Pakistani passport, the applications were neither rejected nor cleared, which left them anxious. On Monday, a delegation of the immigrants led by Virendra Kukreja, chairman of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) health consultative committee, called on the collector. Thakre told the delegation that the matter was pending due to Covid and before that the state elections. He assured them to take up the matter on priority basis, said the delegation members. “There was a prompt response from the collector and he assured to take up the case. The citizenship will be cleared on the basis of no objection reports by the police and Intelligence Bureau (IB),” said Rajesh Jhambia, from Sindhi Hindi Panchayat, an association of Hindus migrating from Pakistan. Jhambia said a batch of another 18 persons will be taking the oath of allegiance to carry forward the citizenship process in the coming week. It is expected that rest of the eligible cases will be cleared too. There are around 3,000 Hindu immigrants from Pakistan settled in Nagpur. Most of them are from Ghotki district of Sindh province apart from some from Balochistan also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/process-begins-to-clear-pending-citizenship-pleas-of-pak-hindus/articleshow/80016077.cms||Shishir Arya
December 30, 2020||Dehradun||Command Unit at Haridwar railway station for better co-ordination||HARIDWAR: An integrated command unit (ICU) is being set up at Haridwar railway station for better coordination among the different departments of railway and police force. This centre will be used for coordinating with the mela administration during the Kumbh. This, the officials say, will help in crowd management and in keeping a tab on anti-social elements. ACM Railway Naresh Singh told TOI, “The teams of all the departments will stay put in the ICU for quick response. CCTV surveillance units will also be set up.” He added that most of the work has been completed and the rest of the works will be completed soon. The unit assumes significance as most of the pilgrims are expected to reach Haridwar by train during the Kumbh Mela. SP Kumbh Mela Manoj Katyal told TOI, “This unit will help us in maintaining a better coordination between the railways and the mela administration. We will also share CCTV footage for crowd management and for keeping a tab on anti-social elements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/integrated-command-unit-set-up-at-haridwar-railway-station-for-better-coordination-with-mela-administration/articleshow/80014234.cms||MS Nawaz
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||6-hour vehicle ban on Bengaluru's MG, Brigade roads on December 31||BENGALURU: In a bid to stop revellers from heading towards MG Road and Brigade Road to usher in the New Year, Bengaluru City police have imposed a six-hour ban on vehicular movement on the night of December 31. Emergency vehicles like ambulance are exempted from the ban, which will be in force from 8pm to 2am of January 1. Similarly, vehicles have been banned on 44 flyovers in the city from 10pm to 6am. Parking banned between 4pm and 2am on select stretchesCity police commissioner Kamal Pant said in a press note that the stretches where vehicular movement is banned are MG Road from Anil Kumble Circle to Residency Road junction at Mayo Hall; Brigade Road from Cauvery Emporium to Opera; Church Street; and Museum Road from MG Road junction to Old Post Office junction. Parking of vehicles has been banned between 4pm and 2am on January 1 on the following roads: MG Road, Cubbon Road, Residency Road, Richmond Road, Infantry Road, Brigade Road, Church Street, Museum Road, Rest House Road, St Marks Road, McGrath Road and Indiranagar 100ft road. The flyovers where vehicular movement are banned include: Richmond Circle flyover, Balagangadhara Swamy flyover on Mysuru road, National College flyover, Hebbal flyover, elevated Hosur Road expressway, Bangalore Dairy flyover, Devarabeesanahalli flyover, Agara flyover, ITC flyover and the flyover connecting Indiranagar 17th main and Koramangala inner ring road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/6-hr-vehicle-ban-on-mg-brigade-roads-on-dec-31/articleshow/80018675.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka council deputy chief found dead on railway tracks||CHIKKAMAGALURU: Karnataka legislative council deputy chairman and JD(S) leader SL Dharmegowda was found dead on a railway track in Chikkamagaluru district early Tuesday. It’s suspected he died by suicide and police claimed to have recovered a note near his body. A low-profile Dharmegowda, 64, was in the news after opposition Congress members pushed him off the chairman’s chair in the Upper House during a ruckus over a no-confidence motion against the chairman on December 15. Police said Dharmegowda asked his official gunman and escort to leave him alone on Monday evening. He left home in Shakarayapatna, Kadur taluk in Chikkamagaluru district, about 230km from Bengaluru, in an old personal Santro with his driver and came to Gunasagar around 6pm. He sent the driver away saying he had to meet someone. Cellphone signals helped cops locate his body on trackDharmegowda’s last call to a friend in Kadur was reportedly about train timings. When he did not return home late at night, his family alerted police. Based on cellphone signals, police located his body on the Mankenahalli railway track. The body parts were scattered all over the track. Chikkamagaluru deputy commissioner Bagadi Gautham told TOI the cause of death could be confirmed after the postmortem. BJP leader CT Ravi, quoting the death note recovered by police, said the JD(S) MLC was upset about the recent incident in the council. Police sources claimed he mentioned in the letter how his family members should share his property and asked his son not to lose courage. Dharmegowda was closely associated with JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda’s family. “Dharmegowda’s death is a sorrowful moment for me (since) I have been associated with his family since 1972. The drama (in the council) went on between the two national parties. He was hurt very badly. Ultimately, this decent man succumbed. I am sorry,’’ Deve Gowda said. The council deputy chairman was cremated with state honours at his farmhouse in Sarapanahalli, Kadur, on Tuesday. His son Sonal lit the pyre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-council-deputy-chieffound-dead-on-railway-track/articleshow/80018681.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka GP poll results will be out today||BENGALURU: Results of the gram panchayat (GP) elections will be declared on Wednesday. Counting of votes polled in two phases in over 5,762 GPs will begin at all taluk headquarters from 8am onwards. “We have made all arrangements for counting of votes besides deploying sufficient police force at centres,” said an official from the State Election Commission. Counting in GPs with more than 20 seats will be taken up first. All results only by tomorrow morning, says election officialSince the paper ballot was used in all districts except Bidar where electronic voting machines were employed, results are likely to start trickling in from the afternoon. “All results will be out only by Thursday morning,” the SEC official added. The elections were held on December 22 and 27 and an average of 81 per cent voters exercised their franchise. In all, 2.8 lakh candidates were in the fray for 94,348 seats. The polls were held peacefully, barring sporadic incidents of minor scuffle, but what hit the headlines was unprecedented auctioning of seats for amounts ranging from Rs 2 lakh to 12 lakh per seat in the name of temples and village development. The SEC filed five cases in this regard besides countermanding elections to 13 seats of Sindigeri GP in Kurugodu taluk, Ballari. The commission also asked respective deputy commissioners to re-examine instances where candidates were elected unopposed to verify if they were part of the auctioning. CorrectionThe caption of the photo ‘Remembering the Veterans’ should have read 136th Congress Foundation Day celebrations and not as rendered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-gp-poll-results-will-be-out-today/articleshow/80018682.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Three infected with UK variant of coronavirus from Bengaluru, under treatment||BENGALURU: The health ministry on Tuesday said seven UK returnees are found to have been infected with the UK variant of coronavirus which causes Covid-19, and three of them are in Bengaluru. A woman and her daughter, from Bommanahalli, are among the three persons from Bengaluru. The duo was shifted to Victoria Hospital on December 21 after they tested positive. The third patient is in isolation. As per the Centre’s guidelines, all UK returnees who tested positive will be in isolation for 28 days. We are tracing UK returnees’ contacts: MinisterKarnataka health minister K Sudhakar said the UK returnees who tested positive are being isolated and treated. Their primary and secondary contacts are being traced and advised to be in quarantine, he added. Karnataka, which has had over 2,000 UK returnees in December till the flights were suspended, tested 1,614 persons and found 26 positive. Designated labs directly send results of genomes sequenced to the Indian Council of Medical Research, and the health ministry released the initial details on Tuesday. Stating that details of copassengers have been collected from the civil aviation ministry, Sudhakar said: “ICMR has been collecting information of positive persons who returned from the UK. This is a uniform and centralised system. There is no need for panic as many returnees tested negative. We’re tracing passengers who have switched off their mobile phones.” According to the ministry of health and family welfare, about 33,000 people disembarked at various Indian airports from the UK between November 25 and December 23, of whom 114 have tested positive. Their samples are being sequenced at the 10 designated labs. As of Tuesday (December 29) morning, genomes from six patients — three sequenced at Nimhans, Bengaluru, two at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, and one at the National Institute of Virology, Pune — were found to be the new UK variant. All these persons are in single-room isolation in designated healthcare facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/three-infected-are-from-bluru-under-treatment/articleshow/80018688.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Dehradun||Jan Shatabdi to ply on Delhi to Tanakpur & Kotdwar routes||DEHRADUN: Union minister for railways, Piyush Goyal, on Tuesday announced the Jan Shatabdi Express train service on New Delhi-Kotdwar and New Delhi-Tanakpur routes. Goel, in his letter to BJP Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni, said that timings and other details of these two train services, to run daily, will be communicated shortly with the department concerned. It's important to mention here that BJP MP Anil Baluni had, on November 17, 2020, requested Piyush Goel to start train services on these routes. Sharing the information on his social media handle, Baluni thanked the central railway minister. “Railway minister Piyush Goyal has shown generosity in the expansion and upgradation of railway services in Uttarakhand. The operation of these two train services will provide a great relief to the citizens, students, patients, and employed persons. With the start of Tanakpur-New Delhi Jan Shatabdi Express train service, the locals of Pithoragarh, Champawat, and Udham Singh Nagar districts will get the important facility of rail connectivity with the capital of the country,” he said. Similarly, the citizens of Garhwal division will be able to get smooth and convenient rail travel services through Kotdwar-New Delhi Jan Shatabdi Express train. He said that along with the people of the state, devotees and tourists will also get convenient rail service in Uttarakhand and it will also prove beneficial from a strategic point of view. Earlier this year, the railway minister had given in-principle approval for Tejas train service on the Dehradun-Haridwar-Delhi route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jan-shatabdi-train-service-to-start-soon-on-delhi-tanakpur-delhi-kotdwar-routes/articleshow/80014242.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 30, 2020||Dehradun||Now, drones to soon assist fire-fighting in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand police department is considering procuring drones to help the fire department personnel in fire fighting operations, especially in the urban areas of the state. “There is a technology available wherein drones can be used especially to tackle fires that erupt in high-rises as they can fly high and give an exact idea of the actual intensity of the inferno,” said Ashok Kumar, director general of police (DGP), Uttarakhand. Kumar added that the plan to get drones for fire-fighting was discussed during the review meeting of the fire department held on Monday and the final decision in this regard would be taken soon. According to the sources, the plan is to give state-of-the-art drones to the fire department personnel in Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar, Nainital, and Haridwar districts, which have the maximum urban areas. “Sometimes, fire-fighters reach the location but are unable to get to the exact area where the blaze is most intensive despite using the fire-fighting ladder. In such cases, the drones will come handy in giving the exact information to the fire fighters and also help in dousing off the flames,” said DGP Uttarakhand. The fire department personnel will also undergo training to handle drones during fire emergency situations, said a senior cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/now-drones-to-soon-assist-fire-fighting-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/80014249.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Cricket betting racket busted in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: The special squad set up by superintendent of police Dilip Patil Bhujbal has busted a gang involved in betting on Big Bash League T-20 cricket currently underway in Australia. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Bhujbal said a special squad was set up after getting a tip off about betting racket being operated from residential house in local weekly market area. On Monday night, the squad, led by APIs Amol Puri of cyber cell and Shubhangi Aagase of Awadhootwadi police station, raided the house of one Nitin alias Ram Chintamanlal Sharma. The police nabbed four bookies, identified as Nitin Sharma (32), Nilesh Arjun Nanwhe (26), Durga Singh Motisingh Rana (24), all residents of weekly market locality, and Vikram Vinay Gaharwal (32), a resident of Sai Mandir area of the city. The police also seized equipment including LED TV, popat line box having capacity to connect 16 mobiles, 25 mobile hand sets, laptop, printer, one motor bike, papers etc and cash Rs3.19 lakh from the spot. Awadhootwadi police have booked the bookies under sections 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Gambling Prevention Act. It is pertinent to note that the bookies operated their den only a stone’s throw away from Yavatmal police headquarters. After the successful operation, Bhujbal has announced Rs25,000 reward to the squad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cricket-betting-racket-busted-in-yavatmal/articleshow/80016103.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||Congress forms panel to mark 50 yrs of ’71 war||NEW DELHI: Congress on Tuesday announced a party committee to plan the commemoration of the golden jubilee of the Bangladesh liberation war with year-long programmes, the move designed to put party mascot Indira Gandhi at the heart of the debate on national security. The panel is headed by former defence minister A K Antony and has former AICC ex-servicemen cell functionary retired Captain Pravin Davar as the convenor. The other committee members are former Speaker Meira Kumar, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, former CM Prithviraj Chavan, MP Uttam Reddy, Jitendra Singh, Kiran Choudhry, Major Ved Prakash and Sharmistha Mukherjee. Uttam Reddy, Jitendra Singh, Kiran Choudhry, Major Ved Prakash and Sharmistha Mukherjee. The 1971 war anniversary fell on December 16 and the delay in the announcement of the panel raised eyebrows among partymen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-forms-panel-to-mark-50-yrs-of-71-war/articleshow/80018658.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Dehradun||Sub-inspector among six police personnel suspended over dereliction of duty in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: As many as six police personnel, including the in-charge of Balawala police chowki, were suspended by Yogendra Singh Rawat, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Dehradun, over dereliction of duty. The suspended police personnel include — sub-inspector Prem Singh Negi, in-charge of Balawala police Chowki, head constable Vijay Jakhmola, constable Laxman Singh, constable Aadesh Kumar, constable Pawan Kumar, and constable Devendra. SSP Dehradun also conducted a surprise inspection of areas under the jurisdiction of Patel Nagar and Raipur police stations to check the alertness of the police personnel deployed on night duty. “The six police personnel were suspended by the SSP over negligence in carrying out their duties. They have been attached to the police line,” said a senior district police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/si-among-six-police-personnel-suspended-over-dereliction-of-duty/articleshow/80014268.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Cong-NCP-Sena to fight mayor, deputy mayor election together||Nagpur: The Maha Vikas Aghadi constituents — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — have decided to extend their partnership from state level to the civic body level in Nagpur. The three parties have decided to contest jointly the Nagpur mayor and deputy mayor’s , slated for January 5. BJP, with 108 corporators, has a clear majority in the 151-member NMC House. Congress has 29, BSP 10, Shiv Sena 2 and NCP and Independent (one each). Hinting a tough fight for the 2022 civic polls, leader of opposition and senior Congress corporator Tanaji Wanve confirmed the development and said, “All the three coalition partners will field candidates for mayor and deputy mayor elections.” Congress has declared to field Manoj Gawande for the mayor’s post, while Shiv Sena will be fielding senior corporator Mangala Gaware for the post of deputy mayor, he said. Bahujan Samaj Party, which has 10 corporators, has decided to go it alone. “After the Tuesday’s party meeting, BSP has decided to field Narendra Walde and Vaishali Narnaware for the post of mayor and deputy mayor, respectively, said party sources. The BJP has already announced Dayashankar Tiwari’s candidature for the post of mayor, the party’s core committee met on Tuesday evening to finalize the name of a woman corporator for the post of deputy mayor. The party, however, has not disclosed the name. Nomination forms can be submitted on December 30 at Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Smriti Standing Committee Hall at the NMC headquarters from 11am to 3pm. Nomination papers will be scrutinized by the presiding officer after the meeting starts at 11am on January 5. After this, names of valid candidates will be announced and 15 minutes will be given to withdraw the nomination. Presiding officer will announce the names of the candidates contesting the election. Voting will then take place, if needed. The results will be announced by the presiding officer at the end of the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-ncp-sena-to-fight-mayor-deputy-mayor-election-together/articleshow/80016113.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Govt will give dry rations till Delhi’s schools reopen||NEW DELHI: With schools closed due to the pandemic and children missing out on midday meals, Delhi government has started distributing dry rations to the students of government and aided schools. On Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launched the process by handing over rations for six months to the parents of students till Class VIII at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya No. 3 Mandawli. “The last nine months have been extremely difficult, and we cannot see an end to this difficulty. The vaccine has been made and I hope it will reach our country soon. But till that time, we have to find solutions.” TimesViewThis newspaper consistently maintained that creative flexibility is fundamental to combating coronavirus. Hunger pangs don’t stop because schools are closed. Providing students rations at home is an innovative administrative move that will benefit everyone.Describing the students as “the most distressed in the last nine months”, Kejriwal said, “During all this while, we tried to provide the corresponding amount for the midday meal in the bank accounts of the parents.” However, as many parents said the money could be spent on other things, close to eight lakh students are now being given dry ration kits, containing wheat, rice, pulses and oil, till the school reopens. Kejriwal also highlighted that during the lockdown, Delhi government had given Rs 5,000 each to construction workers and transferred Rs 5,000 each to taxi and auto drivers every month. It has also provided dry rations to one crore people and fed lakhs, he added. Referring to a taxi driver’s letter, the chief minister said he recently waived off the penalty for paying road taxes late after a taxi driver had written to him about their plight due to the pandemic. “All this has happened in Delhi because the government is of aam aadmi and is committed to finding solutions to their problems,” said Kejriwal. Education minister Manish Sisodia said, “God is testing our patience. But I am proud that despite these challenges, our Team Education has been persistent with its efforts. Everyone has worked hard to reach 94% of the students through online and semi-online teaching.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-will-give-dry-rations-till-citys-schools-reopen/articleshow/80016119.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala FM T M Thomas Isaac denies violation of privileges before ethics committee||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It is learnt that finance minister T M Thomas Isaac has justified his act of purposefully leaking a portion of the latest CAG report before the assembly ethics committee. As per existing rules, he should have first placed the report on the table of the state assembly. After his appearance before the panel, the minister told television channels on Tuesday that he didn’t violate the rights of the house by leaking a portion of the report, which he claimed are detrimental to the welfare and progress of Kerala. Isaac had stirred a hornets’ nest recently when he selectively leaked a part of the report, which in his opinion had critical, unacceptable comments and observations on Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The minister, who first claimed that the allegedly adverse remarks were a part of the draft report, was later forced to admit that he had quoted it from the final report when questions about the conspicuous incongruities in his arguments were raised. “There is no change in my stand. The report was publicized for the best interest of the state. The CAG failed to follow the rules while preparing and finalizing such an audit report,” he told television channels. The minister added that he was ready to face any punishment recommended by the committee. According to Isaac, the yet-to-be tabled report questioned the constitutional validity of KIIFB and challenged its authority for borrowing even within the country. After MLA VD Satheesan filed a breach of privilege petition against Isaac recently, speaker Sreeramakrishnan referred the matter to the assembly ethics committee chaired by MLA A Pradeepkumar. Satheesan, who appeared before the committee a few days ago, reiterated his argument that Isaac kept the assembly in dark and knowingly breached its privilege by leaking the document and later justifying his act. The committee is expected to submit its report during the next assembly session on January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fm-denies-violation-of-privileges-before-ethics-committee/articleshow/80015095.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Meerut||BKU, farmer unions allege ‘threat & coercion’ as UP cops launch massive farmers outreach||BIJNOR: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Tuesday claimed that policemen and revenue officials were trying to intimidate farmers and their leaders under the guise of an outreach campaign in western Uttar Pradesh, under which they were going to villages and trying to convince people against joining the protest on the UP-Delhi border. In a message, Digamabar Singh, state president of BKU’s youth wing, said, “Policemen and lekhpals are being sent to villages. They are dissuading and threatening farmers against joining the ongoing protests in Delhi.” Rajendra Singh, national president of Azad Kisan Union, said that several leaders of his outfit were called to police stations in Bijnor and “indirectly warned” against taking part in protests. “The government is trying to crush farmers’ voice. Police officials are summoning our leaders and threatening them. On Monday, some of our leaders were called to Mandawali police station in Bijnor, where they were told to stay away from the agitation. We are holding meetings and will leave for Delhi soon," he said. While BKU’s Bijnor district president Kuldeep Singh told TOI, “Our outfit has nominated nodal leaders who will galvanize the farmer fraternity so that they march towards Delhi in large numbers. In Bijnor district, several farmer leaders were called to police stations and were warned. We will confront police officials on this issue. If they stop farmers forcibly, we will not tolerate it and launch agitation at thana-level also.” But senior police officers dismissed the allegation as baseless. Lakshmi Nivas Mishra, superintendent of police, Bijnor, said, “No one is threatening farmers. It is true that we are talking and appealing to them against going to Delhi due to pandemic. Besides, we are trying to resolve all grievances of the farmers at local level. Their worries are being allayed. It is persuasion, not coercion.” The UP government had on Sunday night appointed 39 IPS officers as nodal officers to “establish a dialogue with farmers and stop them from taking part in the ongoing agitation in the NCR”. The set of instructions given to them also included preparing a list of important farmer leaders and striking a dialogue with them to address their grievances. According to sources, a massive outreach programme has been chalked out by the state police brass, under which policemen have been told to meet leaders of farmers’ unions in their region and address their grievances. “So that they stay in their region,” an order said. Revenue and agriculture department officers have also been pressed into action. Police stations across the state were also told to open ‘kisan seva kendra’ where a dedicated officer will listen to and address the grievances of farmers, who will also be "educated about the new laws". Several farmer groups from western UP districts like Meerut, Bijnor, Pilibhit, Hapur and Bulandshahr have extended support to the farmer agitation who are up against the Centre's new agriculture laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bku-farmer-unions-allege-threat-coercion-as-up-cops-launch-massive-farmers-outreach/articleshow/80015085.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 30, 2020||Dehradun||Pollinator Park opens in Haldwani||NAINITAL: A pollinator park spread across an area of four acres was inaugurated in Haldwani by Peter Smetacek, veteran entomologist and founder of Butterfly Research Centre in Bhimtal, on Tuesday. The Pollinator Park, which the forest department officials say is the country’s first, has over 40 varieties of butterflies, honeybees as well as moths and birds along with several water bodies, including mud puddling. Speaking to TOI, officials of the forest department said that the aim of the park is to conserve various pollinator species to create awareness among the general public about the importance and conservation of these species and to promote further research on various aspects of pollination, including threat to habitat and impact of pollution. “While countries in the West have been making efforts to conserve them, it is for the first time that a park has been developed in India for the purpose. We have also stopped the use of pesticides or insecticides not only inside the park but also in the surrounding areas to conserve these species,” said Sanjeev Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests (research). Chaturvedi added that while establishing the park, the officials came across several-lesser known aspects of the status of pollinators in the state. “We were looking for the endemic species of bees – Apiscerana indica – however, we got to know that their numbers have reduced significantly because most of the bee keepers now use European species of bees. Finally, a beekeeper from Garud in Bageshwar district gave us the species,” Chaturvedi said. The forest department also said that even though over 75% of all the flowering plants need pollinators for pollination and they affect 35% of the global agriculture land, their population is on a decline. “Most of pollinator populations are in decline mostly due to a loss in feeding and nesting habitats, pollution, overuse of pesticides and insecticides, disease, and changes in climatic patterns. The shrinking and shifting pollinator population is endangering our food security,” the forest department said in a statement. It added that the research through this park will help conserve many of the pollinator species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pollinator-park-inaugurated-in-haldwani-officials-say-it-has-over-40-species-of-butterflies-honey-bees-moths-birds/articleshow/80014258.cms||Prashant Jha
December 30, 2020||Dehradun||With 317 fresh cases, Covid tally crosses 90,000 in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 317 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in Uttarakhand on Tuesday, the state’s coronavirus tally crossed the 90,000 mark. Six deaths were also reported, taking the Covid-19 toll to 1,495. It took 19 days for the state to reach 90,000 from 80,000 cases. According to the health department, over 15,000 samples were tested on Tuesday. “Among the 317 new positive cases, the maximum of 128 were reported from Dehradun, followed by 48 from Nainital, 38 from Uttarkashi, 25 from Pithoragarh, 22 from Haridwar, 12 from Pauri and Tehri each, 11 from Champawat, eight from Udham Singh Nagar, six from Almora, five from Chamoli and two from Rudraprayag district. The total number of cases in the state have reached 90,167,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room. Of the six patients who succumbed to the virus, one death was reported from Susheela Tiwari Medical College, Himalayan Hospital Dehradun, District Hospital Pithoragarh and Ujala Hospital, Kashipur each. Two deaths were also reported from Uttarkashi district hospital. Meanwhile, 555 patients recovered on Tuesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 82,243. The state’s recovery rate stands 91.2 per cent. The sample positivity rate is 5.1 per cent and the death rate 1.6 per cent. Anoop Nautiyal from Social Development for Communities Foundation, an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state, said that the quickest jump occurred in mid-September, when the tally jumped from 30,000 to 40,000 in all of seven days. “The state reached 10,000 cases in 149 days, 20,000 in the next 22 days, 30,000 in 11 days. After the rally reached 40,000 by September-end, it took two weeks to reach the 50,000 mark and three weeks to reach 60,000. The next 10,000-case jumps also took place over 3-week periods,” Nautiyal said. Meanwhile, the health department has started training healthcare workers who would be deployed for vaccine distribution across the state. Asha workers, ANMs and doctors are being trained at block levels for work related to vaccine transportation. Dr Kuleep Singh Martolia, nodal officer for coronavirus vaccination in the state, said that around 93,000 health workers from government as well as private establishments will be given vaccines in the first tranche. Among these are 11,000 ASHA workers, 2500 ANMs and 2,000 doctors, who are also being trained to store, handle and administer vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tally-crosses-90k-state-starts-training-healthcare-workers-to-administer-vaccines/articleshow/80014274.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 30, 2020||Bareilly||Missing girl, 13, traced in Delhi; two brothers booked for her rape||BAREILLY: A 13-year-old girl allegedly abducted by a youth with the help of his brother from Jalalabad area of Shahjahanpur on December 25 was found in Delhi by her family members, who brought her back home. The accused (age yet to be ascertained by police) were, meanwhile, booked for abduction and rape after she was found pregnant during her medical examination. The girl stated that she was in a relationship with the youth of her village for the past five months and got pregnant. “One night, I gave sleeping pills to my family members following the directions of the youth’s elder brother, and then they forcefully took me along to Delhi,” alleged the girl. The girl added that she managed to escape from their clutches in Delhi and informed her parents. The girl’s mother told TOI, “The accused’s family is forcing us to marry our daughter with their son. I want justice for my daughter, whose life is ruined by the accused. He should be sent to jail.” Jalalabad police station SHO Jasveer Singh said, “We have registered an FIR under sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (kidnapping woman to compel her marriage) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). After the girl records her statement in the court, we will add appropriate sections of the POCSO Act to the FIR. Meanwhile, we are trying to nab the accused, who are absconding.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-brothers-booked-for-abduction-rape-after-missing-girl-13-traced-in-delhi-found-pregnant/articleshow/80014294.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 30, 2020||Bareilly||Quick cane harvesting may drive stray tiger back to PTR: Chief conservator||Pilibhit: With the stray tiger that has been lurking amid sugarcane fields of Pilibhit’s Puranpur tehsil showing no signs of retreating into the wild, chief conservator of forest Lalit Verma has called for early harvesting of the crop to minimize the feline’s hiding places. He has directed deputy director of Pilibhit tiger reserve, (PTR) Naveen Khandelwal to persuade district cane officer to issue out-of-turn supply tickets to the farmers of village Karnapur, where the big cat has been staying for the past one week. The three-year-old tiger was first spotted near Madhotanda village, some 2.5 km from PTR’s Barahi forest range. After staying amid the sugarcane fields and the shrubs along the banks of Hardoi feeder canal there for over three weeks, it moved to Karnapur village, 7 km from Madotanda. The tiger’s presence has led to halting of harvesting at Karnapur. This has enabled the big cat to lurk amid the cane fields, which have abundant prey like nilgai and wild boar. According to Verma, cane harvesting may compel the stray tiger to retreat to its wild habitat due to lack of safe hideouts. “The prolonged stay of the stray tiger in village is intensifying the possibilities of man-tiger conflict. The tiger normally retreats into forest within two-three days of straying but this one has dodged all efforts to trap it,” the chief conservator said. “Our armed forest teams will ensure full security to farmers for harvesting. Once the crop is completely harvested, the long range visibility across the fields will make it easier to monitor it. Without a cover, the possibilities of its return to the nearest Mala range, around 7 km from Karnapur, will increase,” added Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/quick-cane-harvesting-may-drive-stray-tiger-back-to-ptr-chief-conservator/articleshow/80014290.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Goon’s throat slit over monetary dispute||NAGPUR: A quarrel over borrowed money led to murder of one Aquib Shaikh, 24, who was stabbed repeatedly and his throat slit by friends-turned-foe, in Shravan Nagar on Tuesday. Police have rounded up four persons, including a minor, in this connection. Shaikh, having criminal record, had lent 20,000 to one Prakash Kosre, who too had an offence of attempt to murder against him in the past. The two, who operated autorickshaws, had been at loggerheads over settling the dues. Cops said Shaikh had gone to collect the dues when Kosre and his accomplices stabbed him to death. The murder had led to tension in Hasanbagh locality where Shaikh stayed. Wathoda police are investigating further. Police were put on alert at the Government Medical College and Hospital where Shaikh’s friends and relatives had gathered outside the mortuary. Apart from Kosre, police have also taken another goon, identified as Vishal Gupta and Prince Bokde into custody. An offence of murder has been registered at Wathoda police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goons-throat-slit-over-monetary-dispute/articleshow/80016131.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Goa||Two more stores join CCP’s ‘Shop-With-Your-Waste’ plan||Panaji: The Corporation of the City of Panaji’s (CCP) shop-with-your-waste campaign is gaining momentum with two more stores joining up with the corporation to accept recyclable waste in exchange for grocery items. From Wednesday onwards, Krishna stores at Kamat Plaza building and Prathmesh stationery & general store will accept recyclable material, allowing more people to use their waste as currency. CCP is looking at registering more stores, including supermarkets as well as school and college canteens, as part of its campaign. It also plans to permit the registered stores to accept more recyclable items in future, including glass and metal scrap to be exchanged under the barter system. Roopa Cycle & General store on 18th June Road had begun accepting recyclable items since the campaign was launched on October 2 and has collected around 6,000 milk pouches, 2,300 PET bottles and around 50kg cardboards till end of November. The waste has been sent for further recycling. This campaign is being launched by CCP with support from German Federal ministry, BMU-supported waste NAMA project being implemented by GIZ India (German Development Corporation) and The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). GIZ consultant Dilshad Ahmad said that the aim is to divert as much recyclable waste as possible so that there is segregation at source to help reduce the waste burden for the city. The capital city generates 18,250 tonnes of municipal solid waste a year and is moving towards 16-way segregation applicable to residential complexes, hotels, restaurants, government departments and government residential complexes. CCP has around 100 compost pits, three composting plants and a centralised material recovery facility which is linked with dry waste collection centres in each zone. The shop-with-your-waste campaign helps raise awareness among residents and also provides economic opportunity as it allows registered shops to trade PET bottles, milk pouches, paper, cardboard and other recyclables against items of daily use like grocery, electronic, medicine, cloth etc. New shops can also register to be a part of the campaign at http://ccpgoa.com/index.php.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-more-stores-join-ccps-shop-with-your-waste-plan/articleshow/80016134.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Agra||‘Police assault’ on Etah lawyer: High court orders probe by magistrate||AGRA: The Allahabad high court on Tuesday directed the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) of Etah to probe the alleged assault on a lawyer and on his family members by a group of policemen. The magistrate has been asked to submit his probe report by January 8, 2021. Taking note of the alleged police assault on Rajendra Sharma and his family, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh directed the CJM to inspect all relevant audio-visual, electronic evidence and documents in inquiry. The bench also directed the district magistrate of Etah and senior superintendent of police (SSP) to cooperate with the CJM by supplying all relevant facts and documents as desired by him. The court said it had received a letter from the bar council of Uttar Pradesh with a request to take appropriate action in relation to the incident. The alleged attack took place on December 21. Police allegedly broke open the door of advocate Sharma’s house in Etah and dragged him out and assaulted him. The video of the incident had gone viral on social media. Meanwhile, Etah police claimed that the lawyer and his family had fired shots at the police force. A civilian was also hit with a bullet pellet, they said. Later, the family members of the lawyer resorted to stone pelting, prompting police to barge inside the house and take out the assailants, a senior officer said. SSP Sunil Kumar Singh said, “There was a possibility of communal disturbance in case if the required action was not taken. A gunshot fired by the advocate had hit a local Muslim youth identified as Arbaz, who was watching the entire incident from a distance along with other residents. The victim was rushed to the hospital for treatment. A large crowd had gathered in the area having a mixed population. The police team took all the necessary steps to restore the law-and-order situation”. According to police, initially, the case was a property dispute between accused lawyer Sharma and Avinash Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/police-assault-on-etah-lawyer-high-court-orders-probe-by-magistrate/articleshow/80015143.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 30, 2020||Goa||Drop in active Covid cases, positivity rate down to 6%||Panaji: On Tuesday, 112 cases of Covid-19 were detected in Goa, while 116 recoveries were reported, thus leading to marginal drop in active cases to 949. Also, mortalities rose to 736 following the death of a 93-year-old woman from Mapusa. The state’s case positivity rate reduced to 6%, while the recovery rate remained unchange. For the past few days, Goa's recovery rate has been hovering at 96%. As many as 24 patients had to be admitted to hospital for treatment, and 67 persons chose to be home isolated. A few health centres witnessed a marginal rise in infections in North Goa over the past 24 hours. In South Goa, Margao urban health centre’s tally rose to 90 with addition of ten cases. The other health centres thatalso saw a rise in cases but were marginal include Curchorem, Canacona, Vasco, Cansaulim, Sanguem, Shiroda and Dharbandora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drop-in-active-covid-cases-positivity-rate-down-to-6/articleshow/80016126.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Goa||Keeping safety in mind, churches aim to take in more parishioners for New Year Masses||PANAJI: After holding services for thousands of devotees for Christmas during the pandemic, churches are now planning similar services for New Year, treading carefully to ensure that the faithful stay safe. Registrations for New Year Masses have already begun, with churches that couldn’t accommodate all the faithful for Christmas giving those who missed out preference for New Year. Holy Cross Church in Santa Cruz, which has around 15,000 parishioners, is one of these. The church has decided to organise an additional midnight Mass in the school hall, too. “Many people prefer attending midnight Mass, and since the hall can accommodate more people, we decided to have two Masses simultaneously in the hall and church. We will celebrate a total of nine Masses,” parish priest Fr Ricardo Pinheiro told TOI. No screens will be put up for parishioners outside the church as this could attract a large crowd where social distancing norms could be flouted, he said. At Tilamol, Quepem, the Our Lady Mother of Poor Church with around 7,000 parishioners, is restricting services to representatives from the community and live-streaming the Masses for the others at home. Like many others, this church too has moved out all its wooden pews to make way for plastic chairs that can easily be sanitised, thus reducing the seating capacity to 86 with social distancing norms compared to 1,200 prior to the pandemic. Those wishing to attend services must submit their names well in advance. A list of the attendees’ names and phone numbers are printed. “We maintain all these records for each service along with the name of the priest who celebrated the Mass and members of the choir who sang. If anything untoward happens, we can easily trace them,” parish priest Fr Leonardo Moraes, said. In other churches, where only two from a family are being permitted to attend services, some have preferred not to attend and leave their loved ones behind. “Some people cooperate, while others don’t feel comfortable being separated from their family and have decided not to register at all,” a church volunteer said. The sizeable number of foreigners who attend Christmas Mass at St Anthony Church, Siolim, every year were conspicuous by their absence this year. Only a few tourists, mostly Russian, were seen. Although they didn’t register, they were not turned down but accommodated in the church compound. The church is, however, concerned about domestic tourists who could show up for New Year’s Mass, parochial administrator Fr Clifford Castelino, said. In Keri and Tiracol, the church decided to do away with the tradition of serving cake and coffee after midnight Mass and has reduced Christmas lighting. The money has been diverted to the Good Samaritan fund, in keeping with the Archbishop’s circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/keeping-safety-in-mind-churches-aim-to-take-in-more-parishioners-for-new-year-masses/articleshow/80016164.cms||Lisa Monteiro
December 30, 2020||Agra||Man dies, 3 hurt as car rams into truck in Firozabad||AGRA: A 30-year-old man died and three were critically injured when their car rammed into the back of a truck on the state highway in Firozabad due to poor visibility caused by dense fog. The accident took place in an area under Sirsaganj police station at about 6 am on Tuesday. The four, all working in a private company in Noida, were going to Jalaun district, police said. The deceased was identified as Sumit Singh of Jalaun. The three injured are Ajay Singh, 28, Pradeep Kumar, 32, and Tinku, 26. They were admitted to hospital. Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of police, said, “The car moving at high speed rammed into a truck moving at a slow pace on the road. The crash took place when the truck suddenly took a turn. Unable to see due to the dense fog, the car driver lost control of the wheel. So far, no formal complaint has been received in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-dies-3-hurt-as-car-rams-into-truck-in-firozabad/articleshow/80015162.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kochi||Customs: M Sivasankar visited UAE seven times with Swapna Suresh||KOCHI: M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, has travelled to United Arab Emirates (UAE) along with gold smuggling case co-accused Swapna Suresh seven times, said Customs at the court on Tuesday during the hearing of Sivasankar’s bail petition. The senior counsel for the Customs team investigating the case, while opposing the bail plea by Sivasankar, submitted before Ernakulam ACJM (economic offences) court that all the seven times they stayed in five-star hotels in UAE and Sivasankar had personally met the accommodation expenses. Customs submitted that these trips were made with hidden intentions and the same are being probed by the agency. The Customs counsel said a senior IAS officer making that many trips to the same country is highly unusual. The counsel said gold smuggling activities carried out by the accused with Sivasankar’s help has affected the friendly relationship between India and the UAE. Customs also submitted that the functioning of UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram has come to a standstill following the incident, which is not congenial to the maintenance of good relationship with the country. Meanwhile, Sivasankar’s counsel, requesting to grant the bail, said Customs could not produce any evidence, except the statements by other accused, to prove him an accused in the case. The counsel said Customs even failed to substantiate offences committed by Sivasankar and he is the only accused who is yet to receive bail in the case. Sivasankar also filed a medical report issued in 2015 that stated he is suspected of suffering from cancer in his upper jaw. But, Customs refuted the claims stating that Sivasankar travelled to foreign countries many times over this period, even with such illness. The court directed Customs to submit the copy of the latest statement given by Sivasankar to the agency under Section 108 of Customs Act. The court will pronounce the verdict on Sivasankar’s bail petition on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-sivasankar-visited-uae-7-times-with-swapna/articleshow/80015164.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Pune||12 districts register less than 5 cases on Monday, health experts urge caution||Pune: As many as 12 districts in Maharashtra reported 5 or less than 5 cases on Monday. However, health experts cautioned against complacency, stressing on the need for testing, tracking, early treatment and adherence to social distancing norms. The districts that reported five or less than five cases are Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Amravati, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Malegaon and Sangli. Gadchiroli reported five cases, while Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, and Amravati recorded four cases each. Dhule and Washim reported three cases each. Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur and Malegaon recorded two each and Sangli one, according to state health department officials who described the falling numbers as “a positive sign”. Maharashtra has been reporting fewer than 5,000 cases over the last 20 days, which is a good sign stated state surveillance expert Dr Pradeep Awate. He said that the state government was trying to ensure there was no spread of the UK strain in the community. “Several countries have reported the UK strain, which was detected in September. The only way forward is to ensure strict isolation of those who have tested positive and whose genome sequencing has been carried out. As of now, no such case has been reported from the state. However, samples have been forwarded to the NIV Pune for evaluation,” Awate said. On Tuesday, the total number of new cases in the state were 3,018. The state on Tuesday reported 68 Covid-19 deaths with case fatality ratio at 2.56%. The recovery rate is 94.54%, while the total active cases in the state were 54,537, stated the public health department report. The lowest number of active cases (91) in the state has been reported from Hingoli district followed by Parbhani with 145 cases. Pune, Thane and Mumbai continued to have the largest number of active cases in the state, with Pune registering 13,920 cases followed by Thane with 1,031 cases and Mumbai with 8,940 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/12-districts-register-less-than-5-cases-on-monday-health-experts-urge-caution/articleshow/80018331.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 30, 2020||Goa||Mollem to host bird festival in Feb||Panaji: The fourth edition of the Bird Festival of Goa is scheduled to be held from February 5 to 7, at Mollem, Goa forest department has announced. “Celebrate the return of migratory birds and local avi faunal diversity in the midst of winter season while enjoying field trips, events and free activities for all ages and abilities at Mollem, Goa,” the invite to bird watchers reads. With the presence of endemic Western Ghats bird species as well as numerous resident and migratory wetland bird species, Goa is one of the much sought-after places for birding enthusiasts, bird photographers and ornithologists. Over 450 bird species have been reported in the state so far. This year’s edition of the annual festival will feature an array of events including painting competition and a sketching competition. Entries for these must be emailed to birdfestivalgoa@gmail.com. A quiz competition for those is in the age group of 13-16 years and an origami workshop will also be held. Also on the programme list is a webinar for which a list of experts and topics are being finalised and will be uploaded soon. The bird photography competition will also be organised. Entries being submitted for this must have been shot in Goa during the period of January 5, 2020 to January 15, 2021 only. A vehicle rally will be organised in order to create awareness and publicity of the bird festival. As part of this rally, students and nature lovers will travel from the Cotigao Wildlife Sanctuary to the Mahadei Wildlife Sanctuary covering all wildlife protected areas in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mollem-to-host-bird-festival-in-feb/articleshow/80016195.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Pune||Active caseload less than 6,500 in PMR; 40% drop since December 1||PUNE: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Pune Metropolitan Region has dropped below the 7,000-mark. On Tuesday, there were 6,427 cases in the region. This was a 40% reduction since the beginning of the month, when there were over 11,000 active patients across the regions. In the last week of June, the region had around 6,900 active cases. The number of cases dropped below that only in December. As per data released by the district health office, the number of active cases has dropped by more than 5,000, from 11,588 on December 1. According to official data, the active cases in Pune Municipal Corporation limits dropped by around 4,000 According a report released by the district health office, the active cases in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas have dipped below 4,000 to reach 3,584, while cases in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits and rural areas have reduced by 1,493 and 1,512, respectively. The rural areas have witnessed the sharpest drop — 60% — in active cases. Pimpri Chinchwad reported a 36% drop, while PMC recorded a 28% reduction. For a few days, PMC has been reporting an average of 300 daily cases. In Pimpri Chinchwad, fresh cases dropped to double digits on some days. On Monday, PCMC reported 58 new cases, while on Sunday and Saturday, 94 and 82 people tested positive, respectively. PMC assistant health chief Sanjeev Wavre said they observed a constant decline in the number of active cases in the past month, while the number of daily discharges has consistently been higher than fresh cases. He said there were 750 patients on oxygen support, while the number of patients in a critical condition reduced to 320 from 420 a month ago. “We are monitoring the cases. Contact-tracing of positive patients is under way,” Wavre added. According to the report by the district health office, the region’s active cases dropped below 11,000 on December 4 and dipped blow the 10,000 mark on December 10. In the 18 days since, the cases further reduced by over 3,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/active-caseload-less-than-6-5k-in-pmr-40-drop-since-dec-1/articleshow/80018328.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: KTC sees 60% drop in business over Christmas||PANAJI: With the pandemic compelling most tourists to drive down to Goa for the festive season, interstate buses are missing out on the moolah. Sources from KTC have reported a 60% loss in business for the Christmas weekend and are bracing up for a similar loss as more people may drive themselves to Goa for the New Year celebrations this weekend, instead of taking the bus. “We have seen a trend of more people preferring to travel to Goa in their own four-wheelers during the pandemic. Most of them are families that have been restricting themselves to home for the past nine to 10 months. Big and small families, who have driven down, don’t even want to use a taxi due to the pandemic. Getting their own vehicle and navigating through Google Maps is convenient for them,” KTC managing director Venancio Furtado said. Previously, KTC would ply extra buses around New Year Eve’s, but now even the regular buses that they are plying are comparatively fewer. “At our end, we are operating only 40% of our interstate buses owing to the poor response during the pandemic,” KTC general manager Sanjay Ghate said. Private interstate bus operators also reported a similar decrease in footfalls. “Maximum travellers to Goa have come in their personal vehicles. The recent traffic queue and road blockage at Cortalim a few days ago was due to that. Some have driven to Goa from as far as Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, besides Tamil Nadu and Kerala,” Ghate said. KTC recently started operating interstate buses from Goa to Mumbai, Pune and Hyderabad at a nominal fee of Rs 900 per head. Despite this, their load factor is still very less on the Goa to Mumbai route compared to that on the Hyderabad and Pune route, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-sees-60-drop-in-biz-over-christmas/articleshow/80016212.cms||Nida Sayed
December 30, 2020||Pune||Hospitalised patient count highest in Pune rural areas||PUNE: The rural areas of the district have recorded an almost 50% drop in the number of active hospitalised patients in the last one month, but the numbers are still high when compared to the figures in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits, the district health office data revealed. According to the official data, there were 765 active hospitalised coronavirus cases in the Pune rural, as against 289 and 744 in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits, respectively, on December 28. The number of active hospitalised patients in Pune rural was 1,772 on November 26. The Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) officials, however, maintained that the coronavirus situation was under control in the rural areas. They said the higher hospitalised numbers was due to the advisory calling for Covid patients to get admitted in nearby medical facility instead of home quarantine. Pune ZP’s chief executive officer Ayush Prasad told TOI, “The number of cases have definitely come down. The reason why the number of active patients are higher in the rural areas is because we are making sure that the positive patients get institutional medical care, as against the home quarantine protocol of other municipal bodies. It gives us a chance to keep a leash on the spread of the infection and focus more on contact tracing.” Prasad said the case fatality rate in the Pune rural had dipped close to zero in the past few weeks, while the positivity rate hovered around 8-9%. “Voluntary testing in the urban areas is high, while in the rural areas, we are focussing more on those people who we think needs testing. We have to judiciously use the available testing resources,” he said. Another official from the district health department said there is a sense of complacency among rural citizens due to the drop in the number of cases in the past few months. “Many citizens do not wear masks or follow the physical distancing guidelines. This needs to change,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hospitalised-patient-count-highest-in-pune-rural-areas/articleshow/80018336.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 30, 2020||Pune||PMC yet to trace 109 UK returnees||Pune: The civic body is yet to trace 109 travellers arriving in Pune from the UK in the past 15 days. Absence of contact details and failed attempts to connect on phone compelled the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to approach police for help, a civic official said. “The civic administration’s contact tracing teams are tracing the travellers returning from the UK,” said Vaishali Jadhav, a senior official of the PMC’s health department. One out of 544 travellers arriving from the UK to Pune has tested positive for Covid-19. A total 109 travellers are still to be traced. Jadhav said the exact locations of the travellers would be searched and the contact tracing teams, under the respective ward offices, would be sent to their addresses. Their tests would be conducted as per the guidelines of the state and Union governments. The PMC officials stated that some travellers landed in Mumbai and came to Pune by road. The PMC’s contact tracing team tried to reach out to them, but they could not be traced. According to the PMC’s protocol, all passengers arriving from the Middle East and European countries have to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine at their own cost in the nearby hotels in the city for seven days. As per the directives, if the passenger is found to be symptomatic on arrival, then s/he will directly be shifted to Naidu Hospital, Pune, for future evaluation and treatment. The passengers who travelled to/from the UK in the past 15 days must report to the PMC’s help desk on 020-25506800/01/02/03.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-yet-to-trace-109-uk-returnees/articleshow/80018337.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Agra||Three boys killed in accident on Agra-Fatehabad road||AGRA: Three boys were killed after a car in which they were travelling rammed into a truck on Agra-Fatehabad road in Kundol area on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as Krishnakant Singh (15), Praveen and Aakash Singh (18) from Kundol village in Agra. While Krishnakant was studying in class IX, Akash was a class XII student. One cyclist, Raseed, was also injured in the accident. The incident took place at 7:45 am, minutes after the boys had fuelled up their car at a petrol pump near their house. They had gone to take a ride in a new car, which was bought by one of their friends, said police. Agitated residents blocked the road for half-an-hour. They were pacified by the police which assured them that the truck driver would be arrested soon. Krishnakant’s cousin Shyamveer told TOI that he didn’t know that how his cousin had joined the two others in the car as he had left home for a walk. Agra superintendent of police (East) K Venkatesh Ashok said that the car was badly damaged and the bodies of the deceased were taken out with the help of a JCB machine. He said the bodies have been sent for post-mortem. An FIR has been registered under section 304 A (causing death by negligence) against the truck driver, who is still absconding. There is no information about who was driving the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/three-boys-killed-in-accident-on-agra-fatehabad-road/articleshow/80015182.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kochi||Exempt residents from paying toll at Paliakkara: Opposition||THRISSUR: With FASTag being made mandatory at Paliakkara toll plaza from January 1, residents in the area could lose the concession they were enjoying so far. After the highway broadening work, people residing within 10-km radius of the toll plaza were allowed a toll waiver. This decision came as a relief as the PWD road linking the highway at a point after the toll plaza was closed. According to newly-elected district panchayat member of Puthoor division and Congress leader Joseph Tajet, owners of about 40,000 vehicles in the area will be deprived of this concession if the state government did not work out an agreement with the toll collection company and the National Highways Authority of India. He said chief minister Pinarai Vijayan’s response to a question on the issue during his ‘Kerala Paryadanam’ programme here on Tuesday indicated that the ministers and the people’s representatives from the district have failed to properly brief him (the CM). The CM had said he had to discuss the issue with the district authorities before giving a response, Tajet recalled. He said Congress-elected representatives would hold a fast on January 1 demanding urgent intervention by the state government on the issue. The BJP district committee too sought ministers Raveendranath, V S Sunilkumar and A C Moideen and the chief whip K Rajan’s intervention on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/exempt-residents-from-paying-toll-at-paliakkara-oppn/articleshow/80015188.cms||T Ramavarman
December 30, 2020||Goa||KTC staff want posts regularised||Panaji: The KTC Drivers and Allied Employees’ Association on Tuesday demanded that their posts of drivers and conductors be made permanent. “It’s been two years since substitute drivers and conductors have been asking to be regularised. Some of them have been working for as long as eight years for Rs 15,000 per month,” union leader Christopher Fonseca said. “In the past five years, 400-odd KTC staff have retired and 110 workers are due to be retired,” he said, adding that substitute drivers and conductors can be absorbed in those positions for the salaries meant for those posts. “On the principle of equal pay for equal work, they must receive their rightful salary according to the seventh pay commission. Moreover, the two-year probation must be lifted and they must be allowed breaks every few months,” he said. The association also demanded the chief minister’s intervention in the matter and said that they will continue holding a dharna at the KTC bus stand until their demands are fulfilled. There are a total of 515 substitute drivers and conductors on the live rolls and register. Fonseca also said that KTC’s intent of hiring new drivers and conductors to operate its electric buses – which are expected to run in Goa next month – is unacceptable to the union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-staff-want-posts-regularised/articleshow/80016229.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 30, 2020||Mumbai||PMCB puts on block 2 aircraft of Wadhawans ‘worth Rs 350 crore’||MUMBAI: Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank, which is trying to recover Rs 4,335 crore of loans the bank’s erstwhile management fraudulently lent to HDIL, has put on the block two aircraft belonging to Wadhawans, the company’s promoters. Assets of the group, facing insolvency, have been attached by law enforcement authorities given the scale of loss to the bank. The bank issued a notice on Tuesday inviting bids for the offer based on a metropolitan magistrate’s order. This is the second time the bank is issuing a notice for sale. Although no reserve price was estimated, banking sources said the aircraft valuation should be around Rs 350 crore. Buyers of both aircraft will have to clear dues owed to the aircraft maintenance agency, management company and Mumbai airport, an aviation source said. The Challenger 3000 has been lying at Mumbai airport since July 2012, and as of May 2019, the operator owes the airport Rs 2 crore in landing and parking charges, the source said. “This does not include interest and other charges. Mumbai airport will not release the aircraft till its dues are cleared,’’ the source added. This is the second attempt at selling the aircraft, said sources from the general aviation industry. “The bank has not given the option to inspect the aircraft. Prospective buyers would want to physically inspect the aircraft, see the condition of the airframe, the health of engines, undercarriage, as the aircraft has been parked for long at the airport,” the source said. Given that Mumbai is close to the sea, the aircraft, its engines and other parts are prone to corrosion, he added. “No maintenance has been carried out on these aircraft for long. Irrespective of whether the aircraft is grounded or not, scheduled maintenance and preservation of engines is mandatory,’’ the source added. The 10-seater Dassault Falcon 2000 (VT-HDL), made in 1999, is configured for 10 passengers and three-flight crew, said industry insiders. With three folding tables, a height-adjustable conference table, and storage compartment among other features, the luxurious aircraft has flown over 8,000 hours and had around 5,000 landings. The 2003-made Bombardier Challenger 300 (VT-PIL), configured for nine passengers, was refurbished in 2009 at Learjet Inc in Tuscon, US. Eight single seats have folding tables, the forward cabin features a full-service galley and storage. The aft cabin has a private lavatory with vanity, belted lavatory seat, a stage closet and baggage compartment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pmcb-puts-on-block-2-aircraft-of-wadhawans-worth-rs-350cr/articleshow/80018344.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 30, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Vax enrolment still open for medical staff||PUNE: State immunisation official Dileep Patil on Tuesday said health workers in Maharashtra could still register for priority vaccination by submitting details to local government bodies. An earlier deadline was set for December 25. So far, details of over 7.22 lakh healthcare workers from the state — including doctors, nurses and paramedics — have been uploaded onto the CoWin app, which has been developed by the Centre to track vaccination and dosage. Nearly 4 lakh from this number are employed in the public sector. The rest, three lakh, are from private healthcare facilities. Officials said a sizeable chunk of healthcare staff has still not registered for the vaccine. There are an estimated 12 lakh healthcare workers in the state — from both the public and private sectors. The list includes non-medical support staff as well. “The registration process for healthcare workers has been kept open-ended, which means they can still register for the vaccine,” Patil said. There are two lakh doctors, including allopaths and ayurveda practitioners, in Maharashtra. “About five to six support staff work with each of these doctors at hospitals and clinics. That means the state has at least 12 lakh healthcare workers involved in clinical and non-clinical work at healthcare units,” said Ravi Wankhedkar, a former national president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Also, the state Indian Medical Branch has a total of 46,000 members. “Nearly 70% to 80% of our members have registered for the vaccine. More are expected to register as the deadline has been extended,” said Sanjay Patil, former vice-president of the IMA in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vax-enrolment-still-open-for-med-staff/articleshow/80018343.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 30, 2020||Kochi||Mani C Kappan will contest as UDF candidate in Pala: P J Joseph||IDDUKKI: NCP leader Mani C Kappan will contest as the UDF candidate in Pala in the next assembly election, said Kerala Congress (M) Joseph faction leader P J Joseph. Addressing the media on Tuesday, Joseph said that he was ready to give the Pala seat to NCP if they join UDF before the election. “As per the agreement with UDF, Kerala Congress (M) will get the Pala assembly seat. We are ready to give the seat to Kappan without any condition. I hope that NCP will join UDF and Kappan will contest in Pala seat as the UDF candidate,” said Joseph. Pala assembly seat had been a subject of debate between the Joseph faction and Jose K Mani faction when the latter was part of the UDF. With Jose crossing over to the LDF, now Pala will be giving headache to the LDF as NCP, which is holding the seat, and Jose faction have staked claim for the seat in the upcoming assembly poll. Joseph, knowing the plight of NCP and Kappan, had earlier also openly declared that Kappen will be the UDF candidate in Pala. He also said that there was no issue between the UDF and Kerala Congress (M) in Idukki. “UDF lost power in Thodupuzha municipality due to the betrayal by a Muslim League councillor. The councillor had contested under the banner of Muslim League but later joined LDF,” said Joseph. Joseph also claimed that UDF would come to power in Thodupuzha municipality within a year. “We will move legally and come back to power,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kappan-will-contest-as-udf-candidate-in-pala-joseph/articleshow/80015217.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Pune||Over 900 discharged; 12 fatalities push toll to 80,800 in Pune||PUNE: For the ninth straight day on Tuesday, the Pune Metropolitan Region reported more recoveries from Covid-19 than fresh cases. As many as 908 people were discharged in the 24-hour period till 8pm on Tuesday, while 510 people tested positive for the virus in the same window. This took the total number of recoveries in the region to 3.46 lakh, while the overall case tally rose to 3.61 lakh. As per the daily report issued by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar, the Pune Municipal Corporation limits accounted for 480 recoveries, pushing the overall number past the 1.7 lakh-mark. In Pimpri Chinchwad, 156 people recovered from the contagion; more than 93,000 have recovered in these areas so far. The rural parts, cantonment areas and municipal council limits together accounted for 272 daily discharges and 83,385 total recoveries. PMC on Tuesday reported 238 new cases. Pimpri Chinchwad, with 121 cases, had the second-highest daily tally, while rural areas, cantonments and municipal councils had 151 fresh cases. Both municipal corporation limits reported single-digit deaths. Six people died of the contagion in Pune municipal corporation limits. Pimpri Chinchwad reported one death, while rural areas and municipal councils together reported five deaths. The death toll for the region stood at 8,797 on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-900-discharged-12-fatalities-push-toll-to-8-8k/articleshow/80018346.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 30, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand differs with Centre on Shivalik||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government has claimed that the section of Shivalik Elephant Reserve it plans to denotify for the expansion of Dehradun airport is “not of high conservation value”, an assertion which belies the Centre’s observation that the 87 hectares of forest comprising a river and over 10,000 trees is of “high conservation value”. In its reply to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC), the Uttarakhand forest department has said that the part of the reserve that is being spared for the expansion of Dehradun airport is “not of high conservation” value as the area has very "scanty undergrowth such as grasses, herbs and shrubs" and the "Jakhan river nearby is also seasonal in which water is available only during the rainy season". TOI got exclusive access to the reply. The assistant inspector general of forests in MoEFCC had pointed out on October 9 that “the area proposed for diversion for the airport expansion falls under high conservation value area” and it will “cause fragmentation of the riverside forests which is situated between the existing runway and the river... and therefore, the state government may explore alternatives for the proposal such as acquiring area lying north of the existing runway. The state government should consider avoiding these sensitive areas and explore alternative lands.” Replying to the central ministry’s query and observation of October 9, the forest department has “reiterated” that setting of an airport at any other location is not feasible as availability of land is limited. TOI had reported on October 1 that nearly 10,000 trees are likely to be axed for airport expansion. Confirming that the communication has been sent, principal secretary of Uttarakhand forest department, Anand Bardhan, told TOI, “The ministry had some queries and we have answered them.” In its reply, the state’s forest department has also raised the matter of national security. According to a source in the department, the state has mentioned the “strategic importance of Dehradun airport” in the future as one of the reasons. “Considering the ongoing geopolitical situation in the northern borders of India and the current relations that our country is having with Nepal and China, there is a need for a proper airport in favour of national security for the landing of big aircrafts. The airport is of strategic importance considering its proximity to the LAC,” said one of the IFS officers from the department, requesting anonymity. After the Char Dham highway, this is the second time that the government has given “national security” as a reason for pushing forward a project. “The airport will also be needed in the rescue and rehabilitation works in the future,” the officer added. According to the source, the department has accepted that “occasionally” elephants cross over the area through the Jakhan river and that the closest Kansro-Barkot elephant corridor is just 4km away. And the dominant species of the area include some precious trees like Teak, Khair, Shishan, Kanju and Jheengan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-differs-with-centre-says-shivalik-elephant-reserve-is-not-of-high-conservation-value/articleshow/80015222.cms||Shivani Azad
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Fire devours assets worth Rs 200 crore at furniture firm||NAGPUR: Readymade furniture, wood and imported ply worth Rs 200 crore were destroyed in a major fire at Spacewood — one of India’s leading furniture manufacturing units — situated in Hingna MIDC area on Tuesday evening. Nobody was injured or trapped in the fire, said chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake, adding, the reason behind the incident is yet to be ascertained. “At least 14 fire tenders from Hingna MIDC, including eight from Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s fire and emergency department, struggled to douse the fire which broke out at around 4.30pm,” Uchake told TOI. Short circuit is suspected to have triggered the blaze. A company official told TOI that the fire originated from the factory’s painting section. Before anyone could take action, the fire took a devastating turn and engulfed the other units inside the 21-acre premises, said the official. With hundreds of workers inside the factory, the management acted swiftly and evacuated them safely, the official said. “None of the employees was injured due to the fire,” the official claimed. While some employees tried to douse the fire, there were others who switched off the power supply but in vain. In no time, the fire took a devastating turn. Huge stocks of wood, foam and other inflammable material added fuel to the fire, said the fire official. Raw material and machinery, mostly imported, too were completely damaged, said the official. Fire tenders from Hingna MIDC were the first to reach the spot. Due to the gravity of the situation, NMC’s fire department was pressed into service. Soon, fire tenders from Mihan, Wadi and Ambajhari Ordnance Factory too joined in. Four units of the factory were destroyed. The company has a pump house as well as a water tank for firefighting. The equipment could not be used because it was kept in the backyard of the factory, said Uchake. The fire was restricted to the company’s manufacturing unit, said the company official, adding, the firefighting operation kept the Spacewood mall, where readymade furniture is on display, safe. Uchake ruled out any possibility of the fire spreading to the adjoining units due to the firm’s concrete compound wall. It will prevent fire from spreading outside the unit, he said. The fire spread panic among those in the vicinity. Adjoining units were shut immediately before evacuating their employees to avert any untoward incident. Firefighting operations were under way at the time of going to the press. City police too had a tough time. The entire area was cordoned off to enable dousing of the fire. Hundreds of curious onlookers gathered at the spot. Traffic was disrupted for some time. UP IN FLAMES * Suspected short circuit triggered fire at 4.30pm on Tuesday * Readymade furniture, wood and imported ply worth Rs200 crore ruined * Employees’ attempts to douse flames in vain * 14 fire tenders pressed into service * Employees evacuated safely * Fire fighting equipment kept in backyard didn’t come handy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fire-devours-assets-worth-rs-200cr-at-furniture-firm/articleshow/80016255.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||No funds: Corporators, administration at loggerheads||NAGPUR: Corporators from different political parties are once again at loggerheads with the civic administration following civic chief’s diktat against releasing funds for development works. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke on Tuesday accused municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B of blocking development works worth Rs293 crore. “In Tuesday’s standing committee meeting, 16 corporators including those from the ruling and opposition expressed anguish against the administration over non-sanctioning of funds for work orders issued in the last financial year,” said Zalke at a press conference. Without naming the MVA government, Zalke said it is clear that the city’s development work is being stalled to harm the ruling party (BJP) in the civic body ahead of the 2022 civic polls. “Taxpayers will be at a loss due to vindictive politics,” he said. According to Zalke, work orders amounting to Rs293 crore were issued in the last financial year by the then standing committee chairman Pradip Pohane. Despite the sanction, the administration is blocking execution of development works. During the standing committee meeting, Congress corporator Dinesh Yadav asked the administration why funds were not being released when chairman Zalke’s budget for the current fiscal was presented two months ago. Yadav even questioned the NMC regarding the approval for works amounting to Rs300 crore when there’s a shortage of funds. Another corporator Sanjay Chaure said that if the administration could not provide funds for the city's development then “we should burn the budget copy”. “All the standing committee members have decided not to approve any new proposal of the civic administration unless it implements development works in the city,” said Zalke. In nine months, the NMC has generated Rs1,393 crore in revenues, said Zalke, adding, from February 1, 2020, to December 29, 2020, all the 10 zones have carried out works related to Covid-19 and Ganesh immersion. “Most of the money was spent in paying employees’ salaries. Are citizens paying taxes for their salaries,” he asked. “We are not against implementation of the seventh pay commission but at the same time the NMC should ensure that development works are carried out in the city,” he said. Zalke claimed that the civic body has Rs100.07 crore in fixed deposits and Rs Rs31.05 crore in IDBI Bank’s savings account. The cumulative amount (Rs132 crore) was granted by the state government for the city’s development. “If the money remains unutilized by March 2021 then the NMC will have to return it to the state government,” he pointed out. Three additional municipal commissioners Ram Joshi, Sanjay Nipane and Jalaj Sharma failed to give satisfactory replies. Zalke directed municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, who was in Mumbai, to attend the next standing committee meeting. “Today’s standing panel meeting has been adjourned till Wednesday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-funds-corporators-admin-at-loggerheads/articleshow/80016300.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 30, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala got its first baby panchayat president 25 years ago||KOZHIKODE: Youngsters making their way from college classrooms to become heads of local body institutions in the state has been the flavour of this year’s civic polls. But for P Baby, it is a feat she had accomplished 25 years ago when she became the president of Madikkai panchayat in Kasaragod at the age of 21. Baby had just passed out of college and was seeking admission to BEd course when she contested the polls on CPM ticket and became the panchayat president. Baby Balakishnan, as she is known after her marriage, went on to become president of Madikkai panchayat for the second term in 2000 as well, despite the post coming under general category. In the third consecutive election, she became president of Kanjangad block panchayat in 2005. This election, she has won to the Kasaragod district panchayat and is LDF’s candidate for president post in the elections to be held on Wednesday. “Though I was active in the SFI during the college days, I couldn’t believe when a group of local CPM leaders came to my house and urged me to contest the polls and said that they were considering me for the panchayat president post. I was stunned initially and told them that I was young and could not take up such a heavy responsibility. But they persisted and I agreed to contest and became the youngest panchayat president in the state,” Baby said. She said that though the social situation in the state was different then and not many youngsters and particularly young women were not at the helm of affairs in the local bodies as it was the first election after the implementation of the Panchayathi Raj Act. Madikkai had been a CPM stronghold with the party winning nine of the 10 seats in the elections. Though they were other women members, the CPM selected the 21-year-old Baby for the president post. Baby said that she joined the BEd course at Neeleshwaram soon after she assumed officer as panchayat president and used to go to college for three days while coming to the panchayat office for the remaining days of the week. “Being a panchayat president and a student simultaneously was a unique experience. Teachers and classmates helped me catch up with the studies amid my official responsibilities. The panchayat staff used to come to the college and wait in the principal’s room to get important papers signed during emergencies,” Baby said. Under her leadership, Madikkai panchayat was selected as the best panchayat in the district for its initiatives like the ‘Grama Shree’ woman empowerment project, which was a precursor to Kudumbashree and other novel projects. She had also won the national level ‘Outstanding Panchayat Leader Award’ instituted by the Institute of Social Sciences (ISS), New Delhi in 2004. “I have not felt at any point during my first stint as president that being a young woman was a handicap. The sight of more youngsters becoming heads of local body institutions in the state is a welcome development and a sign of a thriving democracy. Having young people at the helm in the local bodies is advantageous as they can bring in fresh ideas and energy to local governance,” Baby added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/state-got-its-first-baby-panchayat-prez-25-yrs-ago/articleshow/80015252.cms||K R Rajeev
December 30, 2020||Goa||Recovery notices to mining cos: State to seek extension||Panaji: The state government has decided to file application before the high court to seek an extension of two months to decide on the showcause notices to mining companies for recovery of over Rs 3,000 crore. Advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI that the directorate of mines and geology (DMG) was supposed to issue recovery notices by December. As it has not been done, the state government has decided to seek an extension to issue the notices. A senior officer at DMG said that the hearing is almost completed, and recovery notices will be issued as soon as possible. In August, the state government informed the HC that the DMG will decide within four months on the showcause notices. Goa Foundation, an environmental action group, had approached the court through a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions to the state government to recover Rs 3,431 crore from mining companies within a time-bound period. It filed the PIL when it became apparent that the government was not pursuing the recovery with zeal. Director of Goa Foundation, Claude Alvares had said that the demand notices worth Rs 1,580 crore were issued in 2016 on the basis of a report by a team of chartered accountants. Those pursuant to the CAG’s report were issued in 2017, which were worth Rs 1,922 crore. These notices were produced by the state to prove its bona fides during the hearing of the writ petition filed by the Goa Foundation challenging the grant of 88 mining leases. The SC while setting aside the 88 mining lease orders, also directed the state to recover the amounts for which the notices had been issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/recovery-notices-to-mining-cos-state-to-seek-extension/articleshow/80017872.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Court orders FIRs against BJP’s Chimur MLA Bhangdiya||NAGPUR: A special court here has directed Imambada and Sakkardara police stations to register FIRs against Chimur BJP MLA Kirtikumar Bhangdiya on complaints lodged by city lawyer Tarun Parmar. The FIRs are to be registered under sections 199 (making a false statement), 200 (using as true such declaration knowing it to be false) and 420 (cheating and dishonesty) of the IPC. Judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) VM Deshmukh further directed inspectors from both the police stations to investigate the complaints against the BJP MLA and file a report as per Section 156(3) of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). While allowing Parmar’s both the applications, the judge asked him to file certified copies of complaints for sending record to the concerned police stations. Citing information under RTI Act, the complainant has accused Bhangdiya of filing false affidavit to illegally grab flats in Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) scheme stating that he didn’t have any house, flat or plot within the NIT limits. Same affidavit was filed with the Election Commission while contesting the assembly polls. The MLA already has a flat at Dahipura Untkhana Layout in Imambada, purchased in 2008, and another one in NIT Sankul in wife’s name. He also has one more flat at Ayurvedic Layout in Sakkardara, purchased in 2009. Both these flats are purchased under the NIT’s Lok Housing Scheme. Only those, not having any flats or house within NIT’s jurisdiction, can have a flat under the scheme, as per the complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/court-orders-firs-against-bjps-chimur-mla-bhangdiya/articleshow/80016377.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 30, 2020||Pune||Transporters gear up for fresh routine||Pune: From hand sanitising bottles at the entrance, thermal checks, and other precautionary measures, school bus and van owners are gearing up for the reopening of schools. All vehicle owners including buses, vans, eight-seaters and other vehicles that ferry school children are on the road to follow safety norms, arrange the seating based on social distancing and sanitise the bus before and after the children board and exit. President of the Pune School Bus Owners’ Association, Rajesh Junawane, said they have instructed all the bus owners to have a thermal gun, train their attendants on sanitisation practices, checking temperature, safe distancing among others. “The bus owners have had to face tremendous losses due to Covid, and now they are all beginning to restart their business with the best practices and as directed by the civic body,” he said. Deputy Regional Transport Officer (RTO) Sanjeev Bhor said, “Apart from sanitisation and other precautionary and safety measures, owners also have to check the vehicle’s fitness and if the papers are in place. All safety measures as instructed by the PMC also need to be followed by the bus owners.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transporters-gear-up-for-fresh-routine/articleshow/80016389.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 30, 2020||Pune||‘UK strain is here but no need to panic’||PUNE: India on Tuesday confirmed there are UK returnees who have been infected by the new variant of the coronavirus. But the director of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr Sujeet Singh, said there was “no need to panic”. He told TOI, “We just have to be careful and prevent this strain from spreading.” He said the isolation protocol hasn’t changed for those sickened by the UK variant.  Singh said, “We now need to ensure the returnees’ contacts are traced, isolated and tested.” The patients are currently under observation at designated isolation units. Singh said mutations in the virus are common and the NCDC, along with other agencies, has already sequenced some 24,000 positive samples over the last 10 months. Analysis of these variants did not reveal any significant variations in the virus, serious enough for public health alarm. Data from the genome sequencing has also been shared globally. In fact, Dr Singh said India is probably third worldwide in the submissions of mutant variations to an international consortium that’s tracking changes in SARS-CoV-2. The UK has analysed and submitted 1.25 variants; the USA is second with 51,000 variants. And now with India forming its own consortium, Singh said analyses of mutations from all top research units will be brought under an umbrella body. “This will lead to better molecular-epidemiological correlation,” he said, while adding that focus was now on preventing surges that could make the UK variant the dominant strain in India. “The only way ahead is to maintain measures such as masking, physical distancing and hand hygiene,” he said.  Singh added that there’s evidence the new strain transmits faster. “Places with unusual surges will be closely monitored and samples will be collected for genome sequencing,” he said The NCDC had previously carrying out sequencing during the Tablighi event and other super spreader events. The presence of the new variants have also been reported by S. Africa, Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore, so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/uk-strain-is-here-but-no-need-to-panic/articleshow/80018436.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 30, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Teen crushes toddler under his car||RAJKOT: An 18-month-old boy died after being run over by a Class XII boy driving a luxurious sedan car in the famous ‘naasta gali’ near Bhaktinagar circle of the city on Monday afternoon. The driver Yash Bagdai, 18, was arrested from his house on Tuesday morning. According to police, the victim Vansh Surela and his seven-year-old sister Priyanshi were playing on the road while their parents Jagdish and Sumita were resting on the pavement in the lane. The couple sells vegetables from a cart at the spot. Meanwhile, Bagdai drove into the lane from the 80-feet Ring Road and stopped by the roadside near the vegetable cart to answer a phone call. Vansh, on the other hand, while searching for something stood in front of the car. CCTV footage of the accident show that the kid squatted as if looking for something under the vehicle. After hanging up the call, Bagdai did not notice Vansh squatting right in front of his vehicle and accelerated the car. The car’s left-side wheels ran over Vansh’s body, said investigating officer RN Hasaliya of Bhaktinagar police station. On seeing their son getting crushed under the car, Jagdish and Sumita rushed towards their son and then after the car. Bagdai slowed his car but as the couple ran after him, he sped off from there. They also pelted stones at the car, but Bagdai sped away. Vansh was rushed to a nearby private hospital and later referred to civil hospital where he succumbed in the night. In their police statement, the couple only said that it was a long black car and they did not notice the car’s registration number. Cops checked the footage of CCTV cameras installed across the road and found the car’s number and details of the vehicle’s ownership. On Tuesday morning, police reached Bagdai’s house in the posh Bhaktinagar Society and arrested him. He was booked under IPC sections 304 (a) (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life) and sections of Motor Vehicles Act. His father Vimal owns a clothes showroom in Rajkot. “Bagdai had recently got the driving license. We will be writing to the RTO to cancel the license,” said Hasaliya. Watch On cam: Teen crushes 18-month-old boy under his car in Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teen-crushes-toddler-under-his-car/articleshow/80015313.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Pune||Leopard census to begin in Junnar forest division||PUNE: The Junnar forest division is set to start a census of leopards outside the protected areas in its limits to identify the scientific measures to mitigate the man-animal conflicts in the region. “This is a crucial move to find solutions to address the ‘man-animal’ conflict, which is a big concern in this part of Pune district,” said Jayramgowda R, deputy conservator of forests, Junnar division. “Such an activity is usually done in the protected zones of the forest. But considering the increase in sighting of leopards and prolonged years of man-animal conflicts, this census will be held in the agricultural zone,” he added. Two experts from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), the authorized government agency for carrying out the census, will lead the count. “The range forest officer (RFO) of Manchar, along with volunteers, will work with the experts,” Jayramgowda added. As per the plan, experts will first earmark a 100sqkm area in the Manchar forest range. They will identify 50 vantage locations where leopards are frequently sighted. They will set up two trap cameras at these locations. Altogether 100 trap cameras will be used to cover the earmarked zone. “These cameras will capture the leopards’ images. With the help of a software, we will analyze data of each camera on a regular basis. Each animal has a unique spot and stripe pattern, based on which we will be able to differentiate each leopard and also get to know the animals’ population density,” said Jayramgowda. “The method will help us track how often a leopard visits a particular area or village or how many square kilometres the animal covers. The data will help us in many ways to devise a strategy for each area,” he said, adding that the drive would last for 4-5 years. Bilal Habib, project investigator and WII scientist, said, “Besides camera traps, we will fix radio collar on at least 10 leopards to track and understand their movements and activities. We need to know how often they come to human habitat.” Habib said they were conducting meetings with the villagers and volunteers and appraising them about the various aspects of the census. The drive is expected to begin in the first week of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/leopard-census-to-begin-in-junnar-forest-division/articleshow/80016499.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 30, 2020||Bareilly||Youth shot dead for asking groom’s brothers to stop celebratory fire in UP's Budaun||BAREILLY: A 21-year-old college student was allegedly shot dead during a wedding ceremony by two brothers of the groom after he asked them to stop celebratory firing in UP’s Budaun district. Initially, the police said that the accused were loading a pistol and it went off accidentally, hitting Mohammed Saajim’s eye. The incident took place on Monday night in Kakrala town under the jurisdiction of Allapur police station. An FIR was registered against the duo under sections 302 (murder) and 504 (intentional insult) on the complaint of Saajim’s father on Tuesday. Both the accused are absconding and efforts are on to arrest them. Saajim, a college student, had gone to attend the wedding of his neighbour along with his elder brother. The groom’s brothers, Mahnoor, a ward member, and Aijaj, a private contractor, were firing in the air using a country-made pistol on the venue when Saajim was hit. He was rushed to hospital by his brother and police were informed about the incident. By the time police reached the venue, all guests and the groom's family members had fled the spot. Later, police collected empty cartridges from the spot and took the statement of the tent workers. After initial investigation, police found that the brothers of the groom were involved in the firing and they escaped immediately after the incident. Saajim’s brother Talib Khan, however, said it was not an accident. “My brother had asked Aijaj and Mahnoor to stop celebratory firing but they instead shot at him with the pistol. It is a case of murder.” Budaun SSP Sankalp Sharma said, “Prima facie, it is a case of celebratory firing, but the FIR is registered as per the complaint given by the victim’s kin. We are checking both the aspects of the case. The accused have used country-made pistols and they will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-shot-dead-for-asking-grooms-brothers-to-stop-celebratory-fire-in-budaun/articleshow/80014394.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmgate price of shallot to remain at Rs 50 per kg||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has forecast the shallot (small onion) farmgate price to remain around Rs 50 per kg for the next few months, before seeing a rise in March 2021, when another round of harvest would take place. It attributed the high prices to shortage of supply as pests, diseases and incessant rain had damaged the crop across the state. Small onions are usually cultivated four times a year. In Tamil Nadu, shallots are mainly grown in Perambalur, Trichy, Dindigul, Tirupur and Namakkal districts. “This year, Purattasi and Karthigai Pattam crop were severely affected by pest and other diseases. Markets now receive poor quality of shallots from farmers,” said a statement from the TNAU’s Centre for Agricultural and Rural Development Studies. “As per the trade sources, roughly 9,000 hectares of crop area is affected by this pest-disease complex.” The centre has advised the farmers to take necessary preventative measures to save the crop in the coming months. Based on 10 years’ historical prices prevailing in the Dindigul vegetable market, the centre has forecast the farmgate price of small onion at Rs 50 per kg for the next couple of months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmgate-price-of-shallot-to-remain-at-rs-50-per-kg/articleshow/80015303.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 30, 2020||Trichy||DMK will continue to oppose CAA: Udhayanidhi||TRICHY: DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin raked up the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) issue during his ‘Vidiyalai Nokki’ campaign in Trichy on Tuesday and promised to back the minorities in opposing the act. “The CAA affected the Muslims a lot. The DMK was the first party in the state to oppose the act. You (Muslims) should teach a lesson to the fascist BJP and its submissive AIADMK government. The DMK will continue to oppose CAA through legal battle to get justice,” Udhayanidhi said, while interacting with the members of the Muslim community in Alwar Thoppu. He was in Trichy for the second consecutive day as a part of the campaign. Udhayanidhi also reminded the community about the all-party protest organised by DMK president M K Stalin in Delhi and the rally organised against the act in Chennai. Like his previous campaigns, Udhayanidhi preferred not to criticise former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. “Jayalalithaa Amma challenged Modi but K T Rajenthira Balaji in the same Jayalithaa cabinet (after her death) says ‘Modi is our daddy’,” he said. His campaigns touched upon the farmers’ protest in Delhi against the farm laws. Udhayanidhi said that even the allies of the BJP opposed the laws citing the ‘negative impact’ of them on farmers. “The chief minister is supporting the farm laws because they were brought by PM Narendra Modi,” he said adding that the BJP had the list of corruptions and irregularities committed by the AIADMK leaders. That’s why the government is submissive to the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-will-continue-to-oppose-caa-udhayanidhi/articleshow/80017885.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Postmortem confirms man was lynched; villagers booked||TRICHY: Trichy rural police have booked a group of residents of Allur village on charges of lynching a 20-year-old Kerala youth three days after he died at the hospital. However, none of the accused has been named. His accomplice has been lodged in prison on charges of attempting to commit burglary and attacking villagers. Jeeyapuram police on Monday altered the case of suspicious death of Deepu of Thiruvananthapuram to one of murder by a group of people in the village. The development came after the post-mortem showed evidences of the death being caused by attack by the villagers. Police had filed a case of suspicious death after Deepu died at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) on December 25.  “It is under investigation. The accused will soon be named,” Inspector of police Girija Rani said on Tuesday. On Friday morning, Deepu and his accomplice Aravindan, 24, allegedly attempted to commit theft in the village. Police said there was a verbal duel between them and some local people who questioned them. As Deepu started attacking the group, they gathered more people and chased the two away. The police had earlier maintained that Deepu was injured on his head after falling while being chased. The post-mortem revealed marks of injuries caused by physical attack by the villagers. Despite being admitted to hospital the same day, he died whereas Aravindan is under treatment for his injury. Two special teams were formed by superintendent of police T Jeyachandran which confirmed the identity of both and informed their families. The father and relatives of Deepu reached Trichy after which the postmortem was performed on Sunday and they took the body with them. A case was also registered against Aravindan for theft attempt and attacking the villagers. He was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/postmortem-confirms-man-was-lynched-villagers-booked/articleshow/80017884.cms||Gokul Rajendran
December 30, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Autos’ open permit system likely to be axed next year||PUNE: The open permit system for autorickshaw is likely to be discontinued in the state by early next year, state transport department officials said. State transport minister Anil Parab said, “There has been less demand for autorickshaw permits. A committee has been formed to study the issue.” State transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said that a proposal for discontinuing the open permit system had already been sent to the ministry of road transport and highways (MORTH). “As per the provisions in the Motor Vehicles Act, the decision has to be taken by the Union government if the population of a city is more than 5 lakh,” he said. A department official said, “The number of autorickshaws has increased in the last three years. We found that the autorickshaw drivers will not be able to earn a decent amount if more permits were given. If the need to re-open the system is felt, it can be done later,” the official said. There are more than one lakh registered autorickshaws in Pune district. The state has more than 11 lakh autorickshaws. Pune and the Pimpri Chinchwad Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) registered 10,840 autorickshaws between April and November last year and 1919 in the same period this year. Nitin Pawar, convener, Rickshaw Panchayat, said that discontinuation of open permits was a necessary step. “Last week, we met the transport minister and requested him,” Pawar said. “There are large number of autorickshaw drivers and very few passengers in the past few months and new registrations are not happening,” Pawar added. The move has been questioned by some . “Many people lost their livelihood during Covid. The closure of open permits for autorickshaws will shut another door of self-employment,” said Sudhakar Holkar, who recently lost his job in a private company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/autos-open-permit-system-likely-to-be-axed-next-year/articleshow/80016528.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 30, 2020||Pune||Government approves Rs 100 crore funding for delayed works at Shirdi airport||PUNE: The state government on Monday gave an in-principle approval to give Rs100 crore for the Shirdi airport in the next two financial years for several works, which were delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who held a meeting with the airport authorities, gave the approval. “The meeting in Mumbai was attended by Kopargaon legislator Ashutosh Kale, who raised several points pertaining to works. Part of the Rs100 crore will be provided to the airport in the current financial year. The airport and the Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC), which manages the facility, will raise another Rs100 crore,” a senior airport official told TOI. The issue of night landing at the airport was also taken up. The Shirdi airport director Deepak Shastri told TOI that the facility will start by the end of the current financial year. “The facility needed for night landing is ready and a team of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) will check it soon for approval,” Shastri said. The airport authorities further said movement of cargo will also start from the airport soon. “A facility has been created and a team of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) from Mumbai has already come and inspected it. As soon as they give the approval, the facility will be opened,” he said. “A tender to select a consultant, who will prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for a new cargo complex for the airport, has been floated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-approves-rs-100-crore-funding-for-delayed-works-at-shirdi-airport/articleshow/80016533.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore corporation stops sewage treatment plant work at Sai Nagar||COIMBATORE: The city corporation was forced to stop the construction of a sewage treatment plant at Sai Nagar, Podanur, on Monday 8pm after residents produced the hard copy of the Madras high court order to maintain status quo on the issue. The residents had moved the high court last week, requesting an injunction order on the construction work, which they said the city corporation was carrying out at night, causing noise pollution and disturbing them. Despite the court ordering a status quo until January 6, the city corporation continued with the sewage treatment plant work, which commenced last Friday, until Monday. Sai Nagar residents, who had taken to the streets for four days to protest the work on the plant and clashed with police in the process, felt vindicated when the work was finally stopped on Monday night. K Sivakumar, one of the residents, said while they had informed the city corporation about the high court’s status quo order on Friday itself, officials had refused to listen to them. “But once we got the hard copy on Monday and showed it to them, they stopped the work.” Police were, however, deployed at the construction site in large numbers on Tuesday. The Sai Nagar Welfare Association has been fighting against the city corporations’ plans to set up the sewage treatment plant on the open space reserve in the locality for more than a year. “Corporation officials themselves admit there will be a slight stink, which the residents have to bear with, from the plant. This will pollute the entire locality, where old people and children inhabit,” Sivakumar said. He said the construction quality was also questionable so far. “We are worried that the sewage water will flow back into our houses and pollute the Noyyal river, which flows hardly 5ft away. The civic body has not constructed a revetment to prevent the water from mixing with the river.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-stops-sewage-treatment-plant-work-at-sai-nagar/articleshow/80015319.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Rajinikanth’s political drama is now khatam khatam!||In 1996, when actor Rajinikanth’s powerful one-liner – ‘even God can’t save Tamil Nadu if Jayalalithaa returns to power’ – hit the high notes ahead of the assembly election, the political party that benefited the most was the DMK. Twenty-four years later, ahead of another assembly election, the DMK is rejoicing again, and the AIADMK is sighing in relief. The DMK was worried that Rajinikanth would take away a chunk of votes that would otherwise have come to it because of the anti-incumbency factor. The AIADMK, meanwhile, is happy that it would now be able to negotiate with the allies, especially the BJP, from a stronger position. Read AlsoRajinikanth bids adieu to politics even before taking the plungeActor-turned-politician Rajnikanth on Tuesday announced that he will not be launching a political party citing health reasons. "I regret to inform that I am not going to launch a political party. I will serve people in whatever ways I can without entering electoral politics," he said in a letter.For the DMK, Rajini’s entry may have meant reworking its poll strategy and arithmetic. On December 3, when Rajinikanth tweeted that he would launch his political party in January after an announcement on December 31, it set off a scramble among parties to revise their strategies. “The DMK decided not to react until the actor tossed his hat in the ring,” said a senior party leader. When DMK president M K Stalin was asked to comment, he merely said, “Let Rajinikanth launch his party first.” There has not been a mention of Rajini since. “It was a conscious strategy to generate the perception that the DMK did not care,” said the leader. Read Also'His wish, can't force him to change mind,' Rajini's bro on U-turn on political debutRajinikanth's elder brother on Tuesday backed the Tamil superstar's move to withdraw his decision to launch a political party. The 77-year-old R Sathyanarayana Rao said it's his brother's wish and one can't force him to change his mind.For chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, Rajini’s participation in politics would have meant a return of personality politics. Trying to emerge from J Jayalalithaa’s shadows, Rajini’s celluloid charisma may have proved disconcerting for the ‘farmer-common man’ CM candidate. But Palaniswami, too, put on an appearance of nonchalance. “Let him first register his party, I’ll comment then,” he had said. For the AIADMK, Rajini’s dalliance with spiritual politics may have led to significant erosion of the Hindu vote base that they share. But for the ruling party, it would now be easier at the negotiating table when potential allies, the BJP, PMK and the DMDK sit to talk seat-sharing. Within the party too, senior leaders could have played power politics using Rajini as a bait. The BJP, which has been plotting a long-term plan to breach the Dravidian fort with Rajini as an interim disruptor, must be the most disappointed with the turn of events. It had spent months, even years, hoping to persuade Rajinikanth to take the political plunge, so it could ride piggyback, if not ride along with the star. The TN poll arena would once again see a straight fight between the DMK and the AIADMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajinis-political-drama-is-now-khatam-khatam/articleshow/80016532.cms||Jaya Menon
December 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Illegal red soil mining resumes at Thadagam after 3-month gap||COIMBATORE: Brick kilns at Thadagam in the district have resumed illegal red soil mining, activists told TOI on Tuesday. Brick kilns had stopped illegal soil mining at Thadagam after activists and the public took out a slew of protests. Government authorities too had intervened and kept a watch. But the brick kilns started illegal mining once again on Sunday, the activists said. Thadagam Valley Mineral Resources Protection Committee has decided to stage a hunger strike in the city on January 5 to condemn officials for their failure to act against illegal red soil mining. When contacted, revenue officials passed the buck on the department of geology and mining officials, who they said were supposed to take action against the illegal soil mining mafia. “When we questioned truck drivers, they showed us challans obtained from the mining department to mine the soil,” said a senior revenue department official. Activist S Ganesh, from Thadagam, said 197 brick kilns were illegally functioning at Chinna Thadagam, Nanjundapuram, Pannimadai, No 24 Veerapandi and Somayampalayam panchayats. “These areas fall under the Hill Area Conservation Authority. Brick kiln owners often mine red soil from these panchayats without obtaining permission from the department of geology and mining.” He said red soil worth more than Rs 1.35 lakh crore was illegally mined so far. Various farmers’ associations and activists have been fighting against the soil mining mafias for the past 10 years. “The state government had ordered the officials to detain the miners under the Goondas Act, book them under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code and seize the vehicles used for smuggling.” The activist said the departments of revenue, and geology and mining had seized four tipper trucks for smuggling red soil in October. “Subsequently, the illegal mining came to a halt for three months. However, the soil mining mafias smuggled red soil in more than 400 tipper trucks on Sunday. Some political functionaries and bureaucrats have nexus with the brick kiln unit owners.” Velunaicker, state secretary, Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam, also confirmed that illegal soil mining had resumed on Sunday. “The eco-sensitive zone is completely affected by the illegal mining. We will stage a hunger strike on January 5, demanding to stop illegal mining at Thadagam. If the government fails to stop illegal mining, we will teach politicians a lesson in the upcoming assembly elections.” The Thadagam Valley Mineral Resources Protection Committee comprises Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam, Coimbatore District Irula Welfare Association and environmentalists and social activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/illegal-red-soil-mining-resumes-at-thadagam-after-3-month-gap/articleshow/80015325.cms||A Subburaj
December 30, 2020||Trichy||Central team assesses crop loss caused by cyclones||Trichy: An eight-member team from the Centre on Tuesday visited villages in Pudukottai and Mayiladuthurai districts to assess the damage caused to various crops by the recent cyclones and subsequent rains. The team will visit villages in Nagapattinam and Thanjavur on Wednesday. The team comprising joint secretary at ministry of home affairs, Ashutosh Agnihotri, director of oilseed development, Dr Manokaran, regional officer at ministry of road transport and highways, Rananjay Singh, deputy director at ministry of finance, Amitkumar, assistant director at central electricity authority, Shubham Garg, assistant commissioner at ministry of rural development, Mohit Ram, fisheries development commissioner, Dr Paul Pandian, and director of central water commission, J Harsha, visited Pudukottai district on Tuesday. The team assessed the crop loss caused due to cyclone Burevi that struck in November.The team visited the paddy fields affected by rains triggered by the cyclone in Kathakuruchi, Nambukuzhi and the maize fields at Thetchinapuram in Thiruvarankulam taluk in Pudukottai district. The team then moved to Mayiladuthurai district and inspected the inundated paddy fields at Thirumayiladi and Nalladai. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/central-team-assesses-crop-loss-caused-by-cyclones/articleshow/80017893.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Trichy||Active Covid-19 cases in Trichy city back to 3 digits||TRICHY: Active Covid-19 cases in Trichy have touched the three-digit mark after hovering between 50-75 cases for about a month now thanks to a marginal surge in fresh cases too in the past two weeks. However, health officials said the situation was not alarming and attributed the rise to more number of tests conducted. Yet, they were apprehensive about a large number of people gathering without facemasks. Active cases had dropped below 100 in the city for the first time in five months on November 19, plunging to 58 on November 24. Just as everyone was feeling relieved, they surged to 100 on December 27, in fact doubling from 14 to 30 in Ponmalai zone in five days. While claiming that the city is free of Covid cluster, Trichy corporation officials said more people were being tested for about 10 days now. From 750 a day before, the city is testing 950 people since December 20. Officials added that positivity rate continues to remain at 1.5%. “We have been recording many cross notification of positive cases screened and tested elsewhere. The situation is under control, fever camps and mobile testing are being carried out in at least 40 locations a day,” M Yazhini, city health officer, told TOI. Trichy corporation has put two streets under watch after three positive cases were recorded. Srinivasa Nagar in K Abishekapuram zone and Thiru Nagar in Ponmalai zone are being considered as vulnerable. Ariyamangalam zone continues to remain low both in fresh and active cases. The civic body has been contacting recent returnees from United Kingdom through the database shared by the health department and asking them to get tested at the nearest primary health centre (PHC). “Virulence of the new strain is reported to be high, so people should continue to use facemasks while venturing out,” the health officer added. The local body has urged sanitary offers and team to intensify penalisation for ensuring facemask adherence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/active-covid-19-cases-in-trichy-city-back-to-3-digits/articleshow/80017887.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 30, 2020||Pune||Urban poor scheme under PMC scanner||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is exploring the option of crosschecking the income of beneficiaries under the urban poor health scheme. The civic body will send the proposal to the income tax department for verifying the income of individuals to check if they fall under the urban poor category. Any citizen with less that Rs2 lakh annual family income can avail the benefits under the scheme. The move intends to ensure that people do not take undue advantage of the scheme. “We are making sure that eligible beneficiaries get the benefit of this scheme. Options like cross verifying income from the income tax department are being explored,” said Ashish Bharati, head of PMC’s health department. A number of steps, including introduction of generic medicines and giving additional funds for the scheme, have been taken to widen the reach of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/urban-poor-scheme-under-pmc-scanner/articleshow/80016560.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Pune||In PCMC, edu institutes await order to reopen||PIMPRI Chinchwad: Private and civic schools under the jurisdiction of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) are waiting for directions about reopening for students of standard IX to XII. Civic chief Shravan Hardikar who had said the order would be issued on December 28 is on leave till January 1. PCMC’s public relation officer (PRO), Kiran Gaikwad, said the order could be out in a day or two. “Additional commissioner Ajit Pawar met Pune divisional commissioner on Tuesday and there is a possibility that an order regarding school reopening will be issued by Wednesday or Thursday,” he said. Rajendra Singh, working president of Independent English Schools’ Association in Pimpri Chinchwad, said schools are flooded with queries from parents about reopening. On the preparation of the private schools for reopening, he said the schools are ready, but would prefer if the actual teaching starts from January 8 or later as it will give teachers more time to get organised. However, schools in Mumbai will remain closed up to January 15, 2021 said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday. While consulate-run schools will be allowed to resume physical classes from January 18, a decision to allow other schools to reopen will be taken in due course. In a circular issued on Tuesday, BMC education officer, Mahesh Palkar said, “Even though prevalence of the coronavirus is under control in the BMC’s jurisdiction, schools of all mediums and managements will remain shut till January 15 considering the second wave of Covid in other countries and the situation in other states in India. While we can tweak the academic schedules for local schools, we have no control over consulate schools. A decision will be taken before January 15,” Palkar told TOI on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-pcmc-edu-institutes-await-order-to-reopen/articleshow/80016554.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 30, 2020||Madurai||Work on new Pamban Bridge progressing at snail’s pace||MADURAI: Sixteen months after construction of the new Pamban Bridge began, only 18% of the work has been completed, as per RTI replies by the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL). The structure will replace the existing 106-year-old bridge. Responding to the queries raised by RTI activist R Pandiaraja, a senior railway official in the know of the project told TOI the work was affected by the lockdown and rough seas during the northeast monsoon, adding the work should be over in six months. As the bridge is on the sea bed, the pillars will be built on the pile structures. The official said 60 pile structures are ready while work on 174 more are yet to be completed. They are targeting completion of 30 pile structures every month. The 101 pillars will have 234 pile structures. Though the RTI reply stated the work began on September 1, 2019, the ground breaking ceremony was performed on November 8, 2019. The RTI reply read that Ahmedabad-based M/s Ranjit Buildcon will complete the construction in 24 months from the commencement of work, which is August 2021. Though the super structure will only be laid with one track, the substructure will be constructed to cater to two tracks, it added. Admitting that it would be impossible to complete the construction in the specified time frame, a senior official concerned said it would be only possible by January or February 2022. “Construction came to a standstill on March 24 and no work could be carried out in the next two months. This was followed by manpower shortage and construction resumed in a full-fledged manner only in July-August,” the official said. The next hindrance was the Northeast monsoon. “The works had to be stopped from November 9 and is yet to resume. It is likely to begin early next week. We have asked the contractor to expedite the construction works and complete the substructure works before the next Northeast monsoon (November 2021). Super structure works could be carried out simultaneously,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/work-on-new-pamban-bridge-progressing-at-snails-pace/articleshow/80017892.cms||M K Ananth
December 30, 2020||Trichy||Surveyor held for taking bribe||ARIYALUR: DVAC sleuths have arrested a surveyor for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000 from a farmer in the district on Monday. The complainant Karthik, a farmer from Keezhanatham village, wanted to survey and subdivide a few acres of cultivable land owned by him and approached the revenue department in Andimadam. Karthik was approached by a surveyor identified as K Srinivasan for surveying the land and sought Rs 5,000 as a bribe. Karthik alerted DVAC officials in Ariyalur and was asked handover chemical-laced currencies to the surveyor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/surveyor-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/80017890.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Doc booked for giving triple talaq in hospital||Aurangabad: A doctor has been booked by city police for giving triple talaq to his wife, who is also a doctor. According to the complaint, the alleged incident took place on October 23. In the meantime, the woman’s family tried to diffuse the tension between the couple, but failed. Thus, a decision to lodge police complaint was taken on Monday. Inspector Sandeep Gurme said, “We have registered an offence against the doctor under The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, for allegedly pronouncing triple talaq to his wife.” The woman medico has stated that alleged incident took place in the presence of several patients at the hospital. She has also alleged that the suspect even said that he would marry another woman. “The complaint has named a couple of eye witnesses and the process of verifying the contents of the complaint is on.” the officer said. The woman medico, hailing from Limbejalgaon, got married to the Sillod-based doctor in July 2017. Later, they started a hospital in Waluj area and started practice. The woman has alleged that after she gave birth to a girl child, the attitude of her in-laws allegedly changed towards her. This resulted in differences between her and the family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/doc-booked-for-giving-triple-talaq-in-hospital/articleshow/80016558.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: AIIMS to start selection process for 5,000 staff soon||RAJKOT: The first AIIMS (All India institute of medical sciences) hospital of Gujarat that is expected to commence operation in 2022, will start selection process of its staff in a short period. The institute will require 5,000-strong staff including medical and non-medical persons. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone virtually for this campus on Thursday. The event is expected to be attended physically by CM Vijay Rupani, deputy CM Nitin Patel and governor Accharya Devvrat in Khandheri village near Rajkot. The 750-bed hospital is coming up on the AIIMS campus of 201 acres in Khandheri village on Jamnagar road at the cost of Rs 1,195 crore. In a statement, the deputy director of AIIMS, Rajkot, Shramdeep Sinha said, “In this reputed medical institute all the facilities from OPD to trauma centres will be available. Expert of all fields of medical science will serve here. The hospital will treat all the patients of serious illness and they won’t need to go to any multispeciality hospital.” There will be a separate medical college for this hospital and the first academic session of this medical college started with 50 students in the current PDU medical college campus earlier this month. “This institute will require nearly 5,000 medical and non medical staff including para medicals, medical lab technicians, pharmacists and other supporting staff. The selection process for all the required positions will start in a short period.” Sinha added. There will be academic buildings, auditorium, guest house, PG and UG hostels, dining hall, nursing students hostels apart from main hospital building in AIIMS campus. GFX Good Health Ahead 750-bed hospital in 71,000sqm area Medical college, nursing college and admin building in 22,500sqm area Auditorium and conference hall in 2,500sqm area Night shelter in 3,700sqm area will have a capacity of 250 people 14 rooms guest house will be built in 650sqm area PG hostel with the capacity of 312 students to come up in 7,400sqm area UG hostel in 5,750sqm area will house 480 students||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/aiims-to-start-selection-process-for-5k-staff-soon/articleshow/80015330.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Madurai||South Tamil Nadu reports 126 fresh cases, central districts 111 cases & 4 deaths||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state on Tuesday reported 126 fresh Covid-19 cases, which include one imported case in Madurai, and one death. Meanwhile, the central region reported 111 fresh cases, taking the tally to 73,699, which include 801 active cases. After a gap, the region recorded four deaths pushing the toll to 922. Madurai recorded 26 cases, the highest in the region. It is followed by Tirunelveli (18), Dindigul (16), Theni (14), Virudhunagar (14) and Kanyakumari (10). Ramanathapuram (3), Sivagangai (8), Tuticorin (8) and Tenkasi (9) recorded less than 10 cases. The total number of active cases in the region marginally climbed to 975 from 959 on Monday, while the number of active cases in Madurai has dipped to 186. The lone death in the region is an 80-year-old man from Madurai. In the central region, the number of cases increased even though two districts – Ariyalur and Perambalur recorded zero fresh cases on Tuesday. Fresh cases in Nagappattinam, Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur pushed the numbers up. Thanjavur recorded 32 fresh cases, the highest in the region, taking the tally to 17,116. It was followed by Trichy and Nagappattinam with 22 fresh cases each. Three deaths were recorded in Trichy and one in Thanjavur. The casualties include a 74-year old man, 70-year-old man and a 79-year-old woman from Trichy, and an 86-year-old woman from Thanjavur. So far, 71,880 patients have been discharged from various healthcare centres and hospitals in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-126-fresh-cases-central-districts-111-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/80017929.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Trichy||Don’t miss chance to bring about change: Kamal Haasan||NAGAPATTINAM: Makkal Needhi Maiam leader Kamal Haasan has said that people are getting an opportunity to bring about a change in Tamil Nadu in the assembly election and hence, no one should miss it. Addressing youths and women cadres at Velankanni on Tuesday as part of his election campaign in delta districts for the last two days, the actor-turned-politician said the rousing reception accorded to them across the state shows that people are ready to bring about a change. The popularity of MNM was on the rise, particularly among youth and women, he said. “People are getting an opportunity to bring about change in Tamil Nadu, so don’t miss it. You strengthen our hands and we will take care of your needs,” he said. On the “politics of mutual criticism” widely prevalent between parties in the state, Kamal Haasan clarified that it was not their main activity. “Our intention is not merely to criticize our opposition parties. It is important to let you know what we want to do. Honesty must thrive. To establish the people's rule in the state, you the people must strengthen our hands,” he said in Nagapattinam town. He also addressed gatherings at Puthur roundabout, Nagore, Thittachery, Thirumarugal in Nagapattinam district, Sannanallur in Tiruvarur district, indoor meeting in Mayiladuthurai, Thirubuvanam, Kumbakonam in Thanjavur and Gandarvakottai in Pudukottai district on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dont-miss-chance-to-bring-about-change-kamal/articleshow/80017920.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Govt employee held for selling 3,000 textbooks||MAYILADUTHURAI: Police on Tuesday arrested a junior assistant at the district education department in Mayiladuthurai on charges of selling more than 3,000 state board textbooks, meant to be distributed to government and aided school students, to a scrap dealer. The owner of the scrap dealer was also arrested. According to police, the accused C Meganathan, 44, junior assistant at district education office in Mayiladuthurai, was booked under sections 381 and 409 (committing theft with respect to any property in the possession of his/her employer). The scrap shop owner, S Perumalsamy, 56, was booked under section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property). Perumalsamy, a native of Ayyanar Koil Street in Mayiladuthurai, was running a scrap shop at Muthuvakkeel road near his residence. The site of the scrap shop was caught in a legal dispute. Revenue officials headed by Mayiladuthurai RDO Maharaniissued a notice instructing Perumalsamy to vacate the place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-employee-held-for-selling-3k-textbooks/articleshow/80017924.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Pune||MNS men held over vandalism at Amazon hub||PUNE: The Kondhwa police on Monday night arrested eight MNS workers on the charge of vandalizing e-commerce giant Amazon’s warehouse in KOndhwa Budruk on December 25. Among those arrested was the party’s Kondhwa ward chief Amit Jagtap. “We identified Jagtap from CCTV footage and arrested him,” senior inspector Sardar Patil of the Kondhwa police said. Jagtap named Saurabh Tilekar, Rohit Sonawane, Mayur Jagtap, Akash Avate, Akash Jagtap, Mayur Chavan and Nikhil Jagtap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mns-men-held-over-vandalism-at-amazon-hub/articleshow/80016581.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 30, 2020||Trichy||Massive farmers’ rally held in Thanjavur||THANJAVUR: Thousands of farmers from 54 farmers’ associations from across the state participated in a massive rally organized by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), the umbrella body of the protesting farmers in Delhi, here in Thanjavur on Tuesday. The AIKSCC had called for a state-wide protest in support of the protesting farmers in Delhi demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws enacted by the BJP government. AIKCC state coordinator K Balakrishnan led the meeting, while district coordinator N V Kannan welcomed the gathering. Thanjavur MP S S Palanimanickam (DMK), Nagapattinam MP M Selvaraj (CPI), and MLA Durai Chandrasekaran participated in the meeting. Tamil Nadu Farmers Association state general secretary P Shanmugam addressed the gathering. It may be recalled that police did not give permission for the rally initially. However, the organizers were firm on conducting the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/massive-farmers-rally-held-in-thanjavur/articleshow/80017900.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Madurai||Illegal children home shut in Madurai, 3 inmates rescued||MADURAI: Three children including two girls were rescued from an unregistered home at Kadachanendal in Madurai district on Tuesday. The children, aged between 12 and 14, were later shifted to another home in the same locality. Police sources said they had closed the same home in 2017 for running without any registration and rescued 20 children. The home was unearthed during a joint inspection carried out by child welfare committee (CWC) and district police after receiving a forward message on WhatsApp. Members of CWC said they received information through WhatsApp about a home called “Kuzhandaigal Nala Arakattalai” seeking help for orphan children. When they checked, there was no such home in the registered homes list. B Pandiaraja, member of CWC, said when they called up Pandiselvi, the woman running the home posing as a donor, she listed out things required for the home. Though she was reluctant to share the address, she divulged it when they insisted. Subsequently, a police team led by additional deputy superintendent of police S Vanitha joined the inspection. In 2017, a case was registered against the same home with the Appan Thirupathi police station after rescuing 20 children from there. This time, the woman had only three children there. During inspection she claimed that they were neighbouring children and that she did not run any children home. An inquiry revealed that she often brought a group of children from other homes to show when donors arrived. She took monetary and material help and used them for her own good.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/illegal-children-home-shut-3-inmates-rescued/articleshow/80017908.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Fans ‘politically orphaned’ but give priority to Rajini’s health||CHENNAI: Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM) functionaries are in a state of grief, unable to digest their leader’s decision not to launch a political party. Many said they were “politically orphaned”, but added they valued Rajini’s health more than anything else. Namakkal district secretary R Arangannal and Salem district secretary A Senthil Kumar said the RMM office bearers had an informal interaction, after Rajini’s statement was released, and decided to wait for instruction from their leader to decide what to do next. Arangannal was hopeful that Rajini would interact with the RMM secretaries and give specific instructions as to what to do and whom to support. Till the announcement from Rajini, the RMM functionaries were hopeful of fighting it out at the hustings, they said. The three-page statement came as a bolt from the blue for many, who had been nurturing political hopes ever since Rajini made his maiden political comment way back in 1996. “Following Thalaivar’s (leader) instructions, we formed polling-booth-level committees in almost 70% of the polling stations across the state. He was always in two minds. He had enough time to launch the party in the last two years after he made the announcement in December 2017. There was no Covid then, but he kept biding time. It is a big disappointment. He has left us politically orphaned,” said an RMM district secretary, preferring anonymity. A few functionaries, who joined the mandram in the last two years, are exploring their own political options. “Thalaivar has put no restriction on us in taking our own political decisions. New entrants in the party may look for alternatives. But true fans of Rajinikanth will not join any other party. They will wait,” said Pepsi G Vekatesan, Dharmapuri district secretary of RMM. He said his team had formed 1,400 booth-level committees in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fans-politically-orphaned-but-give-priority-to-rajinis-health/articleshow/80016576.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
December 30, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Eight hospitals sans fire NOC sealed||RAJKOT: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) issued notice to eight more hospitals on Tuesday not to admit patients and not to examine outdoor patients because they failed to fulfil the norms of fire safety. The fire department staff pasted the ‘seal notices’ on the doors of the hospitals on Tuesday mentioning the number of patients under treatment and initiation of the sealing process. The chief fire officer Ilesh Kher said “These are the hospitals had been warned earlier even before the fire incident at Uday Shivanand hospital. This notice is one kind of seal, the hospitals won’t be allowed to function once all the existing patients are discharged.” According to RMC’s list these hospitals are Saurashtra covid hospital, Dev hospital, Dasha Srimali hospital, Shree Satya Sai heart hospital, Sanman multispecialty hospital, Dr. Vivek Joshi ni hospital and Saurashtra children hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/8-hospitals-sans-fire-noc-sealed/articleshow/80015345.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Madurai||Nehru Nagar residents cry foul as sewage leaks into drinking water||MADURAI: Arter the drinking water being supplied through pipelines at Nehru Nagar in Madurai got mixed with sewage, residents have urged Madurai corporation officials to solve the issue at the earliest. Residents said that around 100 houses in Bhagat Singh Street are getting the drainage-mixed water, which cannot be used for any purpose as it has a foul smell. They are forced to purchase drinking water from private players, while they use borewell water for other household needs. M Chandrasekaran, a resident, said, “We are facing the issue for many years and we have approached corporation officials many times, but it has not been solved yet.” P Shanmugapriya, another resident, said that they have stopped using the water long ago and are completely dependent on borewell. “We are purchasing water from private suppliers, which costs us Rs 25 for a 20-litre can. We pay various taxes, but we are not getting even good drinking water. We spent money on the drinking water connection, but it proved to be a waste,” she said. Residents said that the pipeline should be completely overhauled if the authorities want to provide a permanent solution. An official from the engineering wing of the corporation said that they could not find the exact spot where sewage is mixing with water. Old pipelines need to be changed in order to provide a permanent solution. They will take up the work soon. Meanwhile, drinking water will be distributed through tankers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nehru-nagar-residents-cry-foul-as-sewage-leaks-into-drinking-water/articleshow/80017931.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Arya Rajendran’s energy and P K Raju’s experience to steer the Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Arya Rajendran, the 21-year-old BSc Mathematics student, was sworn in as the mayor of Thiruvananthapuram city corporation on Monday. She is currently the youngest mayor in office of a municipal corporation in the country. She defeated UDF and BJP candidates during the mayor election. P K Raju of CPI was elected the deputy mayor. Though Raju is a fresher in council, he has been active in city’s social and political spheres for the last three decades. Arya won 54 votes while BJP candidate Simi Jyothish got 35 votes. UDF candidate Mary Pushpam won nine votes. The LDF could improve its tally to 54 as the front received unconditional support from three councillors who had won as independent candidates. Mary Gypsi from Poonthura, Paniyadima from Kottapuram and Nizamudeen from Harbour ward voted for Arya Rajendran in the mayor election. The vote cast by an LDF councillor became invalid since name and signature were not recorded in the ballot paper. Also, UDF councillor from Mulloor, C Omana, was absent in the council since she was under quarantine. As many as 98 votes were cast in the mayor election. Arya’s parents Rajendran and Sreelatha, both party activists for a long time, stood proudly near the dais watching their youngest daughter swear in as the mayor of the city corporation. Although there were three candidates in the first round, Arya was declared as the winner as she got more votes than the cumulative votes won by other candidates. Former mayors V K Prasanth, K Sreekumar, K Chandrika, C Jayan Babu and V Sivankutty were present at the swearing-in ceremony. CPM district leaders were also present. P K Raju, who represents Pattom ward, won the deputy mayor poll by winning 55 votes. NDA deputy mayor candidate P Ashok Kumar won 34 votes. One of the votes cast by a BJP councillor became invalid since name and signature were not recorded in the ballot paper. UDF deputy mayor candidate Suresh Kumar received nine votes. Arya continued to receive thousands of wishes on social media. On Monday, actor Kamal Hassan tweeted that Arya is an inspiration for all women. Sharing a video of Arya’s campaign on Twitter, industrialist Gautam Adani said: “Absolutely stunning. This is how young political leaders shape paths and inspire others to follow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/aryas-energy-and-rajus-experience-to-steer-the-city/articleshow/80013265.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Rajkot||GPCL mining lignite with effluent, sewage treatment plants: RTI||RAJKOT: After the surprising land rise in the coastal village Moti Hoidad oand surrounding area in Bhavnagar, which the environmentalists attribute to rampant improper mining by Gujarat Power Corporation Limited (GPCL), information sought under RTI has revealed that the state-run company has stll not installed the effluent treatment plant (ETP) and sewage treatment plant (STP). The inquiry report of the complaint was asked under RTI from Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB). ETP and STP are mandatory as per the environment clearance granted for the lignite mining in the Ghogha Surkha block in Bhavnagar. Environmentalists alleged that this is a clear violation of the Supreme Court order and amounts to contempt of court. They demanded the GPCB to immediately halt the ongoing work. The company got EC from the union ministry of environment and forest (MoEF) in 2014 and the consolidated consent authorisation (CCA )in 2018 from GPCB before staring mining. A team of GPCB along with district officials, environment activists and villagers visited this site on November 25. In its reply given on December 28, the GPCB admitted that as per EC condition STP and ETP should be installed and stated that “Unit has not provided STP & ETP and contact person informed that for ETP/STP tendering process is going on.” The reply also revealed that the corporation has also flouted the rule of building a sturdy stonewall around the toe wall and that overburden dump slopes that should be planted with grass “which is not observed 100%,” The closed conveyor system for lignite transport is under construction and the company has got extension time till June 2021 to complete this by MoEFCC. Rohit Prajapati of Prayavaran Suraksha Samiti, who is the complainant in this case said, “The apex court in an order of a writ petition filed by us directed in February 2017 to all the state's pollution boards to give closure notice to those companies which don’t have ETP within three months of this order.” When contacted, the regional officer of GPCB Bhavnagar, AG Oza said, “The company is late in establishing ETP and STP and we have issued two notices to complete the work as per EC condition. They have started the tender process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gpcl-mining-lignite-with-effluent-sewage-treatment-plants-rti/articleshow/80015360.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 30, 2020||Trichy||Man gets ‘triple death’ for rape, murder of girl, 7||PUDUKOTTAI: Triple death penalty was awarded by the district mahila court to a man on Tuesday for the rape and murder of a seven year-old dalit girl in June. Mahila court judge R Sathya sentenced to death Samuel alias M Raja under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and also under IPC section 302 for rape and murder. He was also sentenced to life imprisonment for murdering the girl and seven years imprisonment for kidnapping a child and tryinsg to destroy evidence. The court also fined Raja Rs 10,000 while directing the government to provide Rs 5 lakh compensation to the girl’s mother. The trial was completed within six months. The court had concluded the hearing in the case within three months of filing the chargesheet observing the case to be rarest of rare. This is the first death sentence that has been pronounced by the Pudukottai district court since its inception. The girl went missing on June 30, following which her parents lodged a complaint. The body was found the same day in an isolated spot with injuries all over her body. The accused was also arrested on the same day and booked under IPC sections 376(rape), 302 (murder), 364 (abduction) and 201 for misleading police. He was also booked Pocso Act and SC/ST Act. PMK and Tamil Manila Congress president G K Vasan welcomed the verdict. “Crimes against women and children can be brought down by way of punishment,” Vasan said, while asking for speedy execution of the sentence. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-gets-triple-death-for-rape-murder-of-girl-7/articleshow/80017930.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Coimbatore||British-era building on State Bank Road to be demolished||Coimbatore: The state government has decided to pull down the British-era building that houses the south revenue divisional office on State Bank Road in the city and construct a new two-storeyed building at a cost of Rs 2.83 crore.As a first step, the revenue divisional office was shifted to the old south taluk office building on Huzur Road here on Monday.While the building was constructed during the British regime, the district administration doesn’t have any documental evidence to prove the year of construction or any other details regarding it. Historians say the building might have been constructed in 1930. The south revenue divisional office had been functioning out of the building for more than three decades.While the office was on the ground floor, the meeting hall, which had a wooden flooring, was on the first floor. The district administration decided to demolish the building as it was in a dilapidated condition and because of space constraints. On Monday, documents from the south revenue divisional office were shifted to the old south taluk office, from where the office would function temporarily.According to the revenue officials, the British-era building would be demolished soon. The new two-storeyed building would then come up at the same place, with enough parking facilities. While the government has allotted Rs 2.83 crore for the new south revenue divisional office, the public works department has invited tenders for the construction work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/british-era-building-on-state-bank-road-to-be-demolished/articleshow/80015350.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 30, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Gang breaks into house, gags women, steals gold||MADURAI: A gang of four people, who barged into a house in Tallakulam in Madurai city on Monday, stole gold jewellery and cash after tying the residents to chairs and gagging them. The incident took place in a house located in the Outpost area in Alagarkovil Main Road. T Saroja, 66, and her mother were sleeping in the house, when four men with their faces covered barged into the house through the back door. At knife-point, they tied them to chairs using clothes and gagged their mouths. They then looted gold jewellery weighing 27 sovereigns, that they were wearing, and cash Rs 85,000 kept inside a bureau and fled. Saroja, later freed herself and her mother and went to her sister’s house in Arapalayam and took treatment in a hospital. Later in the day, she approached the Tallakulam police and based on her complaint, a case was registered under the IPC sections 457 (Lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 397 (Robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt). Police are looking out for the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gang-breaks-into-house-gags-women-steals-gold/articleshow/80017932.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Truck driver, 27, attacks 21-year-old lover with blade, attempts suicide||COIMBATORE: A 27-year-old man attacked a woman with a blade and attempted to commit suicide by slitting his throat at a private lodge near Tirupur old bus stand on Tuesday. Police said Venkatesh, 27, a truck driver from Kallakurichi, was in a relationship with a 21-year-old woman from Tirupur for the past one year. She was working in a textile company. They checked into a lodge on Tuesday. An argument broke out between the two. In a fit of rage, Venkatesh took a blade and assaulted the woman on her neck. Later, he also attempted to slit his throat. The staff of the lodge entered the room after hearing the woman screaming for help. The Tirupur South police who were alerted reached the lodge and admitted the couple at the Tirupur Government Medical College and Hospital. Based on the woman’s complaint, the Tirupur South police registered a case against Venkatesh under sections 294(b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506(ii) (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Police said the couple’s condition is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/truck-driver-27-attacks-21-year-old-lover-with-blade-attempts-suicide/articleshow/80015356.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Madurai||Mobile veggie units started in Virudhunagar||MADURAI: Mobile vegetable markets which will help the public to have access to vegetables and fruits directly from the farmers were launched in Virudhunagar district by the district collector R Kannan on Tuesday. The programme was conducted as part of the Integrated Horticulture Development Mission whereby thirty beneficiaries will be provided these mobile units costing Rs 15,000 each. A subsidy Rs 4.5 lakh was set aside for the programme. On Tuesday, the mobile units were handed over to ten beneficiaries. The farmers would be able to sell their produce directly to consumers and earn profits,the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mobile-veggie-units-started-in-virudhunagar/articleshow/80017933.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Madurai||Plea to drop bridge plan, avert tension in village||Madurai: The mutharaiyar community in Uthapuram panchayat has petitioned the district collector against a bridge that the arundhadiyars, a dalit community, want to be built across a channel in their village, saying it would cause communal tension. A group of villagers led by V Karuppaiah came to the Madurai district collectorate on Monday saying communal tension between them and the arundhadiyars in the village was over a decade old but they always decided to settle issues amicably. The dalits resided in Pottalpatti village in their panchayat and their borders have been expanding to adjacent Kurunji Nagar which is also in the vicinity of the Vasimalayan Swami temple, the family deity of mutharaiyars. He said the arundhadiyars lived on the eastern side of Kurunji Nagar and the mutharaiyar on the west. The arundhadiyar community had three access routes to their homes including a bridge, but now they were making representations and trying to construct a bridge right through the area belonging to the Vasimalayan temple. Karuppiah said the dalit community was being instigated by a person working in Madurai Kamaraj University. Ten peace meetings were arranged between the two communities by the local RDO in which construction of the bridge was opposed. But, efforts are on to construct the bridge and the other community was purposely trying to instigate violence by putting up banners near their temple. Hence the move to construct the bridge should be dropped. District collector T Anbazhagan has assured them that the situation would be reviewed again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-drop-bridge-plan-avert-tension-in-village/articleshow/80017935.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Rajkot||Limbdi lawyer stabbed in office, accused held||RAJKOT: Limdi police on Tuesday arrested 24-year-old Sufiyan Ghanchi, a resident of Kanbi Sheri in Limbdi town of Surendranagar district in connection with a knife assault on a lawyer Batuk Patel (57) at his office on Monday evening. According to police, Sufiyan entered Batuk Patel's office on Monday evening with a knife and stabbed him twice before escaping from the spot. According to police, it was a revenge action for an old enmity over the disposal of solid waste of non-veg food in an open area in the area. Two months ago, Sufiyan and his uncle Yunus had a ruckus with a woman in Kanbi Shere and assaulted her. Batuk Patel had played a key role in filing a complaint against Yunus and Sufiyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/limbdi-lawyer-stabbed-in-office-accused-held/articleshow/80015388.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Nedumangad witnesses drama as CPI fields candidate against CPM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: LDF candidates took charge as chairpersons in all the four municipalities in the  held here on Monday. While elections went on smoothly in Varkala, Neyyattinkara and Attingal, there was some drama at Nedumangad where CPI fielded a candidate against CPM in the election to vice-chairman post. LDF, which got absolute majority at Nedumangad municipality, won the election to chairman and vice-chairman posts comfortably. CPM nominees C S Sreeja is the chairperson and P Harikeshan Nair won the election to vice-chairman post. C S Sreeja, who was elected from Paramuttom ward, won 27 votes in chairperson election. CPI fielded S Raveendran as the candidate for the vice-chairman post as per the understanding in LDF. CPM objected to his candidature as he had been a member of CPM previously. As CPI was not ready to withdraw Raveendran, CPM fielded Harikeshan Nair and won the poll comfortably. CPI only polled three votes. It is learnt that CPM district secretariat would ask the vice-chairman to quit as there had been a clear understanding that chairman post is for CPM and vice-chairman post is for CPI. K M Lalji was elected as chairman of Varkala municipality and he won 14 votes. Kumari Sudarshini, who was an independent candidate from Puthenchantha ward, was elected as vice-chairperson. LDF, which fell short of absolute majority at Varkala municipality, won the support of two independent candidates to retain power. Three independent candidates had won elections in Varkala municipality. LDF garnered the support of Kumari Sudarshini, who won from Puthenchantha, and Amina, who won from Ramanthali. CPM nominee S Kumari was elected as chairperson of Attingal municipality for her second term. She won 18 votes. She was elected from Thachoorkunu ward. G Thulaseedharan Pillai, who won from Ramachamvila ward, was elected as vice chairman of Attingal municipality. P K Rajmohan was elected as the chairman of Neyyatinkara municipality winning 18 votes. Priya Suresh, the councillor of Panangottukari ward, was elected as vice-chairperson. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nedumangad-witnesses-drama-as-cpi-fields-candidate-against-cpm/articleshow/80013276.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kochi||Green Tourism project will implement in Munnar||IDUKKI: District administration will emulate Vagamon model green tourism project in Munnar to keep the hill station spic and span. “A meeting will be called in the first week of January to discuss green tourism” and the project will be implemented in the month itself, district collector H Dineshan said. As part of the project, a green corridor, green check posts manned by Haritha Karma Sena and a green shop to give eco-friendly products will come up in Munnar. Munnar, which has been witnessing a high tourist footfall after easing of restrictions due to Covid-19 pandemic, is plagued by improper disposal of waste, especially plastic ones. The green tourism project, modelled on the lines of on ‘Vazhikattan Vagamon’ project, aims to keep Munnar free of waste, said Haritha Kerala Mission district co-ordinator G S Madhu. “After easing of Covid-induced restrictions, the tourist footfall has increased in Munnar and the green tourism project will be helpful in keeping the hill station clean and tidy,” Madhu said. Vagamon reaping benefits of its effective waste management, especially green check posts. “After it was announced that green protocol will be followed in Vagamon, tourists started adhering to waste-management practices and waste disposal stopped in the hill station. Haritha Karma Sena is keeping check of the green protocol,” the Haritha Kerala Mission district co-ordinator said. United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Devikulam taluk comprising eight grama panchayats, including Munnar, will participate in the project. Kanana Devan Hills Plantation (KDHP) Ltd has discussed the project with Haritha Kerala Mission, sources said. “UNDP will provide assistance to develop a waste-management system and technical support for the green tourism project in Munnar,” said a UNDP official. It was in October that for the first time in Kerala, green check posts have begun functioning at the hill station of Vagamon with an aim to transform the destination into a green corridor. The five green check posts are at Elappara Town, Vattappathal, Pullikkanam, Vazhikkadavu and Chemmannu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/green-tourism-project-will-implement-in-munnar-picture/articleshow/80015380.cms||Sandeep Thomas
December 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Hold another round of talks over local body polls: HC to SEC, govt||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Tuesday directed the state government and state election commission (SEC) to take up another round of consultations over conducting local body elections. The government had moved high court seeking directions to suspend proceedings by the SEC to conduct elections in February. The high court directed the government to send a team of officials, not below the rank of principal secretary, to submit a written representation enclosing all relevant material for the SEC’s consideration which explains all contentions and difficulties that the government is facing and the guidelines issued by the Union government for the vaccination programme. The government has to send a team of officials to the SEC within three days of receiving the order copy while the SEC is at liberty to decide the venue and time for the meeting. While disposing the petition moved by government, Justice AV Sesha Sai said that to resolve the issue in a smooth and amicable manner, the court was of the view that the state government and SEC continue the consultation process to take appropriate action keeping in view the larger public interest and orders of the Supreme Court. Justice Sesha Sai said that all contentions raised by the state government in the petition are kept open. Government pleader C Sumon informed the high court that Andhra Pradesh was one among four states selected by the Union government to conduct a Covid-19 vaccine dry run. As all pleas and contentions are kept open, Justice Sesha Sai told the government to represent all its issues to the SEC as part of the consultation. The state government had argued that the situation is not conducive for holding elections as the threat of Covid-19 is still looming large. It contended that as the vaccination schedule is likely to be announced by the Union government, it will be very difficult for the government to conduct elections as its entire machinery will be involved in vaccination program. On the other hand, the SEC argued that the decision on when to conduct elections is the sole discretion of SEC and a constitutional obligation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hold-another-round-of-talks-over-local-body-polls-hc-to-sec-govt/articleshow/80015680.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Curbs imposed to check NY events in Agency areas||Visakhapatnam: Ahead of New Year revelry, Vizag police have decided to impose restrictions at Lammasingi, Tajangi and other places under Chintapalle mandal in Vizag Agency to prevent untoward incidents and traffic chaos. With curbs on public celebrations in Vizag city owing to the pandemic, some residents plan to usher in the New Year in Vizag Agency instead, where temperatures have fallen to below 10 degrees Celsius. The tribal hamlet of Lammasingi with its unique climate, particularly, has been drawing large numbers of visitors over the past few winters. K Raghunath of Lammasingi said that at least 6,000 to 10,000 people visit the hill station during the weekends. In winter, as the mercury dips and fog covers the region, traffic congestion is common with more tourists visiting the hill station. Speaking to TOI, assistant superintendent of police, Chintapalle, Vidyasagar Naidu said they have decided to impose certain restrictions on the night of December 31 at Lammasingi, Tajangi and a few other places. “We will not allow consumption of liquor and smoking cigarettes at public places and above all, we would not allow the tourists to stay after 10 pm in the villages on December 31 to prevent possible untoward incidents and also to deal with the traffic chaos on the Narsipatnam-Lammasingi road,” Naidu added. Police are also planning to deploy personnel in villages under Chintapalle mandal to prevent possible illegal activities, they added. However, some youngsters in Vizag city have decided to welcome the New Year with a bonfire. “It is not possible to have a bonfire party as city police may clamp down on New Year celebrations due Covid-19 restrictions,” said D Sunil Kumar, a resident of Vizag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/curbs-imposed-to-check-ny-events-in-agency-areas/articleshow/80015748.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 30, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Youth due to get married next month killed in road accident||VADODARA: A 22-year-old man who was set to get married next month died in a road accident on Padra-Jambusar Road on Monday afternoon. The deceased Ejaz Pathan, who worked in a private finance company, and his father’s friend Iqbal Sindha were returning to their home in Vadu after purchasing a mobile phone in Padra. On reaching just outside Padra town, the duo’s bike was knocked down by a truck from behind. While Sindha was flung away, Pathan fell on the road near his bike. The unidentified driver of the truck registered in Ahmedabad ran over Pathan while trying to escape from the accident spot. Pathan died immediately, while Sindha suffered severe injuries on his head and right knee. Sindha later lodged a complaint of rash driving and causing death due to negligence against the truck driver at Padra police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/youth-due-to-get-married-next-month-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/80015396.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Five districts achieve 99% Covid recovery rate||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 326 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,81,599. The toll increased to 7,100 as two more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus. As many as 364 patients were declared cured. There are currently 3,383 active cases in the state, with 8,71,116 cumulative recoveries and 7,100 deaths. Krishna reported 67 new cases, followed by Guntur (56) and Chittoor (52). The remaining 10 districts recorded less than 50 cases. Five districts posted single-digit case numbers. Vizianagaram, which did not report any new cases for two consecutive days, registered two cases on Tuesday. While the active cases dropped below the 500-case mark in 11 districts, they are less than 100 in three districts. Five districts have so far achieved a 99% recovery rate. Health officials tested 50,794 Covid-19 samples to detect the 326 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.6%. The case positivity rate has decreased to 0.6% range in the last one week, the lowest in last six months. The state has so far conducted 1.17 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7.5%. Andhra Pradesh continues to retain its lead in terms of per capita testing (2,19,264 tests per every one million population) in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/5-districts-achieve-99-covid-recovery-rate/articleshow/80015699.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Maoist ops go up this year, but arrests drop||VISAKHAPATNAM: Maoist activities saw a rise in Andhra Pradesh in 2020 with 27 incidents being reported even as the Visakhapatnam rural police arrested 65 members of the Maoist party and 15 members surrendered. The 27 operations by members of the CPI (Maoist) are the highest in the last three years. While 13 operations could be linked to the Maoists in 2019, 20 could be linked to the group in 2018. Cadre of the Maoist party is alleged to have been involved in two murders and two deaths due to a landmine blast. There were three incidents of exchange of fire with security forces. Even as Maoist operations increased this year, the number of arrests came down by half. The Visakhapatnam rural police had arrested 127 Maoists in 2019. The number came down to 65 this year. The number of surrenders by Maoists too decreased significantly, from 33 last year to only 14 this year. Visakhapatnam rural SP B Krishna Rao said that Maoists are losing ground in the tribal area, and are therefore indulging in murders of tribals by branding them as informers. “They killed two civilians in an IED blast and two others by branding them as informers,” the SP said. He added, “But the year saw better coordination and a sustained effort between both AP and Odisha on tackling the Maoist menace.” Police outreach programmes saw increased participation of tribals this year. Programmes such as Yuvaho, Darshini, Prerana, Sankalpam, Spoorthi, Janamytrri meetings, Giri Karshaka Mitra, Cheruva and Cheyuta helped bridge the gap between tribals and the police. Police officials said that recruitment of cadre by Maoists has stopped in Andhra Pradesh and the red rebels have been limited to recruiting from their strongholds in Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Maoists have failed to attract the youth with their age-old ideology and people have lost their faith in Maoists, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/maoist-ops-go-up-this-year-but-arrests-drop/articleshow/80015796.cms||Siva G
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Barring Nagpur, all Vid districts now have less than 500 patients||Nagpur: Improvement in the Covid-19 situation in Vidarbha showed another significant indicator on Tuesday in terms of under-treatment patients. With 686 new patients reported in a day and 923 recovered, the total number of under-treatment patients in Vidarbha reached 7056. Except Nagpur, all 10 districts in the region now have less than 500 patients under treatment. Five of them have less than 300 patients. Most of these are in home isolation which hints at the lowering hospitalization rate — a major indicator of better control. On Tuesday, nine districts — barring Nagpur and Amravati — reported less than 50 new cases. With Nagpur (357), Amravati (66), Yavatmal (49), Wardha (41), Bhandara (40), Chandrapur (36), Akola (34), Gondia (23), Gadchiroli (20), Washim (15), and Buldhana (5), the total reached 2,50,690. On the other hand, six districts reported 50+ recoveries including Nagpur (428), Chandrapur (85), Bhandara (78), Akola (72), Amravati (57), Buldhana (52), Gadchiroli (42), Wardha (38), Gondia (33), Yavatmal (31) and Washim (7). Total recoveries reached 2,37,102 which means 94.57% recovery rate which equals Maharashtra state’s average. Vidarbha recorded 14 deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday. With Nagpur (7), Chandrapur (2), Yavatmal (2), Bhandara (1), Wardha (1) and Akola (1), total Covid-19 death toll of the region reached 6,531. Case fatality rate is still at 2.60% which is higher than state and national average. Buldhana: In a record, 493 samples out of total 498 Covid-19 tests conducted in Buldhana tested negative on Tuesday. With only 5 positive, the number of cases in the district reached 12,441. With 52 patients recovering in a day, total 12,069 have recovered so far. No death was reported on Tuesday. Now, 222 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 15 new cases and 7 recoveries on Tuesday. Now, 6,221 patients out of total 6,640 have recovered in Washim. No death has been reported since December 3. The district’s death toll is 148. Total 270 patients are under treatment in Washim. Akola: More recoveries and fewer cases continued in Akola on Tuesday. With 72 patients recovered in a day, total 9,622 have recovered till date. Out of 393 reports received in a day, 34 tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 10,424. A 65-year-old man died while undergoing treatment on Tuesday taking the total toll of Akola to 319. Now, 483 patients are under treatment in the district. Gadchiroli: With 20 new patients reported in a day, 42 recovered from Gadchiroli and no death was reported. The district now has total 8,956 cases, including 8,704 recoveries and 101 deaths. Total 151 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: District reported 40 new cases, 78 recoveries and 1 death in a day on Tuesday. Total cases reached 12,262, including 11,617 recoveries and 291 deaths. Now, 354 patients are under treatment. Gondia: On Tuesday, 23 patients tested positive while 33 recovered from Gondia in a day. No death was reported. The district now has 13,617 cases, 13,146 recoveries and 293 patients under treatment. Yavatmal: Two deaths took the toll to 402. Out of the 457 reports, 49 tested positive. Currently, there are 332 active positive patients undergoing treatment in various Covid-19 care centres across the district. Amravati: Sixty-six cases took the district’s caseload to 19,526. With 57 recoveries, the total count is now 18,689. No deaths were reported. There are 441 active cases undergoing treatment. Chandrapur: While 36 tested positive, 85 were discharged on Tuesday. Two deaths took the toll to 363. The caseload has risen to 22,246 with recoveries being 21,406. There are 477 active patients. Wardha: One more death took the toll to 270. The deceased is a 78-year-old man from Hinganghat. On Tuesday, 41 cases were reported, taking the caseload to 8,972 while 38 patients were discharged and recoveries reached 8,405.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/barring-nagpur-all-vid-districts-now-have-less-than-500-patients/articleshow/80015898.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Flyers in quarantine fret over lack of info on samples sent to NIV||Nagpur: Two international flyers admitted to GMCH’s special ward have accused the doctors and civic officials of keeping them in the dark about their samples sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, and prolonging their stay in the hospital.One of the flyers, 28-year-old patient from Nandanwan, who had tested RT-PCR negative for Covid, has already spent five days in the special ward, opened exclusively for confirmed patients of the new Covid virus strain found in the United Kingdom. The youth had returned on November 30 via Mumbai and tested RT-PCR negative on arrival. He was found positive in antigen test on December 15 after attending a marriage in Gondia.Though health officials are not expecting much from his RT-PCR sample taken on December 23 at GMCH, the NMC has sent it to NIV for genomic sequencing to establish if he actually carried the new strain.On Monday, the man said doctors are tight-lipped about the investigation being done at NIV and diverted his queries to top civic officials.The second flyer, 35-year-old man from Narendra Nagar, who returned from UK on November 28, is upset as his RT-PCR result at GMCH is negative, but was found positive at a private lab on December 26. His private lab sample has been sent to the NIV.The doctors claimed they have been instructed by the NIV to communicate the sample result only to the civic authorities, he said. The patient also claimed this is breach of his right to know about the health status.The prolonged delay and lack of proper communication has left the two men in doubt about the entire exercise.“Doctors at the GMCH are convinced about my discharge, but they need report from the NIV. I am told, the report has come but they are waiting for civic chief’s order. I tried to contact NIV, but officials there told me that they have been asked by their higher-ups not to talk to patients. I feel, the NMC is delaying releasing our report,” said one of the men.TOI spoke to an expert regarding patient’s rights and civic body’s role. “The patients need to understand this is being done for epidemiology purpose, in order to protect the country from the new Covid strain. As far as I am concerned, no right has been breached as they are not paying for the treatment or investigations. Genome sequencing will take some time as NIV is processing a lot of samples right now,” said Crescent Labs director Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed.Additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane, who is nodal officer for new strain surveillance, said no such orders have been given to report the results directly to the NMC. Orange City Hospital & Research Institute (OCHRI) director Dr Anup Marar said status update of samples is essential and authorities need to give the flyers a time frame.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flyers-in-quarantine-fret-over-lack-of-info-on-samples-sent-to-niv/articleshow/79998054.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ganja seizure doubled in 2020, 243 cases booked||Visakhapatnam: The seizure of ganja in Visakhapatnam district nearly doubled in 2020 as compared to the previous year due to the combined drive undertaken by the police and the special enforcement bureau. Visakha rural police chief B Krishna Rao said 42,434 kg of dry ganja was seized and 243 cases booked in 2020. In 2019, 23,172 kg of dry ganja was seized and 199 cases booked against the offenders. While sand theft cases rose by over 36 per cent, gambling incidents saw a rise of nearly 48 per cent. As most ganja peddlers were forced to take the road route to transport the weed from the agency areas to other parts of the state due to the non-availability of trains on account of Covid-19 lockdown, police managed to seize huge quantities of ganja in 2020, Rao said, while adding that 82,429 kg of seized dry ganja was burnt at the Bhaligattam dumping yard in Narsipatnam this year. The year also saw setting up of several check-posts which helped in restricting sand theft cases and controlling illicit brewing and illegal selling of liquor, which led to excise cases increasing by 36 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ganja-seizure-doubled-in-2020-243-cases-booked/articleshow/80015786.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bareilly||Fake cement factory busted, three arrested with 1,000 sacks of ‘fake’ cement||Bareilly: Shahjahanpur police, who have been carrying out a drive against illicit manufacturing units of various branded products, from pesticides and liquor to fertilizers, etc over the past few days, on Tuesday, busted a fake cement manufacturing unit operating from within the premises of a closed rice mill in the Roza area. Nearly 1,000 sacks of cement, branded as ACC, Konark, Birla, etc, were recovered from the godown. Police also recovered fly ash and 3,900 rejected packaging bags of renowned cement brands, a truck, a tractor trolley and a luxury car. The original lookalike packaging bags were purchased online from a scrap dealer. The gang kingpin runs a store in Shahjahanpur. His brother owns a store in Lakhimpur Kheri district and used to sell the “fake” cement to several dealers in the region. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand told TOI, “Anchal Shukla, a resident of Maigalganj town in Kheri district, was found operating the factory. We’ve also arrested two of his agents, Deependra Sharma alias Chhotu, and Ajay Sharma from the factory. Anchal’s brother Ankit Shukla is also named in the FIR along with Naeem and Imran, who used to sell the fake cement in the market. The accused have made a pretty pile cheating several customers by selling the fake cement. The case is under investigation and several other people are also under our radar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fake-cement-factory-busted-three-arrested-with-1000-sacks-of-fake-cement/articleshow/80013880.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: High testing helped AP fight its biggest challenge of the year||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh suffered one of the worst outbreaks of Covid-19 by logging the third highest number of cases in the country. The pandemic preparedness, response and management have been the biggest challenges faced by the state for almost three quarters of 2020. The state recorded 8.81 lakh cases as on Tuesday. AP reported its first Covid-19 infection on March 12, when a 24-year-old Italy returnee from Nellore tested positive for the virus. Four more cases with abroad travel connection were detected before confirming the first locally transmitted case on March 22. The pandemic, which started with a trickle of daily cases and predominantly confined to the urban areas till May, gradually shifted to the rural parts, characterising the sudden spurt in the case numbers from June. From the initial days with no definitive treatment, inadequate health infra and no testing facilities in February to March, to different phases of lockdown/unlocking changing the transmission dynamics and stabilisation of daily infections in October and November, the state had seen it all before witnessing a drastic decline in the case numbers in December. Experts say that a combination of factors might have helped the state in better management of the disease, such as extensive and targeted testing, contact tracing, door-to-door surveys through massive village/ward volunteer network, community surveillance measures, and augmenting treating facilities and infrastructure. But if a certain factor needs to be singled out, the state’s large-scale testing stands out from the rest. Despite posting a steep surge in the daily infection numbers, particularly in July, August and September, the state continued its aggressive testing to occupy first place among all states in the country in terms of per capita testing. Speaking to TOI, Covid-19 nodal officer Dr K Rambabu, said that the state has come a long way in its Covid-19 prevention and management since the early days of the outbreak. “After hypoxia emerged as the new focus area in Covid-19 treatment, oxygen lines were created for nearly 28,000 beds from the initial 3,636 oxygen beds. Andhra Pradesh is the first state to cover Covid-19 treatment under Aarogyasri scheme,” Dr Rambabu said. The nodal officer informed that around 20,000 medical personnel were recruited for the Covid-19 treatment purpose. “The testing, tracing and treatment strategies were tweaked at regular intervals with the changing dynamics of the disease spread in the state. Initially, the patients had to be tested negative for coronavirus in two successive tests before allowing them to be discharged. But later the discharge policy was changed, limiting the tests at discharge for moderate and severe cases,” Dr Rambabu said. According to the nodal officer, “From no testing facility in February to March, the testing capacity was increased to about 70,000 samples a day, the highest in the country.” Things improved drastically in December with the case positivity rate coming down to between 0.6 and 0.8% over the last two weeks, the lowest over the last seven months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/high-testing-helped-ap-fight-its-biggest-challenge-of-the-yr/articleshow/80015626.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Crime falls 10% in Krishna, conviction rate rises||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district saw a 10% decrease in overall crime rate this year compared to 2019, according to latest data released by the police. Addressing the annual press meet, Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu pointed out that most FIRs registered this year dealt with cases of liquor smuggling and sand theft, followed by Covid-19 violation cases numbering at 3,545. Cases of bodily offences saw a 10% reduction, within which murder cases saw a 34% decline and grievous hurt cases decreased by 45%. Property offences under the jurisdiction of Krishna district police saw an almost 40% reduction, a recovery rate of 53.85% and detection rate of 51%. Crimes against women saw a marginal decrease by 5%. This year, a total of 77 rape cases were registered in the district, of which 47 were technical rapes (consent gained on the pretext of marriage or a false promise). The SP said compared to 2019, the number of rape cases this year saw a 14% dip. Kidnapping cases too saw a 16% decrease in 2020. The SP noted that at present, they are treating incidents of a missing boy or a girl as kidnapping as per Supreme Court orders. “However, majority of them happen to be elopement cases where minors voluntarily choose to run away over family disputes,” Babu said. In terms of road mishaps, there has been a substantial dip by 18% in fatal road accidents whereas non-fatal road mishaps reduced by 37%. “We have taken initiatives like ‘No Accident Day’ in which thrice a week available staff would be deployed across accident-prone areas,” the SP added. Apart from this, police have also started ‘Wash and Go’ programmes on highways to ensure that drivers do not become drowsy. Conviction rate in 2020 saw a 65% rise compared to 23% last year. The number of under-investigation cases stands at 1,139 and pending trial cases at 3,022. This year, Lok Adalats were efficient in resolving 4,161 cases across five sessions, which is 16% more compared to 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/crime-falls-10-in-krishna-conviction-rate-rises/articleshow/80015825.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Nurses hit by Covid-19 denied wages in Mumbai||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A group of nurses from Kerala who have been voluntarily working in Mumbai hospitals have complained that they were denied wages during the leave of absence caused by contracting Covid-19. The nurses, who were denied salary during the quarantine period, have now sought the help of Kerala government to restore their wages. The medical team from the state have been helping the hospitals of Mumbai since May and a group of nurses are still continuing there in the fight against the pandemic. However, during their stint in Covid centres, a few of the nurses have been infected and they had gone on medical leave. “We were denied all the medical benefits, including the medical leave, during the period we were on treatment and quarantine,’’ said Rohit Krishna, who is working with a Covid centre at Bandra. The Covid centres in Mumbai have been attached to different hospitals and the nurses working there have entered into a contract for three months with these hospitals. “However, the management has informed us that ours is a contractual appointment and there will be no encouragement to any employer-employee relationship. They said due to the contractual appointment our wages are much higher than that of other nurses. Hence, paid leave could not be sanctioned during the quarantine period,’’ Krishnan said. From Kerala, about 50 nurses are working in Covid centres in Mumbai. “We all had come when there was shortage of nurses here and we had come with the medical team that landed here in May. We have been working relentlessly since then and we have acquired the infection while on duty,’’ said another nurse who preferred anonymity. Now these nurses have sought the intervention of Kerala government to resolve the crisis faced by them. They have written to the chief minister and the health minister in this regard. “We had approached the district administration and other health authorities in Mumbai. But there has been no help from them. Many of the nurses are facing such ordeal from the hospital managements but they are not coming out in open since they might lose the job,’’ said Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nurses-hit-by-covid-19-denied-wages-in-mumbai/articleshow/80015426.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Surat||Surat: Three nabbed with stolen diesel||SURAT: A team of the Prevention of Crime Branch (PCB) busted an illegal diesel distribution network from Gaviyar within the limits of Dumas police station on Tuesday. Police also arrested three persons and seized 2,200 litres of stolen diesel from their possession. Cops suspect that the accused stole the diesel from a cargo ship and brought it to the city to sell it. Police arrested Tejas alias Teja Patel, 38, Gajendra alias Kariya alias Kaliya Yadav, 21, and Jitender Rai, 30, after the trio failed to produce papers related to the huge quantity of the fuel. The accused were bringing the diesel in 11 containers in a boat. Police seized the valuables worth Rs 3.73 lakh from the accused near Gaviyar village on Tapi riverbank. Investigation so far revealed that the accused stole the fuel from cargo ships coming to Hazira or Magdalla. Initially the diesel is stored in containers on islands in the middle of the estuary. Later it is transported in small containers through fishing boats to the riverbank. The diesel is mostly sold to shrimp farms that use diesel water pumps in large numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-nabbed-with-stolen-diesel/articleshow/80015425.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Surat||Surat: New Year revelries to strictly adhere guidelines||SURAT: City police will ensure that while ringing out the old year, New Year revellers don’t kiss Covid guidelines goodbye too! While cops will not disturb small family and friends’ gatherings to celebrate at private places and farmhouses, they will ensure nobody flouts the 9pm curfew timings on public roads and at public places. Police have also ordered to keep beaches closed throughout the day on New Year’s Eve and have installed bandobust at entry points of Dumas chaupati, Golden beach and Suvali beach. While small groups in farmhouses will party safe, cops will keep a watch for bigger parties in private farmhouses, senior police officials informed. Owners of farmhouses have already been instructed to avoid organising big events with huge guest lists. Gaurav Path on Dumas Road has been the favourite spot for revellers on New Year’s Eve and thousands throng the road almost blocking it. While several party plots, restaurants and malls earlier organised New Year parties around Gaurav Path, but no major event is taking place this year due to the restrictions. To avoid mass gathering cops won’t allow eating joints to operate on roads as well. “So far people and authorities in Surat have managed to keep Covid numbers under control. We should ensure that due to the New Year celebration the situation becomes difficult,” said city police commissioner Ajay Tomar. “Beaches will be kept closed while roads will also be kept clear. Along with municipal authorities, police will not allow food joints on major roads to operate on New Year day so that people do not do crowding,” Tomar added. After recent police action on private birthday parties organised in Kamrej and Olpad police station limits, even those thinking of partying outside the city have dropped their plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/new-year-revelries-to-strictly-adhere-guidelines/articleshow/80015482.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala on alert; total cases nearing 7.5 lakh||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Health minister KK Shailaja said the state is maintaining an alert after the new strain of Coronavirus was detected in the country. After Dec 9, all returnees from the UK have been quarantined and being closely monitored. Till date, 1,500 persons arrived from the UK after Dec 9 of which 18 tested positive and their samples were sent to NIV, Pune and now results are being awaited. She said the contact list of these 18 people have been collected and they are being close monitored by health authorities. Meanwhile, 5,887 people in the state tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Among this 5,180 were local transmission cases and the contact source of infection was not traceable in 555 instances. There are 63 medical/paramedical staff among those infected and 89 people arrived from other states. At the same time, 5,029 patients recovered from the disease. Meanwhile, 24 deaths that occurred over the past few days were confirmed as Covid cases, taking the total death toll in state to 3,014. During the past 24 hours 61,778 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 9.53%. A total of 77,89,764 samples have been sent for testing. Till date, 6,81,397 people have recovered from the infection even as 64,861 patients are still undergoing treatment. The total cases reported, till date, has become 7,49,450. Kottayam reported the highest number of cases (777) followed by Ernakulam (734), Thrissur (649), Malappuram (610), Pathanamthitta (561), Kozhikode (507), Kollam (437), Thiruvananthapuram (414), Alappuzha (352), Palakkad (249), Kannur (230), Wayanad (208), Idukki (100) and Kasaragod (59). The number of contact cases are as follows, Kottayam 728, Ernakulam 651, Thrissur 629, Malappuram 586, Pathanamthitta 446, Kozhikode 467, Kollam 431, Thiruvananthapuram 293, Alappuzha 324, Palakkad 91, Kannur 194, Wayanad 195, Idukki 95 and Kasaragod 50. Among infected healthcare workers, 11 are from Kannur, 10 in Pathanamthitta, eight from Kozhikode and seven from Thiruvananthapuram. The others are from Ernakulam (6), Thrissur (5), Kollam (4), Palakkad (3), Wayanad (3), Kottayam (2), Kasaragod (2) and Alappuzha (1) and Malappuram (1). The patients who tested negative are from Thiruvananthapuram (375), Kollam (348), Pathanamthitta (242), Alappuzha (237), Kottayam (581), Idukki (303), Ernakulam (377), Thrissur (604), Palakkad (379), Malappuram (475), Kozhikode (645), Wayanad (223), Kannur (203) and Kasaragod (37). At present, 2,49,162 persons are under observation in various districts of the state of which 2,37,076 are at their homes or institutional quarantine centres and 12,086 are in isolation at hospitals. As many as 1,130 people were admitted to the hospitals on Tuesday. One new hotspot was declared while three areas were excluded. There are 463 hotspots in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-on-alert-total-cases-nearing-7-5l/articleshow/80015506.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Datta jayanti celebrated in temples sans devotees||Kolhapur: In most historic Datta temples in the region, Datta Jayanti was celebrated without devotees on Tuesday. Anticipating a large turnout, the local administrations and the temple management officials had decided to keep the temples closed for the devotees on the occasion. However, all religious rituals including pujas and reading of Gurucharitra were performed by the priests in presence of a few locals in the Narsinhawadi temple in Shirol tehsil of Kolhapur district and Audumbar in Sangli district. Apart from the temples, the businesses and shops surrounding the temple too were shut. At Narsinhawadi, shops selling pedha and basundi — which are most sought-after by the devotees — remained shut. The traders said they expect the devotees to return from Wednesday and they can make up for their lost business then. Shrikant Pujari, a priest at the Narsinhawadi’s Datta temple said: “The devotees watched the Datta janmotsav ritual online. The government guidelines were taken into consideration while celebrating the festival.” Barricades were put up outside the temples. The devotees who were unaware of the temple being closed, took darshan from outside. In Kolhapur city, small temples were open, but the turnout was not huge mainly due to the administration’s restrictions on the entry of devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/datta-jayanti-celebrated-in-temples-sans-devotees/articleshow/80014479.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC planning to auction seized abandoned vehicles||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) and regional transport office (RTO), due to the poor response from the owners of seized abandoned vehicles, are now planning to auction the four-wheelers. The drive began around few days ago and till date over 40 four-wheelers have been seized by the traffic department and despite repeated appeals nobody has come forward to claim the vehicles. The KMC, however, has given no specific deadline for the owners to claim their vehicle. The civic body has also requested the RTO to trace the owners of the cars by using the registration number. Notices will be sent on the registered address of the car owners and they will be asked to claim the vehicle by paying the fine fixed by the KMC and traffic department within two weeks. Regional transport officer Stevan Alwares said, “If the owners do not turn up even after repeated appeals, the vehicles if in suitable condition can be auctioned. We carry out e-auctioning of the vehicles that we seize for non-payment of taxes. Similar method can be adopted by KMC.” Netradip Sarnobat, acting city traffic in-charge of the KMC, said the vehicles that are not in suitable condition will be scrapped as per existing policy. There are more than 100 abandoned four wheelers lying gathering dust along road side and in open spaces. The damaged vehicles becomes breeding grounds for mosquitoes during monsoon and thereby becomes nuisance for the locals. Currently, the abandoned vehicles are towed and dumped at KMC’s Buddh Garden workshop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-planning-to-auction-seized-abandoned-vehicles/articleshow/80014472.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Teachers visit students to help them focus on studies||COIMBATORE: The government higher secondary school at Vagarayampalayam has formed three teams, each comprising six to eight teachers, to visit the Class XII students, who have stopped attending online classes, at their houses and persuade them to prepare for the board examination. On Monday morning, one of the teams had visited Kariyampalayam village in search of Sanjay, who had not attended online classes for almost a month, and six other students. They managed to locate him on a playground. The initial shock of seeing his teachers turned into happiness for Sanjay within a few minutes and he explained to them the reasons for not attending online class. Once the teachers spoke encouraging words and assured of all necessary help, he immediately agreed to attend the classes regularly. Mutharasi, assistant headmistress of the school, said, “Sanjay’s mobile was damaged about a month ago and he could not afford to repair it. Without knowing what to do, the boy started spending time on the playground.” She was part of the team that went in search of him. She said only 70% of the 120 Class XII students was regular. “Some students could not afford a mobile phone, while a few could not repair (government) laptops. Some others lacked motivation to attend the classes. So, it has become important to meet the remaining students in person to understand their situation and help them out by providing alternative solutions.” School headmaster A Elamurugan said the personal visit of teachers would boost the confidence level of students, especially the ones preparing for board examinations. Teachers would also provide career guidance counselling to them. “On a priority basis, teachers are meeting Class XII students. They will also meet other students.” There are also individual efforts. Sudha, a teacher with the Pollachi Municipal Girls’ Higher Secondary School, had travelled all the way to Valparai to meet 15 of her students. “The girls could not attend the classes at all because of issues like lack of mobile phones, network issues and frequent human-animal conflicts. We used to send study materials to them until recently. I travelled to their place to see how much they have grasped the subjects and understand their situation.” During a few hours stay, she managed to distribute the record books and all subject materials, and conduct a short test. “The students desperately want to come back to the school.” Another teacher with the government higher secondary school at Vellingadu said they had been visiting the settlements of their students to connect with them and boost their confidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teachers-visit-students-to-help-them-focus-on-studies/articleshow/80015499.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Eatala: Be vigilant, don’t host New Year parties||Hyderabad: In the wake of the UK strain being found in genome sequencing of one of the samples from the state, state health minister Eatala Rajender on Tuesday said that although the strain spreads faster, it does not lead to increase in mortality rate. He assured people that there is no need to panic and any cases of the mutant variant will be treated using the same protocol. The minister urged people to be vigilant for another month and not have any new year parties or Sankranti celebrations. The minister pointed out that all UK returnees who have arrived in the state since December 9 are being traced and tested. The ones who have been traced are being tested twice and put in home quarantine if they test negative. “The ones testing positive are being kept in special wards in hospitals or isolation facilities for treatment and the samples are being sent for genome sequencing,” he said, adding that states have been instructed by the Centre not to comment about the new virus strain as full information about the virus is still being acquired. “After a thorough analysis, Centre will give a set of guidelines to the state to follow,” he added. The new strain comes at a time when several countries have started Covid vaccine roll-out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eatala-be-vigilant-dont-host-new-year-parties/articleshow/80017972.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Worker wages rise, boost tractor sales||Ahmedabad: While car and two-wheeler sales registered a decline in the state, tractor sales recorded a growth of 16% in 2020 as compared to 2019. Harvester sales showed a three-digit jump. Officials said that farmers had received the benefit of subsidies for buying agri-vehicles and the crop yield was better this year than in previous years. These factors boosted the incomes of farmers, many of whom invested in vehicles used in agriculture. The officials said that the shortage of migrant labourers brought about by the lockdown and rising worker bills prompted the farmers to pool in resources to buy tractors and harvesters. The sales of tractors and harvesters in the state increased sharply after the lockdown. The officials said that after migrant labourers left for their hometowns spurred by the lockdown, local labourers began demanding double their normal rates. Thus buying harvesters and tractors became a feasible idea, particularly if farmers got together in groups to contribute to the costs. Around 63% of the sales of tractors in 2020 took place from July to September. Of the 47,800 tractors sold in 2020, 30,000 were bought in the three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/worker-wages-rise-boost-tractor-sales/articleshow/80016876.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Eight districts saw car sales grow||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad city (GJ-01) saw a 42% decline in vehicle registration in 2020. Ahmedabad district, which includes the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) of Ahmedabad, Vastral and Bavla, saw a decline of 40%. Eight districts in the state, however, have bucked the trend of 2020, with more cars registered than in 2019. These eight are Devbhoomi Dwarka, Botad, Dahod, Patan, Narmada, Bhavnagar, Banaskantha and Amreli. The increases in these districts ranged from 16% to 1%. The highest increase in percentage terms, 16%, was at Devbhoomi Dwarka, with 398 more cars being registered than the 2,420 cars in 2019. In two districts, Ahwa and Panchmahal, the decline which was just 0.5%. The official said most district where car sales grew were primarily agricultural areas. Officials said that the fact that the economy was relatively more robust in rural Gujarat was also evident from vehicle registration numbers at the Bavla RTO. The decline at Bavla was just 27%, while the decline in car registration was only 3 per cent and that of two-wheeler was 30%. In the two RTOs of Ahmedabad city (GJ-01) and Vastral (GJ-27), registration of cars saw a decline of 25% and that of two-wheelers a 43% decline. The figures are similar for Rajkot Surat and Vadodara. In the state’s four major cities, the decline in vehicle registrations was the maximum in the Surat (44.5%). Registrations in Rajkot and Vadodara declined by 35% and 39% respectively. These four cities have been the worst hit by Covid-19. Amit Khatri, a traffic expert from Ahmedabad, said, “Demand was high from Tier II and Tier III towns as they had cash, and to stay away from public transport they used their resources. Demand, which increased in these towns was because people preferred to buy cars rather than two-wheeler for Covid safety reasons. We also know of instances where when more than one member of a family was working, and one used public transport, the second person has also started driving to work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/eight-districts-saw-car-sales-grow/articleshow/80016932.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Open Shivaji varsity campus for jogging & morning walks, say citizens in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Morning walkers and joggers, including senior citizens, protested at the entrance of Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK), demanding access to the university campus. People have not been allowed to enter the 1,300-acre campus since the outbreak of the pandemic in March. Earlier, over 1,000 people used to go to the lush green campus in the morning and evening on a daily basis. Ashok Powar, one of the activists who led the protest, said, “The campus is safe for senior citizens for walking as there are no fast moving vehicles and the roads are also levelled. For the last 10 months, the senior citizens had to stay at home and their concerns related to health are growing. For last two months, most of places in the city and sporting places too have been unlocked, still the university campus remains closed for the citizens.” He added, “Many senior citizens who come for morning walks at SUK have also contributed towards the development of the campus. Some have donated land parcels, while many have planted trees on the campus.” The university, after learning about the protest, has allowed to open the campus of the technology department which is on the other side of the main campus. Citizens will have to cross the old Pune-Bengaluru National Highway to get there. The university has also allowed the use of sporting facilities for athletes only for training and that too after applying in writing. Secretary of the university Vilas Nandwadekar met the protesters and told them that there are no guidelines in place for allowing the citizens on the university campus for walking and jogging. “We are going to discuss the issue with university officials. We will make some rules first before allowing people on the campus,” Nandwadekar said after meeting protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/open-shivaji-varsity-campus-for-jogging-morning-walks-say-citizens-in-kolhapur/articleshow/80014488.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Man gets life for murder||Hyderabad: A local court on Tuesday sentenced a man to life imprisonment for killing a private employee in Banjara Hills. The accused, Venkateshwarulu, bludgeoned a private employee, Brahman, to death at an open place near Indira Nagar in Banjara Hills on January 26, 2016 for confronting him while he was extorting money from a transgender person. “Venkateshwarulu had a record of extorting money from transgenders and resorting to violence. On January 26, 2016, Brahman, who saw Venkateshwarulu extorting money from a transgender, tried to intervene. Venkateshwarulu and his associate, who was a juvenile, assaulted him and when he ran away, chased him to an isolated open area and bludgeoned him to death,” inspector K Srinivas said. During the probe, police arrested the accused and sent him to judicial remand. “A local court has awarded life sentence to Venkateshwarulu. We are determined that if there is a crime, we have to see that the criminal gets punished,” city commissioner Anjani Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-life-for-murder/articleshow/80016943.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||New Year bash: 10pm deadline for hotels relaxed||BHOPAL: The district administration and police are gearing up to ensure a safe New Year’s Eve celebration in the city. There were three major decisions in the district’s crisis management group (CMG) meeting on Monday. The group decided that the rule followed in marriages, assemblies in hotels, restaurants and cinema halls — of allowing guests at half the capacity of the venue — would be followed in New Year’s Eve parties as well. No celebrity will be invited to the parties by the organisers. The CMG also formally scrapped the cap of 10 pm deadline for hotels, restaurants and pubs to close, thus paving the way for late night parties. Though the administration has not set any deadline for parties to end, additional collector Dileep Yadav told TOI that they will follow the labour department guidelines according to which hotels and restaurants must close by 12 am. “Police will start asking participants in a party to disburse after 12 am,” Yadav said. The Covid guidelines relating to compulsory wearing of masks and social distancing will have to be followed. Yadav said if there is a complaint that there is ‘excessive’ crowd in a hotel or restaurant or guests are without masks, police will be sent to check the place. A pub owner said that according to excise rules, those who have FL-2 licence (bar licence) can get permission to keep the bar or hotel open for two more hours on payment of Rs 5,000 to the excise department on any eight days of the year. He said he has already paid the amount and given application for permission to allow the pub to remain open till 1.30 am on New Year’s Eve. However, the office of the excise commissioner said that there was no such provision and hotels/bars/pubs will close in accordance with the district collector’s order. “In Gwalior, the collector has allowed parties till 1 am. If it is 12 am or 12.30 am in Bhopal, the parties will culminate at that time,” said an official in the excise commissioner's office. Those who obtain FL-5 licence to arrange liquor for a party at their residence or any other place will also be expected to end celebrations by the deadline set by the administration, he said. Yadav clarified that the timing for fireworks on New Year’s Eve was declared at the time of Diwali itself and people will be at liberty to burst crackers for 35 minutes i.e. 11.55 pm to 12.30 am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ny-bash-10pm-deadline-for-hotels-relaxed/articleshow/80015494.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 30, 2020||Coimbatore||A celebration of hope & gratitude, Vizha to commence on Jan 2||Coimbatore: The 13th edition of Coimbatore Vizha would start on Saturday (January 2) and most of the events would be conducted virtually this time because of the prevailing pandemic situation. The eight-day carnival would feature close to 100 events. Themed around ‘hope and gratitude’, the grand launch of the festival would see showering of flowers on health workers at the ESI Hospital and Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). health minister C Vijayabaskar and municipal administration minister S P Velumani would inaugurate the festival. The Vizha calendar and website were, meanwhile, unveiled on Tuesday. Jayaprashanth Jayachandran, chair of Young Indians (YI) Coimbatore, which is organizing the event jointly with other associations, said they had initially thought of skipping the festival for a year in view of the Covid-19 situation. “But several organizations opined in favour of conducting the event. In order to make it safer, we have decided to conduct it virtually. The Vizha is a celebration of hope, resilience and a tribute to the people who made 2020 safe for us.” Aishwarya Arjun, former chair of YI, said in a show of gratitude to the frontline workers, health workers at the CMCH and the ESI Hospital would be taken on a helicopter ride over Isha Yoga Centre and Maruthamalai for free of cost. Events that would be held virtually include marathon, cyclathon, heritage tour, art streets, ‘Agriculture and Beyond’ (agriculture related webinars) and ‘Mind Your Mind’ (mental health awareness programme), among others. To bridge the urban and rural divide by assisting students from rural areas, Jayachandran said they have included an event titled ‘Gift a Device’ wherein the public could drop a mobile phone in the boxes that would be placed at multiple points in the district. “We would first check the quality of the devices and then hand them over to deserving students.” Pointing out that several natives of the district were residing elsewhere, Jayaprashanth said they would for the first time organize an event called ‘Memories of Coimbatore’ to connect with them and include them in the Vizha. “It will offer them a platform to share their memories of the city on social media.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/a-celebration-of-hope-gratitude-vizha-to-commence-on-jan-2/articleshow/80015514.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 30, 2020||Aurangabad||FIRs not uploaded online on time||Aurangabad: Orders from the office of the director-general of police (DGP) as well as Supreme Court directives — to upload all permissible FIRs online within 24 hours of offence registrations — notwithstanding, several police stations in Aurangabad and other parts of the region have failed to comply. The website reveals that in some cases, the police have only failed to upload the FIRs even after weeks and months of case registration. Additional-general of police (law and order) Rajender Singh said: “Even a single incident of not uploading an FIR on the state police website is a serious issue. We will review and initiate corrective measures.” The SC in 2016, while exempting cases related to child abuse, sexual offences and those pertaining to national security and interest, had ordered all the states and Union Territories to upload the FIRs on government websites within 24 hours of case registration. As per the process followed in Maharashtra, soon after registering a case in the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network System (CCTNS), a pan-India system, the FIR automatically reaches the log-in of the assistant commissioner of police-rank officers in the commissionerate areas and sub-divisional police officers’ log-in IDs in the district police areas. These officers are responsible for screening the FIRs every day and immediately approving the upload of FIRs on the Maharashtra police’s website (holding back specified FIRs). Lawyers said after the outbreak of the pandemic, a large number of people, including lawyers, had to struggle to get the online copies of the FIRs. HC lawyer Prashant Nagargoje said: “Nobody was stepping out of their homes and the courts too were working online. Over the past few months, we could not find several FIRs as they were not uploaded on the Maharashtra police website.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/firs-not-uploaded-online-on-time/articleshow/80016937.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||After two blood transfusions in womb, healthy baby born to Covid positive mom||NAGPUR: Almost two-and-a-half months before he was born, this baby boy from Nanded (yet to be named) had received two blood transfusions. Both times, the blood was given with a needle passed through his mother’s abdomen and uterus through a hepatic vein in his liver. Also, his mother tested Covid-19 positive just before the delivery. Despite the hurdles, the Covid-free, healthy 2.3kg baby boy was born last week at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), and discharged on Tuesday. Dr Alka Patankar of the obstetrics and gynaecology (Ob/Gyn) department of IGGMCH told TOI that it’s a rare case, not just because the baby was administered blood when he was still in his mother’s womb, but also because the conventional way of delivering blood through the umbilical cord could not be followed. “An intrauterine transfusion (IUT) is a procedure that provides blood to a foetus, most commonly through the umbilical cord. But in this case, the cord was not accessible. So, doctors had to transfuse blood through a hepatic vein that drains de-oxygenated blood from the liver,” she said. Moreover, the baby was so critical that he had to be given blood twice before birth. Maternal and fetal medicine specialist Dr Neelam Chhajed performed this highly-skilled job. “When the case was referred to me, the haemoglobin count of the foetus was 3 grams per decilitre, which is dangerously low. Blood transfusion was the only way to save its life,” said Dr Chhajed. She said such complications may happen due to the blood group mismatch of parents, and anaemic condition of the foetus. She also mentioned that the Hedgewar Blood Bank provided best quality blood for the foetus on time, which saved the baby’s life. Before this, the couple from Nanded had lost two babies due to similar complications in the sixth to eighth month of gestation. This time, they took advance steps and reached Nagpur immediately after complications developed. After being given blood twice, the baby’s HB count had increased to 15. “This happens very rarely and requires very skilled acumen. Providing blood from hepatic vein is rarest and the doctor must be congratulated for the skill,” said Dr Shilpi Sud, president of Indian Fertility Society. According to her such things happen when the mother’s blood group is negative and father’s is positive, due to which fetal red blood cells are destroyed by maternal antibodies. RARE PROCEDURE - Mother had history of losing 2 pregnancies due to anaemic condition of foetus - In 7th month of gestation, mother reported with baby almost in heart failure condition - Doctors advised Intrauterine transfusion (IUT), which is done by specialized perinologist - IUT provides blood to foetus through umbilical cord - In this case, umbilical cord was not accessible - Dr Neelam Chhajed provided blood through hepatic vein in baby’s liver - As HB count was very low, specialized IUT had to be performed twice - Before baby’s birth, mother tested positive for Covid-19 - Finally, healthy, non-Covid baby boy weighing 2.3kg was born last week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-2-blood-transfusions-in-womb-healthy-baby-born-to-covid-ve-mom/articleshow/80016929.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 30, 2020||Surat||Valsad cops gear up for huge influx of drunkards from UTs||SURAT: Valsad police were at their wits end when they caught hundreds of drunkards returning from New Year bash in Daman and other places. Sloshed men were packed like sardines in the police stations and some of them were not even in the position to stand!. But this year, the cops have done their homework much in advance. They have kept eight halls near the police stations ready and decided to erect pandals at two places where halls are not available in places like Kaprada. Eight more halls have also been kept on a stand-by where the drunkards can be kept. Also, as they have been advised not to smell the mouths of suspects due to Covid, Valsad police have kept 186 breath analysers and 48,000 mouthpiece tubes handy. Those caught will be kept in the halls till they are released on bail. Police have made arrangements for the halls keeping the Covid guidelines in mind to prevent crowding in police stations. In 2019, over 1,000 drunk persons were caught in Valsad on New Year night. Majority of them have returned from neighbouring Daman and Silvassa. However, due to Covid restrictions, the number of visitors is not likely to be that high. Moreover, 15 buses have been readied for transporting the caught persons from the spot of detention to the police stations. “We assume that the number of people going to these tourist spots will be limited unlike past years but we are prepared to deal with all those coming in drunk,” said Rajdeepsinh Zala, superintendent of police, Valsad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/valsad-cops-gear-up-for-huge-influx-of-drunkards-from-uts/articleshow/80015522.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19: Kolhapur & Sangli districts report two deaths each; none in Satara||Kolhapur: As many as 15 new cases of Covid-19 along with two deaths were reported across Kolhapur district on Tuesday. The number of active patients in the district further declined to 63 as 21 people were discharged after recovery from various hospitals. The total number of Covid cases in the district has reached to 49,506, out of which 1,703 have succumbed to contagion while 47,740 have been cured. Sangli district reported 26 fresh cases along with two deaths. The number of active patients in the district has increased to 183. So far, the district has reported 47,558 cases, out of which 1,730 have died. Meanwhile, no death was reported in Satara district, but 59 new cases were added to the tally of positive patients. The district has till date reported 54,654 cases and 51,605 have been discharged. The district has registered 1,795 deaths. As many as 1,254 patients are currently under treatment. Solapur rural added 58 new patients, while 61 patients were discharged on Tuesday. The rural area of Solapur reported three deaths. According to an official communication, 32 men and 26 women tested positive, while 50 men and 11 women got discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-19-kolhapur-sangli-districts-report-two-deaths-each-none-in-satara/articleshow/80014496.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Three drug peddlers held||Hyderabad: As part of the crackdown against drug peddlers prior to New Year’s eve, Rachakonda police arrested three persons and seized 1.5 litres of hashish oil worth Rs 4.8 lakh from their possession. Acting on specific information, Special Operations Team sleuths of Rachakonda arrested B.Com students of a private college in Ameerpet, Ch Sandeep, Sai Charan Shinde and Y Naveen Sagar at Dilsukhnagar and seized 1.5 litres of hashish oil from their possession. According to police, the three peddlers were addicted to ganja and hashish oil. To meet expenses to buy the contraband, the accused went to Araku and purchased 1.5 litres of hashish oil from a supplier, Uday, for Rs 30,000 a litre, with an intention to sell the same to customers in Hyderabad at a price of Rs 3,000 per 10 ml. The accused were produced before court and sent in judicial remand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-drug-peddlers-held/articleshow/80016970.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Home loan disbursals rose to Rs 5,283 crore in Q2||AHMEDABAD: In what could imply an increase in house sales, disbursement of fresh housing loans across Gujarat rose by 46% to Rs Rs 5,283 crore for the quarter ended September 2020 from Rs 3,620 crore in the same period last fiscal, shows data released by the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC). Compared to the preceding quarter of April-June, the surge in fresh housing loan disbursals works out to be 130% with a total of Rs 2,298 crore being disbursed in the quarter.  According to the SLBC, the total outstanding amount under housing finance by banks stood at Rs 92,195 crore by September as against Rs 76,280 crore in the same period last fiscal. The outstanding amount was Rs 89,818 crore in April-June 2020. “Demand in the housing sector improved in the July-September quarter. People whose incomes have not been significantly affected during the pandemic have invested in the real estate sector. As a result, fresh disbursals for housing loans went up during the quarter,” said M M Bansal, convener, SLBC, Gujarat. Industry players also confirmed a significant uptick in housing sales during the September quarter. “Housing has now become a social security. Sales improved across all segments such as affordable, luxury homes, farm houses and plotting schemes. Fence sitters also made the decision and bought residential properties,” said Jaxay Shah, national chairman, The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI). “Had the state government reduced stamp duty by 2%, fresh disbursals would have passed Rs 10,000 crore,” he added. According to real estate consultant Knight Frank India, residential sales were buoyant in August and September. The Ahmedabad market alone saw 1,176 housing units being sold in the July-September quarter against April-June of 2020. Industry players attributed the improvement in housing sales to factors such as low interest rates on home loans, discounts from developers and fence-sitter deciding to buy homes in the July-September quarter. Even non-performing assets (NPAs) declined during the second quarter. “NPAs are usually less in the home loan segment as home buying has a certain sentimental value attached to it. Moreover, the Supreme Court has imposed a stay on banks from classifying accounts as NPAs, since September 4 this year. This coupled with people opting for the moratorium kept NPAs in check,” said Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/home-loan-disbursals-rose-to-rs-5283cr-in-q2/articleshow/80017075.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 30, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK workers protest police ‘partiality’||COIMBATORE: More than 300 members of DMK were detained in the city on Tuesday when they staged a protest against police for being partial to the ruling AIADMK. Speaking to reporters during the protest, DMK MLA N Karthik said, "In the last four and a half years, the police department has denied permission for most our events and meetings. But they had allowed ruling AIADMK to set up cut-outs for its leaders despite a high court order against installing such cut-outs or banners on roads." Police officials should change their attitude, if not, we would stage continuous protests against them, he added. DMK members had initially planned to picket the city police commissioner’s office but police blocked the ways leading to the office and detained them near Red Cross. Earlier, DMK cadre staged a protest in front of the collector office against the ruling party for interfering in the distribution of tokens for Pongal gift hampers. "At several places, AIADMK cadres are distributing the tokens for the hampers even though strict directions were given that only ration shop workers should distribute it," a DMK cadre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-workers-protest-police-partiality/articleshow/80015519.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kozhikode||World looks up to India: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||KOZHIKODE: RSS sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat has said the whole world is looking towards India after Covid-19 outbreak.India has been saying that the way the world is moving needs a course correction, Bhagwat said after inaugurating a new building of Kesari weekly and a media study centre in Kozhikode on Tuesday. “Over the last six to seven months, the world has started rethinking. We in India have been saying that there is something wrong and the world has to rethink. But no one used to give value to our statements. But after the Covid-19 pandemic, the world has started to rethink. This rethinking invariably leads to India,” he said. Bhagawat said India has to realise the importance of the situation. “To answer this, we should know what we are,” he said. The RSS chief said Kesari started with great difficulties. It was not the journey of comforts as there was no financial support or professional expertise. But the weekly surmounted all the problems with dedication, he said. RSS ideologue R Hari, Swami Chidanadanpuri, Swami Jithatmananda, Swami Narasimhananda, P R Nathan, senior journalist M Keshava Menon, lyricist Kaithapram Damodaran Namboodiri, his son and singer Deepankuran, Njeralath Harigovindan, P K Sreekumar, RSS leaders P Gopalankutty, K K Balaram and others attended the meeting. Bhagawat also released the books published by Kesari and Kuruskethra Prakasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/world-looks-up-to-india-rss-chief/articleshow/80015544.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Flyover accident: Driver to be chargesheeted||Hyderabad: Cyberabad police on Tuesday said that they will file a chargesheet against Krishna Milind Rao, who was allegedly involved in a road accident on Biodiversity Flyover in November 2019 in which a person died after his car fell off the flyover. Talking to reporters during the annual press conference on Tuesday, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said the chargesheet in this case was delayed due to the lockdown and also because they were waiting for forensic reports. Milind had earlier approached the high court, however, the case is pending in the court. Police allege that Milind was driving his vehicle at high speed on the flyover and hit the railing before falling off the flyover. On the suspicious death of Suharika, daughter-in-law of former AP BJP president Kanna Lakshmi Narayana, the police commissioner said that they have sent Suharika’s viscera for forensic analysis and are waiting for the report, before finalising the final report, which will be submitted in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flyover-accident-driver-to-be-chargesheeted/articleshow/80017012.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Anti-climax to political show, Rajinikanth calls ‘cut’ before action||CHENNAI: In the climax of his 2002 flop ‘Baba’, Rajinikanth makes a last-minute return from sanyaas to socio-political life. On Tuesday, the actor made a virtual repeat of the theme, this time in reverse, going back on his promise to launch a political party. “I regret to announce that I am not in position to launch a party and enter politics. Only I know the pain behind this announcement. This will come as a disappointment to the members of RMM (Rajini Makkal Mandram), my fans and people. Forgive me,” Rajinikanth said in a three-page statement. “Some people may ridicule me. But fearing them, I cannot sacrifice those who trust and travel with me,” he said. Rajinikanth, who was shooting in Hyderabad for his latest movie last week, was hospitalised for three days with complaints of fluctuating blood pressure after four of the crew members tested positive for Covid-19. He tested negative for the virus. Rajinikanth’s announcement on Tuesday came as a shock for some, disappointment for some others, who were anticipating the actor’s promised December 31 announcement. Fans took to social media to express their views; many wished him good health. Some of them regrouped in front of his Poes Garden residence to make a last ditch attempt to make Rajini reconsider his decision. “Vaanga Thalaiva, Naanga Irukkom” (Come out, leader, we are here), one of the fans tweeted. “You do not worry. We will take care of the hard work,” said another. RSS ideologue and Tuglak editor S Gurumurthy termed Rajinikanth's decision as “inevitable”. He hoped Rajinikanth would still make an impact in the coming elections as he did in the 1996 assembly polls (when the actor had issued a statement against Jayalalithaa), which the DMK-TMC alliance won with a big majority. In his statement, Rajinikanth said despite the advice from doctors not to venture out, he had travelled to Hyderabad to shoot for a film. All the 120 people who participated in the shooting were made to follow strict Covid protocols and undergo tests every day, he said. “Still four people tested positive for Covid and the director halted the shooting to carry out Covid tests for all. The result was negative for me. But due to severe fluctuations in my blood pressure, I was admitted to a hospital and was monitored for three days. Fluctuating blood pressure is harmful for my transplanted kidney. I considered it as a warning from God. If despite strict protocols, four out of 120 could test positive, what could happen when thousands and even lakhs assemble for my campaign,” Rajinikanth said. The actor said he cannot trigger his desired uprising by campaigning merely through social media and videos. “If I venture out, it could become a big risk for all, especially when a second wave of the virus is spreading. If a well-organised film shoot can result in my hospitalization for three days, participating in an election campaign could become even more risky and I do not want to leave people in the lurch midway,” he said.RMM functionaries have toiled hard over the past three years and served the people during Covid. Their efforts will not go waste. RMM will continue to function as usual. “I will continue to serve the people away from electoral politics. I never hesitated in expressing my honest opinion,” the actor said, thanking his RMM secretaries for abiding by his decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anti-climax-to-political-show-rajini-calls-cut-before-action/articleshow/80017024.cms||D Govardan
December 30, 2020||Aurangabad||3 Beed villages ban woman’s entry due to ‘illegal activities’||Aurangabad: Beed police have initiated a high-level probe after discovering that three villages had decided to socially boycott a woman who had been gang-raped and the accused were convicted.The villagers have, however, claimed that the woman has been banned from entering their areas as she was allegedly “bringing them a bad name” with her illegal activities and also threatening them with filing false cases.The three villages in Beed district, which are headed by women sarpanches, had, on August 15, passed a resolution to ban the woman’s entry.The incident came to light after some villagers submitted a letter to Beed superintendent of police R Raja on Monday, urging him to initiate action against the woman for allegedly threatening them with filing false cases.Police said the villagers and the woman are at loggerheads over some trivial issues and that the woman was booked under relevant sections of the Atrocities Act last week, following a complaint.“We have received an application by the woman that she has been boycotted by the villages. A probe has been initiated and efforts are on to find out the truth,” the SP told TOI.“The villagers have claimed that when they opposed the woman’s alleged illegal activities, she threatened to file false cases against them. The villagers have told us the resolution was passed against her because she was a ‘blot on society’,” said Raja.The officer said the woman, while returning home after plucking cotton on the evening of January 1, 2015, was offered a lift by the driver of a private vehicle. Subsequently, she was gang-raped by the driver and his three accomplices. The four men were sentenced to life imprisonment on October 20 this year, he said.Last Saturday, the woman had some argument with a staffer of the gram panchayat, following which she lodged a complaint. A non-cognizable offence was registered against the staffer.The woman was also booked under the relevant sections of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act after a cross-complaint was filed against her, said Raja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-beed-villages-ban-womans-entry-due-to-illegal-activities/articleshow/80016997.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 30, 2020||Pune||Alfa Laval India gets new MD||Pune: Swedish machinery firm Alfa Laval has appointed Subhashis Das managing director for its India arm, Alfa Laval India Private Limited. The appointment is effective from earlier this month, the firm said in a release. Alfa Laval’s India offices and operations are largely based in Pune, with an office in Baner and a manufacturing facility off the old Mumbai-Pune highway in Dapodi. Das succeeds Anantha Padmanabhan, who will retire this month-end after more than three decades with the group. An alumnus of Dhanbad’s IIT (ISM), Das has worked for nearly three decades in firms like Cold India, Shell, Reliance Industries, and most recently, in Sandvik India’s construction and mining vertical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alfa-laval-india-gets-new-md/articleshow/80017004.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||Nandigram violence mars Suvendu’s first rally as BJP neta||NANDIGRAM: Suvendu Adhikari’s first public rally in Nandigram on Tuesday after defecting to BJP was marred by violence after party supporters travelling in a bus from Sonachura were attacked nearly a kilometre from Nandigram. The incident prompted Suvendu to blame the attack on “jihadis” and warn that the “implications will not be good”. TMC chose not to respond but some members blamed it on infighting between Suvendu supporters and those against him. All 15 BJP supporters injured were treated at a hospital. The bus was vandalised. “I’d been involved in mass movements before 2011 and fought with CPM harmads (marauders). I have a message for the jihadis who attacked the bus — I’l not tolerate this kind of attack,” said Suvendu. The attack, which happened around 11.30am, prompted BJP supporters to protest in front of Nandigram police station. Suvendu demanded immediate arrest of the culprits, failing which he would launch an agitation and organise a rally in Nandigram on January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nandigram-violence-mars-suvendus-first-rally-as-bjp-neta/articleshow/80018766.cms||Suman Mondal
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||Man posing as Para Cdo officer nabbed in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A 25-year-old who strutted around dressed like an officer of the elite Para Regiment, ostensibly to impress girls, found himself way out of his depth and in handcuffs in Bhopal on Tuesday. According to police, the suspect, a naïve of Panna, had dreamt of getting into the Army but never made it past selection. So, he began living out his dream on social media. The uniform he wore was very detailed — it even had the ‘Balidan’ badge. He wore the three stars of a captain, jump wings, a name tab for ‘SK Dixit’, the ‘Para’ shoulder badge, and a row of service ribbons, including for high-altitude posting. Military Intelligence got wind of him and alerted police, said SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota. Informers led cops to a house in Jalvihar Colony in Chunabhatti from where ‘SK’ aka Pankaj Dixit was nabbed. He is from Shahpur village of Ajaygarh town in Panna. A folding knife was seized from him. SP Thota said he posted photos of him in uniform on various social media accounts to befriend girls, and that he had come to meet a girl in Chunabhatti when he was arrested. Chunabhatti police have registered a case against him under IPC 170 (impersonating a public servant) and 140 (wearing garb or carrying token used by soldier, sailor or airman) of IPC and Arms Act. The Army has been informed of his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-posing-as-para-cdo-officer-nabbed/articleshow/80017054.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Unstoppable: 20-yr-old tea labourers’ daughter tackles life from rugby pitch||Kolkata: A 20-year-old daughter of tea garden labourers in north Bengal has carved out a better future for herself, and is well on the path to leading several others down a similar path. And it’s thanks to the rough-and-tumble sport of rugby. Sandhya Rai has been announced “India Unstoppable” in a global campaign to promote women’s rugby, joining a rarefied list of Asian sportswomen hand-picked to promote the sport by World Rugby, its governing body. She is one of only three women from India to represent the country on the Asia Rugby Unstoppables platform, a list that comprises the top 32 Asian women rugby players. The World Rugby ‘Unstoppable’ campaign has not only inspired girls and women across Asia and India to take up the sport, but has also provided a platform to showcase and highlight the inspiring stories of these girls and women, who transcended seemingly insurmountable odds. Sandhya was born and brought up near Baikanthapur forest, east of Siliguri. The daughter of tea garden labourers, she would have joined them in plucking tea after finishing school. But she had different ideas, as did a small batch of remarkable girls from the village. Their story revolves around a rugby ball and the passion it ignited in them to not only change their own lives but also the outlook of the village. The villages that make up Saraswatipur are bounded on three sides by the mighty sal trees of the forest, home to elephants. The Teesta flows on the other side. Electricity reached only recently and educational achievement levels beyond Class X are rare. Father Mathew had seen how motivating rugby could be for youngsters while he was in charge of Don Bosco Ashalayam in Kolkata. Having spent time in the village, he thought the game could also motivate the children there. In 2013, a couple of players from the Jungle Crows, an amateur rugby team in Kolkata, were invited by the local head of the Siliguri Salesian College to train some of the children in rugby and so the journey began. Sandhya and her friends discovered rugby and through excelling in the game saw a different future. Their hard work paid off, with nine of the girls so far having played rugby for India from this remote village. On December 23, 2020, Sandhya was announced as India’s Unstoppable. Women’s rugby is particularly strong in India and has been championed much by actor-director Rahul Bose, who’s also an international rugby player. Sandhya has also just launched a campaign, “Pass For Passion”, by the Jungle Crows to raise funds for their Khelo Rugby project that creates opportunities for young players like her. Kolkata film-maker Rohan Chakravarty has made a short film on Sandhya’s story, highlighting in particular the impact she and her rugby-playing friends have had on their village. Sandhya is currently back in Saraswatipur on a break from studying sports management in Kolkata. But this is no time for rest — she spends most of the mornings and afternoons coaching village children. Perhaps they, too, would find a better future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unstoppable-20-yr-old-tea-labourers-daughter-tackles-life-from-rugby-pitch/articleshow/80011949.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Aurangabad||2 impersonate crime branch cops, extort Rs 2 lakh from CA||Aurangabad: Two unidentified people claiming to be serving with the crime branch of the Aurangabad city police have allegedly extorted Rs 2 lakh from a chartered accountant (CA) while threatening to make his picture with a woman staffer viral. As per preliminary report, the suspects barged in to the CA’s office on the evening of December 18 and clicked pictures of him sitting with a woman staffer. The suspects allegedly assaulted him and the woman staffer before threatening to make their pictures viral. They allegedly confined the duo for about five hours and demanded Rs 25 lakh from the CA. Fearing social stigma, the CA pleaded with them not to falsely frame him or make the pictures viral with false claims. After negotiating for hours, the suspects allegedly agreed to spare him in lieu of a sum of Rs 15 lakh. They also took Rs 2 lakh from the CA as first instalment and said that they would come later to take the remaining money before leaving his office. When contacted, the CA confirmed about the incident. Sources in the police said four days ago, the CA, along with his relative, reached out to the area police station and lodged a complaint. Taking cognizance of the incident, Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta said he has ordered a probe to ascertain the identity of the suspects. A sub-inspector has been given the charge of the probe. Gupta appealed to the citizens to remain vigilant and immediately report about any incidents or attempts of blackmailing or harassment. An officer privy to the probe said he has found a crucial clue about the suspects. “We have found efforts are being made to make the CA withdraw the complaint,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-impersonate-crime-branch-cops-extort-rs-2-lakh-from-ca/articleshow/80017059.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 30, 2020||Surat||New Year parties banned in Daman||SURAT: All those who were desperately waiting to shake their legs at New Year party in Daman will be a disappointed lot. Even as large number of hotels and resorts are booked, the administration of the union territory of Daman on Tuesday issued a notification stating that the hotels will not be able to host New Year parties. In a notification, district collector of Daman, Rakesh Minhas said that the hotels won’t be able to host the New Year eve party due to coronavirus pandemic. Minhas stated that there is a ban on the assembly of people in the hotel during New Year. With the ongoing night curfew in the city is set to spoil the New Year eve celebrations, many fun-loving Surtis had booked hotels in their favourite watering hole in Daman. The hoteliers in Daman started receiving the booking orders for the December 31 parties , mostly from the people in Surat and Mumbai. Unlike Surat, there is no night curfew in Daman and people can enjoy on the beaches till late night. Haresh Thangal, secretary of Daman Hotel and Restaurant Association (DHRA) told TOI, “The notification from the Daman administration has come as a biggest spoiler for the hoteliers.” Thangal said that due to Covid-19, the hotels and restaurants are operating at less than 35% capacity. During the weekends, Daman witnesses good inflow of tourists, especially from Surat and nearby districts. This time around, majority of the hotels received advance bookings for the New Year” Gopal Tandel, a hotel owner, said, “We are very upset with the notification. We had arranged the New Year eve party, but we will have to cancel it now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/new-year-parties-banned-in-daman/articleshow/80015545.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Cybercrime spikes in Cyberabad, crimes against women see a dip||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police on Tuesday said that the overall cases registered in its commissionerate have gone up by 6.65% compared to last year. During the annual press conference here on Tuesday, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said that the number of cases registered this year was 24,868 as against 23,320 in 2019. However, cases of crime against women went down by 18.66% in 2020. On the other hand, cybercrime increased by 135%. In 2019, police had registered 477 cases and it has now jumped to 1,119 cases. Warning motorists against drunken driving, Cyberabad police said that the accused will be booked under the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder if the accused has an accident that leads to the death of a person. “This year, we are focusing more on scientific investigation in road accidents to avoid big vehicle syndrome. We don’t want to trouble anyone by getting carried away by assuming that only bigger vehicles will be at fault. Based on CCTV footage and other scientific evidences, cases are being booked only against the motorist who is at fault irrespective of the size of the vehicle. In a recent major accident which took place at Wipro junction, we booked a car driver who jumped the signal and not the tipper driver,” he said. Five persons seated inside the car had died in the accident. Sajjanar said that the police have overcome many challenges in 2020, especially in the backdrop of Covid-19, lockdown and floods. He said that it was a great challenge for Cyberabad police to assist the IT industry in setting up the work from home system in the shortest time by facilitating the firms in transporting the gadgets to their employee’s residence. The officials of all the three police commissionerates feel that they encourage more people to lodge complaints, especially women, so that their issues will be addressed legally. Police said that they should not shy away from lodging complaints as the reaction is fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cybercrime-spikes-in-cyberabad-crimes-against-women-see-a-dip/articleshow/80017067.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covaxin will protect against new mutants, says Dr Krishna Ella||HYDERABAD: Indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin, that is being developed by Bharat Biotech along with the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (ICMR-NIV), will protect against the new mutated coronavirus strains that have been detected in the United Kingdom recently, Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella said here on Tuesday. “It (Coronavirus) is expected to have a lot of mutation and you can be rest assured this vaccine also will protect (against) that virus…the inactivated virus vaccine has nucleo protein and membrane protein…so you have these two components in the inactivated vaccine which will also take care of those mutations,” Ella said while responding to a query on the emergence of new Covid-19 strains in UK during a virtual lecture. Ella, who was delivering a lecture virtually on ‘Innovation in Public Health- Our Journey’ organised by the Telangana Academy of Sciences and CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, said the virus is mutating so that it can infect as many people as possible, including children, who were resistant to it so far because they did not have matured ACE2 receptors. Ella also said the testing of Covaxin on monkeys and hamsters have shown extremely good results in protecting both upper lung and lower lung unlike the other vaccines. “Both upper lung and lower lung...are protected in monkey studies, which is important because… if the upper lung is not protected then you are vaccinated but still infection and transmission continue,” he said. He also pointed out that a nasal vaccine would probably be the ideal choice to stop the infection and transmission of coronavirus because Covid-19 is also transmitted through the nose and we need mucosal immunity, which is a more potent immune response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ella-covaxin-will-protect-against-new-mutants/articleshow/80018006.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Haphazard parking, encroachments gobble up roads in Old City areas||Hyderabad: Commuters are having a harrowing time navigating through the busy arterial roads in several areas of Old City, what with the haphazard parking and encroachments along the roads and in front of shops. Tourists and people who commute regularly through Hussaini Alam, Mahboob Chowk, Motigalli and Khilwat get caught in traffic snarls during peak hours. Locals say that illegal parking of vehicles near Chowmohalla Palace is inconveniencing tourists who want to park their vehicles at the heritage site. They alleged that the traffic police have turned a blind eye towards the issue. “Nobody is regulating parking around Chowmohalla Palace. Traffic police must intervene and regulate parking,” said Syed Aijaz, an Old City resident. Many also said that the traffic intersections at Hussaini Alam and Motigalli need immediate installation of traffics signals and removal of encroachments. “One can find massive encroachments inside Mahboob Chowk,” said another resident, Mohammed Khasim. Police said that all efforts were being made to ensure smooth flow of traffic but added that people need to cooperate and follow traffic rules. “There are narrow lanes and routes at many places in Old City, where road widening is essential. On our part, we ensure the smooth flow of traffic by deploying traffic police personnel,” said Ravi Shankar, Traffic ACP, Charminar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/haphazard-parking-encroachments-gobble-up-roads-in-old-city-areas/articleshow/80017125.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||S Kol Road to be Kolkata's 1st cable mess-free stretch||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has started work on restoring the city’s skyline by removing the mesh of overhead wires and cables that have become a hazard and an eyesore. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had in April 2018 called for removing the mesh of cables dangling from lampposts, trees and every vantage point, spoiling the city’s skyline and causing fatal accidents like the death of an 18-year-old youth in Park Circus in January, that year. Thereafter, urban development minister Firhad Hakim had held multiple meetings with cable operators and other stakeholders but progress had been slow till work on the pilot project began earlier this week. The KMC electrical department is laying a PVC pipe below the pavement adjoining the western flank of Harish Mukherjee Road to act as a duct that will conceal various cables, which are now strung up along street light posts. Officials said the 2.6-km project between Rabindra Sadan and Kalighat fire station is a pilot that will throw up benefits and challenges of removing the ugly mesh of overhead cables and laying them underground. Thereafter, similar work will be taken up in other major roads across the city. The 8-inch flexi-duct will carry the lines of multiple cable and telecom operators as well as internet service providers along with a power utility that has a communication cable overhead, although most of the power cables are underground. There will be pits in every 30 metre to repair cable faults or provide connection to consumers. “At present, scores of cables — some live and many others damaged and discarded — run parallel to roads, streets and alleys. Once the flexi-duct is laid, the cables will pass through it. The only overhead cables will be across the road as connection is provided to homes on the other pavement,” said a civic official. An additional two inch pipe is also being installed to carry the power cable that provides electricity to the decorative trident lights. The Rs 50 lakh pilot project is expected to be completed within a month-and-a-half. If it is successful, it will be replicated at Park Street, Alipore and other areas in the city. All Bengal Cable and Broadband Operators’ United Forum joint convener, Tapash Das, said all stakeholders had agreed to cooperate with the KMC initiative to rid the city of ugly overhead wires and streamline the system. “We have been entrusted with the task of removing the obsolete and damaged cables on a 4-km stretch of Kasba connector between Ruby intersection on EM Bypass and Gariahat. Work has already begun to tag the live cables so that the rest can be removed,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/s-kol-road-to-be-citys-1st-cable-mess-free-stretch/articleshow/80017158.cms||Subhro Niyogi
December 30, 2020||Surat||Surat: Kingpin of Asif Tameta gang arrested||SURAT: Crime branch sleuths arrested three key accused of Asif Tameta gang on Monday. The accused were produced in a local court on Tuesday and were remanded to police custody till January 9. Tameta gang was booked on November 27 in crime branch under Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime (GujCTOC) Act. The gang had individually and jointly executed 36 crimes in the recent past registered in 10 different police stations of the city, Dahej of Bharuch and Naka Hindola police station of Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh. With the fresh arrests, police have so far arrested a total 10 gang members in the case.Total 14 members of the Tameta gang were booked by police of whom three were arrested at time of registering the offence. Police arrested Muzaffarali Saiyed alias Asif Tameta, 39, Samir Shaikh alias Samir Chuha, 28, and Mohammad Aamir Shaikh alias Chota Tiger alias Kaliya. Police was to take their custody from Lajpore Central Jail earlier but were under treatment for Covid-19 at New Civil Hospital. The three accused were lodged in LCJ in a murder case of Dindoli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/kingpin-of-tameta-gang-arrested/articleshow/80015624.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Hospital forum writes to government on Swasthya Sathi concerns||KOLKATA: The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) on Tuesday submitted in writing their concerns and suggestions on the state’s universal healthcare scheme — Swasthya Sathi — to state health department officials. The development comes a day after private hospital representatives met health officials at Swasthya Bhawan to discuss the scheme on Monday. During the meeting, they had unanimously acknowledged the scheme had the potential to ensure high-end medical care for all residents but expressed concern over the “unrealistic and unsustainable” rates fixed for various treatments and procedures under the scheme. According to hospital authorities, the rates fixed by the scheme is six-eight times lower than what is charged from patients at private hospitals. The hospital representatives have suggested an expert committee be set up or a third party be appointed to analyze and work out a pragmatic rate structure. “We had a very fruitful discussion on Monday at the meeting, where we could convey our concerns. We were told by health department officials to submit the issues in writing, which we did on Tuesday morning. We will be looking forward to a positive response,” said AHEI president Rupak Barua. In its letter, AHEI specified that patients who needed tertiary or specialized treatment be sent to private hospitals that have multi or super-specialty facilities, while those needing treatment for common ailments be directed to nursing homes for rational distribution of patient load. The letter also raised the issue of reimbursement for treatment cost within a stipulated time. “Currently, we get a limited number of patients under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. Most of them are for cardiac surgeries and implant procedures. Since the numbers are few, we can cross-subsidize them. But if the number of patients under the scheme shoots up, it will be impossible for us to sustain and maintain quality service,” a private hospital spokesperson said. The scheme was first launched by the state government in December 2016 for the underpriviledged. Recently, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced the extension of the scheme to all residents of the state who are not covered by other state health schemes. About 9 crore people are expected to be covered under the scheme that allows Rs 5 lakh health coverage per family per year. After the Monday meeting, health officials had said the issues discussed would be deliberated but did not make any commitment. On the contrary, hospitals were cautioned against turning away patients under the scheme. Calls by TOI to senior health officials on Tuesday to get their view on the issues raised by AHEI went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospital-forum-writes-to-govt-on-swasthya-sathi-concerns/articleshow/80017187.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||87% want new laws, amendments to rein in dowry menace: Survey||Hyderabad: As many as 87% of the people feel that new laws or amendments are necessary to ensure that dowry is not practiced in the society, according to a survey. In the survey, which was conducted by a Muslim matrimony site and had 6,589 respondents, it was found that 54% of the people have witnessed someone getting abused due to a dowry-related issue. Hammad Rahman, CEO and founder, Nikah Forever, said that after they launched the survey, users started sharing their stories of dowry harassment. “For the past one month, we had been driving the conversation around dowry reporting statistics and stories in a bid to educate users. We had been reaching out to social activists to gather a larger support base. That is when users started sharing their stories,” said Rahman. The survey also revealed that 43% of respondents feel that the groom also suffers in marriage due to dowry and that majority of men, 99%, have responded that dowry is not necessary for marriage. “I was enrolled in a PhD programme. I had to get married at the age of 30 as per my parents’ wish. The groom’s family started pushing us for dowry and we were compelled to do so. It didn’t stop there and soon he started hitting me. I had a traumatic experience. I tried communicating it to my family but they kept on saying how I should adjust,” said a 34-year-old woman, who is now legally separated and fighting for legal custody of her son. Likewise, a 27-year-old, who also had to face dowry harassment, said that despite making it clear prior to marriage that they are against dowry, her husband started demanding ‘gifts’. “Initially, it was fine until the demands kept increasing. We sat down with the family and cleared it out. It did deteriorate our relationship for a while but he later understood,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/87-want-new-laws-amendments-to-rein-in-dowry-menace-survey/articleshow/80017147.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Prehistoric rock paintings found in Telangana's Kamareddy district||HYDERABAD: Historians have found prehistoric rock paintings in Tandur in Kamareddy district. Historian Satyanarayana Dyavanapalli said the architectural features such as ‘poorna kumbhas’ on door jambs (lining of a doorway) of Trilingeswaraswamy temple in Tandur belong to Chalukya period built some 1,000 years ago. Satyanarayana visited a hillock as part of an exploration. The hill is located one km east of the temple. A small mandapam is atop the hillock. On the roof of the shrine, he saw a big painting which was drawn in red ochre lines. “The monolithic roof slab was chiselled from a nearby cave to which the painting was originally drawn. The slab was placed on the present shrine. The shrine roof slab contains the painting of a huge person. The painting depicts the person’s legs in a leaping position and right hand in swinging sword position while the left one is swinging in balancing position,” he said.  He further said, “On the whole, the painting appears to be that of a virile person. This appears to be the reason why people started calling the hillock as Veerannakucha.” The eastern fringe of the hillock has displaced boulders used as an enclosure of megalithic burials. There is another adjacent hillock, which has a neolithic cup hole. Based upon these surface evidences, Satyanarayana said the painting must have been drawn in a cave and worshipped by early believers some three to four thousand years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prehistoric-rock-paintings-found-in-kamareddy-dist/articleshow/80017149.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||UK variant has potential for 2nd wave: CCMB chief||Hyderabad: Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) director Dr Rakesh Mishra said the second wave of Covid-19 is likely to spread with the more infectious UK variant if people do not adhere to precautions like wearing face mask, maintaining social distancing and sanitising their hands. He said unless people take the precautions, the positive cases are likely to increase. “The measures to avoid infection still remain the same. Using masks when in the presence of others, avoiding crowded places and maintaining physical distancing are the most effective and feasible ways for avoiding the virus, including the new variant,” he told TOI. Out of 20 samples of Covid-19 positive cases from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana that the CCMB had done genome sequencing, two were found to be of UK variant. Dr Mishra said: “Of all the genome sequencing we have done, 15% of cases are UK variant. To know the exact percentage of UK variant among the positive cases, we need to do a lot more genome sequencing.” He said several government and private labs can do the procedure. Each genome sequencing test costs around Rs 5,000. The new variant of coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19 B.1.1.7 is believed to be 71% more transmittable than the other variants. “It was first reported in the UK in September. This variant makes up for 60% of all coronavirus infections there. By tracing and testing 33,000 passengers who have flown in to India from the UK, India has confirmed the presence of this new variant in the country,” said Dr Mishra. CCMB is one of the 10 research institutes in India that is tracing the new variant. Dr Mishra said: “It is important to launch an extensive genome surveillance of the virus to assess the extent of the spread of the new virus. We should also keep an eye on other variants that might emerge independently, as India houses the second largest population infected with this virus at present.” He said thankfully the mutations, however, have not worsened the symptoms or the disease outcomes. “They are also not an impediment to the development of vaccines. The testing protocol also remains the same. The only problem is that the new variant spreads more easily than the others,” he explained. Dr Divya Tej Sowpati, who leads the coronavirus genome sequencing efforts at CCMB, said there is a greater need to expedite the viral genome sequencing efforts and check for the presence of the new variant in India. “We have used both the traditional Sanger sequencing method as well as the modern next-generation sequencing tools,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uk-variant-has-potential-for-2nd-wave-ccmb-chief/articleshow/80018030.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Ban sought on nylon, sharp manja ahead of Sankranti||Aurangabad: With Makar Sanktranti round the corner, bird lovers have sought an effective check on the sale of nylon and glass-coated manja —— the thread used in flying kites that often injures, and in some cases, even kill birds during flight. Despite the state government putting a ban on the sale of such threads in June 2015, these sharp threads are sold openly in the market ahead of Makar Sankranti — the festival of harvest during which many people take to kite-flying. While the Maharashtra government had invoked section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act 1986 to introduce the ban, the National Green Tribunal, had declared a country-wide ban on the sale of manjas in July 2017. Veteran ornithologist Deelip Bhagat said the manja, nearly invisible to the naked eye, posed a perennial threat to birds during the festival. “These manjas, along with kites, are found entangled in different trees, which are home to many birds. The feathery bipeds get injured and eventually die a premature death,” he said. Bhagat said the police as well as the forest department must separately crack down on the sale of manjas. “While traditionally, only the police take action against vendors selling the banned threads, the forest department must not remain a mute spectator. Only joint action can set a strong example,” he said. Besides birds, the manjas have also posed a threat to human lives. A 26-year-old woman Ayurvedic doctor, Krupali Nikam, was killed after her throat was slit by a manja at Kasarwadi area of Pune in October 2018. When contacted, deputy conservator of forest (territorial), Arun Patil said the lower-rung of the forest department would be asked to crack down on the sale of manja. “There is a need to raise public awareness on the ill-effects of manja. If buying stops, the sale will also cease,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ban-sought-on-nylon-sharp-manja-ahead-of-sankranti/articleshow/80017180.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Mahindra lauds techie’s efforts in feeding homeless||HYDERABAD: City-based techie Malleshwar Rao’s initiative of feeding thousands of under privileged people every day for the last nine years gained recognition from Anand Mahindra, chairman of Mahindra Group on social media on Tuesday. “I will not complain about 2020 being a difficult year after having seen this. Malleshwar Rao, I salute you and will support you. Life isn’t difficult when you remove the difficulties of others,” tweeted Mahindra lauding Rao’s efforts in feeding homeless people. Following Mahindra’s tweet, Rao’s gesture touched many hearts on social media with netizens not only appreciating his work but also extending support. “Dear Sir, I encourage you to start a foundation for such activities. It will encourage people like us to contribute and support. Need to give credit to the couple that guided him,” tweeted Sridharan Parthasarathy. The initiative ‘Don’t Waste Food’ was launched by Rao with the help of several volunteers in 2011. “While pursuing BTech, I worked with a caterer and realised that a lot of food is wasted every day across the city. So I decided to distribute the leftover food among the needy. If we can utilise the food being wasted in hotels of Hyderabad every day, no one will sleep hungry in the city,” said Rao, who now feeds close to 2,000 people every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mahindra-lauds-techies-efforts-in-feeding-homeless/articleshow/80017197.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt okays registration of plots without authorised layouts, builders happy||Hyderabad: In a significant move on the ongoing registration process linked to the land regularisation scheme (LRS), the government has decided to register all those plots which have valid registration documents despite not having authorised layouts. However, unsold and unapproved new plots cannot be registered until they are LRS-approved and notified. The commissioner and inspector general of stamps and registration issued a GO in this regard. The GO said a new plot means a fresh plot, which is being brought for registration for the first time or being sold by the developers for the first time. The GO also mentioned that there is no restriction on registration of plots in authorised plots, layouts regularised under earlier LRS and buildings and structures covered under the earlier BPS/ BRS. Officials said that this does not mean scaling down the LRS, but facilitating small owners, mostly from the middle class and small income group people, who use their land for their families’ needs like marriage, education and other purposes. As per the GO, among the 27 lakh applications filed under the LRS, resale by the first owner is possible. Meanwhile, welcoming the decision of the government, Telangana Builders’ Federation vice president V Srinivas said: “The LRS and stopping of registrations do not really impact big builders. The government’s latest decision will provide relief to the small land owners.” He urged the government to be strict while issuing permissions to developers as many small land owners purchase plots with very little legal knowledge. The stamps and registration department earned a revenue of Rs 461 crore after registration of non-agriculture properties began on December 14. A total of 31,000 documents have been registered till now, officials said and hoped to net more revenues with Tuesday’s GO. Before the registration of agriculture properties on Dharani portal and non-agriculture properties began, the state earned about Rs 1,600 crore income this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-okays-registration-of-plots-without-authorised-layouts-builders-happy/articleshow/80017175.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||HC clears decks for Mallanna Sagar bund||Hyderabad: The high court on Tuesday cleared legal hurdles and allowed the state to construct the reservoir bund around the Mallanna Sagar reservoir. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this order after duly modifying an earlier restraint order given after hearing some farmers from Etigadda Kistapur in Siddipet district. Farmers were seeking proper compensation and rehabilitation and were also saying that the acquisition was unlawful because it did not follow the norms.  “You (farmers) can fight for your rights, but the state too has a right to take possession of the land it wants for a public purpose, which cannot be stalled for long,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-clears-decks-for-mallanna-sagar-bund/articleshow/80017183.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Power cuts||Date: December 30 Banjara Hills Work: Routine maintenance works Time: 10 am to 12 pm Area: Road no 7, E-Seva areas, road no 4 areas Time: 12 pm to 2 pm Area: BSNL area, road no 14, Banjara Hills PS, Amurtha mall area, E-Seva, Government School, GHMC, Ratnadeep supermarket area, Zahera Nagar area Time: 2 pm to 5 pm Area: Srinagar Colony, post office, Andhra Jyothi area, road no 3 main road area, Times of India area, Arora Colony, Sagar Society area, Andhra bank ATM, Karnataka Bank area, Panjagutta main road area, Officers Colony, Udyog Nagar Colony, Nagarjuna Hills Secunderabad Work: tree trimming and AB switches repairing works Time: 10 am to 12 pm Areas: Old jail khana area, Audaiah Nagar, City light hotel Time: 12 pm to 1.30 pm Areas: Anjali area, Peddamma temple etc. Time: 2 pm to 5 pm Areas: Botany School, Telangana tourism, Lalagudi etc. Mehdipatnam Work: Trimming of tree branches and rectification of DTR & line AB switches on 11KV feeders Time: 10 am to 12.30 pm Areas: Santhosh Nagar, SBI Colony, Amba Garden, Guddimalkapur, Kranthi Nagar, Jevan Kalyan Nagar, Hill Colony, Vijay (apartment), Sai (apartment), Huda Colony, Sai Gardens, Devarathna apartment, Vijay Susheela apartment, Ganesh Residency Time: 12.30 pm to 2.30 pm Areas: Huda Colony, Ali Nagar, Priya Colony, Jaya Nagar, Navodaya Colony Time: 3 pm to 5 pm Areas: Shiv Bagh, Jaya Nagar, Sharada Nagar, Gudimalkapur Khabhadi Stadium, Mahaveer Nagar, Markendeya Nagar, LIC Colony||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-cuts/articleshow/80017192.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||Majority of farmers in Madhya Pradesh support agriculture laws, says BJP||BHOPAL: State BJP has intensified its efforts to convince farmers about the benefits of the newly-enacted agriculture laws and to counter the opposition’s campaign ahead of civic polls in Madhya Pradesh. BJP claimed that majority of farmers are with the government and are in the favour of the farm laws. BJP has launched an outreach programme aimed at farmers, including a door-to-door ‘atmanirbhar kisan’ (self-reliant farmers) drive in rural areas. The party is also distributing a letter by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, addressed to farmers and posters of the Central government’s achievements with a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “There is no confusion among farmers in MP. A majority of them are favouring the new farm laws. We are also planning an ‘agriculture OPD’ to help solve the grievances of farmers through toll free numbers and social media sites,” said agriculture minister Kamal Patel. “After BJP’s one-to-one discussions with MLAs , we are reaching out to farmers with Tomar’s letter,” BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/majority-of-farmers-in-mp-support-agri-laws-says-bjp/articleshow/80017190.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Nashik||137 criminals externed from Nashik city till Nov||Nashik: The city police have externed 137 criminals from the city till November this year to prevent anti-social elements from disturbing the law and order in the city. Going by police records, the city police had externed 136 criminals between January 1 and December 31 last year. Criminals, who have two or more cases registered against them, are considered for externment. Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey said, “Our aim is to make the city free of criminals so that no one lives in fear. People should be able to walk freely on the streets without the fear of anti-social elements. To serve this purpose, we are taking strict action criminals and in some cases, even externing them.:” The anti-social elements generally indulge in criminal activities like thefts, terrorising residents of a locality with their actions, threatening people, robbing them and also demanding extortion money from hawkers. In view of the same, the police have been appealing to people to inform about any crime or criminal in their respective areas. Taking into account that many externed criminals sneak back into the city, the police have also put posters of such criminals in their respective areas and police chowkies so that people are aware that the concerned goon has been externed and in the event if he is spotted again in the area during the externment period, citizens can approach the police. The police said the initiative of putting posters of externed criminals have helped them in nabbing such criminals and sending them back to their place of externment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/137-criminals-externed-from-nashik-city-till-nov/articleshow/80017216.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||3k teachers stage maha dharna||Hyderabad: Demanding that the state fulfil their long-pending demands, especially promotions and transfers, more than 3,000 teachers on Tuesday staged a maha dharna at Dharna Chowk, Indira Park.  “There is no point in keeping entire power at Pragathi Bhavan. The education minister should be given the freedom to take up transfers and promotions in her department,” said A Narsi Reddy, teacher and MLC. He added, “The state need not even spend a penny to give transfers and when it comes to promotions, they are routine. Why delay them?” Teachers, who took part in the protest organised under the aegis of Joint Action Committee of Teachers’ Organisation (JACTO) and Upadhyaya Sanghala Porata Committee (USPC), demanded that the state government immediately promote upgraded pandits and PET to school assistants. “Apart from taking up transfers and promotions, the state should take up the issue of Contributory Pension Scheme with the Centre and work for its abolishment,” said N Ramchander Rao, MLC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3k-teachers-stage-maha-dharna/articleshow/80017218.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Amid the pandemic, GHMC rakes in over Rs 2,000 crore revenue||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 pandemic affected the city’s market this year, but despite that, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) was able to generate good revenue and execute civic works. As per the GHMC records, the civic body generated Rs 2,256.70 crore revenue and spent Rs 2,286.30 crore since the beginning of the year. Over Rs 1,202.35 crore was collected in the form of property tax and civic works worth over Rs 900 crore were executed. Compared to previous year, a tax amount of Rs 140 crore more was generated. “A total of Rs 909.17 crore work bills were cleared, the works include laying cement concrete roads and constructing box drains. Apart from Rs 1,202.35 crore property tax, the town planning wing earned Rs 396.18 crore. For health and sanitation activities, Rs 403.13 crore was spent. Of the total work bills of Rs 1,102.71 crore, Rs 909.17 crore has been paid,” read a statement issued by the GHMC. Excluding the civic works, Rs 403.13 crore was spent on health and sanitation and Rs 89.52 crore was spent on illumination (street lighting). The civic body paid Rs 854.88 crore as salaries and pensions. Moreover, the state government has released Rs 564.92 crore to GHMC. “The state government has already released Rs 564.92 crore to GHMC from April to November 2020 and will release another Rs 312 crore from December 2020 to March 2021. Rs 78 crore per month will be released,” the GHMC said. As per records, SRDP works across the city are being executed at a cost of Rs 5,934 crore, of which Rs 2,437 crore would be spent from GHMC funds. “Five link roads were inaugurated and works at 27 places pertaining to the link roads are underway. A total of 26 major roads were widened, nine flyovers were constructed along with four underpasses, three ROB/RUBs and one cable bridge at a cost of Rs 1,010 crore were built in 2020,” the GHMC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-the-pandemic-ghmc-rakes-in-over-rs-2k-cr-revenue/articleshow/80017219.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||C-section slots booked for Dec 31, Jan 1 births||Hyderabad: Many parents across the city are booking slots for C-section in hospitals either on December 31 or January 1.  “We cannot talk sense to these couples. This trend is mostly seen either on December 31 or January 1,” a private gynaecologist said on condition of anonymity. Activists point out that sometimes marital disputes also happen over the due date to conduct the surgery. “Several women may not want such a fancy date, but families insist,” Sandhya, national convener for Progressive Organisation for Women ( POW) said. Not surprisingly the recent family health survey also indicated that the C-section rate in Telangana was over 60 per cent. Almost half of all institutional births in Telangana happens in the private sector, where the C-section rate stands at 81.5 per cent. The state also has the highest C-section rate --45 per cent for public facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/c-section-slots-booked-for-dec-31-jan-1-births/articleshow/80017232.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Colleges, university open up reserved seats||KOLKATA: Several colleges and universities have opened up vacant reserved seats for waiting-list candidates from the general category to take admission. While many institutes have already de-reserved the seats, others have started the procedure of de-reservation to accommodate candidates who are yet to secure seats in subjects of their choice in their preferred colleges. But colleges, which have failed to fill even their general-category seats after several rounds of admissions, have decided not to opt for de-reservation of seats under quota. According to the rules, colleges have to set aside a certain percentage of seats for candidates belonging to SC, ST and OBC categories. The West Bengal State Higher Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2013, has a clause that allows de-reservation of seats with the consent of the backward classes welfare department. It can be done only if seats in the reserved categories do not fill up even after the deadline for admission gets over. Presidency University has drawn up a list from waitlisted candidates after de-reservation. The provisional merit list for this round will be published on Wednesday. “Some seats opened up after de-reservation of reserved seats. We invited application for those seats from students who have already applied and made it till the waiting list. No fresh application has been invited,” said a member of the admission committee at the university. The university had close to 32 vacant seats in the reserved category. This year, an average of 30% UG seats have remained vacant in city institutes, most of them affiliated to Calcutta University, stated a report by the higher education department. According to principals, most of those seats are in the reserved category. Authorities at Seth Anandaram Jaipuria College, too, have finished de-reserving seats. While many seats have found takers, some are still vacant. “A college can apply for de-reservation of seats only after the admission process gets over and the authorities are sure no one else would get through. Before the process, the authorities have to issue multiple notices, informing about availability of seats in the reserved category,” said Asok Mukhopadhyay, principal of Seth Anandaram Jaipuria College. Institutes,like Bethune, Lady Brabourne and Scottish Church, too, have opened up seats in some subjects. “General-category seats have filled up, but some reserved seats were vacant,” said an official at Bethune College. A principal at an evening college in south Kolkata said they decided against de-reserving seats as a large number of general category seats were vacant. “It doesn’t make much sense as over one-third general-category seats are vacant,” said the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-univ-open-up-reserved-seats/articleshow/80017220.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 30, 2020||Aurangabad||CAP: 297 students avail of EWS quota in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Around 297 candidates have taken admission to Class XI under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota despite extending the duration of the admission process for the benefit of the Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) students. As many as 2,351 seats were reserved under the quota against which only a few candidates have applied through the Centralized Admission Process (CAP).Deputy director of education Madhukar Deshmukh said availability of seats under the general category was one of the reasons behind few takers for EWS quota. “Besides, many candidates still do not have EWS certificates with them and hence, cannot claim the quota seat,” he said. Introduced since the last academic year, the EWS quota can be claimed by a candidate whose annual family income is less than Rs 8 lakh. For further updates, students are advised to keep a tab on the official CAP portal aurangabad.11thadmission.org.in. Besides Aurangabad, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik and Amravati are the cities where the CAP is being followed for Class XI admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cap-297-students-avail-of-ews-quota-in-aurangabad/articleshow/80017238.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Nolen gur and plum cakes on sweet shops’ NY menu||Kolkata: From tarts to mousse, from pies to muffins, from rich plum cakes to baked and caramelised yoghurt, the city’s best known mishti brands have gone all out to fuse western traditions with indigenous Bengali sweet making techniques and have churned out Christmas and New Year specials. Sweet sellers say business is rocking and they are back to last year’s sale figures in most stores. Even till the beginning of winter, sweet sellers say, they were heavily depending on food aggregators who collect online orders from their stores. But the counter sales across all outlets have soared in this festive season. The rise in sales is applicable for not only top city brands like Balaram Mullick, Banchharam, Sen Mahasay, Mithai, Ganguram, Mouchak, Nakur and KC Das but also for some of the big brands in the districts like Felu Modak of Rishra, a 143-year-old shop that continued making Bandel cheese and Danish cheese cakes. “The Danes actually used our chhanar cake making techniques to churn out their cheese cakes. We have made these cakes in varying weights from 100 grams to one kilogram and they are selling like the proverbial hot cakes,” said Amitabha Dey Modak of the shop, Felu Modak. He added that his business is back to last year’s pace. Banchharam has 18 stores and at least 10 of them are doing more than 100% business compared to last year. In rest of the stores, the business has picked up by 80-90%. “Gajar halwa mousse, nolen gurer crepes suzette, eggless brownies and gurer rasmalai are our new items for this festive season. We are happy that these items are going off well with the buyers,” said Shubhojit Ghosh of Banchharam. Mithai is baking sandesh with a layer of cake that has caught the attention of buyers since it came on to the shelves before Christmas just like two other items, caramel doi and dry-baked chamcham with its distinct smoky flavour. “We are happy that positive sentiments are back and we are nearly where we were at this time last year,” said Nilanjan Ghosh, owner of Mithai. Cake mixing is done as elaborately as in any bakery of the city in the workshop of Balaram Mullick. Every year, along with plum cake sandesh, it brings out new Christmas items. This time, new nolen gurer gateaux, new variants of biscotti, baklava and kittypies have made their appearance. “We are back to 90-100% business in most of our 11 stores. The demand for the new sweets is so high in our stores at Ecopark, Bhowanipore and Lake Gardens that we are running out of our stocks several times in a day,” said Sudip Mullick of Balaram Mullick. Many sweet sellers said that the outlets in north Kolkata have responded well to the idea of fusion sweets this time and alongside personal buying, gifting is also the flavour of the season. “Business in only five of our 18 outlets is slightly down. Our eggless cakes and pastries and sandesh cake are selling 300% via aggregators and online,” said Rahul Chaurasia, director of Ganguram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nolen-gur-and-plum-cakes-on-sweet-shops-ny-menu/articleshow/80017242.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 30, 2020||Shimla||To check Covid community spread in Kullu, ICMR conducts 3rd sero survey||Manali: The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) is conducting third round of random sampling tests on people in Kullu district, including health workers, to check community spread. A team of ICMR is on a five-day visit to Kullu for the third round of sero-survey where samples are being collected randomly. A 16-member team, led by Dr Nandan Kumar Mishra, will collect samples from 500 people, including 100 health workers. For this purpose, five teams have been formed which will collect samples through 10 clusters. Dr Nandan said 81 districts had been chosen for this survey in the country and Kullu district was picked in Himachal. “Before this, 400 samples each were collected in first and second surveys. No person was found positive for Covid-19 in the first survey, while two persons tested positive in the second survey. Now again, we have lifted 500 samples, of which 100 samples belong to health workers. This will help us collect accurate information about community spread,” he said. The report of the collected samples will come in 8-10 days. Dr Nandan said he hoped people in Kullu were safe so far as there was least possibility of community spread as Covid cases in the district were on the decline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/to-check-covid-community-spread-in-kullu-icmr-conducts-3rd-sero-survey/articleshow/80017240.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Goa||Biweekly superfast train to Guj from Thurs||Panaji: A biweekly superfast festival special train Udhna- Madgaon- Udhna (Gujarat) has been arranged at a special fare to clear the extra rush of passengers during the new year. Train no. 09024 Udhna - Madgaon (Margao) will leave from Udhna at 4pm on Wednesday, December 30 and Friday, January 1 and will reach Madgaon at 9.30am the next day. Train no. 09023 Madgaon - Udhna will leave from Madgaon at 12pm on Thursday, December 31 and Saturday, January 1 and reach Udhna at 4am the next day. The train will halt at Navsari, Valsad, Vapi, Vasai Road, Panvel, Mangaon, Khed, Chiplun, Sangameshwar Road, Ratnagiri, Rajapur Road, Vaibhavwadi Road, Kankavali, Sindhudurg, Kudal, Sawantwadi Road, Tivim and Karmali stations. The train comprises of 22 LHB coaches— 2 tier AC - 1 coach, 3 tier AC - coaches, sleeper - 10 coaches, second seating - 4 coaches, generator car - 2. All Covid-19 safety norms laid by the state and central governments including social distancing and sanitisation will be followed in trains and at the railway stations. The train will halt at Navsari, Valsad, Vapi, Vasai Road, Panvel, Mangaon, Khed, Chiplun, Sangameshwar Road, Ratnagiri, Rajapur Road, Vaibhavwadi Road, Kankavali, Sindhudurg, Kudal, Sawantwadi Road, Tivim and Karmali stations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/biweekly-superfast-train-to-guj-from-thurs/articleshow/80017260.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Yet another JU dean resigns over protests||Kolkata: The dean of engineering technology faculty at Jadavpur University, Amitava Datta, resigned on Tuesday, citing personal reasons and health issues. His resignation came a little over two months after dean of science Kalyan Kumar Das had stepped down from the post and the next of dean of science Subir Mukhopadhyay offered to quit in November. Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das, who has requested Datta to reconsider his decision, said students’ democratic right to protest could not infringe the democratic rights of teachers and officials. Das and senior officials have also requested students not to stage demonstrations during pandemic, given the health concerns. Senior university officials claimed continuous students’ agitation and prolonged gherao of the authorities multiple times in the past two months led to the resignations. While Das had resigned over post-graduate admission-related issues, Datta put in his papers following allegations of discrepancy in the publication of results and demand of an overhaul of the Jadavpur University Management System (JUMS). Among the students’ demands are demands are replacing JUMS and changing the admission process. “The students’ demands have been met as a committee was set up in the last executive committee meeting to look into the grievances. Yet, pressure on teachers continued, especially in the engineering faculty,” pointed out a teacher. “Time and again, students have been told to refrain from arm-twisting tactics but they refuse to listen. University officials have been gheraoed every time there has been a meeting on the campus over the past two months. On December 23, two pro-vice-chancellors and deans were gheraoed in the main administrative building till early next day, demanding immediate approval of their proposals,” said a senior JU teacher. “The next day on Christmas Eve, students gheraoed VC Suranjan Das and a few others who were allowed to leave around 4am on Christmas Day.” The VC was allegedly forced to attend meetings virtually on Wednesday as well as Thursday despite being unwell. On Monday night, members of a union allegedly called up Datta and demanded immediate publication of the minutes of the EC meeting held on Sunday. JUTA has refused to attend any physical meeting on the campus.  Educationist Amal Mukhopadhyay last week called the gheraos “unfortunate”. “The students alleged the controller of exams had no work as the assessment system has been given to an agency and that led to several mistakes in the results.” Pointing out that the students should have spoken to the VC, he said, “A virtual deadlock at JU is unacceptable. The VC is a competent person. He is a dynamic VC who did a lot of development work in the university. Officials and students should settle the matter,” Mukhopadhyay added .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/yet-another-ju-dean-resigns-over-protests/articleshow/80017248.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Shimla||Former HP CM Shanta Kumar loses wife to Covid-19||Times News Network Shimla: Santosh Shailja (83), wife of former chief minister and senior BJP leader Shanta Kumar died of Covid-19 at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda in Kangra on Tuesday morning. She was being treated for Covid-19 in Tanda. All of Shanta Kumar’s family tested positive for Covid-19 recently. Sources said Santosh Shailja breathed her last at 4.30am on Tuesday. Shanta Kumar himself is admitted in Tanda. On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called Shanta Kumar to inquire about the well being of his family and him. Former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur also spoke to Shanta Kumar. Santosh Shailja was a writer and has many books and story collections to her credit. Born on April 14, 1937 in Amritsar, Punjab, her parents shifted to Delhi following her matriculation. Shailja did BA and MA (Hindi) and B.Ed. For a few years, she taught in a government school in Delhi. She got married to Shanta Kumar in 1964 and shifted to Palampur in Kangra. On December 25, Shanta Kumar posted on social media that for the last three days, his wife was admitted in Tanda for treatment of Covid-19. On his meeting with his wife, when they could only see each other without talking, he wrote, “Without saying anything, we said and listened a lot.” He also said he had told his wife that they would return to Palampur soon. Santosh Shailja’s last rites were performed in Palampur in line with Covid-19 protocol. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed grief over the demise of Santosh Shailja. In his condolence message, he said that with her death, the state had lost an educationist, writer and social worker who devoted her life to the welfare of vulnerable sections of society. Senior leaders, including BJP national president J P Nadda, former chief ministers Virbhadra Singh and Prem Kumar Dhumal, Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur and several others cutting across party lines also expressed their grief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/former-hp-cm-shanta-kumar-loses-wife-to-covid-19/articleshow/80017244.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||BTS Army raises Rs 20,000 for K-Pop singer’s birthday, plays Santa to old age home residents||KOLKATA: It was a belated Christmas for the 14 inmates of an old age home in Behala, who received gift hampers from the fans of V, a South Korean pop singer they had not even heard of. The fans raised funds on the occasion of his birthday celebrations across the world. The popularity of KPop music in India has also given rise to a network of dedicated volunteer translators for the fandom known as the BTS Army. The fanbase of V (Kim Taehyung) managed to raise about Rs 20,000 in a few days. The donation drive was called V care. They gifted the hampers to 15 inmates and their matron at Apna Ghar in Behala on Tuesday evening. Each hamper comprised three blankets, a pair of socks, warmers, toiletries and dry food along with rice, dal, cooking oil, potatoes and medicines. Five representatives of the fanbase reached the old age home with the hampers at 3pm. Some inmates, who have now been staying at the old age home for several years, could not conceal their emotions. “It is a heart-warming gesture that somebody thought of us when they were celebrating the birthday of their icon. We have not even heard of the singer, leave alone understanding the language. This gesture of these people made us emotional,” said Mamata Ghorai, one of the inmates. K-Pop videos, most of which are a mash of English and Korean, are vibrant and known for their choreography and lively music. K-Pop singers have become such an icon that such birthday fundraisers are done globally by the fanbase who actively promotes the music and even translates them for those who don’t understand Korean. In the past few years K-pop has garnered fans in many Indian cities. Fans in Mumbai, Bengaluru and Pune also organise concerts and giveaways for their K-pop icons. Apart from BTS, there are several other KPop bands like SuperM, Big Bang, Girls’ Generation and Blackpink. “The feeling was of contentment. They hosted us so well within their limited means. We sang together and gorged on cakes and sipped tea,” said a member of the fanbase, who is associated with the Inner Wheel Club of Calcutta Metropolitan East for the project. The fans of the singer have also been distributing masks and sanitisers among cops and other citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bts-army-raises-rs-20000-for-k-pop-singers-birthday-plays-santa-to-old-age-home-residents/articleshow/80017250.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi to give 2020 a guarded send-off||NEW DELHI: Travel consultant Mridangi Khanna and her fiancé Sahir Sachthey were wary of a crowded place to celebrate New Year’s Eve, but didn’t want to stay home either. They booked a suite in a city hotel and invited three other couples to their ‘safe’ party. Before booking, Khanna checked the precautionary measures at the various hotels and the size of the rooms to ensure free space for everyone. She also asked the other guests to avoid unnecessary exposure or outings in the days prior to the gathering to allay any fears about Covid-19 infection. Like Khanna and Sachthey, people who have not planned Goa time or drives to Rajasthan and the hills are creating their personal bio-bubble parties to usher in 2021. Precautions are uppermost in their minds, some even asking party invitees to provide their Covid-negative report a day before the meeting. As a result, hotels are seeing last-minute bookings. Vikram Oberoi, CEO, The Oberoi Group, affirmed receiving reservation requests, observing that many people are opting for staycations in his city hotels with guests to see the New Year in. Anil Chadha, COO, ITC Hotels, has offered the Gourmet Bubble for groups above 20 guests. This includes a private venue, bespoke food menu and heightened safety measures for a get-together. Saurabh Khurana of The Lodhi too acknowledged a good response for year-end bookings for rooms and curated meals at restaurants or in rooms. A survey conducted recently by hospitality consultants Avighna Solutions showed 48% of respondents celebrating with family and friends at home and 65% ordering food online. New gourmet delivery options Biryani and Pulao collection by ITC, Pot Vaughan or The Dinner Box are registering impressive sales with people looking to recreate gourmet dining experiences at home. Amit Bagga, who recently started delivery from his restaurant Daryaganj, was aware of how important it was for delivery service to appeal to all senses to heighten the home dining experience. Zorawar Kalra of Massive Restaurants, who also started his Butter Delivery with the city’s favourite butter dishes on the delivery menu, disclosed that the demand for good home delivery prompted him to enter the segment. The action though is not limited to in-room dining or house parties. Prominent eateries such as Indian Accent, Comorin, The Olive and new entrants Kakapo or Hyatt Regency’s Syrah too are seeing a rush. Akshay Anand of Ophelia said it is important to see that people celebrate responsibly. He revealed that his establishment is promoting pre-booking and discouraging on-counter sales to reduce overcrowding on New Year’s Eve. Dinesh Arora of Unplugged Courtyard and La Roca is similarly urging people to pre-book and be seated on time as his popular eateries will not accommodate people beyond the permitted capacity. While most places focused on New Year’s Eve and pre-2021 parties, Madhav Sehgal, general manager of Andaz Aerocity, claimed his hotel was running to almost full capacity. Apart from the in-room and at-venue functions, one of the busiest meals will likely be the January 1 brunch in the Annamaya restaurant because most guests have expressed interest in starting the first day of the new year with a lavish outing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-give-2020-a-guarded-send-off/articleshow/80015719.cms||Amin Ali
December 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu VC: We’ve to move ahead by embracing the new normal||Aurangabad: Asserting that the university has been committed for delivering student-centric administration, vice-chancellor (VC) of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) Pramod Yeole said that transparency and speeding up the process continue to be his priorities. Addressing the senate meeting of the university, the VC said that the members of teaching and non-teaching staff as well as students together have to respond to the different challenges ahead. “The outbreak of Covid-19 had applied brakes on the progress of the university. However, we have to move ahead by embracing the new normal,” he said.Yeole lauded the efforts towards setting up the RT-PCR labs at the university and conducting Covid testing at mass-level during the pandemic. “These labs were set up within no time through CSR funds. Besides, the university as a part of its social commitment, donated funds to the CM Relief Fund during the pandemic and engaged in activities such as distribution of face-masks and sanitizers,” he said.In his address, Yeole, who took reins of the university in hands on July 16, 2019, said reforms would continue in academic and administrative work and every stakeholders must accept the changes without any resistance. “The university has improved its image over a period of last one and half year and the same has been reflected in different rankings. There is much scope for further to achieve excellence in the field of academics and research,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-vc-weve-to-move-ahead-by-embracing-the-new-normal/articleshow/80017247.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||414 new Covid cases, 10 deaths in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana recorded 414 new cases, 10 deaths and 544 recoveries on Tuesday, raising the state’s overall count to 2,61,672 cases, 2,892 fatalities and 2,54,880 recoveries. Two deaths were reported in Kurukeshtra district and one each in Gurugram, Hisar, Ambala, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri. Meanwhile, Gurugram and Faridabad continued to lead other districts by reporting highest number of cases — 94 and 47, respectively. Other cases were reported from Rohtak (37), Karnal (31), Panchkula (26), Hisar, Yamunanagar and Jind (21 each), Kurukshetra (20), Sonipat (16) and Ambala (15).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/414-new-cases-10-deaths-in-haryana/articleshow/80017255.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Park Street restaurants do last-minute safety checks, to follow 50% seating norm||KOLKATA: Restaurants and bars on Kolkata’s party street are bracing for the year-end rush during the extended weekend by conducting a final round of checks to ensure all SOPs are in place and diligently followed by the staff and guests. Welcoming the caution sounded by the Calcutta High Court ahead of New Year’s Eve celebrations on Thursday, when many fear the crowd will be bigger and more boisterous than Christmas Eve and Christmas Day, Park Street restaurateurs said they had no plan to increase the seat count for more business. “We are still observing the 50% seating rules and have not been able to put up glass partitions between tables. Thus, one table is kept vacant when the tables on either side are occupied. We will continue to strictly follow the norms. Guests will undergo thermal checks at the entry, wipe shoes on the sanitization mat and wear masks till seated. Similarly, our dining hall staff will wear masks and face shields at all times. In the kitchen, chefs will wear masks and frequently wash hands,” said Mocambo and Peter Cat owner Nitin Kothari. At Trinca’s, Anand Puri has re-arranged the seating so that guests at different tables don’t face each other. “We have done away with the dance floor to space out the tables. We have also put up glass partitions between tables. We do not lay the tables beforehand so that the cutlery and even napkins are fresh and there is no chance of contamination. The menu is digital,” said Puri. At Oasis, owner Pratap Daryanani has had to sacrifice half the seating capacity due to the compact nature of the restaurant. The norms can only be relaxed if a big group arrives where guests know each other and are comfortable dining together. But he doesn’t expect so during on New Year’s Eve when most of the customers aren’t the regular ones. “We shall adhere to the norms. We expect our regular guests to have lunch that day. Park Street starts getting crowded in the evening. The police managed the situation very well on Christmas day. We hope the New Year’s Eve will also be safe for everyone,” he said. Varun Bhimani, owner of M Bar on Park Street, said guests were welcome as long as the limited seats are available. “Once we are full, people will have to wait outside till a group leaves. We will enforce all social distancing norms,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/park-street-restaurants-do-last-minute-safety-checks-to-follow-50-seating-norm/articleshow/80017253.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chennai||Note it: When Carnatic musicians go freestyle||CHENNAI: Covid has spelt a downslide for performing arts the world over. But some artists like Carnatic violinist Shreya Devnath and mridangam artist Praveen Sparsh have used isolation as a springboard for adventure. Just when the lockdown made her feel rudderless, Shreya recalled a tune she had come up with on a pedal boat on Yercaud lake, during the couple’s first wedding anniversary. A melody that set itself to the pedaling rhythm of three beats - ‘tisragati’ in Carnatic music. The silence of the lockdown, broken only by sound of the waves and bird song in their house by the sea, offered the perfect ambience to rework that "Boat Song" — and to create four more. These ranged from responses to personal experiences — "Calm after the Storm" explores the yin-yang of relationships wondering what creates friction between a couple and how they resolve it — to ruminations on larger issues, such as "Checkmate" that zooms in on how nature "resets the balance", exacting retribution as humans continue to destroy the environment. Praveen responded to the Covid crisis by invoking hope, courage and justice in his own independent, freestyle music. His tripartite soundscape "Wake Up" depicts the cacophony of industrialised-technologised metros, followed by nature’s suffocated voices emerging during the lockdown, and ending in a future fantasia where man and nature coexist. "Mahakavi Swag'' crafts a sonic collage of Subrahmanya Bharati’s incantatory verse, where the spirit remains uncowed "even should the sky crack and crash upon me." In the wake of "I can’t breathe" atrocities, whether on a George Floyd or a Kumaresan, Praveen’s "Samanyanin Kelvi" voices the common man’s questions about violence, privilege and justice: "Has the god who guards and protects morphed into a slaughtering demon?" Shreya, a disciple of Lalgudi Jayaraman, and Praveen, a fourth generation legatee of a renowned percussion tradition, make one wonder how different do they find it to compose independent music? "Carnatic music has a huge bank of knowledge/codifications to base even our improvisations. But here it’s a blank slate, no codes, where we draw from various influences. But in both genres, my explorations are guided by an inherent sense of musicality and aesthetics," says Shreya. Praveen agrees, "I tap into the aesthetics of the art form and blend in." Their lockdown production "Rise" as a Carnatic Quartet with Mylai Karthikeyan’s nadaswaram and Adyar Silambarasan’s tavil shows how this happens. A verse by Subrahmanya Bharati morphs into an inspirational logo. Four kittens, each a different colour, all from the same mother, are musically imaged with four ragas, each different, but drawn from the same "parent" raga — Sankarabharanam. As artists Shreya and Praveen believe their music — whether classical or freestyle — must not only protest against evil, but also express their faith in the human spirit to grapple with and triumph over any challenge. (The writer is a playwright and musician)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/note-it-when-carnatic-musicians-go-freestyle/articleshow/80017246.cms||Gowri Ramnarayan
December 30, 2020||Shimla||No masks: Himachal cops collect over Rs 2.15 crore in fine||SHIMLA: While the fear of new strain of Covid-19 looming large over Himachal Pradesh with two persons (one from Una district and another from Kangra) who had returned from the UK have been tested positive, people in the state are still not willing to follow the protocol strictly. Many local residents and tourists are being fined for violations like not wearing masks and having large gatherings without following social distancing norms. In the state Rs 2.15 crore fine alone has been collected from the violators for not wearing face masks. DGP Sanjay Kundu said the state police so far had issued more than 42,000 challans for not wearing face masks and recovered more than Rs 2.15 crore fine in this regard from the violators. Besides, the police have also registered 17 FIRs and issued 55 challans and recovered more than Rs 2 lakh fine for violation of the stipulated limit of 50 persons in social functions in various parts of the state. Kundu said the police was committed to keep people of the state and its visitors safe and secure during the present pandemic. He added that all police personnel had been strictly enforcing Covid-19 related guidelines issued by the state government. “As was done during the Christmas festivities, state police welcomes all tourists for New Year celebrations, but they are strictly advised to wear masks and practice social distancing guidelines,” he added. Seeing spike in Covid-19 positive cases and deaths, the state government has imposed night curfew from 10pm to 6am in the four districts of Shimla, Bilaspur, Mandi and Kullu till January 5 to break the spread chain of virus. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur is interacting with the deputy commissioners, superintendents of police, chief medical officers and other senior officials of all districts on weekly basis and issuing directions for the proper management of the pandemic. Thakur on December 7 had directed the officers to ensure effective implementation of SOPs regarding limit of maximum fifty persons in social gatherings such as marriages etc for checking the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/no-masks-hp-cops-collect-over-rs-2-15cr-in-fine/articleshow/80017249.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Faridabad||414 new Covid cases, 10 deaths in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana recorded 414 new cases, 10 deaths and 544 recoveries on Tuesday, raising the state’s overall count to 2,61,672 cases, 2,892 fatalities and 2,54,880 recoveries. Two deaths were reported in Kurukeshtra district and one each in Gurugram, Hisar, Ambala, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri. Meanwhile, Gurugram and Faridabad continued to lead other districts by reporting highest number of cases — 94 and 47, respectively. Other cases were reported from Rohtak (37), Karnal (31), Panchkula (26), Hisar, Yamunanagar and Jind (21 each), Kurukshetra (20), Sonipat (16) and Ambala (15).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/414-new-cases-10-deaths-in-haryana/articleshow/80024311.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||Andhra Pradesh flyer who fled IGI has UK strain; 109 untraced in Pune||VIZAG/PUNE/B'NESWAR: The Andhra Pradesh government is on high alert after laboratory reports confirmed that the woman (47) who had evaded health authorities at Delhi airport on returning from the UK last week was carrying the mutated strain of the novel coronavirus currently rampaging through Britain. Pune’s civic body, meanwhile, was yet to trace 109 travellers who had arrived in the city from the UK in the past 15 days. Absence of contact details and failed attempts to connect on the phone compelled Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to approach the police for help, a civic official said. Read AlsoCovid-19: 7 who arrived from UK test positive for mutated strainThe new UK variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus — which is 70% more transmissible — has been detected in India with at least seven returnees from the country, including a 2-year-old girl, testing positive for the mutant variant, the government said on Tuesday even as it assured that vaccines underOdisha, too, was facing problems. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has been given a list of 74 more people who have travelled from the UK to the Odisha capital. It has formed six teams to trace them but it is proving difficult as the returnees’ phones — powered by UK-based service providers — have been switched off. In AP, health and family welfare commissioner K Bhaskar said his department had so far traced 1,406 UK returnees out of the identified 1,423. “We have also identified 6,364 contacts,” he said. Read AlsoScientists dispel concerns on new Covid-19 variant, say staying cautious sufficientNEW DELHI: Standard defence mechanisms such as masks, sanitisation and physical distancing will work to contain the coronavirus strain detected in six people who came from the UK, scientists said on Tuesday, giving assurance that the mutant strain is not clinically more severe and there is no needPMC officials said some travellers landed in Mumbai and came to Pune by road, and that PMC’s contact-tracing team tried to reach out to them but they remained untraceable. According to PMC protocol, all passengers arriving from West Asian and European countries have to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine at their own cost in nearby hotels in the city for seven days. Read AlsoThree UK returnees test positive for new strain of coronavirus, says Karnataka ministerKarnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday said three people in the city have tested positive for the new UK variant genome of SARS-CoV2 and necessary measures have been taken for their treatment, and to control its spread.In Andhra, the woman who had bolted, a native of Rajahmundry, had boarded a Visakhapatnam-bound special train from New Delhi on December 22 after testing positive and had switched off her mobile phone, making it difficult to track her. However, she was later traced and quarantined. Officials had also filed a police complaint against her. The woman had reached Rajahmundry in the early hours of December 24. Her son, who received her at Delhi airport and accompanied her on the train journey, tested negative. Officials are hoping she did not come in contact with too many people during the nearly 1,800-km train journey as she travelled in a coupe. Both mother and son were kept at the Rajahmundry government hospital in different isolation rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ap-flyer-who-fled-igi-has-uk-strain-109-untraced-in-pune/articleshow/80018804.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm workers, singers and even preachers, Punjab dalits join stir||JALANDHAR: Scores of dalits from Punjab — landless farm labourers, singers and even dera preachers — have joined or lent support to the farmer protests on the borders of Delhi. Dalit preachers have also addressed the protest at Singhu border from the main stage. Some dalit NRIs are also contributing financially. From villages, they are going together with farmers, most of whom are Jat Sikhs. It seems farmers’ protest has also improved equation between Jat Sikhs, dalits and other communities in villages. Preachers of both factions of Sri Guru Ravidas Sadhu Sampardai Society, representative body of deras of Adi-dharmi/Ravidassia community, have been to Singhu border in the last few weeks. Factions’ leaders Sant Nirmal Dass and Sant Mohinderpal also addressed the gathering, apart from Sant Satwinder Dass Heera of All India Adi-dharam Mission and Sant Sarwan Dass of Ludhiana. “We are with the farmers from Day 1 and have been supporting their agitation when it was going on in Punjab also. Rather this agitation has united the people,” said Heera. He and other Dalit preachers had supported Bharat Bandh on December 8 during which Dera Sachkhand Ballan, largest dera of Ravidassia community, also sent langar for protesters at a few sites in and around Jalandhar. Adi Dharam Samaj (ADS) founder and head Darshan Ratan Ravan said there is a strong feeling among farm labourers that in case farmers would be affected, they would also be affected. “So, they are also joining the protest. They are wary of big corporations taking over farming in coming times. Several of our members have already participated in protests at Singhu border,” said Kashmir Ghugshor, state press secretary of Pendu Mazdoor Union. Singers from Dalit community who often sing songs focussing on the causes of the identity of the Dalits have also been to Singhu border. “Quite a few of us have already been there. I have been to there three times and my latest trip was on Monday when I also handed over Rs 50,000 on behalf of Buddhist Samaj Wolverhampton, UK, to the people involved in morcha there,” said Priya Banga, who often sings at BSP programmes and focuses on songs with some message to her community or society at large. She said other prominent Dalit singers who have already been to the morcha t Delhi include Rajni Thakkarwal, Prem Lata, Roop Lal Dhir, Balwinder Bittu, Malkiat Bombeli, Shinda Kaudhar and lyricist Rattu Randhawa.  “Our slogan Kisan Mazdoor Ekta is actually materialising on the ground during the protest,” said Mukesh Chander Sharma, senior vice president of Doaba Kisan Sangharash Committee. Bahujan Samaj Front leader Sukhwinder Singh Kotli said that he had been to Singhu border as well as to Tikri border protest and their two leaders also spoke from stage at Tikri border. “At ground the protest at Delhi border has rather united Jat Sikhs, Dalits and other communities in villages. Apart from jointly going to protest even social interaction between them is also improving. While at most places their equations were already fine and at whatever places there was any bitterness it has ended,” Kotli said. “In our village and in other villages I have noticed more participation of Dalits in Parbhat Pheris (early morning processions) in connection with birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh,” he added. BSP to join protestors at new year Eve  Bahujan Samaj Party Punjab president Jasbir Singh Garhi has already given a call “Nawan Saal Kisan de Naal” (new year with farmers) to his cadres to reach Delhi in the evening of December 31 to be part of the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-workers-singers-and-even-preachers-punjab-dalits-join-stir/articleshow/80018048.cms||IP Singh
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||66th ABVP national meet witnesses participation from over 1L villages||Nagpur: A nationwide campaign has been planned by Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) in order to address various issues in the education sector. The 66th national conference was novel for various reasons, with teachers and students participating in the session from more than 1 lakh villages, towns and metro cities in both virtual and offline mode. ABVP passed four resolutions related to education and youth empowerment like early implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP), national scenario, India moving towards prosperity by becoming self-reliant, and India moving towards defeating the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic through its own unique way. Issues like education, economy, Indian culture, and natural society were deliberated upon. Under the first resolution, ABVP proposed the early implementation of NEP 2020 to the central government, asking policymakers to formulate NEP based on Indian thought. ABVP also demanded special exemption for various backward communities in education. In the next resolution ‘national scenario’, positive changes were welcomed by ABVP, such as the commencement of construction of Ram temple, citizenship amendment act (CAA), and Indian Army’s success against enemies. The third resolution, which was ‘self-sufficiency on prosperity’ was satisfactorily expressed by ABVP with positive efforts made in the health infrastructure and small and micro industries. Under the final resolution, ‘India’s way of defeating the Covid-19 pandemic’, ABVP commended the central and state governments for their efforts in dealing with the pandemic and showed gratitude towards the frontline workers. National general secretary, ABVP, Nidhi Tripathi said, “The four resolutions have been decided after deep discussions with the student-teacher community, and the resolutions were made after keeping in mind the aspirations of the younger generation. These resolutions, when implemented, will lead to a huge change in various fields, which will lead to national prosperity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/66th-abvp-national-meet-witnesses-participation-from-over-1l-villages/articleshow/80030664.cms||Anchal Bhatia
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Faced by Covid, Punjab medical education department revamped infrastructure: Minister||CHANDIGARH: Punjab medical education and research minister Om Parkash Soni on Tuesday said they had been able to treat more than 10,000 Covid-19 patients in isolation wards and more than 8,500 of them were discharged. He added government medical colleges in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot took the lead in early preparation for tackling Covid by providing 3,711 beds, including 1,494 isolation beds and 374 intensive care unit (ICU) and Dickson Heart Unit (DHU) beds, with scope for further enhancement. The minister said dedicated labour rooms and isolation wards for Covid-19 patients were established in the three colleges. The department also conducted the largest survey of about 250 private hospitals on a 76-parameter scale to identify facilities to manage Covid and allocate additional resources if required. Also, 1,822 posts of super-specialist and specialist doctors, nurses and other paramedics were sanctioned by the state government, specifically for management of the pandemic. Seven labs with a capacity of 26,500 tests per day were established in the state for RT-PCR testing. Total over 27.34 lakh tests have been done so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/faced-by-covid-pb-medical-education-dept-revamped-infra-minister/articleshow/80017257.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: PM Modi holds talks with two warring church groups||KOCHI/THRISSUR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held discussions with representatives of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church in New Delhi in a bid to resolve the century-old dispute between two Kerala-based Syrian Church groups. He met three senior priests of the Church at his office, a day after discussions with representatives of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church there. The two church groups issued separate statements on Tuesday, hailing their meeting with Modi as “cordial and fruitful”. The Jacobite faction said their delegates drew the attention of the Prime Minister to the “denial of religious freedom, freedom of worship and justice that the Jacobite Syrian Church is undergoing,” and sought his intervention to end the dispute. In its statement, they described the Orthodox faction as a “dissident group” who separated from them and were “creating issues by misusing” a 2017 apex court order in a church dispute case. “The faithful of the Jacobite Church are evicted from their churches and even denied burial rights in their cemeteries,” it said. The Church said their delegation appealed to Modi to “intervene to protect” their “constitutional and fundamental rights”. “Also ensuring the democratic rights of believers of this ancient church in India, namely Jacobite Syrian Christian Church, is needed,” the statement said. The Jacobite church said Modi carefully listened to their grievances and assured he would do his best for an amicable solution. The Orthodox faction said a key factor presented before the PM was the July 3, 2017 Supreme Court decision, which determined that there should be a united Church, based on the 1934 constitution of the Malankara Orthodox Church. As a public trust there could not be a division or separation of churches within the Church, it said in a statement. CM hails PM’s intervention Striking a different note from many Left leaders, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s initiative in resolving the factional feud between the Jacobites and Orthodox Christian denominations in Kerala. Speaking to media during his Kerala Yatra, the CM said he did not believe that the PM intervened in the issue with ulterior political motives. “This is a major issue that has bearing even on the law and order situation in the state. It is a welcome step that the Prime Minister has intervened to bring in an amicable settlement in the issue. Why should we see politics in such an initiative,” he said. Interestingly, Congress and Muslim League have been criticizing Vijayan for being soft on the Prime Minister, even when CPM national leaders were vehemently attacking Modi on various isues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/modi-holds-talks-with-two-warring-church-groups/articleshow/80015750.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Shimla||4 deaths, 83 positive Covid cases reported in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported four Covid-19 deaths and 83 positive cases on Tuesday while 441 patients have also recovered. The state has 54,763 positive cases of which 3,318 are active, 50,485 patients have recovered, 913 have died while 35 have migrated out. Total 7,47,175 persons have been tested for Covid-19 in the state till date of which 6,90,143 have been tested negative while results of 2,269 samples are awaited. Positive cases reported include six from Bilaspur district, four from Chamba, 14 from Kangra, three from Kullu, 25 from Mandi, 24 from Shimla and seven from Sirmaur district. Those recovered include 31 from Bilaspur district, 13 from Chamba district, 13 from Hamirpur district, 7 from Kinnaur district, 110 from Mandi district, 181 from Shimla district, 33 from Sirmaur district, 29 from Solan district and 24 from Una district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/4-deaths-83-positive-cases-reported-in-hp/articleshow/80017263.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry amends registration clause to prevent fraudulent transfer||Chandigarh: In a major decision to protect the rights of property owners by checking fraudulent transfers, such as sales, the Haryana government has issued a notification on December 23 amending the Haryana Registration Manual. Additional chief secretary and financial commissioner (revenue and disaster management) Sanjeev Kaushal said on Tuesday that the amendment had been made to ensure that persons with valid titles would not have to seek legal recourse to get the deed of the fraudulent sale cancelled, and may continue to have the liberty to enjoy their property. “The amendment would empower registering officers to accept and register cancellation deeds, cancelling the sale deeds earlier registered fraudulently by a person not entitled to transfer such property. It is also clarified that if a person has a right in the property and someone else transfers it without his consent, the right in that property still continues to subsist in true owner and the transfer has no effect on such title,” Kaushal said. According to the amendment, if a document is registered at the instance of a person not duly empowered to present the same, any person claiming under the document, may within four months from the date of knowledge that such document is invalid, present such document in such event. The registering officer, after following the same procedure contemplated under the Registration Act, 1908, can re-register the document, that is, cancellation deed, as if it has not been registered previously. If a document relating to transfer by way of sale, gift, mortgage, exchange, lease or otherwise, is registered of ‘shamlat deh’ land vested or deemed to have vested in the Panchayat Deh under the Punjab Common Lands (Regulation) Act, 1961, or in municipalities, including municipal corporations, under the Haryana Municipal Act, 1973, and the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, the block development panchayat officer, secretary or executive officer or commissioner, municipal corporation or district municipal commissioner would get the cancellation deed registered after seeking approval of the deputy commissioner or other superior authority. This parameter would be applicable for ‘shamlat deh’ lands illegally partitioned and alienated in the past without getting the title adjudicated under the relevant statute by the competent authority or court, as applicable. In addition, there could be unimaginable number of circumstances when the executant himself of his own volition comes before the registering officer and desires to cancel the earlier document. In such cases, the registering officer could re-register, that is, cancel the document, totally ignoring the earlier registration, under Section 23A of the Registration Act, 1908. The amendment also mentions that as per Schedule 1A, Article 17, as applicable to Haryana, of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 and the Indian Stamp (Haryana Amendment) Act, 2018, cancellation deed, with a stamp fee of Rs. 500, is recognised as a legal document in law and a transaction for transfer of immovable property is no exception.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-amends-registration-clause-to-prevent-fraudulent-transfer/articleshow/80017261.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Srinagar||J&K police trace abducted minor girl from Rajasthan, accused held||JAMMU: J&K Police in Samba district solved the abduction case of a minor girl (14) with the arrest of accused from Hanumangarh Rajasthan, police said. Police spokesperson from Samba district said, “Samba Police worked out a kidnapping case of minor girl hailing from Telli Basti, Bari Brahmana with the recovery of kidnapped girl and arrest of kidnapper from Behrani, Hanumangarh Rajasthan. “On March 11, 2020, a written report was lodged at P/S Bari Brahmana by the brother of kidnapped girl, a resident of Telli Basti, Bari Brahmana stating therein that his sister (14) went missing from home on March 10.  “All efforts have been made by the family members but the whereabouts of his missing sister could not be ascertained.” “Acting on the complaint, a case FIR No: 48/2020 U/S 363 IPC was registered at P/S Bari Brahmana and search was started to trace out the said kidnapped girl, police said. Police added that with the continuous strenuous efforts, a team of DPO Samba led by Inspr Vishal Shoor and Sgct Kapil Sharma with the help of police of Hanumangarh, Rajasthan succeeded in tracing out the said kidnapped girl from the possession of kidnapper from Behrani, District Hanumangarh Rajasthan.” “Later a team of PS Bari Brahmana under the supervision of SDPO Bari Brahmana, Mrs Mohita Sharma IPS was sent out to Hanumangarh which arrested kidnapper namely Bikram Kumar son of Kali Dass of Fathepur Salarian, R.S Pura at present Telli Basti, Bari Brahmana Samba.” “The said abducted girl has been brought back safely to PS Bari Brahmana by the Police team and handed over to her legal heirs after completing all legal formalities.” “Further investigation is going on,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/jk-police-trace-abducted-minor-girl-from-raj-accused-held/articleshow/80020653.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Delhi||In no man’s land: War hero’s grave in disrepair||NEW DELHI: It is said that Mohammad Ali Jinnah invited Brigadier Mohammad Usman to join the Pakistan Army at the time of Partition. But Usman, born in 1912 in Azamgarh, now in Uttar Pradesh, declined. The Armyman later dealt a blow to Pakistan when he led his 50th Parachute Brigade to recapture Jhangar and Nowshera in Jammu and Kashmir from Pakistani tribals in 1948. It was in this post-Partition battle that Usman was martyred. He was buried at Batla House graveyard near Jamia Millia Islamia and the grave has been a revered site on the university campus for years. It was mass communication student Umar Ashraf who noticed recently that the grave had been damaged. “I discovered the derelict state of Brigadier Usman’s grave two days ago and published a story on the heritagetimes.in portal,” said the MA student. TimesViewIt is a matter of shame that war hero Brigadier Mohammad Usman’s grave is in a state of disrepair. Authorities should not pass the buck among themselves over matters of jurisdiction. The repairs must be conducted immediately.Ashraf found the epitaph on the grave broken down and the graveyard itself overrun by goats and children from the nearby slums playing there. “There are many unsavoury people who gather at the graveyard to drink or to indulge in narcotic drugs at night,” Ashraf claimed. “Since the graveyard is along a busy road and close to the Jamia metro station, it offers easy access to such elements. The absence of proper security and broken walls facilitate their entry.” Ashraf pointed out that not only has the grave of Usman been neglected, but also of freedom fighters like Mukhtar Ahmed Ansari, which was vandalised a few days ago. “It’s not only a story of just this one graveyard,” added the Jamia student. “There are monuments, graves and other heritage sites across the country that are in ruins.” He blamed the university authorities for not caring enough about the local sites. “Jamia has its own VIP section in the graveyard where the institution’s former vice-chancellors are buried. And yet the university doesn’t maintain the graves of its co-founder, M A Ansari, or of Urdu writer Qurratulain Hyder or theatre personality Ebrahim Alkazi, who passed away in August this year.” Iqtedar Khan, the Nazim-e-Deeniyat or the person-in-charge of the upkeep of the university’s Jama Masjid and a section of the graveyard, told TOI, “We received a letter from Delhi government asking us about the grave. We will have to inform the authorities that the grave of Brigadier Usman is maintained by the Indian Army. They probably weren’t able to do much this year due to the pandemic.” Colonel (retired) Gopal Singh of the Parachute Regiment and 3 Delhi Girls’ Battalion of NCC arrived at the graveyard on Monday to pay their respects to the martyr. “I saw the sad pictures of the grave and came here to see for myself,” said Singh. “Every year, we would get the grave repaired, but this year the pandemic affected our plans. I will inform Jamia’s registrar and reassure of repairing the grave in 15 days’ time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-no-mans-land-war-heros-grave-in-disrepair/articleshow/80015755.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP asks DGP to act against Ludhiana MP||CHANDIGARH: Punjab BJP has demanded that DGP Dinkar Gupta should immediately order registration of an FIR against Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu for making alleged anarchist statements like “corpses will be uncountable if the farm bills are not withdrawn”. State BJP president Ashwani Sharma said on Tuesday his party leaders and workers would hold dharnas from January 2 outside the SSP offices in all districts till appropriate action is not taken against Bittu, who had been allegedly instigating the state’s harmony. Alleging that the DGP was also not ready to act against those attacking BJP leaders in the state, Sharma said, “We want a fair and just police force and not a stooge that panders to the state government.” Sharma said no one in the state had a right to take law and order in their hands. “The state police should take appropriate action against the atrocities being committed by the agitators to the BJP leaders and their families, who were suffering since the last three months,” he added. The Punjab BJP president said the state BJP had also given names of miscreants who indulged in vandalism on December 25 on former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary in Bathinda. “If a case is not registered and the issue resolved, we will start an agitation in seven days,” warned Sharma. He also made it clear that the BJP was capable of taking care of itself and the core committee would be visiting the houses of all leaders whose houses were being gheraoed by forces that actually were not farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-asks-dgp-to-act-against-ludhiana-mp/articleshow/80018051.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chennai||Where minority votes decide the majority||Soon after the bypoll for Aravakurichi assembly segment was announced in April 2019, the AIADMK top brass rushed party MPs Anwar Raja, Thamizh Magan Hussain, minister Nilofer Kafeel and battery of Muslim faces to the constituency. The ministers had a clear brief — get every single Muslim vote in the segment. But it was the DMK that won the election with its candidate V Senthil Balaji polling more votes than he did in 2016 as an AIADMK candidate. Muslims form only a portion of voters in Aravakurichi, about 15% of the 2 lakh voters, mainly concentrated in Pallapatti town. But the votes from this community were the deciding factor in every poll in the region. The same holds good for much of Tamil Nadu. Muslims, who roughly form about 6% of Tamil Nadu’s population, are scattered across the state, with more of them settling in pockets such as Vellore, Vaniyambadi, Ramanathapuram, Nagapattinam and Coimbatore. They don’t form a majority community in any of the assembly constituencies, but certainly act as a force that could impact the outcome of the polls. Especially when the fight is too close and a few hundred votes could swing the result. A look at 2016 assembly election results shows that in 10 segments the winning margin was less than 1,000 votes and in more than 25 constituencies, the margin was less than 3,000. For a state with a Muslim population of between 2,000 and 80,000 in every assembly constituency, the votes of the community could be a game changer in a closely fought election. Christians form another 7% of the population and wield clout by voting en masse in several segments. "Together Muslims and Christian voters are the decisive factors in 100 segments in Tamil Nadu,’’ says Thamimun Ansari, founder of Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi. Ansari, who won Nagapattinam assembly segment in the AIADMK two leaves symbol in 2016 as the ruling party’s ally is yet to take a call whether to face the polls this time in the AIADMK front. "Our party meeting is scheduled on January 23 in Tirunelveli. We will decide then,’’ he said. Ansari appreciates the recent announcement of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami hiking subsidy for Haj pilgrimage, but says there is a sense of apprehension among the community against AIADMK’s ally BJP. It’s not just Ansari, many among the AIADMK rank and file too share the same sentiments. Even as the results of the local body polls were trickling in last year, the AIADMK Lok Sabha MP Anwar Rajah said the ruling party was losing out its minority votes because of the actions of the ally BJP. His son and daughter were defeated in the local body polls. Rajah said he had to field his children because none came forward to contest in the polls as they were certain of defeat in the Muslim pockets in his hometown. The same year, the DMK swept the Lok Sabha polls winning a record 39 seats in the backdrop of intense anti- CAA protests. Abdul Rahman, national working committee member of Welfare Party of India said Muslims were inclined towards the DMK, primarily because of the Dravidian patriarch M Karunaninidhi, though MGR too had Muslim fans. "Karunanidhi had a close bond with Indian Union Muslim League leader and respected Muslim scholar Quaid-e-Milleth,’’ he said. Nagore Hanifa, a renowned singer was also a close friend of Karunanidhi. Hanifa was a staple in all Karunanidhi public meetings and used to sing propaganda songs. But after the 1998 Coimbatore bomb blasts during the period when the DMK was in power, the situation changed, as Muslims felt they were hounded by government authorities. J Jayalalithaa’s efforts to woo Muslims also started paying dividends. "Since then they were divided and equally supported the DMK and the AIADMK based on the prevailing political circumstances,’’ Rahman said. The DMK and the AIADMK vied with each other to woo the minority votes with various sops. Soon, many Muslim outfits took political plunge intensifying the clamour for minority votes. "However Muslim voters never had a special preference for any party, even for those from their own community. There is more awareness within the community and votes are based on the candidates and the need of the hour,’’ said Abdul Hakkim, secretary of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind. This election could perhaps turn out to be different, as Thamimun Ansari says: "The apprehension sparked by BJP’s actions at the Centre would turn Muslims against the alliance where BJP is a part,’’ he said. Muslim representatives also brushed aside the possibility of Asaduddin Owaisi weaning away Muslim votes. "Muslims in Tamil Nadu are different from northern states. They will not rally behind Owaisi,’’ said Ansari. Retired IAS officer M G Devasagayam says the same goes for the Christian voters. "Minority voters feel the divisive politics of the BJP is a threat,’’ he said. He pointed out that though J Jayalalithaa adopted a soft Hindutva approach, she never let the BJP dictate terms and was never reluctant to reject its policies, which were considered anti-minority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/where-minority-votes-decide-the-majority/articleshow/80017265.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jammu||J&K police trace abducted minor girl from Rajasthan, accused held||JAMMU: J&K Police in Samba district solved the abduction case of a minor girl (14) with the arrest of accused from Hanumangarh Rajasthan, police said. Police spokesperson from Samba district said, “Samba Police worked out a kidnapping case of minor girl hailing from Telli Basti, Bari Brahmana with the recovery of kidnapped girl and arrest of kidnapper from Behrani, Hanumangarh Rajasthan. “On March 11, 2020, a written report was lodged at P/S Bari Brahmana by the brother of kidnapped girl, a resident of Telli Basti, Bari Brahmana stating therein that his sister (14) went missing from home on March 10.  “All efforts have been made by the family members but the whereabouts of his missing sister could not be ascertained.” “Acting on the complaint, a case FIR No: 48/2020 U/S 363 IPC was registered at P/S Bari Brahmana and search was started to trace out the said kidnapped girl, police said. Police added that with the continuous strenuous efforts, a team of DPO Samba led by Inspr Vishal Shoor and Sgct Kapil Sharma with the help of police of Hanumangarh, Rajasthan succeeded in tracing out the said kidnapped girl from the possession of kidnapper from Behrani, District Hanumangarh Rajasthan.” “Later a team of PS Bari Brahmana under the supervision of SDPO Bari Brahmana, Mrs Mohita Sharma IPS was sent out to Hanumangarh which arrested kidnapper namely Bikram Kumar son of Kali Dass of Fathepur Salarian, R.S Pura at present Telli Basti, Bari Brahmana Samba.” “The said abducted girl has been brought back safely to PS Bari Brahmana by the Police team and handed over to her legal heirs after completing all legal formalities.” “Further investigation is going on,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/jk-police-trace-abducted-minor-girl-from-raj-accused-held/articleshow/80020651.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||J&K police trace abducted minor girl from Rajasthan, accused held||JAMMU: J&K Police in Samba district solved the abduction case of a minor girl (14) with the arrest of accused from Hanumangarh Rajasthan, police said. Police spokesperson from Samba district said, “Samba Police worked out a kidnapping case of minor girl hailing from Telli Basti, Bari Brahmana with the recovery of kidnapped girl and arrest of kidnapper from Behrani, Hanumangarh Rajasthan. “On March 11, 2020, a written report was lodged at P/S Bari Brahmana by the brother of kidnapped girl, a resident of Telli Basti, Bari Brahmana stating therein that his sister (14) went missing from home on March 10.  “All efforts have been made by the family members but the whereabouts of his missing sister could not be ascertained.” “Acting on the complaint, a case FIR No: 48/2020 U/S 363 IPC was registered at P/S Bari Brahmana and search was started to trace out the said kidnapped girl, police said. Police added that with the continuous strenuous efforts, a team of DPO Samba led by Inspr Vishal Shoor and Sgct Kapil Sharma with the help of police of Hanumangarh, Rajasthan succeeded in tracing out the said kidnapped girl from the possession of kidnapper from Behrani, District Hanumangarh Rajasthan.” “Later a team of PS Bari Brahmana under the supervision of SDPO Bari Brahmana, Mrs Mohita Sharma IPS was sent out to Hanumangarh which arrested kidnapper namely Bikram Kumar son of Kali Dass of Fathepur Salarian, R.S Pura at present Telli Basti, Bari Brahmana Samba.” “The said abducted girl has been brought back safely to PS Bari Brahmana by the Police team and handed over to her legal heirs after completing all legal formalities.” “Further investigation is going on,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jk-police-trace-abducted-minor-girl-from-raj-accused-held/articleshow/80017264.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Yes We Kahn: IIM-Ahmedabad conservation call gets louder||AHMEDABAD: After the representation from the family of American architect Louis Kahn and ICOMOS (International Council on Monuments and Sites) over the past two days, IIM-A continued to receive letters to save the built heritage of Kahn. On Tuesday, the institute received letters from several quarters including the alumni of IIM-A, Cept University, the Gujarat chapter of INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage) and University of California, Berkeley. An online petition was also initiated, which received over 4,100 supporters in less than two days. The announcement of a ‘change’ in 14 of 18 dorms in a letter sent to alumni by Prof Errol D’Souza, the director of the IIM-A, set in motion a chain reaction globally. The move has evoked mixed reactions —primarily on the lines of conservation versus functionality. In a letter to the director, Vishaan Chakrabarti, the dean of the College of Environmental Design at University of California, Berkeley, wrote that he sympathizes with the idea of the institution’s change and growth. “But this is not the way,” he wrote, adding that the restoration of the library proved that it can be adapted to contemporary needs. “As I’m sure you are aware, significant international concern is rising about your plans. This is not a decision that can be made unilaterally by any institution in an advanced nation,” he wrote. “As such we share a covenant that we are stewards of history and culture.” Sanjeev Joshi, co-convener of INTACH’s Gujarat chapter, in his letter mentioned that the Kahn complex is considered Grade 1 heritage. “This work of Kahn along with Le Corbusier’s works at Chandigarh and Ahmedabad have influenced how modern architecture shaped in India from 1960 onward,” his letter said. “These cultural assets belong to the globe at large and IIM administration of the day are merely custodians and trustees of the campus.” ‘Ahmedabad shouldn’t go the Delhi way’ The Faculty of Architecture Alumni Association (FAAA) in its letter on December 28 mentioned that the alumni across the globe — more than 2,500 in number — unanimously object to the path taken by the administration. “There is unequivocal urgent need to preserve and protect the original priceless works in their ensemble entirety,” mentioned the letter. A Delhi-based architect, Gurpreet Singh, the president of FAAA, told TOI that Delhi has lost its precious monuments such as Hall of Nations. “Ahmedabad shouldn’t go the Delhi way. The building also represents an era of the city’s development,” he said. We want to work together: Alumni Ahmedabad : In a letter to Kumar Mangalam Birla, the chairperson of the governing council, and Prof D’Souza, 25-plus alumni urged their alma mater to withdraw or stay the tender. The alumni come mostly from 1971 to 2002 batches and hold top management positions in India and abroad. The institute has been urged to set up a time-bound participative process with the alumni and share the results of the restoration so far. A feasibility study has been mooted of various options, and the examination of budget and plan for sourcing funds has been suggested. Sanjeev Aggarwal, an alumnus of PGP 1995 batch, told TOI that they are steadfastly with the institute. “The alumni body would like to offer assistance in all forms, including funding, to ensure that we preserve the legacy of Louis Kahn, which is intertwined with the soul of the institution,” he said. “We want to work together with the management and the governing council of the institute to bring together alumni resources, both managerial and financial, to make sure that we take a decision which helps in conserving the legacy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/yes-we-kahn-iim-a-conservation-call-gets-louder/articleshow/80017273.cms||Parth Shastri
December 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Jacobite group submits mass petition to govt||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Jacobite Church representatives on Tuesday submitted a mass petition signed by five lakh members of the Church demanding a law for resolving the church dispute. The memorandum, that was received by industries minister E P Jayarajan for the government, sought a law on the lines of the Kerala Christian Cemeteries (Right to Burial of Corpse) Bill, 2020, that was passed by the state assembly to settle the disputes over the burial of bodies between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions. The representation said that the government have been taking such bold initiatives and in this matter too, the government should take similar steps. The representation said that the only solution to the present issue is to hold referendum in the churches and divide the churches on its basis. It added that this was a success in many of the churches in Malabar. The representation further pointed out that as per the Supreme Court verdict and also the suggestions in the K S Varghese case, the government can frame new law to resolve the feud between the factions. It also said that the issue cannot be resolved merely on the basis of the Supreme Court judgment alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/jacobite-group-submits-mass-petition-to-govt/articleshow/80015758.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Goa||Sanguem’s Bendwada bridge work likely to resume in Jan||Poinguinim: Following a massive protest last week, Sanguem locals have finally received an assurance that work on the parallel bridge at Bendwada in Sanguem will resume. The contractor had begun the work earlier, but within a short while construction material was seen being moved elsewhere, which did not go down well with the locals. When the construction material was being moved, some locals approached him and made enquiries. The contractor claimed that some material had rusted as it had remained at the site since the lockdown began earlier this year and therefore would be replaced. The workers, too, stated that the excavation machinery was being taken for repairs. A few days after the machinery was moved, local MLA Prasad Gaonkar enquired with the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (GSIDC) over the reasons. On December 24, the contractor started shifting the rest of the machinery and the construction material. The news spread in the town and youth led by activist Meshu da Costa rushed to the site and questioned the workers. Da Costa and others, not finding the workers’ responses satisfactory, made them unload the construction material and machinery. Sanguem locals, under the banner of Sanguemkarancho Ekvott, had called for Rasta Roko on Sunday demanding immediate commencement of the construction work of the parallel bridge at Bendwada. The locals dispersed only after GSIDC official’s gave them an assurance that the work would commence by end of January 2021.  Former Sanguem chairperson Romualdo Fernandes also called on PWD minister Deepak Pauskar who, he said, assured him that he would ensure that the work resumes by January 31, 2021. The assurance was also confirmed through Sanguem mamlatdar Manoj Korgaonkar. The locals, however, warned about a bigger agitation if the assurance was not met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanguems-bendwada-bridge-work-likely-to-resume-in-jan/articleshow/80017289.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Disputed colonies flourishing in PRN, JDA yet to take action||JAIPUR: Residents of Raman Vihar, developed by the Patel Nagar Cooperative Housing Society, have alleged that land grabbers demolished boundary walls of their existing plots to develop a new colony in Zone-18 of Jaipur Development Authority (JDA). The new colony, ‘Shaayam Sarovar’, was being developed by another housing society, the Kirti Nagar Housing Cooperative Society, allegedly by issuing fake lease deeds (pattas). Triyambak Singh, who owns a plot in Raman Vihar alleged, “The records of our housing society were submitted to JDA in 1994. The Kirti Nagar Housing Cooperative Society submitted its record in 2012. The dispute is pending in court and stay on construction or development has been granted till the matter is resolved. The other colony members have demolished our plot boundaries and taking forceful possession. We have also lodged a complaint in the JDA, but no action has been taken.” An official at JDA’s enforcement wing said, “The dispute has occurred due to overlapping of khasra. Site inspection was also conducted on Monday. The complaint will be examined after checking the land records.” It has been witnessed many colonies are being recently developed in PRN scheme even after the Rajasthan High Court ban. In October 2010, the court banned all constructions in the area till the JDA prepares a plan for its systematic development. However, after land prices increased, land mafias are developing new colonies. Atul Pareek, another plot owner said, “To show maximum plots are in possession of Shaayam Sarovar land owners, the powerful land grabbers are removing plot boundaries and taking forceful possession. Once, they uproot us, a demand for PT survey will be made in JDA.” Giriraj Singh Khangarot, president of Prithviraj Nagar Sanyukt Jan Sangharsh Samiti said, “Pritivi Raj Nagar was initially developed after land of 22 revenue villages was acquired. Owners in several colonies are facing these disputes. Farmers who have sold their plots and developed housing societies earlier are purposely raising some technical issue to cancel the agreement. They later themselves sell their lands again on new rates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/disputed-colonies-flourishing-in-prn-jda-yet-to-take-action/articleshow/80017275.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Teachers may be called to schools in January to ‘clear doubts’||NEW DELHI: To help the students of classes IX to XII clear their doubts, Delhi government school teachers may be allotted duty during the winter vacation as well. The winter vacation will be from January 1 to 15. A circular sent to the heads of the schools stated, “In case a need is felt by the heads of government schools that some subjects need special attention, then subject-specific teachers who are teaching classes IX to XII may be called to school. Subject teachers in turn shall inform the students in advance regarding their availability and guide them to revise the content and clear their doubts of respective subject telephonically/digitally.” Teachers have also been directed to make a list of difficult topics and understand the weaknesses of their students so that individual attention may be given to each student. For classes VI to VIII, teachers have been directed to give appropriate projects/assignments as holiday homework / home assignment. “Students may be directed to submit projects/assignments to their concerned subject teachers latest by January 20 in digital form,” the circular added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teachers-may-be-called-to-schools-in-jan-to-clear-doubts/articleshow/80015795.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University drops plan to add 5 extra seats||NEW DELHI: After days of controversy, Delhi University has decided to cancel its sudden plan of adding five supernumerary seats in each college in this admission season. Referring to the December 21 notification, registrar Vikas Gupta told TOI that only a couple of colleges had sent names of students. “The last date of admission is December 31 and since there is no time left, we have decided to not go ahead with it,” he added. DU college principals have welcomed the decision. The principal of Hindu College, Anju Srivastava, said “it all happened in a short notice and colleges require time to discuss with their governing bodies (GBs).” Most principals did not even approach their GBs, stating that DU had not issued specific guidelines for the process. Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said, “It is a welcome move as there was no clear-cut policy decision for us to comply with. The university neither gave us any directive nor did it send us any letter to go ahead with the process.” However, Gupta claimed that the December 21 notification itself was enough for the colleges and “all directions were there in the order”. Ramanujan College principal S P Agarwal said “DU’s decision is right as it will stop unnecessary malpractices. It was like a management quota that had no place in Delhi University.” The colleges had sought guidelines “because we did not want this process in haste”, Agarwal pointed out. The notification, signed by the registrar, had stated that the principals would be allowed to admit five students over and above the allotted number of seats, out of which the university might suggest two names. This was called the “college-university seats”. These students were to get a 10% relaxation in the cutoff. This, DU had claimed, was a measure due to the Covid-19 pandemic and on request from principals. The decision drew flak from various quarters. “It was like a quota for those who had access to the corridors of power. It is good that the university has considered the representation given to them against this decision,” said Delhi University Teachers’ Association treasurer Abha Dev Habib.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-drops-plan-to-add-5-extra-seats/articleshow/80015762.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Illegal mining in Yamuna: Rs 10.7 lakh fine recommended||YAMUNANAGAR: The Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) has recommended imposition of Rs 10.7 lakh environmental compensation on a Shamli-based mining firm in a case of illegal mining in the Yamuna, presently being heard by the principal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), New Delhi. Sources said the compensation has been recommended in compliance with the NGT orders dated July 15, 2020, in a petition filed by Yamuna Sewa Samiti president Kiran Pal Rana of Kanalsi village in Yamunanagar district. “Before considering the matter further, let joint committees comprising Central Pollution Control Board, Haryana State PCB and district magistrate Yamunanagar with regard to the area in Haryana and CPCB, UPPCB and DM Shamli with regard to the area in UP furnish a factual and action taken report in the matter within three months by email,” the NGT had said in the order. Following this, the UP joint committee comprising Ankit Singh, UPPCB regional officer, Muzaffarnagar; R K Singh, regional director, CPCB, Lucknow; and Jasjit Kaur, DM Shamli, visited the spot of illegal mining on October 15 and prepared a report. The UPPCB report submitted before the NGT on November 27, 2020, said, “An environmental compensation of Rs 10.70 lakh has been recommended against a mining unit Devansh India run by project proponent Kuldeep Singh of Udpur village in Shamli district . The environment clearance to this unit was granted by state environmental impact assessment authority (SEIAA) in UP on January 22, 2020. The mining lease was issued to the unit on March 4, 2020 for sand mining in an area of 24.92 hectare near Nangla Rai village, Kairana block, Shamli district UP.” “Although the consent to establish (CTE) was granted to the unit by UPPCB on March 31, 2020, the consent to operate (CTO) is yet to be granted by the UP board in view of non-compliance of conditions of CTE and non-submission of compliance of EC within a prescribed time,” the report said. “The sand mining activity by this unit was done for 107 days from March 4, 2020 to March 23, 2020 and then from May 5, 2020 to July 31, 2020. Till date, the unit has not obtained CTO by the UPPCB. The unit is liable to pay environmental compensation for defiance of the norms,” the report further said. A Yamuna activist who is working on this case said, “The UP administration did not disclose details about three more mining sites in its report. We are preparing a reply and the same will be submitted before the NGT for further action.” “UPPCB inspection report hides more than it reveals about illegal sand mining on Yamuna river in Shamli district. While it was carried out at four places in Kairana area, the report mentions only one site. About 50 persons have died after falling into deep illegal sand mining pits in the past two years in the upper segment of Yamuna. Most of these were children and teenagers belonging to adjoining Panipat and Shamli district, but the report is totally silent on this,” said Bhim Singh Rawat of South Asia Network on Dams Rivers and People (SANDRP). “Similarly, the report does not mention the ecological impacts of illegal bunds creation and diversion of Yamuna which had already seen two consecutive seasons of deficit rainfall,” Rawat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/illegal-mining-in-yamuna-up-pollution-board-recommends-rs-10-7l-penalty-on-shamli-based-firm/articleshow/80017274.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Noida||Two minors booked under UP anti-conversion law in Noida||GREATER NOIDA: Two boys have been booked under the anti-conversion law for allegedly sexually harassing a 17-year-old girl, with whom one of them had a relationship for over a year, police said. According to police, it is the second case under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 in Gautam Budh Nagar. The law came into effect on November 28. The first case had been lodged in Surajpur and Greater Noida police had arrested four people, including a South Korean national, on December 19, for allegedly influencing some locals to convert to Christianity. The boy and the girl knew each other from school. Her family alleged he created a Facebook account and got in touch with her. She had an account too, which has been deleted. According to an FIR lodged at Dadri police station, the girl’s father has said she recognised the boy from his account. The boy, he alleged, “influenced her” and indulged in “romantic talk” and demanded “obscene photos from her”. He claimed when the girl stopped talking to the boy, his friend would intervene and “influence her”. “When she refused to share her pictures, the boy would harass and threaten her by saying he would circulate her pictures on the internet,” the FIR states. A relative of the girl alleged: “The girl was upset. A few days ago, the boy took her to a food shop where he touched her inappropriately and when she objected, he told her he will marry her if she converted to Islam.” The boy and his friend have been booked under IPC sections 354-A and 506, and sections 7 and 8 of the POCSO Act and 3 and 5(1) of the anti-coversion law. “He is studying in an inter college. He has been trapped. A 17-year-old can never try to convince a girl for marriage and conversion. We are poor people. My father repairs machines and I work in a cloth shop. We thought he would get education and earn well. Police have caught him over an exaggerated version of events narrated by the girl’s family,” the boy’s elder brother said. He alleged the police thrashed the boy before sending him to an observation home. Police sources said the girl and the boy had studied together till Class V and they were in a relationship. “They broke up and the boy blocked her number. They got in touch again on social media,” a cop said. Additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey said they have sent snapshots of conversations between the minors to the cyber cell. “The main offender has been detained and sent to an observation home. The other boy has not been detained,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/2-minors-booked-under-ups-anti-conversion-law/articleshow/80017283.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||1,716 missing children reunited with families||CHANDIGARH: Haryana Police traced 1,716 missing children in 2020 and handed them over to their families in different parts of the country. Of these, 771 were boys and 945 were girls and some of them had been missing for a long time. Police also tracked and rescued 1,189 child beggars and 1,941 child labourers during the year. These children were found either working in shops or doing odd jobs for their livelihood. State police chief DGP Manoj Yadava said Tuesday apart from maintaining law and order and curbing crime during the hard times of a pandemic year, officers and jawans prioritised tracing and reuniting missing children with their family. Out of the total, 1,433 missing children were traced and reunited by field units and the remaining 283 were traced by the specialised anti-human trafficking units of state crime branch. Explaining the prime objective of the programme, Yadava said it was started to prevent child trafficking and save the innocent from persons who tried to engage them in begging and other anti-social behavior. Under this programme, police visited public places like bus stands, railway stations and religious places. Police also visited shelter homes and make an effort to track down the parents of missing children who erre unable to reveal much about their families. The police are conducting this drive with the support of child welfare councils, non-government organizations and departments concerned. Sharing the district-wise figure, he said police were able to trace 213 missing children in Panipat, 50 in Panchkula, 40 in Gurgaon, 80 each in Faridabad and Rohtak, 55 in Ambala, 98 in Yamunanagar, 56 in Kurukshetra, 23 in Karnal, 24 in Kaithal, 97 in Sonipat, 45 in Bhiwani, 39 in Jhajjar, 27 in Charkhi Dadri, 86 each in Sirsa and Hisar, 23 in Hansi, 49 in Jind, 41 in Fatehabad, 72 in Rewari, 122 in Palwal, six in Narnaul, and 16 in Mewat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1716-missing-children-reunited-with-families/articleshow/80017278.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Corona vaccination dry run successful’||Ahmedabad: On Tuesday morning, the citizens queued up outside an urban health centre (UHC) in Sector 2 of state capital Gandhinagar – they had received SMS about date and time of their vaccination for Covid-19. They showed their identity proof outside the centre, underwent medical check-up including symptom check for viral infection and lastly also got the ‘injection’ – the entire process for Covid-19 vaccination only had one thing missing, which was Covid-19 vaccine!A total of 475 mock beneficiaries – 25 each at the 19 identified vaccination booths in Gandhinagar and Rajkot districts – underwent the exercise on Tuesday. Gujarat was part of the nationwide dry run in four states to understand possible trouble points, technical glitches and improve the delivery system.Dr Nayan Jani, state immunization officer, told TOI that the dry run was successful. “Right from supply chain preparedness and communication between various centres to technological part of the drive, everything went smoothly. The intended volunteers got the SMS, their verification could be done through a designated software and the mock vaccination process also took place with SOPs in place,” he said, adding that the officials from WHO and UNICEF were present as observers.At each booth, it was a three-tier system with identification, health check-up and vaccination stages. The designated rooms for waiting and observing after the vaccination were also created with support staff, said officials.In all, the state has so far trained 16,000 health workers for the job of vaccination. The health department officials on Monday claimed that the state is prepared to vaccinate 16 lakh persons in a day at its optimal capacity.“We received a list of beneficiaries from Co-Win software. Trained vaccinators have been deputed in three rooms created for different purposes at these booths (identified for the mock drill),” said Dr M H Solanki, CDHO, Gandhinagar. Those who were vaccinated were given slip of the timing of the vaccine and contact details for emergency help. They were also given the approximate date for the second shot – working as a booster dose. Officials said that if a person is not able to attend the vaccination, he/she will be given a new time through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-vaccination-dry-run-successful/articleshow/80017288.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Patna||Make Tejashwi Prasad Yadav CM and focus on PM’s post: RJD to Nitish Kumar||PATNA: At a time when JD(U) is annoyed by the way ally BJP took away six of its seven MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh, RJD on Tuesday suggested chief minister Nitish Kumar to join the Mahagathbandhan and hand over the CM’s chair to Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. In return, RJD said it would make Nitish the prime ministerial candidate. “RJD had once made him (Nitish) the CM and now he should show a big heart and let Tejashwi become the CM. He should now focus on Delhi and should lead the opposition,” former state assembly Speaker and RJD leader Uday Narayan Choudhary told TOI. He asked Nitish to focus on the Centre’s politics. “We will make him the prime ministerial candidate,” Choudhary said. He said there was anarchy in the NDA and BJP was gulping all the smaller parties in a planned manner. “BJP is like a big fish which swallows the smaller ones. This is the reason Shiv Sena left them. Even Akali Dal left NDA on farm laws issue. Now it is the time for JD(U),” Choudhary said, adding he was giving such suggestions because of tussle between the BJP and JD(U) over various issues in Bihar, including cabinet expansion. When asked whether he did not find Congress leader Rahul Gandhi fit to lead the opposition and wanted to replace him with Nitish for the PM’s post, Choudhary replied, “Let the time come.” His statement came a day after Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma gave a similar proposal, asking Nitish to switch over to the Mahagathbandhan. However, BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said Choudhary’s statement was ludicrous. “They are daydreaming. RJD should first smoothen its relation with Congress, instead of thinking about BJP-JD(U). They should be concerned about their own existence which has been lost,” said Anand, adding, “Leaders like Shivanand Tiwari, Abdul Bari Siddiqui and Uday Narayan Choudhary have lost their importance in RJD and they are trying to lure Tejashwi by giving such statements to appease Tejashwi.” Watch RJD’s Uday Narayan Choudhary urges Nitish Kumar to join Mahagathbandhan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-to-nitish-make-tejashwi-cm-and-focus-on-pms-post/articleshow/80014801.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||JMC-Heritage to form panel to resolve sewerage complaints in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Jaipur Municipal Corporation-Heritage administration has decided to form a committee to resolve sewerage choking complaints in the city. The panel will deal with complaints filed by the residents at the call centre. JMC-Heritage mayor Munesh Gurjar said, “We have promised people that sewerage will be our priority. Every day, we are receiving complaints about choked sewerage lines in the city. After the committee is formed, the sewerage complaints will be resolved in 30 minutes. This will be a more positive way of resolving the issue.” The sewerage lines laid in the Walled City more than 50 years ago is posing severe problems for the people. Every day, people are filing complaints about choked lines, dirty water being supplied at home due to pipeline leakage. Most of the time, sanitation workers are sent inside the manholes which even lead to deadly consequences. To do away with these incidences, JMC-Heritage will soon purchase 20 sewer jetting machines, which will be distributed in different wards. “We will invite the tenders on Thursday to purchase the machines. This will be helpful for everyone in the department. We are hoping to acquire the machine within a few months,” said Gurjar. Residents termed said this to be a welcome step, but are demanding proper implementation of it and change of sewer lines. Rajesh Sharma, a resident of Hawa Mahal zone said, “We want change in sewer lines of the city. These lines are outdated and not equipped with dealing with pressure of rising population. JMC usually doesn’t respond on time and people have to spend money from their pocket to clean up the sewerage. We expect this committee will give us some relief.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-heritage-to-form-panel-to-resolve-sewerage-plaints/articleshow/80017279.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Ammonia again: Pollution impacts treatment plants in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The problem of industrial pollutants and ammonia in the raw water from Haryana is becoming increasingly frequent. On the second consecutive day, the ammonia levels at Wazirabad went up to seven times higher than the maximum treatable limit, impacting operations at the Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal plants. Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chadha has released a video explaining the points where contamination of water supply occurs and how untreated effluents merge into the Yamuna and cause levels of ammonia to go up. A key vulnerable contamination point remains drain DD8, which carries raw water, and drain DD6 carrying industrial pollutants parallel to it. Pollution in the Yamuna starts from Khojkipur near Panipat and DJB has approached Central Pollution Control Board and Upper Yamuna River Board for intervention, the water utility stated. Chadha said every Delhiite had the right to clean water and the capital received much less than its share. “In this reduced share, too, the level of ammonia has reached highly dangerous levels and we are left with no option but to shut down our plants,” Chadha said. Since Monday, the ammonia level has increased to 7ppm in the raw water, forcing DJB to stop 50% water production at the Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla treatment plants, Chadha added. The problem has been recurring in the past one year and despite notifying the Haryana irrigation department, there has been no concrete action, DJB alleged. In February, March, July, October, November and December, the production at these plants has been reduced by 25% to 80%, it stated. DD1 and DD2 are two canals in Haryana from which contaminated water reaches the Yamuna near Panipat, said an official. “DD2 is also known as the dye drain because this canal contains a large amount of dye from industries with ammonia in a large quantity,” he said. These two canals meet each other near Shimla Gujran village in Panipat and then merge into the Yamuna near Khojkipur village, where ammonia levels often reach 25-40ppm, the official added. Delhi also gets water from DD8 that flows parallel to DD6 carrying huge amounts of industrial and domestic waste. “The two canals are separated by sand sacks which are often in bad condition at many places,” DJB said. The Rohtak city regulator also releases untreated sewage in DD8, it added. Several parts in south and central Delhi, and NDMC and Delhi Cantonment areas get supplies from the plants. DJB has issued an advisory asking people to use water judiciously.“DJB engineers are working round the clock to manage the situation and ensure availability of water tankers. Water from other sources is being used at Wazirabad pond,” the official added. Till late Tuesday night, the ammonia levels in Wazirabad were 4.5ppm and one plant unit was completely closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ammonia-again-pollution-impacts-treatment-plants/articleshow/80015766.cms||Paras Singh
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Gang involved in supplying crude oil busted, 8 arrested||JAIPUR: In a joint operation, eight persons have been arrested in connection with running an inter-state racket supplying adulterated fuel on NH-8 on Tuesday. The police of Jaipur Rural, Jaipur Commissionarate and Ajmer exposed the racket of bringing crude oil from Gujarat and supplying in the industrial areas. “Police have seized 1.30 lakh litre of adulterated fuel and chemical from two spots. The market value of the fuel is Rs 1 crore,” said S Sengathir, IG Jaipur range, in a press conference. He said they had received a tip-off on December 28 that one tractor heading from Jaipur and Nasirabad is transporting fake 20,000 litres fuel. “The tractor driver Mehboob Ali told that he was transporting fuel from the VKI industrial area to Deepak Motar Garage in Narirabad,” said the IG. The raids at both the places were done simultaneously. The VKI police have arrested Ajit Tanwar, Shakir, Manoj and Ganput and seized one tractor and 138 drums with 200 litre solvent in each. The second raid was made at Deepak Motar Garage at Nasirabad by the Ajmer police and arrested Saurabh Jain, Rameshwar and Jawahar Singh. Police seized 55,000 litre fake diesel and 200 empty drums. The prime facie investigation says that crude oil is being taken from a port in Gujarat from ships ferrying it from Oman and Saudi Arabia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gang-involved-in-supplying-crude-oil-busted-8-arrested/articleshow/80017286.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Soon, ‘POL APP’ to link blood donors, recipients||THIRUVANANTHAOURAM: Moving a step closer to citizen-centric policing which is likely to be a major boon for those in need of blood like accident victims and victims of crime, state police is all set to provide details of blood donors — from NGOs, blood banks and policemen from its armed battalion units — through POL APP. The mobile application ‘POL APP’ which is at present offering 27 citizen services, will facilitate policemen, who are the first to reach an accident or crime scene, to locate nearest blood donors. All the registered donors from the respective area will receive an alert on their phones, which is likely to be of great help during the most crucial hour after an accident or a crime. The idea originated from the fact that most of the time, it is the police who reach any scene of accident or crime and take the victims to hospitals where the first medical requirement is blood. “If victims need blood, police can help them in procuring it without wasting any time. Police do not see it as a humanitarian gesture, but as an essential part of policing,” ADGP (armed police battalion) and nodal officer for the initiative K Padmakumar said. Police are in talks with National Aids Control Programme (NACP) which is the nodal agency that deals with blood banks. A dedicated team from the information and communication technology of the police under SP (ICT) Aravind Sukumar is also working on the proposed project. Police have also taken up the matter with the health department for necessary support. The POL APP that was launched recently, will be incorporated with all the necessary details to undertake such a new service. It will have provisions for donors to register themselves, to raise requests for blood, to give an alert to donors within a given radius of the geographical location of the recipient, to give a feedback after donation, to link the recipient and donor and also provision for the control room to intervene and provide required assistance. As per the proposed plan, up on receiving a new request for blood, the app will look for registered donors in the area using the criteria like whether they are active donors, their geographical location, the last time when they donated blood, etc., and the auto-matched donors will receive an SMS alert. They can accept the request and the status will be available to the requestor. The facility will be launched in the first week of February, Padmakumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/soon-pol-app-to-link-blood-donors-recipients/articleshow/80015797.cms||KP Saikiran
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab disburses Rs 39 crore under Ashirwad scheme||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has disbursed Rs 39crore to 19,082 girls belonging to economically weak families at the time of their marriages under the Ashirwad scheme. Social justice, empowerment and minorities minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said during 2020, as many as 10,873 girls belonging to Scheduled Caste had been given the benefit to the tune of Rs 22 crore under Ashirwad scheme while Rs 17 crore was disbursed to 8,209 girls from Backward Classes and economically weaker families at the time of their marriages. The cabinet minister pointed out that the Punjab government also notified its own new BR Ambedkar SC post-matric scholarship scheme on October 27, which had been applicable from the academic session 2020-21. He added that the benefit of this scheme would be given to those candidates of Scheduled Castes, who passed matriculation from Punjab and Chandigarh. Under this scheme, the income limit (both of mother and father) had been enhanced from Rs 2.50 lakh to Rs 4 lakh. The ambit of benefit under the scheme had also been expanded to central and state-level institutes of higher education of Punjab and Chandigarh. Dharamsot said Rs 309.21 crore had been received to clear the backlog of 2016-17 under the post-matric scholarship for SC scheme discontinued by the Union government. The distribution of the said amount would be accomplished soon. He added the SC Land Development and Finance Corporation had given loans worth Rs 5.59 crore to 417 beneficiaries along with subsidies under self-employment schemes. Likewise, the Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation provided Rs 3.91 crore to 228 beneficiaries under self-employment schemes. The cabinet minister said during 2020, benefits to the tune of Rs 76.14 crore were extended to over 4.68 lakh students under pre-matric scholarship scheme while under post-matric scholarship scheme 56,664 students got benefit of Rs 30.18 crore. Whereas under the merit-cum-means based scholarship scheme, as many as 2,404 students received scholarships worth Rs 6.45 crore through the direct benefit transfer mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-disburses-rs-39cr-under-ashirwad-scheme/articleshow/80017290.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab registers 11 Covid deaths, 215 new positive cases||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 11 Covid-19 deaths and 215 new cases on Tuesday. This has taken the number of Covid deaths in the state to 5,322 and positive cases to 1,65,878. A total of 377 Covid patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Tuesday. Ludhiana district registered the highest number of 42 Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday, followed by Jalandhar (36), Mohali (31), Patiala (21) and Amritsar (20). Two Covid deaths each were recorded in Amritsar, Kapurthala and Mohali on Tuesday, followed by one each in Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Pathankot and Patiala districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-registers-11-covid-deaths-215-new-positive-cases/articleshow/80017298.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Police net kingpin of online frauds||KOCHI: Ernakulam rural police arrested a Kolkata native, reportedly the kingpin of various online fraud cases in which crores of rupees were stolen from multiple bank accounts across Kerala. Manathosh Biwas, 46, was arrested from Bengaluru in connection with a case registered by the rural police when the online racket led by him stole around Rs 85 lakh after hacking the bank account of a Muvattupuzha native. Police said Biswas and his team stole around Rs 1.50 crore from many people in Kerala over the last few months, including nearly Rs 83 lakh stolen from three bank accounts in Thrissur.  The modus operandi of the racket was hacking into accounts, in which internet banking is active. After collecting the user id and password along the with the registered mobile phone number of the account holder they would get duplicate SIM cards of those numbers to receive the One Time Password (OTP) that completes the transaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-net-kingpin-of-online-frauds/articleshow/80015821.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Shanti Dhariwal in hospital with heart blockages, two stents placed||JAIPUR: A day after health minister Raghu Sharma got admitted to Sawai Man Singh Hospital for food poisoning, urban development and housing minister Shanti Dhariwal was admitted to a private hospital for having blockages in his heart on Tuesday. Doctors admitted him and conducted a procedure to place two stents in his heart. One of the blockages was found in his stent, which was placed earlier and one was due to the deposition of calcium. Dhariwal had gone to get his routine check-ups. “In his routine testing, he was found to be having blockages in his heart. For which we conducted angiography and two blockages were found in stents placed earlier and one was calcium blockage. We used a rotablator technique to clean the calcium and placed two stents,” said Dr Samin K Sharma, chairman and chief interventional cardiologist of a private hospital. Dhariwal will remain admitted to the hospital for one to two days, depending on his condition. After the procedure, Dr Sharma said Dhariwal is absolutely fine and he is taking rest now. Doctors said that Dhariwal will be allowed to go home in one-two days and in one-two weeks he will be able to start his morning walking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dhariwal-in-hosp-with-heart-blockages-two-stents-placed/articleshow/80017292.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ajmer||Pandemic plays party pooper at Pushkar-Ajmer||AJMER: There are hardly any New Year revellers in Ajmer and Pushkar this time around. With Covid guidelines in force and night curfew imposed in the district, resort and hotel owners are not willing to hold year-end bash. Tourists from Delhi, Punjab and Gujarat come to celebrate New Year in both these locations. Last year, almost every hotel and resort was booked and a hose of events were organised. “We were getting booking requests from different parts of the state and even from Maharashtra, but we had to decline them,” said a resort owner from Pushkar. Police and administration are asking locals to remain away from any mass celebrations. “We are implementing the guidelines and appealing people to follow the norms,” said an official. Police are also ensuring that there are no DJs and crackers are not used for the New Year celebrations, as the state government has also banned it. Police have warned people that if the SOPs are not adhered to, they would be punished. All markets in Ajmer and Pushkar will be closed at 7pm and 8pm, respectively, on December 31, according to the night curfew norms. Temples will be allowed to open early on January 1, but devotees will have to follow the guidelines strictly. The economy of Ajmer and Pushkar relies on tourism and the resorts and hotels that cater to people during occasions such as the New Year’s. The pandemic and the SOPs to deal with it have dealt a blow to the livelihoods of many here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/pandemic-plays-party-pooper-at-pushkar-ajmer/articleshow/80017297.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||New Covid cases in Madhya Pradesh stay below 1,000, positivity rate now 2.9%||BHOPAL: With 853 people testing positive for Covid-19 in the state on Tuesday, the count of positive patients in the state reached 2,40,081. And on Tuesday too, more people recovered from Covid-19 than testing positive in a single day. Against 853 new people testing positive, 1,112 patients recovered from Covid-19 in the state. With these new patients recovering, the total count of recoveries in the state reached 2,26,904.  As on December 29, the overall recovery rate for Covid-19 in the state was 94.51%. Apart from the fresh cases, 10 casualties were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 reached 3,582 in the state on Tuesday. Districts where these casualties were reported include 4 deaths in Indore, 2 deaths each in Bhopal and Gwalior and one death each was reported from Jabalpur and Raisen districts. On Tuesday, fresh cases were reported from 49 of the total 52 districts of the state. Districts where no new cases were reported include Anuppur, Dindori and Burhanpur districts. Of the 49 districts that reported fresh cases, new cases were reported in double figures from 23. Maximum cases were reported from Indore where 258 new patients were found on Tuesday, followed by Bhopal where 125 new patients were found, then Gwalior where 35 new patients were found and Jabalpur where 30 new patients were found. A total 28,807 samples were tested on Tuesday, of which 853 tested positive. Thus the positivity rate—the number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Tuesday stood at 2.9 per cent. As on December 29, there were a total of 9,595 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-cases-in-mp-stay-below-1k-positivity-rate-now-2-9/articleshow/80015800.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Delhi||No symptoms in UK returnees with Covid-19, says Delhi's Lok Nayak Hospital||NEW DELHI: Most people with a history of travel to the UK, who are admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital after testing Covid-positive, are asymptomatic. Sources said the results of genome sequencing of at least three of the 33 patients at the hospital came out negative for the mutant variant of SARS-CoV2, which causes Covid-19. “More results are likely by Wednesday,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak Hospital, adding that all the UK returnees who tested Covid-positive were below 60 years and are currently stable. On Tuesday, Union health ministry confirmed that the samples of six UK returnees were found positive for the new variant genome — three in NIMHANS Bengaluru, two in CCMB Hyderabad and one at National Institute of Virology in Pune. From November 25 to December 23, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from the UK. The government said all of them were being tracked and subjected to RT-PCR tests. So far, officials said, 114 were found positive. It is not just the UK, returnees from over a dozen other countries, including Japan and Singapore, where the new UK variant of the coronavirus had been confirmed, are under a close watch. “Everyone who came in contact with Covid-positive people who have returned from the UK are being traced and tested. The travel history and details of people they have met are being followed up with. It seems the total number of Covid-positive people might increase,” said a source. Dr N K Mehra, honorary emeritus scientist, Indian Council of Medical Research, and former dean of AIIMS, said the new variant of SARS-CoV2 could have higher transmissibility, but evidence available so far suggests it doesn’t cause severe symptoms. “It is possible that the UK variant has been in circulation for three to four months and, therefore, it may have spread to many countries, including India,” he added. The mutated UK variant of SARS-CoV2 was first detected in September. According to the hypotheses presented by the UK consortium, unusual genetic divergence of lineage B.1.1.7 (one of the mutations) may have resulted, at least in part, from virus evolution with a chronically-infected individual. “Although such infections are rare and onward transmission from them presumably even rarer, they are not improbable, given the ongoing large number of new infections,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-symptoms-in-uk-returnees-with-covid-19-says-lok-nayak/articleshow/80015794.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to fill 8,393 teacher vacancies||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has started the process to fill the 8,393 teacher vacancies in the pre-primary education in government schools during this year. The state school education department has also launched a campaign to provide free smartphones to 1.74 lakh students in Class XII in government schools. School education minister Vijay Inder Singla said the state government had also decided to provide free education to all students from pre-primary to Class XII. The department has already appointed 154 principals, 672 head teachers, 38 block primary education officers, 375 centre head teachers and 1,558 head teachers. Simultaneously, the recruitment to 3,704 posts of master cadre, 2,364 posts of ETT cadre, 173 posts of principals, 337 posts of headmasters and 75 posts of block primary education officers has been started through direct recruitment. State government schools have enrolled as many as 3.3 lakh children in pre-primary classes. The enrolment of students in government schools has increased by 4.08% this time. Government schools also performed well with a pass percentage of 96.95 in Class XII results for March 2020. The school education department spokesperson said a new subject, ‘Welcome Life’, to imbibe moral values in students from pre-primary to Class XII has also been introduced. During the lockdown due to Covid-19, the ‘Educare App’ was also launched to provide online education to the students of government schools and to keep them constantly connected with the curriculum. The state government has also set up 6,832 smart schools and Rs 341.17 crore has been spent for the construction of 4,543 classrooms in government schools. An amount of Rs 35.15 crore has been spent for providing furniture in schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-starts-process-to-recruit-8393-pre-primary-teachers/articleshow/80017301.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Bio E-CEPI to manufacture vaccine candidate||Hyderabad: Biopharma player Biological E Ltd on Tuesday said it has joined hands with the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) to advance the development and manufacture of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate that it is developing in collaboration with the Baylor College of Medicine, Texas. CEPI will initially contribute up to $5 million towards the cost of scaling up the process for manufacturing the vaccine and will also explore possibility of providing additional funding to help enable production of 100 million doses in 2021. Vaccine output funded by CEPI’s investment will be used for procurement and allocation through the Covid-19 Vaccine Global Access facility, which is aimed at ensuring equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines for all countries, if Bio E’s vaccine candidate is found to be safe and effective. Bio E expects interim data from the Phase I/II clinical trials, which began in India in November to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of vaccine candidate, to be available in the first quarter of 2021. Bio E MD Mahima Datla said the collaboration validates technology platform the company is working on for developing vaccine candidate. CEPI CEO Dr Richard Hatchett, said Bio E’s vaccine candidate has characteristics which could make it suitable for distribution in developing countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bio-e-cepi-to-manufacture-vaccine-candidate/articleshow/80018069.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Trichy||Repair works carried out ahead of Tamil Nadu CM visit||TRICHY: The roads in rural parts of Trichy district have been given a facelift ahead of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s visit to the district for state assembly election campaign. The sudden and swift emphasis on making the roads more approachable and safe has surprised the locals. . The state highways department has spent Rs 48 lakh in the maintenance work. State highways department sources said that deteriorated roads in Lalgudi and Manachanallur towns were re-laid while faded paintings on centre medians were given a fresh coating. The bridges in the sections were also painted while tabletop speed breakers (speed breakers with paver blocks) were given black and white checks to alert the incoming vehicles. Although the much-needed maintenance work was welcomed by the locals, such road work could have been done before the monsoon to ensure motorable condition, the locals said. The CM has planned to visit the district including Thuraiyur, Manachanallur and Lalgudi towns on Wednesday. In Manachanallur town, a fresh layer of road was laid between boys’ higher secondary school and girls’ higher secondary school. “For months, the roads dug for underground drainage was left unattended. Ahead of CM’s visit, the roads were re-laid,” R Muthukumar, a resident of Manachanallur added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/repair-works-carried-out-ahead-of-cm-visit/articleshow/80018076.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 132KV grid sub-station at SMS hospital soon||JAIPUR: A meeting was held on Tuesday under the chairmanship of chief secretary Niranjan Arya regarding the construction of 132-KV GSS (grid sub station) for the new super speciality block at SMS Hospital. He directed that the concerned departments should coordinate among themselves and select a place for its construction so that the work can be completed on time. Arya said that the GSS must be constructed for smooth supply of electricity in the new super speciality block at SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/132kv-grid-sub-station-at-sms-soon/articleshow/80017300.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Houses sans toilet won’t get nod: K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday directed the officials not to approve house plans until it has a toilet facility clearly earmarked. “We have to make Telangana an open defecation-free state. As on date, many villages have cent per cent toilets. Make other villages too have toilets in every home. Put a condition that the house plan should have a toilet facility before it is given permission,” he said at a review meeting on Palle Pragathi. Stating that the villages in Telangana have become a role model for the country due to the effective implementation of Palle Pragathi programmes, the CM directed the officials to give top priority to increase greenery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/houses-sans-toilet-wont-get-nod-kcr/articleshow/80017294.cms||Roushan Ali
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Three held for betting on cricket, cash recovered||JAIPUR: A special team of Bani Park police on Tuesday arrested three persons from a hotel for allegedly betting over the ongoing T20 cricket league in Australia. Police recovered Rs 12,400 and slips and diaries having transactions of betting of over crores of rupees. Senior police officers of Jaipur police commissionerate had made special teams in every police districts to curb online betting and other betting over cricket matches. “Acting on a specific input that some people were involved in online cricket betting from a room of hotel, a team raided the hotel and arrested three persons including Jameel Khan (32), Shahid Khan (22) and Waseem Khan (37), all from Sardarshahar in Churu district. They were lodged at room no 205 of Hotel Kapish Smart,” said a senior police officer. “We have seized 20 mobile phones, 1 laptop and six ATM cards. During interrogation, the accused said they checked into the hotel on December 21 and since then were into betting over the Big Bash League in Australia,” the officer added. It may be noted that the special team of Jaipur police Vidhyadhar Nagar police on Sunday unearthed a gang allegedly involved in running an online betting racket using ID from neighbouring Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-held-for-betting-on-cricket-cash-recovered/articleshow/80017302.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nine months later, HC to return to roster system||Ahmedabad: After more than nine months, the Gujarat high court’s functioning appears to be limping back to normal, though full-fledged courtroom functioning still does not appear in sight in near future. After the winter vacation, the judges will start working from their chambers on the high court campus in Sola. The court’s functioning will start on the basis of the roster, the system that the judiciary will return ever since March 24. The court proceedings, however, will continue to be virtual. The new notification for the sitting of the judges has mentioned that the priority will be given to old cases, particularly which are pending for more than five years. The old matter will not be adjourned and the lawyers have been requested to come prepared to conduct old matters. The HC has once again sought lawyers’ cooperation to dispose of these cases. The hearing of old matters was suspended during the lockdown. The HC heard only most urgent cases with limited number of benches. Gradually, the number of benches increased and other cases were accommodated for hearing. During nine months when HC’s judicial functioning remained restricted, the lawyers continued to request to start regular functioning. HC’s Bar association president, advocate Yatin Oza, invited contempt of the court for aggressively pushing for the same. He ended up losing his status of a senior advocate, and the Bar is now supporting him in his battle with regard to action for contempt of court. The HC had in the past planned opening of courtrooms in phased manner but delayed it due to surge in Covid-19 cases. However, as the courts are to continue functioning online, the judges have delayed hearing on many issues once physical functioning of the court resumes. Recently, the bench headed by Chief Justice Vikram Nath adjourned hearing on a PIL seeking compensation for the Covid-19 victims and sufferers after resumption of physical hearing with observation that there was no urgency involved and this matter can wait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nine-months-later-hc-to-return-to-roster-system/articleshow/80017314.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: MLA PC Sharma sits on protest, arrested||BHOPAL: Former minister and MLA from South West constituency in Bhopal, PC Sharma was arrested by the police along with his supporters on Tuesday, after he sat in demonstration at the Polytechnic Square here. Sharma was protesting against the government not inviting him at the function in which Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan inaugurated the Smart Road. Sharma said that he is the MLA of the constituency where the inauguration was taking place and it is general protocol that people’s representatives, irrespective of their party affiliations, are invited for such functions. He said that even the plaque did not bear his name as the MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mla-sharma-sits-on-protest-arrested/articleshow/80015819.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BTP threatens to oppose REET until quota raised||JAIPUR: Bhartiya Tribal Party has announced to oppose the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) until the tribal sub-plan (TSP) quota in government jobs was increased in proportion to its population. Tribal people are entitled 45% quota in government jobs in TSP areas. The BTP claimed tribal population share in TSP areas have crossed 75% and above several areas. The notification for REET is likely to come next week. CM Ashok Gehlot had announced the date of REET exam on April 25 for recruitment of 31,000 teaching positions. The reservation scale in TSP areas is different from the rest of the state. Other than 45% seats for the tribal populace, 5% is for SC and the remaining 50% is for the general population. “Tribal population has been increasing with every passing year due to check on migration and improving health conditions. The reservation scheme is decades old when the TSP area was also limited. Government record says that in four districts -Dungarpur, Banswara, Udaipur and Pratapgarh - our population is over and above 60%. Granting quota of 50% for general when they are less is the problem we are raising,” said Vela Ram Ghogra, state president of BTP. He also highlighted that the Union government in 2018 had extended the tribal areas across the country including Rajasthan. “The record provided to us says that 663 more villages and three municipal corporations were added in the state TSP area,” said Ghogra. BTP MLA Chaurasi Rajkumar Roat said one of their main demands was to extend the quota as per the population in the TSP areas. “If the government is serious for the development of tribals, it is time that they should allow the most backward community to come to the fore by removing all legal obstacles, if any, in granting us our rights,” said Roat. Tribal Area Development principal secretary Shikar Agrawal said the issue was related to the education department. A senior officer in the education department said so far they have no change in reservation scheme. The tribals are included in the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution which grants them special provisions to protect their culture and heritage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/btp-threatens-to-oppose-reet-until-quota-raised/articleshow/80017307.cms||Shoeb Khan
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Govind Singh Dotasra targets Rajasthan governor on farm bills||JAIPUR: PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra, while extending support to the farmers agitation against the three farm laws passed by the Centre, on Tuesday said Governor Kalraj Mishra had not yet send the three bills passed by the state assembly to the President. Dotasra said, “Two months has passed since the assembly passed the bills, but the governor was yet to send it to the president for his nod.” He questioned what prevented the governor from sending the bills to the President. “If the bill had any deficiency, let the President decide on the matter,” he said while addressing a press conference in Delhi. Governor Mishra, who is on a visit to Delhi, meanwhile met PM Narendra Modi and President Ramnath Kovind in the last two days. Dotasra said the Modi government said Modi thinks of farmers only during elections. “When he seeks votes, he projects his poor upbringing, but once voted to power, he works for the corporates,” alleged Dotasra. He said the new laws will reduce farmers to mere labourers on their own land. Nobody had demanded such a law, then at whose behest these laws were rushed through from nowhere, he asked. He said now the allies of the NDA are deserting it one by one, but the BJP is out of touch with reality. He said the prime minister only speaks his mind but never bothered to hear others opinion. He speaks of his “Maan ki baat lakein koi kaam ki baat nahi karta.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dotasra-targets-guv-on-farm-bills/articleshow/80017313.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Forest department violated rules during Aamir Khan’s Gir visit’||AHMEDABAD: An RTI activist and lawyer from Porbandar complained to the Gujarat high court about the violation of rules by forest department authorities during the visit of Bollywood star Aamir Khan to the Gir sanctuary. The complainant, Bhanu Odedara, on Tuesday wrote to the chief justice of the high court and complained how Asiatic lions, a Schedule-1 animal, were harassed during Khan’s visit to the sanctuary on December 27. He demanded action against the forest officials concerned for violation of the Wildlife Protection Act, claiming that as many as 13 lions were pushed to the tourist routes so Khan and some 50 visitors with him could view them easily. He stated that the animals must not be harassed for the purpose of taking photographs. Odedara also complained that Khan was taken to the lion rescue centre, which is a prohibited zone. Odedara requested the court to take suo motu cognizance of the issue in the interest of wildlife and treat the subject as a PIL. “Whenever any celebrity visits Gir, the wildlife here is harassed,” his letter reads and adds that there is a consistent flow of VVIP visitors to Gir every weekend. Class 1 officers like district collectors, deputy collectors, district superintendent of police, judges and political leaders and their families keep visiting the sanctuary on weekends. He alleged that illegal lion viewing takes place for VVIP visitors at day and night. He attributed the spread of the lions outside Gir to the increasing tourism. The high court has already been hearing various PILs which it filed suo motu on lion conservation, increased pressure of tourism in Gir, encroachment, unnatural deaths of lions etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/forest-dept-violated-rules-during-aamirs-gir-visit/articleshow/80017317.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid waste peaked in July at 511 tonnes: Study||NEW DELHI: A total of 2,384 tonnes of Covid waste has been generated in Delhi since the onset of the pandemic, revealed Toxic Link’s recent study — Covid waste: How has Delhi managed it? At 511 tonnes, the peak of Covid waste was observed in July, mainly due to non-segregation at source, which led to mixing of household waste with biomedical ones. The study said, after the guidelines were revised specifying clear segregation rules in July, there was a decrease in the amount of waste generated in August and September. According to the research, there was a drastic jump in Covid cases in the city when they rose from 440 in March to 3,515 in April. Covid-related waste generation also increased from 33 tonnes in March to 238 tonnes in April, registering a hike of 620%. “Apart from an increase in cases, the primary reason for the exponential increase in the quantum of Covid waste was the first guideline issued by CPCB stating that all Covid-19 waste was to be separated and incinerated, including recyclable items, disposable plastics and food items, as the virus was relatively new and there was little knowledge about its properties,” said the study. Covid-19 waste continued to increase through May, June and July. “Till July, the major problems faced by the Common Bio-medical Waste Treatment and Disposable Facilities (CBWTFs) were mixing of general household waste with biomedical ones. With the capacity of incinerators available in two CBWTF in Delhi, the increased incinerable waste meant overloading of the capacity,” it added. In Delhi, the government supported home quarantine for people with mild to moderate Covid symptoms, which led to a substantial amount of waste being generated from homes, leading to more mixing of Covid waste with household ones. The revised Covid-19 waste guidelines in July stressed on recycling certain medical waste and less usage of disposable items. It also specified the items that were to be treated as Covid waste. While the number of cases continued to rise in July and August, the Covid waste went down from 511 tonnes in July to 398 and 383 tonnes in August and September, respectively, registering an average dip of 23.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/citys-covid-waste-peaked-in-july-at-511-tonnes-study/articleshow/80015817.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana withdraws advertisement for constable recruitment||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana Staff Selection Commission has withdrawn the August 2019 advertisement for recruitment of 6,000 constables (5,000 male and 1,000 female). An official spokesperson informed that the commission will come out with a fresh advertisement soon, inviting applications for recruitment of 5,500 male constables and 1,100 female constables in the police department. An advertisement for recruitment of 698 female constables for Haryana’s first women battalion, named Durga-One Battalion, will also be issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-withdraws-advt-for-constable-recruitment/articleshow/80017308.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Agri minister changes tack on farm laws||Hyderabad: Agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy on Tuesday said advantages and disadvantages of the new farm laws enacted by the Centre can be gauged only after the farm produce output is recorded for two seasons. Participating in various government programmes at Kalwakurthy in Mahbubnagar district, he said: “If the farm laws are proving to be beneficial for farmers, we will not have any problems with them. Rather, we will welcome them.” Speaking on the farm laws elaborately, he said the TRS government had reservations on the farm laws initially and even protested against them. “The Centre is going ahead with these kind of legislations. We have very little option but to implement the new laws,” he said. The BJP leaders are claiming that the laws would benefit the farmers immensely. He said the government held consultations with experts and intellectuals on the farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/agri-minister-changes-tack-on-farm-laws/articleshow/80017299.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cold wave sweeps state; Ahmedabad shivers at 10.2°C||Ahmedabad: On the second consecutive day, on Tuesday, Amdavadis shivered as temperature dropped and cold winds lashed the city. The woollens were out, as finally the winter chill settled on the state.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its forecast on Tuesday said that severe cold wave is likely to continue in Porbandar and Kutch on Wednesday and Thursday. Cold wave conditions will prevail in Junagadh, Bhavnagar, Rajkot, Banaskantha, Sabarkantha, and Gandhinagar.On Tuesday, the city recorded maximum temperature of 24.2°C, which was 3.8° lower than normal. Minimum temperature of 10.2°C was 2.1° lower than normal. On Wednesday, minimum temperature is likely to be about 11°C, mentioned the forecast.The city and the state experienced the chill due to a change in the wind direction from easterly to south-easterly on December 20 to northerly to north-easterly on Tuesday. It brought cold winds from fresh snowfall in several northern states, said experts. A rise in minimum temperatures is likely from Friday, they added.People thronged to buy winter wear to keep themselves warm as temperature dipped following the cold wave this season.“Generally, winters in Ahmedabad do not mandate investing in many warm clothes but we had to step out for buying sweaters and jackets as it is quite cold this winter. In fact, even if the children are not stepping out for school or tuitions due to Covid-19, they have to wear sweaters to keep themselves warm inside the house too,” said Trupti Shah, a Satellite resident.People are also choosing to invest on good winter wear as they do not want to risk getting cold, cough which could give jitters of Covid-19. “For the first time I bought wooden mufflers and cap to keep my nose and ears protected from cold. Generally, chills are fine but during corona times, one does not want to risk getting cold and fever which could raise apprehensions of Covid-19”, Prateek Patel, a Vastrapur resident, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cold-wave-sweeps-state-ahmedabad-shivers-at-10-2c/articleshow/80017319.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Goa||Illegal rooms skewing tourist footfall data, Goa govt to correct it||PANAJI: Taking a cue from the recently released report on problems facing the tourism industry, the government has decided to take steps to ensure that data on tourist arrivals is compiled correctly and without delay. “The report has brought to light that there is a huge discrepancy in the actual number of arrivals and the data currently available. We would like to correct it,” an official said. In its report — coping with Covid-19, survival and revival of Goa’s tourism industry — Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC), quoting official data, has stated that the state received over 70 lakh domestic and 9 lakh foreign tourists in 2018-2019. If unregistered tourism activities are factored in, the actual tourist footfall could be as high as 1.5 crore, the report stated, highlighting the need for accurate statistics in terms of footfalls. The Small and Medium Hoteliers’ Association estimated that up to 87% of the rooms are unregistered. The survey estimates that the overall proportion of unregistered tourism activities could be up to 43%. The official said that the government has already initiated measures to encourage unregistered operators to register. The number of foreigners in the state reported during the lockdown was far lesser than the actual figure, the report stated. This was because of non-reporting of tourists by illegal establishments, the report stated, while also pointing to several other loopholes in data collection. It suggested setting up cameras and sensors at all entry points to collect inward and outward data of tourists. All types of accommodation facilities — homestays, hotels, rented villas and hotels — should be registered and no illegal accommodations must exist, the report stated.The state should develop a software to enable accommodations to report footfalls on a real time basis, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/illegal-rooms-skewing-tourist-footfall-data-govt-to-correct-it/articleshow/80017408.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Delhi||DU refutes fake reports on physical classes in January||NEW DELHI: In just five days, Delhi University has come across two fake notices circulating on social media in its name. Both claim that the university will reopen physically for undergraduate students in early January. While the first fake notice had a forged signature of the dean of examinations, the latest one, found on Monday, claimed to be bearing the registrar’s signature. The registrar has decided to ask DU Computer Centre to conduct a forensic investigation to locate the origins of the fake notices. The university will also go to police, he added. Monday’s fake notice claimed that to minimise the loss in studies due to the pandemic, P C Joshi, the acting vice-chancellor, addressed the heads and deans of the university departments and faculties and the principals in an online meeting on December 28 and it was decided that DU should be reopened in the physical mode from January 7. DU made it clear later that it hadn’t issued any such notice. “Any information with regard to reopening of the university shall be displayed on the official website of the university in accordance with the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs, Government of India,” it stated. The first fake notice, circulated on December 24, had claimed that DU would reopen on January 3, all online classes would be shut and “attendance will be strictly compulsory”. Dean of examinations D S Rawat Rawat had said DU would take action against those spreading fake news. Registrar Vikas Gupta told TOI the university was waiting for cases to go down before restarting classes in the physical mode for the final-year students in January. In the fake notice, his signature has been copied from another notice, the registrar said. Sanjeev Singh of the computer centre said they would carry out a forensic analysis to locate the origin of the notices. It is likely that this was done by someone connected to DU “who wants to disrupt the schedule of the university”, Singh said. The centre will now add digital signatures to DU notifications, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-refutes-fake-reports-on-physical-classes-in-jan/articleshow/80015838.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 30, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer circuit house to have a new look||AJMER: The circuit house built by the British will be renovated at a cost of Rs 2.31-cr. According to the plan, there will be a new annexe. According to officials, the work order has been passed and the work has begun. The building has 31 rooms and a dormitory for political leaders on constitutional posts and government officials coming to Ajmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-circuit-house-to-have-a-new-look/articleshow/80017309.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: KCBC urges Centre to repeal new regulations||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: KCBC (Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council) commission for education has urged the Union government to repeal the new regulations introduced for selection of candidates eligible for central government’s pre-metric scholarship for students belonging to minority communities. The commission said the new conditions, introduced in the last minute, could deny the benefit of the scholarship to hundreds of eligible students. Till last year, the scholarship was given on the basis of an affidavit submitted by the parent and the details available on their ration card. However, a recent order had made income certificate from revenue authorities a mandatory document for scholarship. “There was nothing about income certificate in the scholarship notification issued on August 25. There was no reference about separate income certificate in two other subsequent orders. However, a recent order says that all candidates should submit income certificates, latest by December 31, for claiming the scholarship benefits. Parents and students are finding it difficult to obtain certificate from village offices in short notice. This is a matter of serious concern, especially in the pandemic times,” the commission said in a statement here. Students belonging to minority communities are eligible for the pre-metric scholarship by the Union ministry of minority affairs. Those who have an academic score of minimum 50% are eligible for the scholarship, provided their family’s annual income is less than Rs.one lakh. The commission has sent a letter to Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and union minority commission seeking relaxations in producing income certificates within limited time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kcbc-urges-centre-to-repeal-new-regulations/articleshow/80015836.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||Kerala to be guardian of kids orphaned during eviction||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government will take over the guardianship of two sons of the couple who lost their lives while resisting the attachment of three cents of land in which they were residing at Neyyattinkara. CM Pinarayi Vijayan said the government would provide protection to the children and promised a free house for them. He also said the government would examine the lapses in connection with the incident. The state police chief has ordered SP (rural) B Ashokan to inquire into the matter. The state human rights commission has also asked police to file a detailed report in the matter within four weeks. The couple, Rajan, 42, and Ambili, 36, were threatening to self-immolate when police had arrived to evict them from the property, based on a court order on December 22. The fire spread when police tried to snatch the lighter from the couple. The duo had succumbed to burn injuries later. Their elder son Renjith is engaged at a workshop while younger son Rahul is in school. As per Rahul, policemen reached the house with the order and forced Rajan to leave. “My father said the court was considering his appeal on that day and a stay order is expected. But police were unwilling to listen to anything,” he said. Following the incident, the HC issued a stay order for the munsiff court order till January 15. Rajan and his neighbour Vasantha were involved in a dispute over the ownership of the property and the matter was under court’s consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-to-be-guardian-of-kids-orphaned-during-eviction/articleshow/80018827.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to install WiFi hotspots at Singhu Border||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will be installing multiple free WiFi hotspots at Singhu Border to ensure better internet connectivity for the protesting farmers. Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha said it was part of AAP’s selfless service for the farmers. Each WiFi hotspot will cover a radius of 100 metres. The government has promised to install the first hotspot, which will offer unlimited data for the farmers, within 48 hours. Chadha, the co in-charge of AAP’s Punjab unit, said the WiFi hotspots would be installed in a phased manner across the Singhu Border. “CM Arvind Kejriwal and AAP MLAs have made repeated visits to the border and regularly interacted with farmers. Many farmers had complained about the poor connectivity and bad network due to which they were unable to talk to their family members,” Chadha said, adding that free WiFi hotspots will help the protesting farmers stay connected to their loved ones. “The WiFi hotspots will help the farmers give a befitting answer to BJP and will let farmers continue busting fake news that is being spread about them.” Hundreds of farmers are camping at the border for over a month demanding repeal of the three farm laws passed by the central government recently. “We vow to install as many WiFi hotspots as required by our farmer brothers and sisters who have been sitting at Delhi’s borders in this bitter cold,” Chadha announced in a press conference. AAP has been supporting the farmers’ agitation since it began. Kejriwal has said that the farm laws do not have any advantage for the farmers and will only make their life difficult. He has appealed to the central government to repeal the three laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-install-wifi-hotspots-at-singhu/articleshow/80015868.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||SEC: Finish delimitation exercise in 7 civic bodies||Hyderabad: Telangana State Election Commission has shot off a letter to the government asking it to complete the exercise of delimitation of wards and finalisation of reservations in five municipalities and two municipal corporations enabling it to hold polls before the expiry of the term of present elect-ed bodies. Of the seven municipal bodies supposed to go for elections in the ensuing 2021, the term of elected bodies in Greater Warangal and Khammam municipal corporations and Atchampet municipality expires on March 14, and that of Siddipet municipality on April 15. The term of elected bodies in Nakrekal and Jadcherla gram panchayats expired on December 15 and that of Kothur gram panchayat on October 29. All these three panchayats were upgraded as municipalities and elections are due to these civic bodies. “The Election Commission wants to start the exercise of holding elections to the seven ULBs before before the publication of electoral rolls by the Election Commission of India on January 15. It has written to the state government to complete delimitation and reservation of wards, which is mandatory as per the new Municipalities Act,” said an official in the municipal administration department. Though delimitation of wards was completed in 131 urban local bodies in December 2019 itself, the mandatory exercise was not taken up in some of the ULBs which were not going to polls in early 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-finish-delimitation-exercise-in-7-civic-bodies/articleshow/80017310.cms||Roushan Ali
December 30, 2020||Kochi||AAI, Adani Group to ink agreement||New Delhi: The Airports Authority of India (AAI) will sign the agreement to hand over Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram airports to Adani Group next month. The group had won the bids to operate six AAI airports including at these three places, Mangaluru, Lucknow and Ahmedabad for 50 years on purchasing power parity (PPP) basis. While Adani Group has taken over Mangaluru, Lucknow and Ahmedabad, AAI will begin the process to hand over the remaining three by signing the concession agreement by January 25, 2021, AAI chairman Arvind Singh confirmed. Apart from these six, AAI is planning to operate as many additional airports — Varanasi, Amritsar, Bhubaneswar, Raipur, Indore and Trichy — the PPP way. The Union government’s decision to run Thiruvananthapuram airport on PPP basis had been challenged legally. “That court decision has come in our favour as the process was done in a very open and transparent manner. The security clearance has also come for (handing over the remaining three airports to Adani Group),” aviation secretary P S Kharola said on Tuesday. Adani Group is soon going to take over Mumbai International Airport Ltd, and the upcoming Navi Mumbai Airport, where it is acquiring a controlling stake from outgoing promoter GVK Group. With seven functional airports and a greenfield one (at Navi Mumbai) under its belt, the group will be the biggest private airport operator in India in terms of the number of airports handled. In terms of the number of passengers handled, GMR will remain the biggest player for some time as it runs India’s biggest airport — Delhi’s IGIA. This group has, among others, Hyderabad and the upcoming Mopa airport in Goa in its aviation portfolio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/aai-adani-group-to-ink-agreement/articleshow/80015869.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress to hold protests in state||Hyderabad: To “expose” the anti-farmer stand of TRS and BJP, the Congress will organise protests in all mandal headquarters from December 30 to January 8. Protests will be held at all district headquarters on January 11 and a state-level protest will be held on January 18, it said. A round table conference will also be held in the next three days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-to-hold-protests-in-state/articleshow/80017306.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||‘Cured Covid patients are getting infected again in 2 weeks’||JAIPUR: Amidst the belief that after getting a negative Covid-19 report, a person can’t get infected for at least three months, the Covid core team of doctors on Tuesday stated that there are cases where people are getting infected again within a fortnight or a month after their last negative report. Doctors stated that response to the virus varies from person to person and so does the formation of antibodies. Thus people who have recently got their negative report should be more careful than before. TOI on Tuesday spoke to various doctors who are part of the Covid core team to find out more on the myths like a person after getting Covid-positive report can’t get the infection back for next three months at least. RUHS and private hospitals are witnessing patients who are getting re-infected within a fortnight or a month after their last negative report. “I tested positive on September 4 and on September 20, I tested negative. I again got infected on October 12. After medication, I am better now,” said a 46-year-old patient on condition of anonymity. Agreeing to the fact that many are getting infected again, Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College, said, “We have witnessed cases in which patients getting a negative Covid report tested positive again after 15 days or 30 days. So, it depends on various factors including the virulence of the virus and also how much antibodies are formed. So, it is no guarantee that after once getting a negative report a person can’t test positive. In some cases, we had seen that the tests give false negative report as the virus is harboured in the body.” Dr Ajeet Singh, superintendent of Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) admitted that last Covid report is not a guarantee that infection won’t reoccur. “We have witnessed in at least 3 out of 10 recovered patients that they have got re-occurrence within a fortnight or month after their last negative report. So, those who tested positive and had undergone home quarantine or were hospitalized should take more precautions. Also, for recovered patients, a proper anti-body test is a must to know the formation of antibodies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cured-patients-are-getting-infected-again-in-2-weeks/articleshow/80017326.cms||Ashish Mehta
December 30, 2020||Udaipur||Waive loans of farmers from banks: Rajasthan CM to PM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanded that the debt of farmers from nationalised and commercial banks be written off by the Centre. He pointed out that a recent RTI reply shows that during the first tenure of Modi government, a total of Rs 7.95 lakh crore loan of industrialists were waived off by the Centre. But the Modi government did not give any debt relief to the farmers. He said after the formation of the Congress government in 2018, the Rajasthan government had waived debt of 20.56 lakh farmers. “The state government incurred an expenditure of Rs 14,000 crore for loan waiver which included Rs 6,000 crore on this head announced by the BJP government,” said Gehlot. “I had to remind the prime minister on loan waiver at a kisan sammelan organised by the BJP on December 18 in Madhya Pradesh. The prime minister said the farmers in Rajasthan are still waiting for loan waiver.” But reality is different, he said and added that, “No farmer in Rajasthan is waiting for loan waiver from banks under the state government.” He said the reality is that the central government had not waived the loan from scheduled and commercial banks under the Union government. He pointed out that the UPA government under Man Mohan Singh had waived Rs 72,000 crore loan of farmers from scheduled and commercial banks unlike NDA governments. Chief minister said it is ironic that on the one hand the BJP is spreading misinformation of loan waiver, while on the other hand there was no sincere efforts for a constructive dialogue with the agitating farmers. He said according to media reports about 40 farmers had so far died during the stir. He said if the central government had a discussion with the stake holders, and political parties, before the laws rushed through, this kind of situation could have been avoided. The NDA government had promised to double farmers’ income but considering their polices and the prevailing circumstances, it seems to be an impossible task, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/waive-loans-of-farmers-from-banks-cm-to-pm/articleshow/80020911.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||9-year-old girl raped by neighbour in Bhilwara||JAIPUR: A nine-year-old girl was raped by a youth living in the same house under Bijolia police station area in Bhilwara. Police have arrested the accused and sent him to judicial custody on Tuesday. Cops are now looking at filing chargesheet against the accused on Wednesday. According to the police, the accused raped the girl on Sunday evening when her parents were away. “After knowing about the incident, a team of cops reached the spot. The girl had sustained injuries and was taken to the hospital by the team. The accused in teh case was arrested on Monday,” said Preeti Chandra, superintendent of police, Bhilwara. She added that the accused lives in the same house as a tenant, where the girl’s family was living. “The girl is undergoing treatment at the hospital,” she said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/9-year-old-girl-raped-by-neighbour-in-bhilwara/articleshow/80017330.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Will protect farmers if govt takes action, says Budha Dal||PATIALA: A group of Nihang Sikhs under Budha Dal on Tuesday moved towards Delhi borders and extended support to the agitating farmers. The Budha Dal chief said they would protect farmers if the government took to any action to remove them from the peaceful protest against the three contentious agriculture laws. The group of Sikhs moved from Fatehgarh Sahib to Singhu border in their vehicles and returned back on the same day. The Budha Dal chief also announced to help farmers by providing Rs 5 lakh cash amount, around 500 blankets, dry fruits in large quantity etc. Balbir Singh, chief of Budha Dal Nihang section, said around 500 Nihang Sikhs reached the borders. “We are returning same day only. The Nihang Fauj is present at Kundli and Singhu borders and in case any need arises we’ll move in large number to protect the agitating farmers,” said Baba Balbir Singh while adding that around five lakh baptized Sikhs were members of this section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/will-protect-farmers-if-govt-takes-action-says-budha-dal/articleshow/80018086.cms||Bharat Khanna
December 30, 2020||Delhi||New Year’s Eve: Call to follow Covid rules||NEW DELHI: With New Year’s Eve approaching, Delhi Police on Monday called a joint meeting with market associations, malls, restaurants, clubs and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to ensure that people were asked not to violate anti-Covid norms. Crowding should be avoided and social distancing and mask norms should be enforced, they were told. Playing loud music will also not be allowed after 10pm, police said. In the meeting, chaired by DCP Atul Thakur, everyone was informed that no major New Year celebrations or mass gathering would be allowed, said Greater Kailash-II RWA president Sanjay Rana. “Residents have been asked to keep the celebrations a low-key affair at their homes with their near and dear ones to avoid chances of spreading the infection.” Special teams have been formed by Delhi Police to check on people violating Covid-19 norms, Rana said. Rajendra Sharda of GK-I M Block Market Association said the majority of cafes and bars had shut down during the pandemic. “There are a few restaurants and the message has been circulated among all. The market will anyhow shut down 9-10pm, except for restaurants, so that there is no chance of violation of norms,” he said. Due to the pandemic, many RWAs have cancelled their community events on New Year and the festival of Lohri or Makarsankranti. “We are going to circulate the message among residents to avoid mass gatherings on New Year. The RWA has cancelled all celebrations,” said M K Gupta, president of S block, GK-I. On Lohri, the RWA usually holds mega events along with lunch, he added. The Republic Day gathering at the community park has also been cancelled. New Delhi Municipal Council has formed teams to keep a tab on violators in markets such as Connaught Place and Khan Market on New Year’s Eve, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-years-eve-call-to-follow-covid-rules/articleshow/80015834.cms||Vibha Sharma
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Waive loans of farmers from banks: Rajasthan CM to PM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanded that the debt of farmers from nationalised and commercial banks be written off by the Centre. He pointed out that a recent RTI reply shows that during the first tenure of Modi government, a total of Rs 7.95 lakh crore loan of industrialists were waived off by the Centre. But the Modi government did not give any debt relief to the farmers. He said after the formation of the Congress government in 2018, the Rajasthan government had waived debt of 20.56 lakh farmers. “The state government incurred an expenditure of Rs 14,000 crore for loan waiver which included Rs 6,000 crore on this head announced by the BJP government,” said Gehlot. “I had to remind the prime minister on loan waiver at a kisan sammelan organised by the BJP on December 18 in Madhya Pradesh. The prime minister said the farmers in Rajasthan are still waiting for loan waiver.” But reality is different, he said and added that, “No farmer in Rajasthan is waiting for loan waiver from banks under the state government.” He said the reality is that the central government had not waived the loan from scheduled and commercial banks under the Union government. He pointed out that the UPA government under Man Mohan Singh had waived Rs 72,000 crore loan of farmers from scheduled and commercial banks unlike NDA governments. Chief minister said it is ironic that on the one hand the BJP is spreading misinformation of loan waiver, while on the other hand there was no sincere efforts for a constructive dialogue with the agitating farmers. He said according to media reports about 40 farmers had so far died during the stir. He said if the central government had a discussion with the stake holders, and political parties, before the laws rushed through, this kind of situation could have been avoided. The NDA government had promised to double farmers’ income but considering their polices and the prevailing circumstances, it seems to be an impossible task, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/waive-loans-of-farmers-from-banks-cm-to-pm/articleshow/80017320.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Waive loans of farmers from banks: Rajasthan CM to PM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanded that the debt of farmers from nationalised and commercial banks be written off by the Centre. He pointed out that a recent RTI reply shows that during the first tenure of Modi government, a total of Rs 7.95 lakh crore loan of industrialists were waived off by the Centre. But the Modi government did not give any debt relief to the farmers. He said after the formation of the Congress government in 2018, the Rajasthan government had waived debt of 20.56 lakh farmers. “The state government incurred an expenditure of Rs 14,000 crore for loan waiver which included Rs 6,000 crore on this head announced by the BJP government,” said Gehlot. “I had to remind the prime minister on loan waiver at a kisan sammelan organised by the BJP on December 18 in Madhya Pradesh. The prime minister said the farmers in Rajasthan are still waiting for loan waiver.” But reality is different, he said and added that, “No farmer in Rajasthan is waiting for loan waiver from banks under the state government.” He said the reality is that the central government had not waived the loan from scheduled and commercial banks under the Union government. He pointed out that the UPA government under Man Mohan Singh had waived Rs 72,000 crore loan of farmers from scheduled and commercial banks unlike NDA governments. Chief minister said it is ironic that on the one hand the BJP is spreading misinformation of loan waiver, while on the other hand there was no sincere efforts for a constructive dialogue with the agitating farmers. He said according to media reports about 40 farmers had so far died during the stir. He said if the central government had a discussion with the stake holders, and political parties, before the laws rushed through, this kind of situation could have been avoided. The NDA government had promised to double farmers’ income but considering their polices and the prevailing circumstances, it seems to be an impossible task, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/waive-loans-of-farmers-from-banks-cm-to-pm/articleshow/80020909.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ajmer||Waive loans of farmers from banks: Rajasthan CM to PM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanded that the debt of farmers from nationalised and commercial banks be written off by the Centre. He pointed out that a recent RTI reply shows that during the first tenure of Modi government, a total of Rs 7.95 lakh crore loan of industrialists were waived off by the Centre. But the Modi government did not give any debt relief to the farmers. He said after the formation of the Congress government in 2018, the Rajasthan government had waived debt of 20.56 lakh farmers. “The state government incurred an expenditure of Rs 14,000 crore for loan waiver which included Rs 6,000 crore on this head announced by the BJP government,” said Gehlot. “I had to remind the prime minister on loan waiver at a kisan sammelan organised by the BJP on December 18 in Madhya Pradesh. The prime minister said the farmers in Rajasthan are still waiting for loan waiver.” But reality is different, he said and added that, “No farmer in Rajasthan is waiting for loan waiver from banks under the state government.” He said the reality is that the central government had not waived the loan from scheduled and commercial banks under the Union government. He pointed out that the UPA government under Man Mohan Singh had waived Rs 72,000 crore loan of farmers from scheduled and commercial banks unlike NDA governments. Chief minister said it is ironic that on the one hand the BJP is spreading misinformation of loan waiver, while on the other hand there was no sincere efforts for a constructive dialogue with the agitating farmers. He said according to media reports about 40 farmers had so far died during the stir. He said if the central government had a discussion with the stake holders, and political parties, before the laws rushed through, this kind of situation could have been avoided. The NDA government had promised to double farmers’ income but considering their polices and the prevailing circumstances, it seems to be an impossible task, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/waive-loans-of-farmers-from-banks-cm-to-pm/articleshow/80020914.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Robot-assisted knee replacement is precise, perfect: Study||Nagpur: A local study done on robot-assisted knee replacement has concluded that the new technology is precise and perfect as compared to the earlier methods. The technology helps in achieving more accurate component placement and limb alignment, claimed orthopaedic surgeon Dr Mukesh Laddha, under whose leadership the study was completed earlier this year. The study was published in Indian Journal of Orthopaedics recently. Dr Laddha claimed that the research is first of its kind in India. “We have done assessment of limb alignment and component placement of 63 patients in Nagpur after robotic‑assisted total knee arthroplasty. These patients underwent surgery between March and October in 2019,” said Dr Laddha. According to the study, robotic software assistance reduced overall coronal limb alignment outlier from 3 degree to less than 1.24 degree and component malposition to less than 1 degree. With conventional knee replacement technique, limb alignment varies between 0 to 6 degrees and component malposition above 3 degree. “Success of the knee replacement depends on perfect limb alignment, precise component placement and accurate ligament balancing. The new technology helps us a lot achieving this perfection. However, it’s not a replacement for a good old fashioned experience,” said Dr Laddha. “Whether this technology improves clinical outcome, patient’s satisfaction and gives long-term survival of knee is still not clear. We will continue the subsequent study in future,” he added. One of the most common misconceptions about such knee replacements is that the surgery is done 100% robotically. While the procedure is assisted by a robotic arm, orthopaedic surgeon is still in control. The robotic arm’s only job is to help the surgeon perform with greater precision. As a result, patients must choose an orthopaedic surgeon, who has completed a high volume of surgeries with good outcomes. “As for the surgeons, one advantage of the use of computer is to confirm cut. It gives accurate estimate about how close the surgeon has performed with regards to the planned cut. Presently, 95% surgeons across the world confirm this manually,” said noted orthopaedic surgeon Dr Alankar Ramteke. As the technology of robotic assistance is new, very few doctors in India perform these types of surgeries. There are differences of opinion across the world among surgeons about long-term clinical or radiologic outcomes of this surgery. In such scenario, a city-based study done in Indian conditions could be a starting point for further research. Technological Boost Robot-assisted surgeries are more accurate in implant positioning Can result in a more natural feeling after surgery Improved safety and reduced risk of injury to adjacent tissues Small incisions, which may result in a quicker recovery||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/robot-assisted-knee-replacement-is-precise-perfect-study/articleshow/80029329.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress men indulged in hooliganism: SAD||CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has condemned the Punjab Congress accusing it of “indulging in hooliganism and violence” in the Fatehgarh Sahib gurdwara premises on Monday. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had gone there to attend a function to mark supreme sacrifice of the four Sahibzadas – sons of Guru Gobind Singh. SAD’s Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema, while addressing the mediapersons, alleged that the Congress goons had not only hurt the sentiments of the ‘Sikh sangat’ by their reprehensible acts but also insulted the tradition of ‘langar’ by upturning utensils of tea made for devotees. SAD Fatehgarh Sahib district president Jagdeep Singh Cheema, former legislator Didar Singh Bhatti, and SGPC members Avtar Singh Rai and Ravinder Singh Khalsa were also present. Chandumajra said the Congress was playing into the hands of agencies who wanted to harm the farmers’ protest. He claimed no farmer leader or farmer could indulge in such a heinous act witnessed in Fatehgarh Sahib on Monday. “The chief minister should not become party to spoiling the peace of the state by allowing such incidents to happen with the support of the Fatehgarh Sahib administration and police set up,” said Chandumajra. He also condemned the district police for not taking action against the miscreants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-men-indulged-in-hooliganism-sad/articleshow/80018097.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan Covid cases fall but govt asks people not to lower guard||JAIPUR: Covid infections have been continuously dipping in the state with 626 cases recorded on Tuesday. Except for Jaipur where 108 cases were reported, majority of the places witnessed under 100 cases. Districts such as Jalore and Karauli reported no cases. In the last 24 hours, six persons lost their lives to Covid taking the casualty count to 2,683. Health officials said people should not be careless ahead of the New Year’s eve and continue to take the precautions as earlier. Apart from them, police and district administration have pulled up their socks to ensure that people follow Covid guidelines during year-end and New Year bash. Jaipur was followed by Kota with 59 cases, Jodhpur (52), Udaipur (46), Nagaur (45), Baran (43), Bhilwara (38) and in Chittorgarh (32). “Out of six deaths, one each was reported from Alwar, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Jaipur,Jhalawar and Jodhpur,” said an officer. There is also a dip in the number of deaths compared to previous months when 14 to 15 deaths were reported daily. “With various therapies and early detections, the mortality is coming down,” said an officer. However, doctors at health department maintained that people should take precautions. “Despite dip in numbers, people should be careful and follow guidelines to save themselves and their families,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, superintendent of RUHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-covid-cases-fall-but-govt-asks-people-not-to-lower-guard/articleshow/80020903.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar cabinet OKs creation of 6 more nagar panchayats||PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the creation of six more nagar panchayats in Nalanda, Samastipur, Banka, Gopalganj and Madhubani districts. Earlier, the cabinet had given its nod for creation of 103 new nagar panchayats in different districts of the state. The cabinet, at its meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar, cleared the state urban and housing department’s proposal to give nagar panchayat status to Silao and Pawapuri (Giriyak) in Nalanda district, Singhia in Samastipur, Benipatti in Madhubani, Hathua in Gopalganj and Bounsi in Banka districts. The decision was taken under the Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act 2020. Meanwhile, sand will be more expensive in the state. The cabinet cleared the proposal to extend the existing lease of sand mining ghats till March 31, 2021 in view of the National Green Tribunal’s order on issuing environment clearance certificate. The lease of sand mining ghats was to lapse on December 31. However, the lease amount has been increased by 50%, which will lead to hike in the prices of sand and finally the construction materials. The cabinet also approved the e-stamp Duty Rule 2020 of the state excise, prohibition and registration department. The meeting also approved the education department’s proposal for release of grants to 599 intermediate (+2) level affiliated colleges for the academic year 2014-16. The cabinet also gave its nod to Bihar Road Construction Department Amin category (region establishment) Recruitment and Service Condition Amendment Rule 2020. The health department’s proposal to terminate the services of Dr Sunil Kumar Jha was also approved. Dr Jha was posted at the primary health centre at Dhamdaha in Purnia district. He had been found absent from duty since 2007. Altogether 11 proposals were approved at the state cabinet meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-cabinet-oks-creation-of-6-more-nagar-panchayats/articleshow/80015181.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Metallic and plastic manjha banned in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Jaipur police on Tuesday banned the sale and purchase of plastic and metallic manjha ahead of the kite festival. Police commissioner Anand Srivastav has issued 144 CrPC orders and had directed authorities to penalise the guilty in case of any violation of prohibitory orders on the ban on manjha. In April, the state government had banned sale of manjha and the then additional chief secretary (home) Rajeeva Swarup had written to Jaipur and Jodhpur commissioners and asked them to issue prohibitory orders. “The ban on the manjha will be effective up to January 31, 2021. Also, it has been made a punishable offence under Section 188 of IPC. In the past as well, we had arrested traders and people who were found selling metallic manjha and other similar strings made up of plastic,” said Srivastav. Police added that the ban would be effective at all the police districts under Jaipur police commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/metallic-and-plastic-manjha-banned-in-city/articleshow/80017332.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan Covid cases fall but govt asks people not to lower guard||JAIPUR: Covid infections have been continuously dipping in the state with 626 cases recorded on Tuesday. Except for Jaipur where 108 cases were reported, majority of the places witnessed under 100 cases. Districts such as Jalore and Karauli reported no cases. In the last 24 hours, six persons lost their lives to Covid taking the casualty count to 2,683. Health officials said people should not be careless ahead of the New Year’s eve and continue to take the precautions as earlier. Apart from them, police and district administration have pulled up their socks to ensure that people follow Covid guidelines during year-end and New Year bash. Jaipur was followed by Kota with 59 cases, Jodhpur (52), Udaipur (46), Nagaur (45), Baran (43), Bhilwara (38) and in Chittorgarh (32). “Out of six deaths, one each was reported from Alwar, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Jaipur,Jhalawar and Jodhpur,” said an officer. There is also a dip in the number of deaths compared to previous months when 14 to 15 deaths were reported daily. “With various therapies and early detections, the mortality is coming down,” said an officer. However, doctors at health department maintained that people should take precautions. “Despite dip in numbers, people should be careful and follow guidelines to save themselves and their families,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, superintendent of RUHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-covid-cases-fall-but-govt-asks-people-not-to-lower-guard/articleshow/80020902.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Wrong to brand farmers as Naxals or Khalistanis’||JALANDHAR: Kheti Virasat Mission executive director Umendra Dutt, who has remained closely associated with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and held offices in its sister organizations, said branding farmers’ movement as that of urban Naxals or Khalistanis is highly problematic and misleading and rather reflects a “narrow vision”. Calling it a mass movement and awakening of Punjab, he has held that it is a manifestation of accumulated anger and frustration of Punjab and needs to be handled with great sensitivity. “People of different ideologies have converged at the protests and there can be those who can be Khalistanis or from ultra-left ideologies,” Dutt said while talking to TOI on Monday.He said he and other members of Kheti Virasat Mission participated in the protest for three days. “We also served Kodhare da Dalia (Porridge of Kodhara) there,” he added. Dutt who also remained editor of Swadeshi — the journal brought out by Swadeshi Jagran Manch — said, “They (government) could have held consultations within the Sangh parivar. Bhartiya Kisan Sangh, Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh and Swadeshi Jagran Manch have been flagging issues on these laws and the government should have at least listened to them. They would have never given an advice which would damage the government, but would have kept it on the correct path as they work on ground too.” “However, it appears that laws have been drafted by the bureaucracy who can’t think out of the box as they usually suffer from mental stagnation. Ministers apparently did not know these laws properly. People involved in the agriculture sector could have been involved. Real experts are available who understand the policy issues while they also work at ground level and they would have brought more ideas to the table,” he said. “In fact a paradigm shift is required in model of agriculture, but the new laws don’t provide that. The method to finalize these laws should have been more participatory and democratic. As agriculture is a state subject and states have different conditions and there can’t be one type of solution for all states and a much wider dialogue was required. In place of locking the solutions, it could have been left to the states to fine tune these,,” said Dutt. He also argued that there should have been social and political consensus on these laws. “The farmers’ movement is also a manifestation of accumulated anger including the pain of 1984, Operation Blue Star, Punjabi language issue, Chandigarh or river water issues. But it is about Punjab. I had been feeling deep civilizational crisis in Punjab but this agitation is social renaissance and it can even lead to building of a political alternative in the state,” held Dutt who has been working with people from diverse ideologies. “When bitterness between Punjabis and Haryanvis has turned into bonhomie and Punjab is feeling much energetic, after this movement focus should be on reinventing our agriculture practices and other challenges confronting the state also and I want to see it as an organic state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wrong-to-brand-farmers-as-naxals-or-khalistanis/articleshow/80018094.cms||IP Singh
December 30, 2020||Ajmer||Engineering exam scrapped after paper leak in Rajasthan, case lodged||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Staff Selection Board on Tuesday cancelled the Junior Engineer (Civil) recruitment exam that was held on December 6. Nearly 31,752 candidates had appeared in the exam for 533 posts of junior civil engineers from all the divisional headquarters. The decision to scrap the exam came a day after the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police sent a report to the staff selection board saying the question paper had been leaked. “A report was sent to the board on Monday,” said Ashok Rathore, additional director general, SOG and ATS. According to sources, a screenshot of the paper went viral hours before the exam. Soon after, two cases were lodged by police at Sanganer and Bharatpur. So far, four persons have also been arrested for the leak. Board chairman BL Jatawat said, “Yes, it (exam) has been cancelled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/jr-engineer-civil-exam-scrapped-after-paper-leak-in-raj-case-lodged/articleshow/80020884.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Engineering exam scrapped after paper leak in Rajasthan, case lodged||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Staff Selection Board on Tuesday cancelled the Junior Engineer (Civil) recruitment exam that was held on December 6. Nearly 31,752 candidates had appeared in the exam for 533 posts of junior civil engineers from all the divisional headquarters. The decision to scrap the exam came a day after the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police sent a report to the staff selection board saying the question paper had been leaked. “A report was sent to the board on Monday,” said Ashok Rathore, additional director general, SOG and ATS. According to sources, a screenshot of the paper went viral hours before the exam. Soon after, two cases were lodged by police at Sanganer and Bharatpur. So far, four persons have also been arrested for the leak. Board chairman BL Jatawat said, “Yes, it (exam) has been cancelled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jr-engineer-civil-exam-scrapped-after-paper-leak-in-raj-case-lodged/articleshow/80017354.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Engineering exam scrapped after paper leak in Rajasthan, case lodged||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Staff Selection Board on Tuesday cancelled the Junior Engineer (Civil) recruitment exam that was held on December 6. Nearly 31,752 candidates had appeared in the exam for 533 posts of junior civil engineers from all the divisional headquarters. The decision to scrap the exam came a day after the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police sent a report to the staff selection board saying the question paper had been leaked. “A report was sent to the board on Monday,” said Ashok Rathore, additional director general, SOG and ATS. According to sources, a screenshot of the paper went viral hours before the exam. Soon after, two cases were lodged by police at Sanganer and Bharatpur. So far, four persons have also been arrested for the leak. Board chairman BL Jatawat said, “Yes, it (exam) has been cancelled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jr-engineer-civil-exam-scrapped-after-paper-leak-in-raj-case-lodged/articleshow/80020883.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Udaipur||Engineering exam scrapped after paper leak in Rajasthan, case lodged||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Staff Selection Board on Tuesday cancelled the Junior Engineer (Civil) recruitment exam that was held on December 6. Nearly 31,752 candidates had appeared in the exam for 533 posts of junior civil engineers from all the divisional headquarters. The decision to scrap the exam came a day after the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police sent a report to the staff selection board saying the question paper had been leaked. “A report was sent to the board on Monday,” said Ashok Rathore, additional director general, SOG and ATS. According to sources, a screenshot of the paper went viral hours before the exam. Soon after, two cases were lodged by police at Sanganer and Bharatpur. So far, four persons have also been arrested for the leak. Board chairman BL Jatawat said, “Yes, it (exam) has been cancelled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/jr-engineer-civil-exam-scrapped-after-paper-leak-in-raj-case-lodged/articleshow/80020882.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Covid cases fall but govt asks people not to lower guard||JAIPUR: Covid infections have been continuously dipping in the state with 626 cases recorded on Tuesday. Except for Jaipur where 108 cases were reported, majority of the places witnessed under 100 cases. Districts such as Jalore and Karauli reported no cases. In the last 24 hours, six persons lost their lives to Covid taking the casualty count to 2,683. Health officials said people should not be careless ahead of the New Year’s eve and continue to take the precautions as earlier. Apart from them, police and district administration have pulled up their socks to ensure that people follow Covid guidelines during year-end and New Year bash. Jaipur was followed by Kota with 59 cases, Jodhpur (52), Udaipur (46), Nagaur (45), Baran (43), Bhilwara (38) and in Chittorgarh (32). “Out of six deaths, one each was reported from Alwar, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Jaipur,Jhalawar and Jodhpur,” said an officer. There is also a dip in the number of deaths compared to previous months when 14 to 15 deaths were reported daily. “With various therapies and early detections, the mortality is coming down,” said an officer. However, doctors at health department maintained that people should take precautions. “Despite dip in numbers, people should be careful and follow guidelines to save themselves and their families,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, superintendent of RUHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-covid-cases-fall-but-govt-asks-people-not-to-lower-guard/articleshow/80017328.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan Covid cases fall but govt asks people not to lower guard||JAIPUR: Covid infections have been continuously dipping in the state with 626 cases recorded on Tuesday. Except for Jaipur where 108 cases were reported, majority of the places witnessed under 100 cases. Districts such as Jalore and Karauli reported no cases. In the last 24 hours, six persons lost their lives to Covid taking the casualty count to 2,683. Health officials said people should not be careless ahead of the New Year’s eve and continue to take the precautions as earlier. Apart from them, police and district administration have pulled up their socks to ensure that people follow Covid guidelines during year-end and New Year bash. Jaipur was followed by Kota with 59 cases, Jodhpur (52), Udaipur (46), Nagaur (45), Baran (43), Bhilwara (38) and in Chittorgarh (32). “Out of six deaths, one each was reported from Alwar, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Jaipur,Jhalawar and Jodhpur,” said an officer. There is also a dip in the number of deaths compared to previous months when 14 to 15 deaths were reported daily. “With various therapies and early detections, the mortality is coming down,” said an officer. However, doctors at health department maintained that people should take precautions. “Despite dip in numbers, people should be careful and follow guidelines to save themselves and their families,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, superintendent of RUHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-covid-cases-fall-but-govt-asks-people-not-to-lower-guard/articleshow/80020901.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Emaar scam: HC makes AP party to land acquisition issue||HYDERABAD: Brushing aside Telangana government’s objections, the high court on Tuesday made neighbouring Andhra Pradesh a party in the Emaar-APIIC joint venture scam to explain discrepancies in the acquisition of land in Nanakramguda from 80 people. The court wanted AP to answer to the queries raised by petitioner K Harish and others who contended that there was fraud even in the way the state took away their land in the name of a joint venture project with Dubai firm Emaar. A bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Amarnath Goud said section 53(1) of the AP Reorgansiation Act deals with statewide undertakings having repercussions in both states and hence both AP and Telangana have to be there as parties in the case. Telangana counsel Harender Pershad argued against making AP a party to the tussle to explain discrepancies in the acquisition of land which, he said, is now part and parcel of Telangana. Erstwhile AP and its authorities were made to answer to the CBI on many alleged financial misdeeds that were done in the name of the Emaar-APIIC joint venture. The petitioners also mentioned in their plea that the state had treated them as unequal citizens while taking away their land. “It treated some film actors as more equals by sparing their land from acquisition though both of our land plots were located next to each other,” they contended. The petitioners purchased 23 acres of land from Kiran Krishna real estate firm in 1999, which was taken away from them in 2005. The real estate firm too did not buy this entire land from the original owners. The firm entered into an unregistered sale agreement, because of which the revenue records continued to show the names of the original owners. “Though the state initially did not recognise the petitioners as owners and went ahead with land acquisition without compensating them, it later conceded in the Supreme Court in 2008 that the original owners had sold away their plots,” B Rachna Reddy, counsel for the petitioners, said. The judges posted the case to January 4 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/emaar-scam-hc-makes-ap-party-to-land-acquisition-issue/articleshow/80017318.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi in grip of cold wave, but relief likely early into new year||NEW DELHI: A cold wave gripped Delhi on Tuesday as the minimum temperature dropped to 3.6 degrees Celsius at the Safdarjung observatory, city’s base station. It was three notches below normal. The mercury plummeted to 2.6 degrees Celsius at Aya Nagar and to 2.7 degrees at Lodhi Road. The maximum temperature recorded on Tuesday was 18.1 degrees, two notches below normal. Tuesday was the sixth cold wave day recorded this month and the city recorded the second-highest number of cold wave days in December in 28 years. A cold wave day is declared when the minimum temperature is 4 or more notches below normal or when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius, said Met officials. The highest number of cold wave days (eight) in December was reported in 2018. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The cold winds are coming from the mountains of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, which have received good snowfall. It has led to drop in temperature.” According to IMD forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures would be around 18 and 4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. Shallow to moderate fog is expected. The minimum temperature is forecast to fall to 3 degrees Celsius on Thursday. However, people will get relief in the first few days of January. “On January 2 and 3, maximum temperature is likely to remain around 22 degrees Celsius while minimum may rise to 7 degrees C. Both maximum and minimum temperatures may rise further to 23 and 8 degrees on January 4,” said a Met official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-in-grip-of-cold-wave-but-relief-likely-early-into-new-year/articleshow/80015891.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS NRI leader found dead in US||Hyderabad: A TRS leader in the US was found dead in his car in mysterious circumstances in New Jersey on the night of December 28. Nallamada Devender Reddy (44), a native of Deverakonda in Nalgonda district, was a prominent face in TRS affairs in New Jersey and officiated as the party’s official spokesman in the US. Friends and family said Devender died while he went to fetch a package from his car parked outside his house in Edison township. It is suspected that the car was engulfed in flames as soon as he started the engine. Devender was reportedly on a call when the car exploded. Another version said there was a fire inside the car. New Jersey police took up an investigation to determine the cause of his death. A coordinator in the TRS NRI cell said Devender died while he was still inside the car. “It was too late when neighbours rushed to rescue him,” he said. Images of his car with broken windshields in what appeared to be a minor explosion have gone viral on social media. “Devender was an active member in all the programmes conducted in New Jersey,” an NRI from Telangana said. Friends said he found a liking for the TRS and began functioning as its spokesman in the US. Devender was also very active in setting up the American Telangana Society. He worked in a software company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-nri-leader-found-dead-in-us/articleshow/80017325.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||16-year-old cousin held for Alwar boy’s murder||ALWAR: Malakheda police station in Alwar has solved the murder mystery of a 11-year-old boy Nirmal Bairwa, by arresting his 16-year-old cousin on Tuesday. The murder took place on December 26. Police said that the accused was angry with Nirmal for making fun of his interest in witchcraft and that there was tension between both of their families over some property dispute. “Nirmal was taken to the mustard field by his cousin/accused after telling him that stray dogs have killed a peacock and that he wanted to show him the carcasses. In the field, Nirwal was strangulated to death by him and he left the body there and came home,” said police. The accused was keeping ill for years until he was treated by an occult process in 2018. Since then, he was claiming to be an expert in witchcraft. His cousins, including the deceased, started making fun of him. Tejaswini Gautam, SP Alwar has ruled out any human sacrifice motive behind the killing. “The post-mortem report has cleared it that he was strangulated to death and his nose and ear were eaten up by some animal,” said Gautam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/16-yr-old-cousin-held-for-alwar-boys-murder/articleshow/80017357.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: Massive fire guts scrap godown||KOZHIKODE: A massive fire gutted a scrap godown where plastic and other non-biodegradable wastes were stored at Cheruvannoor within Kozhikode corporation limits Tuesday morning. A major disaster was averted as fire and rescue services department personnel managed to contain the fire that broke out in a temporary shed as they prevented it from spreading to nearby buildings, which included a LPG cylinder godown, a fuel station and vehicle showroom, among other businesses. Collector Sambasiva Rao said that there were no casualties and 20 fire tenders took more than five hours to bring the fire under control. Corporation officials said the godown was functioning illegally. The fire broke out at the temporary shed made of iron sheets and asbestos roof at 5am and it was morning walkers who first spotted smoke billowing out of the shed. The shed had a length of 45m and a width of 30m where around 250 truckloads of waste materials – collected illegally from houses and institutions from various panchayats and municipalities in the district – were dumped without segregation. The shed mainly contained plastic waste including discarded footwear, bags, bottles etc. Residents said they woke up migrant workers who were sleeping in the building premises. Fire tenders from Kozhikode and Malappuram were pressed into service within a short while. As the godown contained plastic waste and other discarded items, the fire spread fast making it difficult to douse the flames. The fire personnel were able to contain it by 10.30am, but smoke continued to billow from the debris till evening. Corporation secretary Binu Francis said that the temporary shed was built on leased land by two persons who had given it on rent to Sajin CP from Kozhikode who was storing the collected waste materials since August. He said corporation had served notices in August and September as soon as the illegal waste storage at the shed came to its notice. He said that the waste was dumped illegally for the past four months and it was meant to be sent to other states. After the mishap, corporation authorities served notice to the person operating the godown asking him to remove the waste. Meanwhile Rao constituted a five-member committee under Disaster Management Act to discover the reasons that led to the mishap. He said that the investigation would ascertain if there was violation of rules and regulations in dumping waste in the temporary godown and whether fire and safety norms were fulfilled in this case. The committee has been asked to submit its report in three days. Ministers T P Ramakrishnan, A K Saseendran, collector Sambasiva Rao, mayor Beeena Philip, deputy mayor C P Musafir Ahamed, among others visited the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/massive-fire-guts-scrap-godown/articleshow/80015882.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Techie collapses in Dallas, dies||Hyderabad: A 26-year-old software engineer from Telangana collapsed to his death in Dallas in the US. His cousin with the help of her friends raised $58,000 to send the mortal remains to Mahabubabad town where the family of Gottam Chandrapal Reddy resides. Chandrapal Reddy collapsed in his flat on December 22 and died. A post-mortem is yet to be done to ascertain the cause of his death. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-collapses-in-dallas-dies/articleshow/80017329.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana on alert as Warangal man tests +ve for mutant||HYDERABAD: Authorities in Telangana are gearing up to tackle the threat from the mutant UK variant of Covid-19 after a 49-year-old man from Warangal tested positive for it following the analysis at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad. The man, who had returned from UK in the second week of December, has been kept in an isolation ward away from other Covid-19 patients. Hours after the initial results of genome sequencing results by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) labs was announced by the Centre, authorities in Telangana drew up an action plan to keep patients suspected of being infected with the UK strain in a 14-day mandatory quarantine. While Covid-19 patients are currently kept in seven days quarantine and considered recovered if there are no symptoms thereafter, in case of patients suspected to be infected with the UK strain a test will be repeated after 14 days of quarantine, officials said. “The ones suspected to have the new variant of the virus are not allowed home isolation. They are to be kept in the hospital under strict medical supervision and separate from the regular Covid-19 patients,” said a senior official from the state health department. All foreign returnees who tested positive have been asked to identify their primary, secondary and tertiary contacts. These include family members, friends and anyone else they might have met. “Other departments such as police, revenue and municipal corporation will be roped in for the purpose,” an official said. “Also, it has been decided that if there is a spike in the number of cases of the new variant, containment zones will be set up,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-on-alert-as-warangal-man-tests-ve-for-mutant/articleshow/80017331.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||In Ajnala, locals say deaths have motivated them to go to Delhi||AJNALA: Two farmers from Ajnala tehsil have during the protests against the Centre’s agriculture bills, but the tragedies are not proving to be a deterrent for farmers, local traders and citizens from going to the agitations on th eborders of Delhi. An octagenarian resident of Raipur Khurd village, Rattan Singh, who owned an acre of land had gone to Delhi on December 1, but had to return on December 14 owing to poor health. As his health deteriorated, he was admitted to a hospital, where he breathed his last on December 26. Rattan was also a ‘halwai’ and was serving langar run by Gurudwara Shri Head Darbar Kot Puran Sahib, Ropar, at Delhi’s Singhu border. Similarly, Balbir Singh, a resident of Bagga village had also died while he was returning from Delhi on December 11 to attend his son’s marriage which was scheduled for January 15. Balbir Singh had gone to Delhi on December 8. “Despite losing two precious lives, our morale is as high as it was before the beginning of the agitation. We are asking people to go to Delhi in large number so the sacrifices of Rattan Singh and Balbir Singh don’t go waste,” said a local resident of Ajnala, Zorawar Singh, who is mobilising people to go to Delhi. Staring that every movement required sacrifices, Ajnala resident Goldy Riar said there was no lack of enthusiasm among people. “Instead, their sacrifices have motivated people to contribute to the struggle,” he said. Bachittar Singh, a farmer leader, said the time was not to grieve, but to continue the struggle. “We will not be deterred by any sacrifice since it’s a matter of our and our children’s lives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-ajnala-locals-say-deaths-have-motivated-them-to-go-to-delhi/articleshow/80018099.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm laws Centre issue: Haryana minister||CHANDIGARH: Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh Chautala on Tuesday expressed sympathy with farmers and said the state government had no role to deal with it as this was a Central issue Interacting with media persons here, Chautala, however, asserted that he had sympathy with the agitating farmers and the state government was taking care of their needs of civic amenities. “We, too, have participated in many such farmer agitations, but this time issue relates to the Union government and the state has not much role. We are doing our best for the farmers in the state,” he said He said domestic electricity connections would be issued within a span of 30 days. Besides this, the power department had already issued 7,500 tubewell connections and another 3,500 connections would be released by February 2021. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-laws-centre-issue-hry-minister/articleshow/80018100.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Farmers’ agitation diverted attention from Congress’s non-performance||LUDHIANA: The district unit of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept farmers’ demands to repeal the new laws and end this conflict. The leaders claimed that due to this ongoing farmers’ stir with the Union government, the country had become a laughing stock among other countries. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, the party leaders claimed that when the neighbouring countries were waiting for a moment to attack India, the central government is wasting time on these issues. They said even the GDP was going low and there was unemployment in the country, which was also increasing. So, first these issues should be tackled instead of bringing such laws. The district president of Shiromani Akali Dal, Ranjit Dhillon, said, “It has been over a month since farmers have been protesting against the three laws at the Delhi border and in the past six sessions of talks no decision has been taken. Even Union ministers have admitted their faults in these laws, but still Prime Minister Narendra Modi is claiming that these laws were in the favour of farmers.” He said in such harsh cold weather conditions many farmers were sitting at Delhi border with their family members, but still the government was not paying any heed towards their problems. He said on December 30 another meeting would take place, where farmers’ organisation heads had been invited for talks, so the government should end this matter immediately. The leaders also made an appeal to the state government to fulfil their promises made with voters of Punjab, whether it was government job to unemployed, Shagun scheme, increase in pension, etc. The Akali leaders claimed that due to the ongoing tussle between farmers and the Union government, attention from repeated failures of the Congress government in Punjab was being diverted, but during the assembly elections the government would have to answer these failures. The leaders demanded that Congress government should reduce the high electricity charges for giving relief to the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-agitation-diverted-attention-from-congs-non-performance/articleshow/80015881.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ajmer||Painter hangs self in Ajmer||AJMER: A 28-year-old man committed suicide by hanging here. The deceased was a painter. Police are investigating the reason behind him taking the extreme step.  According to police, they got information from the family members that Dinesh (28), a resident of Kotra, has hanged himself. He came to the house and went straight to his room. Later, when his mother tried to open the room, it was locked from inside. Relatives and neighbours broke open the door and found Dinesh hanging with a plastic rope. Police sent the body for post-mortem and are investigating the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/painter-hangs-self/articleshow/80017391.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Two steal cellphones worth Rs 40 lakh in Alwar||ALWAR: Two persons stole mobile phones worth Rs 40 lakh from a shop in the wee hours of Monday under the Phoolbagh police station in Bhiwadi, Alwar. The accused befriended the security guard over the bonfire and got informations about the shops around it. Owner of the shop Varun Agarwal said, “The miscreants took away 48 iphones, 18 Samsung, Two MI, three VIVO, one iPad and three Apple watches which is estimated to be around Rs 40 lakh.” Investigating officer Jitendra Solanki says that two men approached the security guard of Ashiyana Angan Complex Akhbar Khan who was sitting near a bonfire at 5 am and requested him to allow them to sit near the fire for some time. “During the interaction, the accused did the recce of the shops near the fire and collected details like the number of shops, business, how may guards and movement of police from Khan in and around the shopping complex,” said Solanki. Thereafter, two accused again turned up at the same place after 24 hours and find that Khan was not guarding the area since it was his off. “They asked for Khan with other guard and when they learnt he was not available they using Khan’s reference sat around the fire. The guard slept in some time giving the miscreants an open invitation to theft,” said police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-steal-cellphones-worth-rs-40l-in-alwar/articleshow/80017379.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Trichy||Aided college teachers’ plea to DMK||TRICHY: Regularisation of guest faculty members in constituent colleges across the state and scrapping of new education policy and new pension scheme for regular colleges teachers were some of the demands put forth by Aided College Teachers Association (ACTA) to the DMK to add to their election manifesto. ACTA office bearers met Udhayanidhi Stalin, DMK youth wing secretary, in Trichy and requested him to place their charter of demands in the election manifesto for positive consideration. “The career advancement of many teachers has not been implemented the last few years and it has affected salary increment of many teachers,” said ACTA general secretary S Sahaya Sathish. Apart from urging regularisation of qualified guest faculty members in the constituent colleges, ACTA urged to fill up vacancies in a transparent manner. He urged the party to raise voice against the new education policy to safeguard the rights of the state, saying it is against the concept of social justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aided-college-teachers-plea-to-dmk/articleshow/80018101.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Girl raped by her colleague in Rajasthan's Behror||JAIPUR: A 19-year-old woman filed a rape case against her colleague in Behror on Tuesday. The woman alleged that her colleague raped her on the promise of marriage. Police said Pintu Yadav of Ariya village in Alwar promised the girl of marriage in a year and raped her several times. He also helped the girl to get a job in the same company. “The girl in the complaint said she was repeatedly raped for the last five months. The girl became pregnant and when she asked for marriage, the boy refused,” police said. The accused has been detained by police and sent to custody. The girl was sent for medical examination which confirmed that she was two months’ pregnant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/girl-raped-by-her-colleague/articleshow/80017381.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Day 2: Volunteers visit areas near Buddha Nullah||LUDHIANA: On the second day of the awareness campaign kicked off by the municipal corporation to make Buddha Nullah garbage free, volunteers visited the areas along the drain and made people aware of the harmful impact of throwing garbage in the water body. On Tuesday, they visited the areas along the banks of Buddha Nullah, starting from Haibowal to Kundanpuri. Around 100 students participated in the drive. Apart from this, the MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal, also conducted a meeting with nodal officers, who have been deputed on the bridges of the drain for keeping a check on solid waste being thrown into the drain and its timely removal from inside the drain. The nodal officers have been told to visit the areas along the banks of the drain on foot daily and create awareness among the masses for not throwing garbage into the drain. For repeated offenders a Rs 5,000 challan will be issued. The roadside vendors near Buddha Nullah will be told to keep dustbins while selling anything. The officials have been given 15-day time for this practice so that the drain could be made garbage free within the set deadline. The volunteers from colleges visited the areas, including Sandhu Nagar, Hargobind Nagar, Kaler Encalve, Malhi Palace Road, Chander Nagar, New Chander Nagar, Shakti Vihar and Haibowal. They knocked at the doors in these colonies and tried to convince the people about dry and wet waste and asked them to give the segregated waste to the garbage collectors in their areas instead of throwing it into the water body. They also told the residents that now the municipal corporation had started issuing challans to such people and if caught red-handed, then there was a provision of imposing a Rs 5,000 penalty on such persons. And, if anybody tried to burn the garbage near the drain, then the penalty would be between Rs 5,000 and Rs 25,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/garbage-volunteers-visit-areas-near-buddha-nullah-to-make-people-aware/articleshow/80015892.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Govt funding for student entrepreneurs||KOCHI: Jeevanam Jeevadhanam, the skill development and entrepreneurship programme by the National Service Scheme (NSS) of Vocational Higher Secondary Education (VHSE), has received government funding of Rs 1 crore for further implementation of the programme. The project, which aimed to give scientific training to VHSE students in around 12 sectors related to livestock rearing, including poultry farming, that could be developed as an entrepreneurship or livelihood using the infrastructure available at home during the lockdown, was a huge success and the government decided to promote it further. Director of general education K Jeevan Babu decided to push for the funding from the government after several students who completed the certification course in poultry farming under Jeevanam Jeevadhanam came forward seeking financial support from VHSE-NSS for starting entrepreneurship at home. A request regarding the same was sent to K Raju, minister for animal husbandry. The plan is to divert Rs 1 crore from the Rs 7.5 crore fund sanctioned for poultry club programme by animal husbandry department in 2020-21 and reallocate it to Jeevanam Jeevadhanam programme. Presently, poultry clubs are applicable for classes up to secondary level only. The funds allocated for the club were unused this year as schools were closed due to the pandemic. “As the initial phase of governmental support, each student will be given 5 chicks, its food and medicines. This will start from January and the chick will be provided by the hatcheries under government. We hope to provide support to over 30,000 students in VHSE and preference will be given to students who completed the course. NSS-VHSE and Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) will conduct an exclusive training session on poultry farming before implementing the project,” said P Ranjith, VHSE-NSS state programme coordinator. Nearly 2,000 VSHE students across the state attended the week-long training course held in October. The training was given on scientific methods of raising cows and goats, how to run a profitable poultry, pig or rabbit farm, and making and selling milk, meat and egg products at home. Funds were given to poultry farming as most students opted for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-funding-for-student-entrepreneurs/articleshow/80015894.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Singhu border: Dressed for attention... This ‘groom’ wants farm laws to go||NEW DELHI: Sahib Singh, a 22-year-old unmarried farmer from Patiala, on Tuesday reached the Singhu border dressed up as a groom and performed marriage rituals in protest against the three central farm laws. Singh said he had dressed up like a groom to grab the Centre’s attention. “I want the government to gift me the repeal of these laws so that none of us suffers.” Sitting on the top of a tractor blaring music, with a group of people dancing as the baraat, Singh even wore a sehra covering his face and was accompanied by some friends. People also gave him shagun and kept it in a cloth in his lap. “We want the government to notice us and these are different ways of protests. I want them to repeal the black laws as a gift for my wedding. We want to motivate the public and bring enthusiasm in them to support farmers. It also serves as a purpose of entertainment,” Singh said. Next to him was Khushpreet Singh from Karnal, who said they had dressed him as a groom to ensure that someday, their voice would reach the government. “Like how one puts things they want to give away in a groom’s lap during a wedding ceremony, we want the government to put these laws in his lap so that we can get away with them,” said Khushpreet. Singh, along with his friends, has been at the protest site for a week and will now return to their villages to work at their fields. A man from Haryana also reached the protest site dressed up as a groom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dressed-for-attention-this-groom-wants-farm-laws-to-go/articleshow/80015897.cms||Sakshi Chand
December 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan HC seeks report as parents of teen moves for abortion||JODHPUR: Rajasthan High Court has asked for the medical report of a 17-year-old girl in connection with termination of her 21-week pregnancy. The minor’s parents had moved the court seeking permission to terminate her pregnancy after learning about it. The girl was allegedly lured by her cousin and taken to Telangana where he kept her as wife. A single bench of justice Sandeep Mehta decided to take up the case for hearing inspite of the winter break and directed the medical board to submit its report by next date of hearing on December 31. The court also directed the girl to be present in the court during the next hearing. A minor girl from Kosana village in Pipar City of Jodhpur had been lured by her cousin Sanwarlal, who took her to Telangana in January and entered into a void marriage by exchange of garlands in a temple and started keeping her as his wife. “Police traced them at Telangana acting on complaint of her father Babulal and took both of them to Pipar. But the girl refused to go with her parents and was sent to Balika Gruha,” said petitioner’s counsel MM Dhera, adding that during this time she was subjected to medical examination and found to be pregnant. “On her meeting with her father and brother in Balika Gruha, she narrated the entire story of her being with Sanwarlal and expressed her wish to go with parents”, said Dhera. With this, she also wished her pregnancy to be terminated considering it to be a stigma for her child, following which her father moved the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/hc-seeks-report-as-parents-of-teen-moves-for-abortion/articleshow/80017407.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM showers New Year gifts on grumbling govt staff||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday announced a string of New Year gifts for state government employees and pensioners, an important constituency that is upset with the government for not keeping some of its promises. Not only did KCR announce salary hikes for all 9.36 lakh employees, he also said retirement age would be enhanced, vacancies would be filled up, promotions and transfers would be given immediately and simplified service rules would be put in place. He promised to solve all employee-related issues by the end of February 2021. The announcement comes close on the heels of the TRS losing the Dubbak assembly by-poll followed by its below par performance in Greater Hyderabad civic elections recently. Government employees are believed to have voted against TRS as the government has neither implemented pay revision commission for almost two-and-a-half-years nor given interim relief. The timing of the announcement is significant as the by-election to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency and elections to seven municipal bodies and two graduate MLC seats are supposed to be held in the first quarter of 2021. The government has decided to hike salaries to the extent possible based on its financial condition. Everyone, from regular employees to grant-in aid employees, work charged employees, daily wagers, full-time and part-time contingent employees, home guards, anganwadi workers and contract employees would get the benefit. Even outsourcing employees, Asha workers, vidya volunteers, SERP employees and people receiving the honorariums and pensions would be covered. “If needed, the financial burden on the TSRTC due to salary hike would be borne by the state government,” KCR said in a statement. Issues such as extending all the benefits on the day of the retirement to the employees and bidding them a respectful farewell, making appointments on compassionate grounds, and all other employee related matters would be solved by the end of February, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pay-hike-promotions-kcr-showers-new-year-gifts-on-grumbling-govt-staff/articleshow/80017382.cms||Roushan Ali
December 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer ex-ruler cremated, Raje expresses condolences||JAISALMER: Former ruler of Jaisalmer princely state Brajraj Singh was bid final farewell on Tuesday. Chaitanyaraj Singh and Janmajyay Raj Singh, sons of Singh, lit the pyre at the cremation ground of the royals around five-km from the city. Thousands of people in tears shouted slogans for the late ruler. People stood for hours to have a look of the erstwhile ruler. The body was kept at the Mandir Palace for the general public to offer tributes where Jaisalmer MLA Ruparam Dhandev, district collector Ashish Modi, SP Ajay Singh and many others came to pay their tributes. The guards of the royal family fired three rounds in the air and blew the conch. Jaisalmer, Chandhan, Myazlar and other towns remained closed in memory of the departed leader. Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary, cabinet ministers Pratap Singh Khachariawas and Saleh Mohammad, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore, former MP Manvendra Singh and others expressed condolences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-ex-ruler-cremated-raje-expresses-condolences/articleshow/80017416.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ajmer||No annual Urs fair this time in Ajmer||Ajmer: There will be no fair on the 809th annual Urs of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishty in February. The Kayar Vishram Sthali will also not be opened for devotees as the district administration has decided to avoid big crowds because of the pandemic. Around 4 to 5 lakh devotees participate in the annual Urs every year. A district administration meeting held on Tuesday in which different religious groups including the khadims participated decided to continue following Covid guidelines. It was decided at the meeting that while the rituals of the Urs will be followed, social distancing will be maintained at any cost. “There will be no fair and no buses will be allowed to enter the city and there will be no arrangements for devotees at Kayar Vishram Sthali,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/no-annual-urs-fair-this-time-in-ajmer/articleshow/80017460.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Minor delivers baby, man arrested for rape in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Taking cognizance in the matter of a 12-year-old girl delivering a baby boy in Jodhpur, the Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has sought a factual report from ADG (Civil Rights), IGP (Jodhpur Range) and SP (Jodhpur Rural) followed by an expedited action in the matter. The girl delivered the baby in the Ummed Hospital here to everybody’s shock on Monday night. Belonging to a subdivision under Khedapa police station in Jodhpur district, the girl was exploited sexually by a neighbour, who is married and is father of two children. The man was arrested after the matter came to light. “The girl complained about pain in her stomach on Monday, after which her mother took her to the Ummed Hospital in Jodhpur,” said a doctor, adding that during the examination she was found to be pregnant and delivered a baby boy. When inquired, the girl informed that her neighbor Arvind Meghwal had been exploiting her for past one year and had threatened against disclosing it to anybody. SHO (Khedapa) Rajiov Bhadu informed that on the complaint of the girl’s mother, a case was registered against the accused under appropriate sections of IPC and POCSO Act and he was arrested. The girl had been complaining about stomach ache for past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/minor-delivers-baby-man-arrested-for-rape/articleshow/80017446.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur: Leopard killed in road mishap||UDAIPUR: A two-and-a-half-year-old leopard was killed in a hit-and-run incident near Rolaheda puliya under Chanderiya police station limits on NH-79 on Monday night. Forest officials and police team took the leopard to Semalpura nursery where autopsy was conducted on Tuesday before being cremated. According to the forest department, the control room was informed of the accident late at night. When the rescue team arrived, the leopard was found dead. Senior veterinary doctor Dharmendra Son said the wild cat was knocked down by some speeding vehicle. It was badly injured and had sustained severe internal injuries. Forest officials said since a large number of vehicles are moving at high speed on the four-lane highway, leopards crossing over from the fields get confused as to which side they need to go and while trying to rush to one end of the road, they are hit by vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/leopard-killed-in-road-mishap/articleshow/80017451.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Another fake call centre promising jobs busted||NEW DELHI: Yet another fake call centre has been busted and 11 people have been arrested for allegedly duping at least 100 youths since September on the pretext of providing them jobs in different airlines. The gang, based in Mehrauli, first charged a registration fee of Rs 2,200 and then kept taking money on various pretexts, said DCP (south) Atul Thakur. They used to go underground if any target became suspicious. Mehrauli police station received a tipoff that a fake call centre was being run from a building in Saidulajab. A raid was conducted and five men and four women were found calling people using laptops and mobile phones on the building’s fourth floor, Thakur said. The accused allegedly conducted fake interviews after issuing forged interview letters, cops said. They then charged the victims extra before issuing fake appointment letters. They collected from Rs 10,000 to Rs 40,000 per victim. The arrested men have been identified as Vikas Yadav, Najakat Ali, Roop Basant, Krishna, Avinash, Arjun Singh, Aashish. Four women have also been held. Police are looking for another accused, Rahul. A fraud and cheating case has been registered. Aashish has done BTech in information and technology and was working in a private bank before the lockdown. The other accused are graduates, said the DCP. Five laptops, five mobile phones and eight SIM cards have been seized. They had been functioning from the current premises since September and was paying Rs 30,000 as rent. The staffers were monthly paid Rs 10,000 apart from incentives for duping every person, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/another-fake-call-centre-promising-jobs-busted/articleshow/80015955.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ranchi||Maoist found dead in Chatra||Chatra: A CPI (Maoists) zonal commander, who carried a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head, was found dead in Tikda village under Lawalong police station limits in the district on Tuesday. According to sources, Chatra police were informed about Paramjeet alias Sonu Das’s death, following which they sent a team to Tikda in the afternoon. Police suspect that he was murdered at some other place and his body was dumped in the village. The body has been sent to Chatra sadar hospital for a post mortem. “Our investigation is underway to find out who is/are behind the killing and why he was killed,” Chatra SP Rishav Kumar Jha said. Sources said that he had a sour relationship with many in the district when he was active as a zonal commander. Recently, he he had formed another outfit named Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/maoist-found-dead-in-chatra/articleshow/80017671.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 30, 2020||Ranchi||1st yr in office, Hemant vows to make Jharkhand self-reliant||Ranchi: “I assure you that Jharkhand will stand on its own feet in the coming five years if I get support from everyone,” chief minister Hemant Soren promised to the people of the state and the 4,000-strong crowd at Morhabadi ground on the occasion of the Mahagathbandhan government completing a year in office after ousting BJP in the 2019 assembly election. Seeking cooperation from his cabinet colleagues, government officials, bureaucrats and other stakeholders at a toned-down ceremony, Soren said, “I assure you that Jharkhand will not have to bow before anyone for assistance — be it before the World Bank or the Union government. In the last 20 years since the inception of Jharkhand, no one bothered to take the state forward or make it self-reliant. We have now started taking steps towards it.” Notably, the government launched projects and schemes along with laying of foundation stones for projects worth a total of Rs 6,772.52 crore on the occasion. Addressing the gathering, the chief minister said the state is blessed with immense resources and has several avenues which can help it accelerate towards growth with a greater speed, provided proper directions and interventions are made. “Our strengths are the immense natural beauty, the rich heritage and culture, the sporting talents the state is endowed with. We are also blessed with mines and minerals, but why do we still suffer power cuts? There is a huge sporting talent, but why is it that our players are forced to work as masons to earn their livelihood?” he rued but stressed that after a year in office amid battling the Covid-19 pandemic, his government has come up with sector-specific policies for tourism and sports to speed up development and achieve the targeted goals. Without mincing words, Soren blamed the erstwhile Raghubar Das government of leaving no fund for the new dispensation with wasteful expenditure on lavish projects that yielded no results. “We were gifted with the keys of an empty tijori (treasury) when we took charge a year back. We wanted to do much more than we do today, but in every department when we start planning, one common thing my officials would ask me is where will the funds come from?” he said. Talking about challenges, the chief minister said, “Even before we could stabilise the government, the pandemic, which shook even the biggest and the developed countries, hit us. Despite massive threats and challenges, we reorganised ourselves to sustain the crisis,” he said and took pride in the works done by his government ranging from handling the migrant crisis to feeding the poor and arranging Covid-19 tests to upgrade of ailing health centres. “We can proudly say that not a person died of hunger in the last one year. Because of the effective pandemic management, Jharkhand is counted among the top states with high recovery and low mortality rates,” Soren said. On the poll promises, he said, “Despite the myriad challenges, we managed to keep many of our poll promises, inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of projects worth crores.” Reacting to BJP’s charges of joblessness and lack of employment generation, Soren told the youths, “I am aware of your requirements and we have taken steps in that regard now. Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) is set to roll out recruitment drives by the first week of January. Thereafter, recruitments will continue to happen regularly in this state.” He also said, “Jharkhand is the first state in the country to send ST/SC students to pursue higher studies in foreign countries.” Briefly detailing on his government’s vision for 2021, he said a foundation for providing the right market linkages for minor mineral forest produce to benefit lakhs of forest dwellers will be initiated along with the launching of the state’s first tribal university by early next year. He further said a piped water supply scheme for every household, Rs 250-crore plan for tackling malnutrition, pension for all above 60 years of age among others will be ensured. Among those who attended the state function are former CM and JMM president Shibu Soren, the CM’s wife Kalpana and his cabinet colleagues — Rameshwar Oraon (finance), Badal Patralekh (agriculture), Satyanand Bhokta (labour and employment), Congress’s Jharkhand affairs in-charge RPN Singh and others. In his address, RPN Singh said the government led by Soren is making the right moves to fulfil the grand alliance government’s vision. He said, “During this time last year when Hemant ji took oath here, I could sense the trust and confidence of the people who voted for this government. Today, I can again feel that same confidence. Even after enduring challenging times, we have fulfilled many of the promises made to the voters.” Oraon hailed the passing of the resolution for a separate Sarna code in the state assembly as the biggest achievement in the last one year as far as tribal welfare is concerned. “Moreover, the launch of the farm loan waiver scheme as promised will go a long way in benefiting the farmers of our state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1st-yr-in-office-hemant-vows-to-make-jharkhand-self-reliant/articleshow/80017636.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 30, 2020||Vadodara||Prima accused in Jhalod corporator’s murder had political ambitions||VADODARA: Imran Gudala aka Imu Dand, the prime accused in the contract killing of Jhalod municipality councillor Hiren Patel, too harboured political ambition that closely depended on the influential Katara family in the town. Gudala was also the key person who ensured that the family wrested the Jhalod municipality. Gudala has only one case of black marketing registered against him about a decade back. He managed to win the Jhalod market yard polls in 2012 and around the same time became close to the Katara family that includes former MP Babu Katara, his son and MLA Bhavesh Katara as well as Amit Katara whose wife was appointed as the president of the Jhalod municipality. She was, however, ousted after defections in which Patel had played an active role. Gudala had become an influential person in Dahod due to his proximity with the Katara family. Sources said that he had played a key role in ensuring that Amit’s wife became the president of the municipality after the 2018 municipal polls that threw a fractured mandate. According to the police, Gudala had ensured that Patel was killed at the behest of Amit. The police claims that Gudala disclosed this during his interrogation after being nabbed by the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATTS) of the state police. Assistant superintendent of police Shefali Barwal said that Gudala was brought to Dahod after obtaining his custody from ATS. She added that a remand would now be sought for his interrogation. Patel died after being run over by a mini commercial vehicle in September. The accused had tried to cover the murder as a road accident, but CCTV footage had led the police to the murder. It had come to light that the murder was a contract killing. An accused in the Godhra Sabarmati Express carnage case Irfan Pada had taken up the job to eliminate Gudala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/prima-accused-in-jhalod-corporators-murder-had-political-ambitions/articleshow/80015414.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ranchi||Hotels, clubs asked to go for low-key NY bash||Jamshedpur: Hotels, restaurants and clubs organising New Year’s Eve (NYE) bash on Thursday cannot allow more than 200 guests at their respective premises, according to the guidelines released by the East Singhbhum administration on Tuesday. The guidelines further stated that all the establishments need to maintain a log book containing the names and contact details of all the guests coming on December 31. The administration has prohibited the hotels and clubs from organising any extravagant and over the top NYE programmes this year and asked them to go for low-key celebrations where loud music will not be permitted after 10pm. Besides the aforementioned rules, the hotels and clubs also need to ensure that the guests wear masks, frequently sanitise their hands and maintain social distancing. They also need to make arrangements for thermal screening of the guests at the entrance point. “Anyone found guilty of violating the guidelines will be penalised under the Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of the IPC,” additional district magistrate (law and order) Nand Kishore Lal said. City SP Subhash Chandra Jat has directed the hoteliers to keep an eye on the trouble-makers on their respective premises and inform the police, if required. Welcoming the guidelines, Steel City-based hotelier Raja Singh said, “We had anyway planned for a low-key celebration this year in view of the pandemic and now that the guidelines have been issued, we will follow them to the hilt.” Ankit Pathak, a 28-year-old mechanical engineer who usually spends the last day of the year partying with his friends at a club, said, “This time none of my friends are keen on going to a hotel to ring in the new year in view of the outbreak. We will stay home this time to avoid contracting the disease.” Additional chief medical officer Sahir Pall said the vaccine is yet to arrive and everybody needs to cooperate in containing the spread of virus by complying with the guidelines. Similarly, the Ranchi district administration released its own set of guidelines on Tuesday night where all restaurants, pubs and hotels organising NYE parties have been asked to keep the contact details of their guests. They need to install sanitisers at their premises and ensure that the guests maintain social distancing. “Any violation will amount to punitive action under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act,” the administration said in its statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hotels-clubs-asked-to-go-for-low-key-ny-bash/articleshow/80017515.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 30, 2020||India||Dilip Chhabria ran Rs 100cr interstate car racket: Police||MUMBAI: With the arrest of India’s leading car designer Dilip Chhabria on Monday, police claim to have unearthed an interstate car financing and forgery scam worth nearly Rs 100 crore. On Tuesday, Chhabria (68) was produced before the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate, which remanded him in police custody till January 2. Police claimed Chhabria’s firm — Dilip Chhabria Designs Pvt Ltd (DCDPL) — manufactured 127 Avanti cars in the last three years and sold them in India and abroad with multiple registrations in various states. As many as 90 of these cars were also used for fraudulent financing by taking loans from non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), they added. Assistant police inspector Sachin Waze said the accused, using DCDPL, posed as a customer of Avanti cars and took multiple loans on each vehicle from various NBFCs, averaging to Rs 42 lakh per car. He then registered the cars in another state before selling them to a third party. Many of the loans were declared NPAs by the NBFCs. Investigations showed Chhabria had hypothecated 41 cars with the BMW India Financing Services and 16 cars were never registered with any RTO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dilip-chhabria-ran-rs-100cr-interstate-car-racket-police/articleshow/80018860.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Woman tied up, robbed in Sushant Lok||GURUGRAM: A 75-year-old woman was robbed of jewellery allegedly by two men, who had come to visit her on the pretext of renting her house on Monday, the police said on Tuesday. Earlier, Sumitra Devi had put up a board seeking tenants for her another house in the next building. The incident happened when the accused came to her house on Monday afternoon, an officer said, adding that while talking, they suddenly held her at gunpoint. “They first tied me up and locked me in the kitchen. I started screaming. They took all my jewellery and fled off,” Devi told the police. On hearing her screams, her neighbour rescued her, an officer said. The police were then informed. A case was then registered at the Sushant Lok-1 police station under sections 392, 397 and 506 of the IPC accounting to punishment for robbery, robbery, or dacoity, with an attempt to cause death or grievous hurt and criminal intimidation. “We are analysing CCTV footage; the probe is underway,” the officer added. In a similar incident in September this year, a businessman was robbed by three men in Sector 46. He was in the parking area when the accused nabbed him and robbed him of Rs 10 lakh cash, gold jewellery and his mobile phone. They then dumped him on a road near Faridabad. As the accused were in a hurry to flee the spot, they dropped Rs 5 lakh at the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/woman-tied-up-robbed-in-sushant-lok/articleshow/80017258.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation readies land records portal||CHENNAI: In two months, the Chennai corporation will launch a portal with all records of land in the city. The process to enter land records and digitise them began on Monday and is expected to be completed in about 20 days. After the records are digitised, it will be cross verified and made open to officials. A few months later, this portal will be available for public, said Meghanath Reddy, deputy commissioner, revenue and finance. The website is called Chennai land administration portal (GCC-CLAP). "The civic body has a lot of land in its possession but the problem is they are not aware where the land is. The details are available only at the ward and zonal level. There is no single place or portal where it can be verified. So whenever a project is proposed even as simple as construction of a school, the ward level officials can only provide information where it can be taken up. So we decided to make this process simple and make the land records available at the click of the finger," said Reddy. Revenue and land estate department officials told TOI that no one in the corporation has consolidated data on the land available with the civic body. "The extent of the land and the taluk name along with the survey number will be made available on the portal. Later on, we will refine this data further as to whether the land is encroached or leased or rented...," said an official. Once the portal is ready, anyone can enter the survey number, taluk name or ward number and easily access land records. "This will also help us in ensuring that our land is not encroached and those which are encroached can be reclaimed faster," said Reddy. For the next 20 days, officials at the ward level have been asked to come to the Ripon building and enter the land records data available with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-corporation-readies-land-records-portal/articleshow/80018892.cms||Komal Gautham
December 30, 2020||India||Number of women cops in states/UTs up 16% in a year||NEW DELHI: The strength of women personnel in state and Union Territory police forces registered a significant 16% jump last year, with their share rising to 10.3% as on January 1 this year (reflecting 2019 data) from 8.9% on January 1, 2019. Though the improvement is welcome, the cumulative percentage and numbers continue to reflect the male domination of police forces. Among the states, Bihar police —covering civil police, district armed reserve, special armed police and India Reserve Battalions — had the highest share of women personnel at 25.3%, followed by Himachal with 19.15%, Chandigarh with 18.78% and Tamil Nadu police with 18.5% women personnel. Overall, almost one-fifth of sanctioned positions for personnel in police forces across the country remain vacant. On the other hand, data on police organisations released by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D) on Tuesday shows the police-population ratio or the actual strength of police personnel per lakh population has fallen to 155.7 from 158.2. Sanctioned police personnel per lakh population, however, were at 195.4 as compared to corresponding figure of 198.4 as on January 1, 2019. Statewise data on police-population ratio (per lakh population) – calculation based on the actual strength of police – saw Nagaland doing the best with 1,301 police personnel per lakh population, followed by Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Manipur, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. The states and UTs with the lowest police-population ratio were Bihar (76.2 police personnel per lakh population), Daman & Diu, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and MP. Another significant parameter for police coverage – police-area ratio or personnel (sanctioned) per 100 sq km – was recorded at 79.8, slightly up from 78.9 as on 01.01.2019. As per the latest data on police organisations, the actual strength of police force in the states and UTs stood at 20.9 lakh, as against a sanctioned strength of 26.23 lakh. In other words, there were nearly 5.3 lakh posts vacant. The strength of women personnel across state and UT police grew from around 1.85 lakh to 2.15 lakh, marking a 16 % increase. While women in khakhi comprised 10.3% of the state and UT police forces, their share in the central armed police forces (CAPFs) was just 2.9 %. Of the total 29,249 women personnel in the 9.9 lakh-strong CAPFs, 8,631 belonged to CISF, 7,860 to CRPF, 5,130 to BSF. The share of women in state and UT police has registered a steady rise since 2014, from around 1.11 lakh in 2014 to 2.15 lakh in 2019. This has been facilitated by reservation policy being followed in some states and UTs. Around 14 states and UTs offer 33% reservation for women in their police, two states 20% quota and three states 10% quota. Even Central forces like CISF, SSB and RPF have introduced reservation for women in varying degrees. Statewise, Jammu & Kashmir police has the worst share of women at 3.31%, followed by Telangana (5.11%). Among other data, around 43,566 police personnel gave protection to 19,467 VIPs (ministers, MPs, judges, bureaucrats etc) for more than six months in 2019. However, the number of protected persons (for periods beyond six months in 2019) was much lower than the corresponding figure of 21,300 in 2018. The number of terrorism and extremism-hit districts as on January 1 this year was down at 161 from 174 a year earlier. Transport availability per 100 sanctioned police personnel was 7.74, down from 7.89. BPR&D data further reveals that 143 police stations did not have wireless/mobile facility and 257 were without any vehicles. Watch At 25.3%, Bihar has highest share of women police personnel||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/number-of-women-cops-in-states/uts-up-16-in-a-year/articleshow/80018888.cms||Bharti Jain
December 30, 2020||Chennai||Chennai man back from UK tests +ve for new virus strain||CHENNAI: A 25-year-old man who returned to Chennai from the United Kingdom recently has tested positive for the mutant strain of Covid-19. Nineteen other UK returnees tested positive in Tamil Nadu, but it is not yet known if they too have the mutant strain as results from the National Institute of Virology in Pune are awaited. Half of them are from Chennai and Chengalpet. Rest were from Thanjavur (3), Madurai (3), Nilgiris (2), Theni (1) and Nagapattinam (1). Another 16, who were in contact with these patients, also tested positive (through RT-PCR tests), according to official data. In case more UK returnees test positive for the new strain, arrangements have been made to treat them in separate isolation wards, said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan. According to the national taskforce, no change in treatment is needed. Health authorities said the new variant has high transmission potential and affects young population. "As of now there is no evidence that it can cause severe symptoms or mortality," said a senior public health official. About 2,300 passengers travelled from the UK to TN between November 25 and December 21. Of them, 1,582 were traced and tested. It has been challenging for authorities to trace and monitor the returnees. For instance, in Madurai police were unable to trace four UK returnees as their present address was different from that mentioned on their passports. Later they were tracked using the mobile number used for applying for e-passes to enter TN, said Madurai police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-man-back-from-uk-tests-ve-for-new-virus-strain/articleshow/80018926.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Lower legal drinking age from 25 to 21: Delhi panel||NEW DELHI: The legal drinking age in the capital might be lowered from the present 25 to 21, “soft” liquor like beer and wine might become easily available at departmental stores, and dry days might be reduced to three if the recommendations of a committee set up by the Delhi government are implemented. In September, deputy CM Manish Sisodia had constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the excise commissioner to suggest measures for augmenting state excise revenue, including measures to simplify the liquor price mechanism and checking malpractices and evasion of duty in the liquor trade. TimesViewThe expert committee has made the right suggestion. A move on these lines was long overdue. In fact, it makes sense to lower the drinking age to 18. After all, one can vote at 18 and get a driver’s licence at 18. Girls can even marry at 18.High five: Reduce number of dry days to three, suggests govt panelThe committee was mandated to ensure equitable access to liquor supply and suggest measures to “transform the nature of liquor trade commensurate to the changing stature of the capital”. While there are 864 liquor vends in Delhi, these are not equally distributed across the city. The report of the committee has suggested that there should be ideally three vends in each of the 272 municipal wards, with a total of 816 vends, apart from 24 vends in NDMC areas and six at IGI Airport. The committee has recommended that the age for drinking may be fixed at 21 years and dry days are reduced to three. It has also called for a new policy for issuing retail licences to departmental stores for selling beer, wine and other “soft” liquor categories and ease of doing business for hotels, clubs and restaurants, including ease of getting licences. It has also recommended bringing the entire wholesale operation of the IMFL trade under one government corporation. The recommendations of the committee will soon be put in the public domain for inviting suggestions from Delhiites, including stakeholders. The report will then be submitted to the Delhi government after 24 days and a final decision will be taken by the Delhi cabinet. The approved recommendations will form a part of the excise policy for financial year 2021-22. The committee’s recommendations are aimed at not only augmenting the government’s revenues that have been hit hard by the pandemic but also resuscitating the hospitality industry, which is one of the worst-affected ones. Equitable distribution of liquor vends is aimed at equitable access of liquor supply to all residents of Delhi in order to ensure there are no “unserved” and “under-served” areas by ward-wise allocation of vends. The committee has also suggested promotion of consumer choice and avoidance of malpractices like “brand pushing”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lower-legal-drinking-age-from-25-to-21-delhi-panel/articleshow/80018925.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 30, 2020||Chennai||Sub-inspector & retired cops among 15 held for gambling in Chennai||CHENNAI: Police busted a gambling den at Perugulathur on Monday night, arresting 15 people, including a sub-inspector, and seizing 35,000. Those who were caught also included retired officers, police said. Based on a tip, police conducted a raid at a home in Parvathy Nagar. The arrested had locked the house from outside and were gambling inside. However, the team forced their way into the house and nabbed the culprits. The man who rented the house was identified as Thirunavukarasu. The accused were later let off on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/si-retired-cops-among-15-held-for-gambling-in-chennai/articleshow/80018936.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chennai||Sub-inspector 'cured' of Covid dies of suffocation in Chennai||CHENNAI: A 57-year-old sub-inspector, who was 'cured' of Covid-19, later died of suffocation at Kilpauk Medical College hospital on Monday. Ram Singh of Kallikuppam near Ambattur was attached to the law and order wing at Puzhal police station. He complained of Covid-like symptoms and later tested positive for the viral infection on December 8, following which he got admitted at the hospital. Police said he was initially in the intensive care unit as his lungs were infected. He later tested negative and was declared fully 'cured' on December 22. However, he continued to stay in the ICU as he complained of suffocation. On Monday, Singh breathed his last without responding to the treatment. Senior officers paid tribute to the deceased SI. Singh's body was cremated at the electric crematorium in Ayapakkam. Police said he is survived by his wife Shyamala, 50, and two sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/si-cured-of-covid-dies-of-suffocation-in-chennai/articleshow/80018938.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||Bharuch MP, who at times opposed Gujarat govt, quits BJP||SURAT/GANDHINAGAR: Senior BJP member and Bharuch MP Mansukh Vasava resigned from the party on Tuesday citing personal and health reasons, just days after he wrote to the Prime Minister seeking withdrawal of a notification declaring 121 villages of Narmada district an ‘eco-sensitive zone’. He had expressed apprehension and concern that the tribal population of the district would lose employment opportunities due to the notification. His resignation is likely to adversely affect BJP’s fortunes in the upcoming local body polls in the tribal belt, where Chhotu Vasava’s Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) and AIMIM have already struck an alliance. In his letter to Gujarat party chief CR Paatil, Vasava wrote, “I thank the BJP high command and the party for giving me all that I could handle. I have been loyal to the party always. I am a human being and mistakes happen. I have resigned from the party so my mistake does not harm it. I beg that the party forgives me and I will meet the Speaker in person during the budget session and resign from Lok Sabha.” “I have been a BJP MP for six terms. I’m not upset with the party or the government, but I am suffering from a severe pain in my back for some time and am unable to travel,” he said on Tuesday, adding that it is because of his ailment that he has not been able to attend Parliament sessions. Vasava often took stands that put the state government in awkward situations. He had publicly opposed acquisition of land around the Statue of Unity, evicting small shopkeepers along the Kevadiya main road and even the declaring of the area around the statue an eco-sensitive zone. He had also raised the issue of bogus tribal certificates which people had been using to secure admission and government jobs. Many office bearers, including the president, secretary and 27 other members of BJP’s Sagbara unit in Narmada, have resigned in his support. Party chief Paatil refused to confirm the news and said, “Mansukhbhai has not resigned. He said he will resign during budget session in Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bharuch-mp-who-at-times-opposed-gujarat-govt-quits-bjp/articleshow/80018928.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Possessed man kills mother, calls her witch||VADODARA: In a rare case of witch hunt, a 28-year-old man killed his 50-year-old paralytic mother in Gotri area sometime after Monday midnight and tried to burn the body. Accused Divyesh Baria, who lives in Jai Ambenagar slums stabbed his mother Bhikhi with a glass piece in their kitchen of their house. He then dragged the body to an dumpyard behind their house where he burnt and covered it with broken asbestos sheets. After this, he chanted a few mantras and lit a lamp at the temple inside the house. However, the fire was doused due to the wind and neighbours spotted the half-burnt body early on Tuesday morning. They also called up Divyesh’s sister Sajjan after seeing him loitering on the terrace with blood-stained hands. When Sajjan and her husband reached there, Divyesh initially did not open the door but later when she asked him about their mother, he coldly admitted to the savagery. Divyesh’s admission baffled the cops when he told them that he was ‘possessed’ by his father’s spirit when he killed his mother. His father Sardarsinh died in 2014. It was also learnt that Divyesh believed in superstitions. “He claim to often get possessed by his father’s spirit who keeps telling him that the victim is a witch,” said inspector S V Chaudhary of Gotri police station. Divyesh claimed that 200 years ago, a small girl in their village had died and turned into a witch due to which none of the girls from the village were getting married. “He felt that the girls will be relieved of the curse and get married,” Chaudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/possessed-man-kills-mother-says-he-rid-village-of-witch/articleshow/80015454.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||‘Galwan’, ‘Daulat’..ITBP to name its dog squad after border regions||NEW DELHI: Galwan is restless, Sasoma is quiet and Daulat is tirelessly playful. With their 14 Belgian Malinois siblings, these lively canines will now give Indo Tibetan Border Police’s (ITBP)’s dog squad more teeth and, significantly, begin what the border force plans a tradition to go "Indian" with names. On Wednesday morning, these puppies, each month-old were lined up at ITBP’s training facility at Bhanu in Haryana’s Panchkula and ordained into the force — with a tip of the crutch-sword at an official ‘naam karan’ ceremony as the force has decided to junk its decades-old practice to call its canines with "anglicised western names". “It is for the first time since Independence that the canine wing of the country has today acknowledged its legacy and own ethos. These are desi names, inspired by areas that our forcesdogguard,” ITBP DIG (veterinary) Sudhakar Natarajan told TOI. 1/6ITBP to name its dog squad after border regions Previous NextShow Captions<p> 14 Belgian Malinois were ordained into ITBP’s training facility at Bhanu in Haryana’s Panchkula<br /></p><p> These puppies are the first litter of the ITBP’s breeding programme, which started a year ago<br /></p><p>One puppy has been christened Sultan Chusku, like the glacier, another is called Mukhpari, like the peak<br /></p><p>There is a pup Changthang, named after Ladakh’s “pashmina plateau” </p><p>The puppies names are inspired by areas that forces guard<br /></p><p>These puppies were born to five-year-old sisters Olga and Oleshya, and six-year-old father Gala<br /></p>“Second, imagine the sense of pride our troops, in bone-numbing and blood-freezing high altitude, will feel when they call out these names and say, ‘Shabash Galwan!’ instead of calling Tommy, Betty, Caesar or Elizabeth. Finally, it is a way to honour our men deployed on 3,488 km of tough borders serving the nation,” he added. Born to five-year-old sisters Olga and Oleshya, and six-year-old father Gala, all of whom served in Chhattisgarh, these 17 puppies are the first litter of the ITBP’s breeding programme, which started a year ago, and have been named after strategic points in Ladakh. So while one puppy has been christened Sultan Chusku, like the glacier, another is called Mukhpari, like the peak. There is one called Rezang: a callback to the pass, and so will be Ane La, Yula, Khardungi and Imis. There is also a pup Changthang, named after Ladakh’s “pashmina plateau”. Chip Chap, Chang Chenmo, Shyok and Charding are the pups with names that evoke Ladakh’s rivers. Rango is named after the border village and seventeeth will be Sirijap, after the southern Aksai Chin plains. This move also begins, an ITBP official said, what will be a lasting tradition. The next litters will be named, in batches, after strategic locations between Karakoram to Jechap La — in each of the sectors ITBP guards in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. Watch Watch: Puppies inducted into ITBP's dog squad, named after border posts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/galwan-daulat-itbp-to-name-its-dog-squad-after-border-regions/articleshow/80018984.cms||Rohan Dua
December 30, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 13-minute ‘express’ test at Mumbai airport||MUMBAI: The wait for the report is one of the most stressful parts of undergoing a Covid-19 test, especially so if you are a passenger awaiting your fate at the airport. Now flyers at the city airport have a faster option, a recently introduced express Covid-19 test that provides results in just 13 minutes. The airport is the first one to offer the rapid molecular testing technology express test by Abbot, called ‘ID Now’, said a spokesperson of the Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL). The MIAL spokesperson said the test was fully compliant with the standards set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The express test was launched by the airport on December 15 and since then every day 30 to 35 passengers have been opting for it, said the spokesperson. As of December 28, 400 passengers have undergone this test and these include arriving passengers with connecting flights to destinations outside the state, said the MIAL spokesperson. “The express test is available at Rs 4,500 and aims to provide arriving passengers with quick and accurate diagnosis in 13 minutes. Passengers can also opt for regular RT-PCR test, which takes around six to eight hours for the result,” the MIAL spokesperson said. The testing facility option is available for all international arriving passengers at the airport. The 24-hour testing facility is located at Level 2 near exit Gate B.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-airport-offers-covid-19-test-that-gives-result-in-13-min/articleshow/80018924.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Mumbai||New Metro panel to compare Aarey and Kanjurmarg sites||MUMBAI: The Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Tuesday set up a fresh panel – the third so far – to look into the Metro 3 car shed deadlock. It will be headed by state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar and will look into the feasibility of both the Aarey and Kanjurmarg lands as car shed locations. Sources said the state government may strike a deal with the Centre and entrust the BKC land for the bullet train project in order to get the NDA government to hand over the Kanjurmarg land for the Metro car shed. TOI had reported on December 25 that a third committee was set to be formed, after the first panel of 2015 and the second one set up by the Uddhav Thackeray-led government after the MVA came to power last year. Sanjay Kumar will be assisted by environment secretary Manisha Mhaiskar, IIT professor K V Krishna Rao and MMRDA director Pramod Ahuja, while MMRDA additional commissioner Sonia Sethi will be member secretary of the new committee which has been asked to complete its task within a month. On terms of reference of the committee, a senior bureaucrat said it will study the technical design of the Aarey car shed, examine if more land would be required for the project in future and more trees required to be cut. Second, a comprehensive plan will be drafted for Metro lines 3 and 6 and third, the design of the Kanjurmarg car shed will be checked and the possibility of constructing the integrated depot for line 3, 4 and 6 examined. “The main focus of the committee will be to compare the Aarey and Kanjurmarg sheds, both economically and technically, and to check which is the better side and where the project will be completed before schedule. We are studying the Aarey car shed afresh. This does not mean the CM will reverse his decision to scrap the Aarey car shed, but it will be the first time the two sites are examined simultaneously, on merit. The status of both sites will be put in the public domain,” he said. The bureaucrat said earlier, the MVA government had appointed a committee headed by veteran bureaucrat Manoj Saunik, but its findings which were submitted in January this year were one-sided as it never studied the Kanjurmarg site on merit. “The Saunik committee report should have been put in the public domain long ago. Then there would have been real feedback on its conclusions,” he said. A month after Thackeray took over the reins of the state in November 2019, he scrapped the car shed in Aarey colony on the grounds that it would have an adverse impact on the environment and shifted it to Kanjurmarg though that land was under litigation. The Bombay HC on December 16 stayed the suburban collector’s decision to allot land for the Kanjurmarg car shed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-metro-panel-to-compare-aarey-and-kanjurmarg-sites/articleshow/80018940.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
December 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Human skull, bones found on building roof||HYDERABAD: A human skull and a few bones were found in a heap of mud on top of a multi-storeyed commercial building at AS Rao Nagar on Tuesday. The incident took place on the terrace of Vertex building at AS Rao Nagar when workers were removing a heap of construction debris. "There is a junior college on the fourth floor of the building and to prevent students from going to the terrace, the terrace gate was always locked. On Tuesday, labourers were sent to remove construction debris and clear a water leakage problem. We have sent the findings to forensic lab," Kushaiguda inspector A Man Mohan said. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-human-skull-bones-found-on-building-roof/articleshow/80019018.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray may stay revision of ’20 ready reckoner rates||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray may put this year’s revision of ready reckoner (RR) rates on hold following allegations of selective reduction by as much as 70% to benefit certain builders in Mumbai, reports Chaitanya Marpakwar. TOI has learned that the CM has asked the revenue department to see if it can transfer the powers of revising RR rates to the state cabinet. Currently, the Inspector General of Stamps revises RR rates. Thereafter, if the cabinet approves the reduction in premiums by 50%, the state may ask builders opting for it to pay premiums on the 2019 RR rates instead of the 2020 rates. ‘Builders won’t get benefit of 50% discount & low RR rate’All real estate premiums and charges are calculated based on RR rates. This means that if the RR rates are less, builders end up paying less for premiums and charges. On Sunday, opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis had accused the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of offering huge sops to some developers under the garb of boosting demand in the economy. These plots are owned by developers in the western suburbs by the seafront, in the eastern suburbs and in the island city, he claimed. Fadnavis had said the Deepak Parekh panel’s recommendations, which were discussed at the last state cabinet meeting, would result in a “windfall” of Rs 2,000 crore in the specific projects of five developers. A senior bureaucrat said CM Thackeray took a review meeting on the premium discount scheme on Monday. “The CM has asked to examine why an important decision to revise RR rates is taken at the level of IGR. So it is likely that the RR revision powers will be given to the state cabinet from now on. Given the allegations on the selective reduction of RR rates, it is likely that the RR rates that were revised in September this year will be stayed and the 2019 RR rates will be in place,” the bureaucrat said. The bureaucrat said it is likely that the premium reduction scheme will be deferred in the next state cabinet meeting this week. “Given the controversy over the scheme, it may be proposed that builders who opt for the 50% reduction scheme will pay premiums as per the 2019 RR rate, so they will not have a double benefit of reduced RR rate and a 50% discount in premiums. Apart from this, they will anyway have to pay the entire stamp duty for sale of flats if they opt for a 50% discount in premiums,” an official said. The draft Government Resolution (GR) already states that developers who opt for the 50% reduction in premiums will have to pay the entire stamp duty when they sell flats to buyers. Builders will have to give an undertaking to the local bodies that they will pay the full stamp duty and not charge any stamp duty from home buyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-uddhav-thackeray-may-stay-revision-of-20-ready-reckoner-rates/articleshow/80018919.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Covid norms: Delhi govt eye on markets, clubs||NEW DELHI: Flying squads will be deployed in and around Connaught Place and other areas of the city that normally has crowds gathering on New Year’s Eve to ensure the revelry complies with Covid guidelines, people wear masks and things do not go out of hand. In the wake of 33 travellers from the United Kingdom of those who came to Delhi in the past month testing positive for Covid, the authorities want effective implementation of the Covid guidelines at crowded events. Delhi government has planned extensive surveillance and enforcement activities in markets and areas with a concentration of clubs and restaurants to ensure that people do not violate the anti-Covid norms. Chief secretary Vijay Dev has asked all the districts to deploy enforcement and surveillance teams and carry out an aggressive information and communication campaign about the last evening of the year. There is apprehension that reckless celebrations could negatively affect declining intensity of infections in the capital. TimesViewOne night of recklessness can undo weeks of hard work in Covid-19 management. The virus doesn’t follow a calendar. It can strike anytime. New Year celebrations must follow the two golden rules of preventing infection: wearing a mask and practising social distancing.The district authorities have held meetings with market associations and restaurant owners to persuade them to remain in control and to cooperate with the authorities in ensuring a safe passage to 2021. “The restaurants and hotels have been asked to ensure wearing of masks by guests at all times except when they eat. The restaurants, clubs and hotels have been following the mandated Covid-19 measures for months now and the norms have almost become part of the new normal,” claimed a government official. The worry is about those who still ignore safety norms and are careless about the infection. In many restaurants, parks and other public places it is not uncommon to see people without masks and or masks worn improperly. For such individuals, the district authorities are running an extensive information and education campaign. In New Delhi, public announcement systems are being used to spread awareness in the markets and crowd-sensitive areas. “Medical professionals, administrators and police have done an outstanding job of containing Covid, and the two challenges are New Year celebrations and the UK virus strain,” said Dev. “Intensive efforts are under way on both the fronts. Surveillance and enforcement teams have been constituted in each district to aggressively ensure compliance. Information and education campaigns as well as enforcement penalties will be simultaneously undertaken across Delhi. No let up, no laxity — that is our motto.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-norms-delhi-govt-eye-on-markets-clubs/articleshow/80019021.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Nine years go by, GVMC remains without elected council||Visakhapatnam: The year 2020 has not been different for Vizagites from that of the previous eight years in terms of having an elected council. The expiry of the tenure of the elected members of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) on February 25, 2012 was followed by vesting of the administrative powers with the GVMC special officer. As the special officer, Visakhapatnam district collector has been discharging the functions of the Corporation and the Standing Committees since that time. In a measure which was expected to end the uncertainty, the State Election Commission released a notification for the municipal elections on March 9, 2020 and they were to be conducted on March 23. The GVMC poll process had drawn in a record 1,361 nominations from the aspirants before the deadline ended on March 13. But the postponement of the elections due to Covid-19 on March 15, and the ongoing uncertainty over the polls seem to have brought the entire exercise only to square one. Several political parties have also been demanding the officials to initiate the poll process from the beginning. Moreover, it is not clear whether the GVMC would continue as a single civic body with the proposed reorganisation of the districts and what would happen with the Census 2021. Speaking to TOI, Peethala Murthy Yadav, who served as a corporator between 2007 and 2012 and filed nominations from Jana Sena in 2020, said that the elected council would help improve public participation at the ground-level. “The public can always knock on the door of the coporators, who live only next door,” said Murthy. The delay in the election process all started with the merger of 10 villages, Anakapalle and Bheemili into the GVMC in 2013. Opposing the merger, the people’s representatives of the newly merged villages of Bheemili Mandal had knocked at the door of the court, which was locked in the court of law for several years. Later in 2017, the number of wards was increased to 81 from the then existing 72. Then few more wards were carved out to take the total number of wards to 98. An official notification pertaining to the same was published in the extra-ordinary issue of the Andhra Pradesh Gazette in January 2020. Consequently, the GVMC published the voter lists and finalised the ward-wise reservations based on the number of voters belonging SC/ST/BC and women categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nine-years-go-by-gvmc-remains-without-elected-council/articleshow/80015760.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No breathing easy, 2021 may begin on foul note||NEW DELHI: Delhiites are likely to begin the new year by breathing in polluted air. The Air Quality Index on January 1, 2021 is predicted to be between ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ categories, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences. Track the pollution level in your citySAFAR compared the forecast for January 1, 2021 with the AQIs for the day in 2020, 2019 and 2018. “The AQI on New Year’s Day 2021 is likely to be almost in the same range as it was in 2018 and 2019 in the ‘very poor’ category,” said SAFAR in a report on Tuesday. “The AQI for 2021is going to be better than that last year’s, when it was in the ‘severe’ category. However, while 2021 is predicted to be better than 2020, the air quality will be on the borderline between ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’.” According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s data, the AQI of the national capital was 437 on January 1, 2010. The readings on the same day in 2019 and 2018 were, respectively, 393 and 400. The central forecast body has also predicted five intense pollution hotspots for December 31 with regard to the expected PM2.5 levels there. These areas are Jahangirpuri, Vinobapuri, Peergarhi, Okhla and Dwarka. On Tuesday, the overall AQI of Delhi was 265 in the ‘poor’ category. “Elevated night-time boundary layer height and better surface winds are major reason for the improvement in air quality despite the colder conditions,” said SAFAR. “But relief is short lived. The strengthening of cold dry north-westerly winds and a fall in minimum temperature are likely in the region and a gradual decrease of surface wind speed is forecast.” According to experts, low wind speed, low minimum temperature and poor ventilation are likely to affect air quality. AQI is predicted to gradually deteriorate to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category by Wednesday. The AQI is likely to further deteriorate to the high-end of the ‘very poor’ category on December 31. “Due to low ventilated conditions, it is forecast to even touch the ‘severe’ category for a short period on New Year’s Eve,” the SAFAR statement said. “Calm local surface wind speed and low ventilated conditions are likely to extend to New Year’s Day, with AQI between the upper end of ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ categories.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-no-breathing-easy-2021-may-begin-on-foul-note/articleshow/80019032.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Public celebrations of New Year banned in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: City police on Tuesday issued guidelines for New Year celebrations, prohibiting all kinds public events and gatherings in view of Covid-19. Vijayawada city police commissioner B Srinivasulu said no special permissions will be granted for new year celebrations and all public gatherings, bike rides and cutting cake on the streets will be prohibited on December 31. New Year celebrations at star hotels and shopping malls are also prohibited this year, city police said. Special forces will be deployed on the streets to take stringent action against violators. Wine shops will be closed by 8 pm on Thursday while bars and restaurants will remain open till 11 pm. The decision of the police has been welcomes by residents. “The whole world is now speaking about a second wave of Covid-19 and a very intense mutated strain has been detected recently in the United Kingdom. It is very risky to join huge gatherings in the name of New Year celebrations. We have decided to celebrate New Year with family this year,” said Koduru Nilima, a techie from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/public-celebrations-of-new-year-banned-in-vij/articleshow/80015790.cms||Venu Lanka
December 30, 2020||Vijayawada||36 booked in connection with Velagapudi clashes||VIJAYAWADA: Police on Tuesday booked 36 persons for their involvement in violent clashes between two groups that resulted in the death of a 60-year-old woman in Velagapudi village on December 27. A case had been registered based on a complaint by Mendem Babu, son of the deceased Mariyamma. The FIR names 10 persons, including one Salivendra Rambabu, as the main accused. The accused were charged under sections 147, 148, 302, 324, 109 read with section 149 of IPC. Mendem Babu, in his complaint, alleged that around 100 members of a particular community planned the attack on December 12 and entered Malapalle without permission from the government, planning to name an entrance arch in the name of late leader Babu Jagjivan Ram. On December 27, tempers flared between both groups and Mariyamma, who was present at the spot, suffered grievous head injuries after a stone was pelted at her. She was rushed to Thullur government hospital where she succumbed while receiving treatment. Two other persons who suffered injuries in the clash are said to be out of danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/36-booked-in-connection-with-velagapudi-clashes/articleshow/80015802.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dumper rams into bike, kills cop, injures 1; driver nabbed||MUMBAI: A 40-year-old traffic constable was killed and a traffic warden injured in a hit-and-run incident on the Western Express Highway at Goregaon East on Tuesday. A dumper rammed into the cop’s scooter and the driver fled. He was arrested by the Vanrai police later on Tuesday. Constable Pandurang Sakpal was attached to the Dindoshi traffic division for the past two years. Around 2.30pm, he was near Hub Mall when a dumper rammed his bike from the left. The warden, identified as Pitale, 32, was riding pillion and was thrown off the bike and fell on the road. The dumper driver abandoned his vehicle and fled. The Vanrai cops rushed Sakpal and Pitale to the Holy Spirit Hospital in Andheri. Doctors declared Sakpal dead. Pitale was discharged after treatment. “We seized the dumper, tracked down its owner and then the driver,” said DCP DS Swami. The driver, Munnakumar Chauhan, was booked under relevant IPC sections for ‘causing death due to negligence’ and was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-dumper-rams-into-bike-kills-cop-injures-1-driver-nabbed/articleshow/80018942.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Vijayawada||TDP functionary hacked to death in Kadapa district||TIRUPATI: TDP’s Kadapa district unit spokesperson Nandam Subbaiah was hacked to death by unknown assailants near Somalavaripalli panchayat office in Proddatur on Tuesday. The victim’s wife and district functionaries of the TDP have alleged that Subbaiah was killed by the henchmen of a local ruling party leader for exposing his ‘unlawful’ activities. Aparajitha, the deceased’s wife, alleged in her police complaint that she saw a group of 4-5 persons moving near their house since the morning. The group followed Subbaiah soon after he left for the panchayat office where they threw chilli powder at his face and hacked him to death, she alleged. TDP supremo and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu termed it as “state sponsored murder”. “The ruling party leaders got Subbaiah murdered because he questioned and exposed their unlawful activities including corruption and matka gambling activities recently. The TDP will not relent till the accused involved in the murder are arrested and justice rendered to the bereaved family,” Naidu said. Police have shifted the body to the local government hospital for post-mortem and are investigating. Meanwhile, four people surrendered before Chapadu police in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tdp-functionary-hacked-to-death-in-kadapa-district/articleshow/80015823.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||Central India’s first bone bank to come up at GMCH||Nagpur: In recent budget allocations, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) sanctioned of Rs1.10 crore for establishing a bone bank on the hospital premises. Currently, there are only 4 fully functioning bone banks in India and none of them is in Central India. The sanctioned bone bank of GMCH will be the only one in Central India which will cater to the bone needs in 800km radius around Nagpur. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra told TOI that GMCH will be the first medical college in Maharashtra to have a bone bank. “There are some specific cases in which we require bone allograft. Presently, we depend on Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH) in Mumbai where a state-of-the-art bone bank is functioning. GMCH will be the second in state to have such initiatives,” he said. TOI had reported earlier that the GMCH has got a bonanza of new projects sanctioned under the DPC budget. Bone bank is one of the most ambitious projects of the institution. Dr Mohammad Faizal, who has played an important role in preparing the proposal of this bone bank, told TOI about how it will work and how it will benefit the people. “Apart from TMH, bone banks are there in Delhi, Bengaluru and Chennai. We are following the model of TMH from where we used to get bone for grafting,” he said. Besides TMH, bone banks are also functioning in AIIMS Delhi, MS Ramaiah Medical College, Bengaluru, and Adyar Cancer Institute, Chennai. Cancer patients with tumour are the big beneficiaries of bone bank. Apart from that, children born with bone-related disorders, accident victims, those who are undergoing revision joint replacements, spinal fusion, and those having complaints of non-union of bones will get a sustainable as well as affordable solution through the bank. Bone banks provide surgeons with real human bone material which can be used for treating such patients. Since the constitution of the replacement is the same as a real bone in the body, the patient’s system accepts it better and helps the affected area in recovering faster. It is estimated that over 40% of patients with critical bone surgeries require a replacement that can be made only from an actual human bone. “Our focus is on institutionalizing new things in GMCH. I know this is an ambitious project, but if not GMCH then who will bring such things to Nagpur?” said Dr Mitra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-indias-first-bone-bank-to-come-up-at-gmch/articleshow/80015828.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||SLC non-committal on following order in sawmills case||Nagpur: The state-level committee (SLC) seems to be non-committal on revoking around 200 sawmill licences issued during the last five years and taking action against respective officials who issued these against the Supreme Court directives. The SLC is also silent on state government orders on filing a contempt case against ex-PCCF (HoFF) UK Agrawal for granting 50 additional bands saw licences (ABHS).The lax approach of the SLC reflects in the minutes of the 18th SLC meeting held on December 21 in which two members voiced their dissent for inaction. The SLC is silent on several issues including direction from the state on December 8 to send a draft of a contempt petition against Agrawal in 15 days for granting licences to 50 sawmills as chairman of SLC.The SLC members were not unanimous on several issues and representative of MoEFCC CB Tashildar and APCCF (protection) Sanjeev Gaur expressed their dissent on SLC not taking a decision on revocation of licences granted in the past as well as pending applications for AHBS.The SLC seems to delay action against Agrawal by initiating departmental inquiry as well as contempt proceedings in the Supreme Court even after the lapse of almost 60 days. Last time when TOI had asked SLC chairman N Rambabu, he said, “The decision of contempt proceedings will be taken in the SLC meeting. However, there is no mention of it in the minutes.”It is not only Agrawal responsible for the violations since 2016, at least 200 such sawmill licences have been issued by the SLC by then officials which the state wants to be revoked and action be taken against all such officials.On October 30, ordering to cancel 50 sawmills licences issued by Agrawal, the MoEFCC said, “When discretionary power is conferred on administrative authority, it is required to be exercised according to law, which has been abused by Agrawal by exceeding his jurisdiction.” The order also criticized the state for simply giving directions without initiating any action.The SLC doesn’t seem to be serious in implementing the MoEFCC order. Tashildar and Gaur wanted all AHBS noticed to be in violation of the apex court order of March 4, 1997, should be revoked.Gaur in his dissent note said not revoking such invalid permissions would not only amount to deliberately disobeying the order of the state government but also tantamount to wilful disobedience of the Supreme Court orders. “All such permissions, which are not in conformity with the rules, must be revoked forthwith,” he said.On the issue of taking a decision on pending 500 applications for sawmill licences with SLC, members were not unanimous and both, Tashildar and Gaur expressed their dissent and demanded to dispose all pending applications with direction to the applicants to come afresh as and when the competent authority takes a final decision on timber availability report. However, the SLC did not dispose of these applications and decided to keep such applications in abeyance.The forest department is also yet to file a reply on the writ petition filed in the high court by 24 sawmill owners challenging the MoEFCC decision to cancel licences to 50 sawmills. The only grievance of the petitioners is that the environment ministry did not hear them before issuing an order to cancel 50 ABHS. The court has granted the last chance to file the reply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/slc-non-committal-on-following-order-in-sawmills-case/articleshow/80015859.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Sticking to promise: Govt targets phase-wise completion of all feasible projects in Amaravati||Amaravati: The state government has decided to complete only those projects that are necessary in Amaravati. The rest of the unfinished projects will be dropped. Sticking to its promise that it is not going to ignore Amaravati completely, the government has decided to take up works worth Rs 10,000 crore in a phased manner, while trimming out ‘fancy’ and ‘swanky’ projects from the plate. The cabinet sub-committee has given its green signal to the Amaravati Metro Region Development Authority (AMRDA) to pool the required finances from banks. Sources said a consortium of banks have agreed to grant Rs 10,000 crore in three spells in return of the state government’s guarantee. As per the previous plans, about Rs 30,000 crore would be required to complete the ongoing projects. Works proposed under the Amaravati Smart City project have been reduced to 10 from the originally planned 20. All the 10 projects would be completed at a cost of Rs 1,000 crore instead of the originally proposal Rs 2,000 crore. Interestingly, the government has also decided to develop the Krishna riverbank road at a cost of Rs 150 crore. While the irrigation department which manages the riverbank would take up the road works, AMRDA will finance the project. AMRDA has been asked to withdraw from handling the regular sanitation, drinking water and street lighting works at the secretariat in Velagapudi and 29 villages in the core capital city area. While the general administration department would look after the maintenance of the secretariat building, respective government departments would take up the job in the capital city villages. “We are not downsizing Amaravati. In fact, we are taking up the real development projects in the legislative capital. We will launch and complete all feasible projects in Amaravati as soon as banks clear the loan proposals,” said municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana, while adding that all promises made to locals, including farmers, would be fulfilled by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sticking-to-promise-govt-targets-phase-wise-completion-of-all-feasible-projects-in-amaravati/articleshow/80015842.cms||Samdani MN
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Validity of vehicle papers extended in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the capital, Delhi government has extended the validity of vehicle-related documents, including driving licences, fitness, registration certificates and permits, till March 31, 2021. Any vehicle-related document, which have expired since February 1, 2020 or will expire by March 31, 2021, will be treated as valid till March 31, 2021, according to an order issued by Delhi government’s transport department with approval of transport minister Kailash Gahlot. Directions have been issued to departments concerned, including all licensing authorities and motor licensing officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/validity-of-vehicle-papers-extended-in-delhi/articleshow/80019057.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||IMA reaches out to politicians, activists over mixopathy||Nagpur: The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nagpur chapter, organized an open forum in which the doctors invited well-known personalities from non-medical fields to talk about the burning issue of mixopathy. Right from politicians to academicians and lawyers to chartered accountants, all expressed their support to the doctors of modern medicine and opposed the idea of getting surgery done from a doctor who is not trained in allopathy. “We want to create awareness in people at large about the new development which is very dangerous for the cause of public health. Hence, we invited well-known names in different fields and asked their views about the mixopathy promotion,” said Dr Archana Kothari, president of Nagpur chapter of IMA. “After doctors organized silent protest and kept non-emergency services closed for a day earlier this month, some people may have thought that the issue was all about the benefits and rights of doctors of modern medicine. But truly, it’s about public health,” said Dr Rajesh Sawarbandhe, secretary of IMA. Panellists of the open forum had some popular public figures in Nagpur, including former minister Ramesh Bang, educationist Neeru Kapai, activist Arup Mukherjee, cultural event organizer Adv Bhanudas Kulkarni, former pro-VC of NU Dr Vinayak Deshpande, and CA Sharad Khandelwal. Former deputy mayor Shekhar Sawarbandhe said the process of mixopathy was started in 2014 from Railway Budget and now it comes in medical fraternity. “There are always new advances in allopathy unlike research poor ayurveda faculty. Ayurveda doctors should concentrate more on evidence-based research at global level. The government has created unnecessary confusion among the doctors in both the pathies,” he said. IMA is up in arm against the notification issued by the central council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) that allows ayurveda doctors trained in two surgery-based subjects to perform 58 types of surgeries. The IMA has already filed a petition against it in the Supreme Court. Now, they are creating public sensitization to get mass support in their initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ima-reaches-out-to-politicians-activists-over-mixopathy/articleshow/80015877.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Guest house staff dies after fight with devotees||TIRUPATI: The mess in-charge of a private guest house died following a fight with a group of devotees at Srisailam in Kurnool district on Tuesday. Srisailam circle inspector Ramana said the deceased, identified as Srinivasulu (57), was working as mess in-charge at the guest house for the last seven years. “A group of devotees had come come for lunch at the guest house on Tuesday. Srinivasulu told them that food will have to be self-served as no workers were present. This led to a heated argument with the devotees, one of whom pushed Srinivasulu in a fit of rage. The 57-year-old sustained severe head injuries and lost consciousness. He was immediately rushed to a local hospital where he died while undergoing treatment,” Ramana said. Srisailam police have registered a case and sent the body for post-mortem. No arrests have been made so far as the devotees’ group left the guest house immediately. The group is from Guntur district, police said. Further investigation is on. Srisailam police have registered a case and sent the body for post-mortem. No arrests have been made so far as the devotees’ group left the guest house immediately||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guest-house-staff-dies-after-fight-with-devotees/articleshow/80015880.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Nagpur||HC cautions students to read instructions before admission||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has refused any leniency to students whose Std XII results were withheld by Maharashtra state board, and later their admissions cancelled as they had failed to meet admission eligibility criteria. It also advised students to read all instructions carefully before seeking admission.Dismissing their plea, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote also directed the board’s headquarters in Pune and its divisional office in Nagpur to initiate cancellation of affiliation and recognition of ‘Saraswat Junior College of Science and Commerce’, located at Kalmeshwar Road, Saoner.“The students were expected to read instructions carefully about qualifying marks for securing admission to any stream whether arts, commerce or science, before getting admission. They haven’t done this and so, at least a part of the fault would also be lying at their doorsteps.”After clearing their Std X exams, the petitioners wanted to pursue science stream in Std XI, but as they secured only 33% in board exams, they were admitted to the commerce stream. Later, they requested change of stream to science and were allowed. Subsequently, they appeared for Std XII board exams. However, the board officials withheld their results after checking their records, due to which the students approached the HC.Acknowledging that dismissing students prayers would lead to loss of students’ precious academic years, the judges clarified that eligibility criteria being a policy matter, no further directives can be issued to compel the board to relax it.“Since eligibility criteria for admissions to science stream is 35% and the petitioners scored 33%, they were ineligible for admissions from the very first day. They can proceed against the college to claim compensation for the loss of their academic career.”Holding the college responsible for loss of students’ academic years, the bench said its management is presumed to know and be aware of eligibility criteria.“The college ought not to have entertained any application for change of subject when the petitioners didn’t qualify. The larger share of fault would have to be owned by college and it’s required to be made accountable. If this is not done, such activities; undesirable and unethical as they are, would continue,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-cautions-students-to-read-instructions-before-admission/articleshow/80015887.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Miscreants desecrate idol||Visakhapatnam: Unidentified persons sneaked into the Ramateertham hilltop Sri Kodanda Ramaswamy temple in Nellimerla in Vizianagaram district and decapitated the 400-year-old idol of Lord Rama. The head of the idol is missing and police have launched a search for the culprits. Superintendent of police B Raja Kumari along with the clues teams visited the temple and inspected the site. She said some unidentified persons entered the temple and vandalised the idol and took away its head. Idols of Seetha, Lakshman and Hanuman were left untouched. Efforts to locate the head of the idol in the bushes around the hill and in nearby villages proved futile.  Thousands of devotees visit the temple during Sitarama Kalyanam every year.A case has been registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/miscreants-desecrate-idol/articleshow/80015893.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Shaheen to Singhu, dissent at the gates||Of the year began with Shaheen Bagh protesters refusing to move till Corona intervened, it is ending with a virtual blockade of Delhi. Caravans of thousands of farmers are sitting at major border points to protest against the three farming laws. Their unions were demanding space at Jantar Mantar or Ramlila Maidan but the administration offered them the Burari grounds on the outskirts. They chose to impose a blockade rather than be grounded far away from the seat of power which, they felt, would put little pressure on the Government. Restrictions on the original protest site at Boat Club, near the India Gate lawns, had been imposed after another massive farmer protest in October 1988 when, led by Mahendra Singh Tikait, they stationed themselves on the lawns along the Rajpath. Shaken by the agitation, the government declared Boat Club out of bounds and designated Jantar Mantar, 2 km away, as the venue for such protests. The larger rallies were held at Ramlila Maidan. In October 2017, NGT imposed a total ban on all protests at Jantar Mantar, and once again the city found itself looking for a venue to express democratic dissent. The NGT-designated site of Ramlila Maidan witnessed just 10 protest rallies in the first six months, a sharp fall from 24,000 annual requests for protests at the Parliament Street police station near Jantar Mantar. The protesters cited the distance from Parliament and the apprehension of “not being heard” as the key reasons for staying away. Reversing the NGT order in 2018 while hearing the plea of Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan, Supreme Court re-opened the protest site aat Jantar Mantar and Boat Club. The apex court observed that there was a need to strike a balance between the right to protest and right of citizens to live peacefully. However, protests have not returned to these sites on the same scale. However, it has proved to be difficult to keep the protesters off the roads, as witnessed during the CAA-NRC stir, disabled candidates occupying the Mandi house roundabout for several days or others trying to catch attention of the national media by occupying Shaheedi Park near Feroz Shah Kotla. The CAA protests witnessed large-scale restrictions, repeated invocation of Section 144, frequent closure of metro stations and even disruptions in mobile networks. Supreme Court said in its order on Shaheen Bagh in October this year that public places cannot be occupied indefinitely. “Democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but then the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone. The present case…was blockage of a public way which caused grave inconvenience to commuters. We cannot accept the plea of the applicants that an indeterminable number of people can assemble whenever they choose to protest,” the bench held. But that’s exactly what’s happening on the highways to Delhi now. The right to dissent and protest continued to be contested till the end of pandemic-stricken 2020. With the Disaster Management Act in force, all kinds of protests were disallowed all through the year. However, mayors and BJP councillors remained stationed outside the CM’s house demanding release of pending dues, with the cops looking the other way, till the Delhi high court intervened on a plea from residents. The police were, meanwhile, denying AAP MLAs the same right to sit outside the home minister’s residence, citing the same Act, giving a new dimension to the controversy over right to protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shaheen-to-singhu-dissent-at-the-gates/articleshow/80019063.cms||Paras Singh
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu’s brother Soumendu removed as civic board chief||Tamluk: Suvendu Adhikari’s youngest brother Soumendu was removed as the Contai Municipality administrator on Tuesday. The move coincided with Suvendu speaking at a rally in Khardah where he said “I will make lotus bloom in my house”. Suvendu’s father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu, both Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha MPs, quickly disassociated themselves from the Trinamool-turned-BJP leader’s comment, indicating a growing unease in the Adhikari family home in Kanthi. Suvendu, responding to Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee’s barbs, said: “Abhishek Banerjee said I cannot make lotus bloom in my own house. I am accepting the challenge. I will make lotus bloom in my house. I will also make an entry at the Harish Chatterjee Street residence and make lotus bloom there as well.” Responding to this, Sisir said: “I have not heard what he (Suvendu) said.” According to Dibyendu, “Suvendu Adhikari is a BJP leader. He spoke from a BJP stage. I cannot comment on what he said”. Sisir is the Contai MP and Dibyendu the MP from Tamluk. For brother Soumendu, however, it was different. Soumendu said he worked in his municipality office till 6pm and learnt from television, after returning home, that he had been removed as municipality administrator. “I have heard about it in the media. I did not get any formal or informal information from the state urban development ministry. I have not received any email either. I can only speak once I get to know formally that I have been removed,” he said. But local Trinamool leaders said they were anticipating this. Tarun Jana, a party district committee leader, said: “He (Soumendu) was elected on a Trinamool ticket. But he was working for BJP. People were getting angry. It was only out of our respect for Sisir babu that we did nothing. But this cannot go on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendus-brother-soumendu-removed-as-civic-board-chief/articleshow/80018080.cms||Suman Mondal
December 30, 2020||Ranchi||Projects, schemes worth R 6,772cr unveiled on govt’s anniv||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday launched projects and schemes in different sectors worth Rs 6,772.52 crore to mark the grand alliance government's one year in office. The government also signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) and launched two new policies on the occasion. The cumulative amount of Rs 6,772.52 crore for projects and schemes launched during the day included funds for 10 new schemes unveiled on the occasion. Addressing a strong crowd of 4,000 at the Morhabadi ground here, Soren, who was flanked by his cabinet colleagues Rameshwar Oraon (finance), Badal Patralekh (agriculture) and Satyanand Bhokta (labour and employment), said, “We were gifted with the keys of an empty tijori (treasury) when we took charge a year ago after the previous BJP government indulged in wasteful expenditure. But today, I assure you that Jharkhand will not have to bow before anyone for assistance — be it before the World Bank or the Union government — if you continue to support me and my government.” Patralekh said the MoU with NDDB is for extending the government's tie-up with the board for next five years to help Jharkhand become self-sustainable in milk production. He said, “Under the provisions of the MoU, NDDB will take care of management and operation of the Jharkhand State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Limited (Medha dairy) for another five years.” Medha dairy, a state government entity, debuted in 2013 and NDDB was roped in 2014 for a period of five years to boost the dairy sector. The dairy's managing director, Sudhir Kumar Singh, said, “The state's milk federation had achieved success during the last five-year period and crossed 1.25 lakh litre of milk procurement and sale per day.” The anniversary function also saw the launching of the logo of an emerging Jharkhand titled ‘Come, Explore and Engage’ to indicate the state’s plans to take new strides in the coming year. The 10 new schemes unveiled on the occasion are Jharkhand State Agricultural Debt Waiver, Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Transnational Scholarship Scheme, Jharkhand Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (CSR) 2020, Jharkhand Fasal Rahat Yojana (JFRY), JharSewa Campaign, Women Helpline 181, Jharkhand State Food Security Scheme, Universal Welfare for the Elderly Scheme among others worth Rs 2,575.70 crore. Besides, 171 projects worth Rs 1710.26 crore and taken up across the state were launched during the celebration. Among them are command control and communication centre for effective traffic in Ranchi, Jharkhand Urban Planning and Management Institute in Ranchi, Electronic Manufacturing Cluster in Adityapur, a dairy plant with 50,000-litre capacity in Deoghar, Software Technology Park of India (STPI) in Sindri and the collectorate building of Hazaribag among others. The government also laid foundations stones for projects worth nearly Rs 1,529.06 crore on the occasion. The projects included phase-II of Ranchi urban drinking water scheme, zone-1 sewerage drainage project in Ranchi, eco-tourism circuits in Dalma, Chandil, Getalsud, Betla, Mirchai and Netarhat and 27 schools of excellence. JMM president and Rajya Sabha MP Shibu Soren and state Congress in-charge RPN Singh were some of the political leaders present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/projects-schemes-worth-r-6772cr-unveiled-on-govts-anniv/articleshow/80015298.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Spurn politics of divisiveness, hatred: Mamata in Bolpur||Bolpur: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday urged people to reject BJP’s politics of narrowmindedness, hatred and divisiveness that pits people against each other, stressing she would never do anything against people’s interests. “People are my only family. I have no other family,” she said after walking in a 4km roadshow from Bolpur Lodge crossing to Bolpur bus stand outside Visva-Bharati campus. Urging people to lodge police complaints if they spotted “outsiders”, she also targeted the Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor for allegedly toeing a BJP line. Citing the Bengali lullaby, Borgi elo deshe, Banerjee said: “You have heard about Borgis. In childhood, mothers used to sing it to put us to sleep. Deshe Borgi aasche. Rajje borgi assche (The invaders are coming to the countrysides. The invaders are coming to the state). You have to save Bengal from outsiders.” “I have never done politics to hurt people. I will never do it,” she added. “They are only coming for the elections now. They never came before. They only know two things – fake and hate. They will make people fight against each other.” She then said: “If you see outsiders in your neighbourhood, lodge a police complaint. If police refuse to take a complaint, write the complaint yourself, drop it in the police station letter box and mark a copy to us.” “People in villages, beware of outsiders. Out of 10 people, every 2 are outsiders. They will tell you about BJP, break Bengal’s spine and flee after polls,” she added. In a direct attack on VB authorities, Banerjee, without naming anyone, said: “Couldn’t they find anyone else to be Visva-Bharati’s vice-chancellor? I am not angry, neither do I have any grievances. But they had to bring him. He is a hardcore BJP loyalist. Why do BJP leaders spend so much time in the VC’s chambers?” “Dirty and fanatical politics is going on revolving around Visva-Bharati. This politics of hate is being brought to Bengal,” the CM said. “To know Hindu religion, you need to know Vivekananda, Ramakrishna, Rabindranath Tagore. It is not that easy.” Targeting her detractors, the CM said: “They are handing out money for elections. Take the money but reject them in the ballot boxes. They believe they can buy a few MLAs, that too a few rotten ones. They do not understand that Trinamool Congress isn’t small any more; it has grown into a huge banyan tree.” The CM’s roadshow drew several thousands on to the streets. A week back, Union home minister Amit Shah had held a roadshow in a part of this stretch from Dak Bungalow More to Chowrasta. On Tuesday, apart from Trinamool supporters following Banerjee, people – mostly women and children – were seen waving at her from their balconies. The CM expressed gratitude to people for attending the roadshow. Local Trinamool leaders claimed rally participants were locals – unlike in the BJP rally – and most came spontaneously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/spurn-politics-of-divisiveness-hatred-mamata-in-bolpur/articleshow/80018053.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Extortionist cop remanded in one day custody||VADODARA: A special anti-corruption court remanded extortionist cop Ramesh Galsar to police custody till Wednesday evening. Despite questioning him since Monday, investigators are yet to find out names of his three accomplices who aided him in taking money and valuables from the Mumbai-based consultant Amit Kumar. While seeking his remand for a week, cops told the court they have also not been able to find the SUV which Galsar had used on the night of November 13. Police will also probe into Galsar and his wife’s bank accounts and search his house in Kishanwadi. On Wednesday, an identification parade of Galsar will be conducted before an executive magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/extortionist-cop-remanded-in-one-day-custody/articleshow/80015467.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||North trains from Howrah won’t laze in haze, courtesy this fog safety device||KOLKATA: Loco pilots of north-bound trains from Howrah and Sealdah are now using a special device extensively to reduce delays owing to fog and to enhance safety. Fog along railway tracks between Mughalsarai and New Delhi during winter months result in loss of punctuality. Sometimes, even trains like the Rajdhani are delayed by several hours and have to be rescheduled or cancelled. “We have now made elaborate arrangements to provide loco pilots of most mail/express trains with this fog safety device. Loco pilots taking charge of trains between 10pm and 5am, when the fog is at its worst, carry these devices with them. We have also taken several other steps to maintain a normal train schedule during this season,” said K D Das, CPRO, Eastern Railway. The main problem in this season is reduced visibility. At times, signals are not visible even from a distance of a few feet. Loco pilots have to slow down and approach signals so that they may apply brakes if it is red. The fog safety device uses GPS to alert them of oncoming signals and any such restrictions. For every section hence, the device needs to be separately calibrated. According to Das, Eastern Railway will be maximising the use of these handheld devices during the winter to reduce delays. Every device can be fed with a large number of inputs regarding signals and tracks, and they have been tested to be very accurate while issuing alerts to motormen inside locomotive cabins. Eastern Railway has also undertaken day and night inspections and surprise checks by officers to enhance safety during the winter months when other equipment tends to develop glitches. Ambush checks are being carried out by safety officers and supervisors in all four divisions of the railway. Maintenance of points and signals, overhead equipment and work site protection have been given due importance, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/north-trains-from-howrah-wont-laze-in-haze-courtesy-this-fog-safety-device/articleshow/80018189.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||CLW record output in Covid-hit year||CHITTARANJAN: Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW) has created a new record by churning out 250 locomotives in 188 working days, two days short of the earlier record of 190 days in the last financial year. Overcoming constraints of the lockdown in April-May and unlock in June-July, the time taken to produce the locomotives has actually reduced by 29 working days or nearly a month since 2018-19. In 2015-16, CLW had taken 274 days to achieve the 250-locomotives mark. This had gone up to 277 days in 2016-17 before declining to 249 days in 2017-18. In 2018-19, it decreased further to 217 days before sliding below the 200-day mark in 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clw-record-output-in-covid-hit-year/articleshow/80018102.cms||Mohammad Asif
December 30, 2020||Ranchi||Ex BJP man congratulates Hemant on completing 1 yr||Jamshedpur: Jamshedpur (East) MLA Saryu Rai on Tuesday congratulated the Hemant Soren-led government for completing one year in office and lauded “the good work done by all the ministers and legislators, especially in handling the viral outbreak”. Rai — who fell out with former chief minister Raghubar Das when the latter denied him a ticket to contest from the Jamshedpur (West) constituency in last year’s assembly polls which resulted in him fighting from Jamshedpur (East) as an Independent candidate — cautioned Soren against making the same mistakes that the previous BJP-led regime did. “The government may become unpopular, like the previous regime, if those mistakes are repeated,” he said. He added, “In the coming years, the mahagathbandhan government should focus on ensuring good governance in Jharkhand and take into account the demands of youngsters while formulating its developmental agenda.” He further said they also need to ensure that the basic amenities reaches the common people and projects related to education and health get topmost priority. “The demands of farmers cannot be ignored under any cost,” he added. Given how handling the outbreak has been a challenge for the government, Rai urged everyone to lend his/her support to ensure that there is progress in Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ex-bjp-man-congratulates-hemant-on-completing-1-yr/articleshow/80015340.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
December 30, 2020||Ranchi||Software tech park inaugurated in Sindri , H’bag gets new collectorate building||Sindri/Hazaribag: A Software Technology Park of India (STPI) in Sindri was inaugurated by chief minister Hemant Soren online from Ranchi on the occasion of his government completing one year in office. Built at a cost of Rs 18.67 crore, this is the third STPI in Jharkhand, the other two being in Ranchi and in Jamshedpur. Surprisingly, the officials at BIT, Sindri – which provided the three acres of land for setting up the park – had no idea about the inauguration. When asked, BIT Sindri director D K Singh said he wasn’t informed about the inauguration or how to go about the functioning of STPI. Located beside the BIT Sindri campus, the STPI is a joint venture of the Union ministry of information technology (IT) and the Jharkhand government and it aims to encourage and promote the export of software from India. Its satellite links would help not only the BIT students but also those pursuing a diploma in engineering in other colleges. The B.Tech students can get training in software development and data analysis and the STPI is also expected to create jobs, especially in multinational companies, for them. Meanwhile, the Dhanbad administration inaugurated 72 developmental projects worth Rs 45.92 crore at a function organised in Randhir Verma stadium to mark the one year anniversary celebrations of the government. The administration laid the foundation stones of projects worth Rs 16.17 crore, which includes a multi-purpose cultural complex of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. In addition, welfare schemes and pensions amounting to Rs 204.90 crore were distributed among 48,985 beneficiaries at the function. Meanwhile, BJP’s Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha — who, like his party colleagues, boycotted the anniversary event in Ranchi — said, “The JMM-led government is like a rudderless ship which has failed to fulfill the promises made in its election manifesto.” In Hazaribag, state health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta presided over the official function where he launched the new collectorate building. Gupta said, “Our government will work in a progressive manner and despite all odds, we will have a positive approach when it comes to ushering in development in Jharkhand.” He added that despite the shortage of doctors in several hospitals, the government has managed to combat the virus effectively so far. MLAs like Amba Prasad (from Barkagaon), Uma Shankar Akela (from Barhi) and Amit Yadav (from Barkatha) participated in the event while BJP MP Jayant Sinha and Hazaribag MLA Manish Jaiswal and Mandu MLA Jai Prakash Bhai Patel gave it a miss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/software-tech-park-inaugurated-in-sindri-hbag-gets-new-collectorate-building/articleshow/80015371.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 30, 2020||Ranchi||135 Covid warriors felicitated in Bokaro||Bokaro: Vikas Mela in Bokaro, organised to mark the completion of a year of the Mahagathbandhan government, was marked with the felicitation of Covid warriors by the district administration besides rolling out of several welfare schemes and projects on Tuesday. As many as 135 officials and administration staff of the health department and Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) were honoured for their exemplary courage and dedication in the fight against the pandemic. A few Covid-19 warriors were honoured and handed citation certificates on the stage while the certificates of others were issued to their departments. Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh said, “They are the real warriors who are fighting against the invisible virus to save us. Each of the 135 corona warriors had played an important role in serving people during the ongoing pandemic without caring for their lives.” Of those felicitated included sub-divisional officer (SDO) Shashi Prakash Singh, nodal officer of Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) Dr R K Gautam, district epidemiologist officer Pawan Kumar Srivastava and district disaster management officer Shakti Kumar, district data manager Kanchan. About 23 lab technicians, 22 multipurpose workers, five data entry operators, 14 ambulance drivers and helpers, 12 field workers and others were also honoured. Dr Gautam of BGH said, “The honour was unexpected, but will motivate me to work hard.” At present, there are only 18 Covid patients at BGH who are being treated by him. Srivastava and his team spent days contact tracing, forming containment zones and ensuring that positive patients would be ferried to the hospital. The SDO, an IAS, helped making strategies and effectively implemented them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/135-covid-warriors-felicitated-in-bokaro/articleshow/80015314.cms||Divy Khare
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip may not stay Bengal BJP chief after 2nd term||Kolkata: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, who is scheduled to complete his second term as state unit chief by end of next year, might not continue after that. “I might not be there after one or two years as the president and someone else will be appointed. That is how our party functions,” he said. Ghosh, who was made president of Bengal BJP in 2015, was re-elected for the second term. Amid the row over Visva-Bharati, Ghosh on Tuesday attacked Nobel laureate Amartya Sen over his ‘love jihad’ statement. “He has no moral right to say anything,” Ghosh said. “He is never seen with the people of this country. He was nowhere to be found during a crisis like Amphan or pandemic. We are not here to take moral lesson from such a person.” According to Ghosh, “Trinamool Congress has political compulsions and they are trying to cling on to bits of straw to get some support”. On Tuesday, Ghosh held an organizational meeting as BJP gears up for the 2021 assembly poll campaign. “We are preparing a blueprint for the election campaign. This will continue for another day,” he said. Meanwhile, BJP on Tuesday took out a rally from Barrackpore, North 24 Parganas led by Suvendu Adhikari, Union minister Babul Supriyo and Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh. Criticising the state’s Swasthya Sathi scheme, Suvendu said: “Nearly 3.5 crore people in Bengal were already under Swasthya Sathi scheme. But they didn’t get services from any hospital.” He criticized Trinamool for “patronizing” illegal coal mining and cattle smuggling. “We will uproot the bua-bhatija government in the state,” Suvendu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-may-not-stay-bengal-bjp-chief-after-2nd-term/articleshow/80018232.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
December 30, 2020||Ranchi||BJP’s report card of govt gives 0 points on scale of 10||Ranchi: BJP on Tuesday termed the grand alliance government's one-year rule as disappointing and gave zero points on a scale of 10 for the works done during the period. Congress, a ruling alliance partner, refuted the charge and said BJP is spreading bundles of lies. In a 28-page report card issued by BJP an hour before the government’s formal anniversary celebrations, the saffron party accused the current dispensation of cheating the farmers, indulging in corruption and mismanagement of finances. The party also said hindering the Centre's move to auction coal blocks is causing a loss of revenue to the state and denying employment opportunities to the residents. Addressing a press conference during the release of the report card here, the state's first chief minister and BJP leader, Babulal Marandi, said extremism and crime dominated the entire one-year of the magathbandhan's rule. He said, "Women are the main victims of crime and over 1,500 of them, including a large number of minor girls, were raped." Marandi alleged that development works have stopped in the state while corruption is going on unabated even at block and circle offices and at police stations. The tribal face of the saffron party also claimed that extortions are made and collected in the name of the chief minister's brother Basant Soren. State BJP president Deepak Prakash charged the government with cheating the people of the state and said the money spent by the government on the anniversary function should have been spent for the poor people. "The government is trying to hide its failures behind the big advertisements and hoardings," he alleged. Prakash further said the pathetic state of farmers, murder of adivasis, poor power supply and rape of women and minor girls showed that the government has totally failed in the past year to fulfil its promises. He accused Congress, JMM and RJD of promoting dynastic rule. While the party leaders demonstrated the shortcomings of the government through a slide show during the press conference, their report card said despite the government’s announcement to buy paddy from the farmers, the process is not taken up properly. "The youths neither got employment nor allowance as promised," the report said, adding that BJP has given zero marks to the government for these reasons. Reacting the charges, Congress said BJP's report is a bundle of lines. In a press statement, state Congress spokespersons Alok Dubey, Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo and Rajesh Gupta question BJP why crores of farmers are staging protests near Delhi for the past one month if the BJP government at the Centre is working for their welfare. They also said 32 of the agitating farmers have died during their dharna. "The NDA-led Union government is determined to ignore and neglect the demands of the country's 80 crore farmers. In the state, the BJP leaders have failed to raise important issues before the Centre. BJP's over a decade in power in the state has led to lakhs of people migrating from Jharkhand," the statement claimed. Meanwhile, BJP’s ally Ajsu-P observed the one-year anniversary as “vishwasghat diwas” at its party office on Tuesday. The party accused the government of failing to fulfil its pre-poll promises. Party president Sudesh Mahto said playing with the sentiment of people of Jharkhand would be dangerous and asked the government not to betray the youths, farmers and women. He further said the government cannot hide its failures by blaming them on the Covid-19 pandemic. Mahato added that Ajsu-P would keep raising the issues of public importance in the future as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjps-report-card-of-govt-gives-0-points-on-scale-of-10/articleshow/80015355.cms||Sanjay Sahay
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Ensure Covid control during NYE, Calcutta HC tells cops, government||KOLKATA: Calcutta Hight Court on Tuesday directed the police to ensure crowd control and the administration to take Covid-control measures during year-end festivities, taking note of recent newspaper reports of overcrowding during Christmas Eve and on Christmas Day. The division bench of Justice Kausik Chanda and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya delivered the order on a PIL seeking a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during New Year’s Eve and New Year celebrations. On Christmas Eve and Christmas Day, there was massive crowding on Park Street, a traditional year-end party hot spot, forcing cops to shut down traffic movement at 5pm and make the entire road available to pedestrians. Though railings had been installed along the median to segregate the crowd entering Park Street from the one exiting, social distancing norms could not be enforced because of the sheer size of the turnout. Doctors were particularly perturbed by the sight of a large number of revellers without masks in the crowded zone. Huge crowds had also been recorded at the zoo, the garden of Victoria Memorial and at Eco Park in New Town, among other places. In Tuesday’s order, the court urged the state to ensure that effective anti-Covid protocols — including mask-wearing and hand sanitization — are maintained during the year-end festivities. “The protocols would include measures taken by the police authorities to control congestion in public places, particularly in the popular spots of the city, where such crowding has been frequently noticed in recent times. The administration is also requested to ensure that there are sufficient number of checkpoints for providing masks, sanitizers and medical aid to revellers,” the bench said, adding that similar orders passed in PILs involving similar concerns should be also complied with. Lawyer Indrajit Dey said the order would help control year-end festivities and prevent a Covid spike. The high court had passed orders during festivals in October and November — covering Durga Puja, Kali Puja and Chhath Puja — which played a crucial role in preventing crowding and new infections. Entry into pandals was restricted for both Durga Puja and Kali Puja. Also, several rituals, including trip to the river and other water bodies during Chhath, were regulated. The muted observation of these festivals had ensured that Covid-19 cases in Kolkata and the rest of Bengal did not explode, like it had done in Kerala following Onam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ensure-covid-control-during-nye-cal-hc-tells-cops-govt/articleshow/80018108.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Baul singer walks with Didi, sings at rally||Bolpur: From walking alongside chief minister Mamata Banerjee at her roadshow on Tuesday to singing on a dais at the CM’s rally, Basudeb Baul was seen everywhere. Basudeb had on December 20 sung for Union home minister Amit Shah, who had stopped over for lunch at his Santiniketan home. The Baul singer chose to sing the same song on Tuesday that he had sung for Shah – Tomaye hrid majhare rakhibo chhere debo na (I’ll keep you in my heart forever, l will never leave you). For the Bengal CM, however, Basudeb inserted the words “Didi” in the lyrics. “This song is very popular and has a universal appeal, irrespective of people’s different identities, “ Basudeb said. “With this song, we want to show how dear the person is to us. I chose to sing this song; none had instructed or advised me on it.” On the change in lyrics, he said: “It is a common practice in our Baul performance. The singer often spontaneously changes some words or phrases, according to context. Didi is very dear to me and we want her to be in our hearts forever.” A day after Shah had lunch at his home, Basudeb was seen at the Trinamool Congress office in Bolpur with the party’s district president Anubrata Mondal beside him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/baul-singer-walks-with-didi-sings-at-rally/articleshow/80018062.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Bus attack mars Suvendu BJP rally in Nandigram||NANDIGRAM: Suvendu Adhikari’s first public rally in Nandigram on Tuesday after defecting to BJP was marred by violence after party supporters travelling in a bus from Sonachura were attacked at Bhutar More, nearly a kilometre from Nandigram. The incident prompted Suvendu to blame the attack on “jihadis” and warn the “implications will not be good”. Trinamool Congress chose not to respond but local leaders blamed it on infighting between pro- and anti-Suvendu supporters. All 15 BJP supporters injured in the attack were treated at Nandigram hospital. The bus was vandalised. Suvendu said: “I had been involved in mass movements before 2011 and fought with CPM harmads (marauders). So the jihadis who attacked the bus, to them I want to give a clear message — I will not tolerate this kind of attack.” The attack, which happened around 11.30am, prompted BJP supporters to protest in front of Nandigram police station. Suvendu demanded immediate arrest of the culprits, failing which he would launch an agitation. During the attack, Suvendu was attending a 1.5km roadshow from Tengua to Nandigram, organised by the local Bajrang Dal committee. The BJP leader said he would return to Nandigram at night. BJP alleged women and children too were beaten up by Trinamool supporters. Trinamool’s Md Sufian said: “None in Trinamool was involved in this. We don’t know anything about it.” Suvendu said he would organise a rally in Nandigram on January 8 where over a lakh people would attend. “I had come to attend an apolitical meeting but even there, my supporters were attacked,” he said at he Nandigram Town Club. The former Bengal minister will attend Nandigram Diwas on January 7 to pay tribute to the martyrs of Nandigram. Trinamool national secretary and MP Subrata Bakshi too is expected in Nandigram to attend the same event, where he is expected to meet party workers. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was supposed to attend a rally in Nandigram on January 7, but it was postponed as party MLA Akhil Giri, one of the key organisers, tested Covid-positive. Nandigram, which has a sizable minority population, was the epicentre of Trinamool’s anti-land acquisition stir since March 2007. In the run-up to the 2016 assembly polls, Banerjee had announced in Nandigram that she wanted Suvendu in the state cabinet as Nandigram MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bus-attack-mars-suvendu-bjp-rally-in-nandigram/articleshow/80018098.cms||Suman Mondal
December 30, 2020||Ghaziabad||Nine arrested for running bogus call centre in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: Nine members of a gang, who ran a call centre and dupe people by posing as owners and managers of automobile showrooms, were arrested on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Puneet alias Dumpy (25), Vishal Sharma (31), both from Faridabad, Vinay Yadav alias Bablu (32), from Auraiya, Munna Sahu (23), a resident of West Bengal, Pawan Manjhi (27), Brijmohan (30), both from Bihar, Kapil (22), from Mathura, Chetan (26), from Hathras and Afsar Ali (27), from Ghaziabad. Police have recovered Rs 4 lakhs and several forged ID proofs from them. All nine have been sent to jail after being produced in court. Vinay is the gang leader and they have duped hundreds in the past two years, police said. Earlier, Vinay was in jail in a murder case. Abhay Kumar Mishra, circle officer 1, city, said the accused would target an auto mobile showroom and a youth, who is on the run, would collect details about the store officials and types of cars available. “They would get a SIM through forged documents and Vinay would call a showroom executive. He would book a car and get bank details on the pretext of transferring an advance,” Mishra said. The accused would get another SIM and register it in the name of the store executive. “Vinay would call up the bank that had the store as its customer and speak to the manager for days. Then he would ask him/her to deposit money in a given account due to an ‘urgent need’. Once it was in, the accused would destroy the SIM and phone,” Mishra said. Vishal would transfer the money to other accounts. The arrests were made after an FIR was lodged on December 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/9-arrested-for-running-bogus-call-centre-in-ghaziabad/articleshow/80015707.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Riots burn communal amity bridge||For the past two months, a long serpentine queue has been forming outside Chand Syed Baba shrine every Thursday. While those waiting have been wishing for better jobs, financial security, a new house and other worldly things, Jignesh, who accompanies his mother there, has been praying for lasting peace in the area. Referring to the riots in northeast Delhi in February, which claimed 53 lives, Jignesh said, “All of us suffered when the rioters destroyed our houses and property. We have rebuilt the area, but the memories of the violence are still fresh and there is constant fear in our minds.” The 7x7 feet shrine became the first casualty during the mob attack in Chand Bagh, a small but populous neighbourhood. They set ablaze the structure, which was a symbol of communal amity (both Hindus and Muslims pray there), and then burnt and looted other houses in the neighbourhood. When the shrine opened after the lockdown, even the devotees returned. “We believe that a place of worship is martyred when people desecrate it. We are rebuilding every inch of the shrine and every devotee has donated generously. Because of the pandemic, the renovation work was delayed by a few months,” said Mohammad Abid, a caretaker of the shrine. Just a few metres away, scars of violence were still clearly visible. Several shops in Khajuri Khas, which were ravaged by arson on February 23, are yet to start functioning. A fruit shop owned by Mohammad Azad and his two brothers has remained frozen in time. When TOI visited the area, the shop’s walls were seen covered in soot, the roof had caved in and there were cracks in the walls. Azad’s house, located on the floor above his shop, was also damaged beyond repair. “We haven’t seen such bad days in our 30 years in Delhi. We received some compensation from Delhi government, but that was not enough to repair both our shop and home,” said Azad, who now runs a pushcart along with his nephew for a living. The family had moved into a rented house, but paying rent has been difficult. A builder gave Azad an estimate of Rs 25 lakh for rebuilding his property. “Everything will have to be demolished and then built, but we don’t have resources for that,” he rued. Fear has kept residents at bay and many are yet to return. While the rubble has been cleared, some houses renovated and roads repaired, the smell of soot and char still linger. The need to build bridges is starkly evident because of a clear trust deficit between the members of the two communities. “Recently, people burst crackers outside a place of worship, which led to some tension in the area. Even the slightest mistake is looked upon with suspicion now,” said Akram, the caretaker of a mosque. Nazruddin, a daily wager, spoke of feeling “unsafe”, while pointing to one of the many doors that had been bolted shut. He still hasn’t got compensation for his burnt house and managed to rebuild it only after selling his ancestral property in Uttar Pradesh.  PeopleinMaujpur, which was the epicentre of the violence, recounted dreams that had been put on hold to deal with the aftermath of the violence and the pandemic. Shops had reopened, but their sale had dipped by over 60-70%. In Shiv Vihar, which saw targeted arson and looting, things had started limping back to normalcy. But Rajdhani school, which was targeted on February 24, is among many that have fallen into disrepair. The school’s windows were cracked and its main door locked when TOI visited the area. Although classes have moved online, many schools in the area could not make that shift, casting uncertainty over the future of students. “Our children have joined us to help us earn more. Their future has been lost,” said Aamir Iqbal, a resident of Chandu Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-riots-burn-communal-amity-bridge/articleshow/80019087.cms||Anam Ajmal
December 30, 2020||Indore||Stones hurled at saffron activists in Indore, 12 hurt||INDORE: After Ujjain, tension gripped Indore’s Gautampura area on Tuesday when stones were pelted at a rally of saffron activists, injuring at least a dozen prompting deployment of a large police force to prevent any further flare-up. Members of various Hindu outfits were taking out a rally to raise funds for Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya, when they stopped before a mosque and started chanting religious hymns. Stones were pelted at the saffron workers in Chandrakhedi village, injuring as many as 12 persons, in the afternoon, DIG Harinarayanchari Mishra said. The saffron workers had a skirmish with the villagers, before the violence broke out, he added. The injured were taken to hospital from where they were discharged after preliminary treatment. Senior police and administrative officials rushed to the spot and police were deployed in strength. The situation is peaceful and police are keeping a close watch, Mishra said on Tuesday night. “A case has been registered against a dozen people, seven of whom have been identified and a few detained. We are looking at the videos made by the team to identify the others. More action will follow,” said the DIG. This is the second such incident in Madhya Pradesh in the last four days. In Ujjain, an hour’s drive from Indore, stones were hurled at saffron activists in Begambagh area on December 25. The next day, the administration razed one of the houses, from where stones had been hurled, and partly demolished another. The demolitions sparked tension in the temple town. Indore MP Shankar Lalwani condemned the attack in Gautampura and said that the perpetrators will not be spared. “I have spoken to the district administration and sought immediate and strict action against those who pelted stones at the devotees,” he told mediapersons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/stones-hurled-at-saffron-activists-in-indore-12-hurt/articleshow/80019110.cms||---
December 30, 2020||World||Nepal unity elusive, China delegation may return empty-handed||NEW DELHI: A Chinese delegation in Nepal, led by the Chinese Communist Party’s foreign affairs committee, may be forced to return to Beijing without the party unity they had sought to bring between PM K P Sharma Oli’s faction and the rival Pushpa Kamal Dahal Prachanda camp. Oli reportedly also held a meeting with Nepal President Bidya Bhandari, the details of which have not been released, said sources. Read AlsoOli vs Prachanda: China weighing in as political crisis in Nepal intensifies?As the political crisis in Nepal intensifies, the Chinese ambassador in Kathmandu, Hou Yanqi, has set tongues wagging that China could be making one final attempt to keep the flock of warring Communist leaders together. The ambassador met Nepal president B D Bhandari, who had lost no time inThe four-member Chinese delegation met former PM Sher Bahadur Deuba (Nepali Congress) on Tuesday and invited him for the hundredth anniversary celebration of the CCP in 2021. They had also met Baburam Bhattarai, also a former PM, earlier. Political watchers in Kathmandu described both meetings as intended to show that the Chinese were not interested only in NCP. Read AlsoChina suggests two possible solutions to resolve political crisis in Nepal: NCP leaderKATHMANDU: A high-level Chinese delegation, which held separate talks with top leaders of the warring factions of the Nepal Communist Party in its desperate attempt to avert a vertical split in the ruling party, has suggested two possible solutions to resolve the current political crisis in theRead AlsoTop China official meets Nepal prez with ‘message from Xi’In perhaps its most overt intervention in Nepal’s internal affairs, a senior functionary of the international wing of the Chinese Communist Party, Guo Yezhou, met Nepal President BD Bhandari to discuss the political crisis due to the split in the ruling Nepal Communist Party. Official sources in NewThe delegation is exploring whether it might be possible to rework an old formula — give Oli a year as PM and another year to Prachanda. Though Oli has apparently agreed to consider it, the formula has been rejected by Prachanda, sources said, on the grounds that Oli had refused to cede power after the 2.5 year-mark as had been apparently decided before the previous election. The conditions Prachanda put to the delegation was that the House had to be reconstituted and that Oli had to resign. This wasn’t acceptable to Oli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/nepal-unity-elusive-china-delegation-may-return-empty-handed/articleshow/80021057.cms||Indrani Bagchi
December 30, 2020||World||Nepal unity elusive, China delegation may return empty-handed||NEW DELHI: A Chinese delegation in Nepal, led by the Chinese Communist Party’s foreign affairs committee, may be forced to return to Beijing without the party unity they had sought to bring between PM K P Sharma Oli’s faction and the rival Pushpa Kamal Dahal Prachanda camp. Oli reportedly also held a meeting with Nepal President Bidya Bhandari, the details of which have not been released, said sources. Read AlsoOli vs Prachanda: China weighing in as political crisis in Nepal intensifies?As the political crisis in Nepal intensifies, the Chinese ambassador in Kathmandu, Hou Yanqi, has set tongues wagging that China could be making one final attempt to keep the flock of warring Communist leaders together. The ambassador met Nepal president B D Bhandari, who had lost no time inThe four-member Chinese delegation met former PM Sher Bahadur Deuba (Nepali Congress) on Tuesday and invited him for the hundredth anniversary celebration of the CCP in 2021. They had also met Baburam Bhattarai, also a former PM, earlier. Political watchers in Kathmandu described both meetings as intended to show that the Chinese were not interested only in NCP. Read AlsoChina suggests two possible solutions to resolve political crisis in Nepal: NCP leaderKATHMANDU: A high-level Chinese delegation, which held separate talks with top leaders of the warring factions of the Nepal Communist Party in its desperate attempt to avert a vertical split in the ruling party, has suggested two possible solutions to resolve the current political crisis in theRead AlsoTop China official meets Nepal prez with ‘message from Xi’In perhaps its most overt intervention in Nepal’s internal affairs, a senior functionary of the international wing of the Chinese Communist Party, Guo Yezhou, met Nepal President BD Bhandari to discuss the political crisis due to the split in the ruling Nepal Communist Party. Official sources in NewThe delegation is exploring whether it might be possible to rework an old formula — give Oli a year as PM and another year to Prachanda. Though Oli has apparently agreed to consider it, the formula has been rejected by Prachanda, sources said, on the grounds that Oli had refused to cede power after the 2.5 year-mark as had been apparently decided before the previous election. The conditions Prachanda put to the delegation was that the House had to be reconstituted and that Oli had to resign. This wasn’t acceptable to Oli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/nepal-unity-elusive-china-delegation-may-return-empty-handed/articleshow/80018988.cms||Indrani Bagchi
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh cabinet clears ‘love jihad’ ordinance, sends it to governor||BHOPAL: With the winter session of assembly cancelled due to Covid, the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet on Tuesday approved the Madhya Pradesh Dharm Swatantra Adhyadesh 2020 (Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020) — MP’s ‘love jihad’ law — and sent it to Governor Anandiben Patel for promulgation. Exactly a month ago, neighbouring Uttar Pradesh brought about a similar law through an ordinance. Patel is Governor of both states. Briefing the media after Tuesday’s cabinet meeting, MP home minister Narottam Mishra said, “So that our daughters, sisters and daughters-in-law do not become victims of fear, threats and enticement, the ordinance has been approved in a virtual cabinet meeting today. As soon as the Governor signs it, it becomes a law.” The draft bill that was supposed to be placed before the assembly has been cleared as an ordinance. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “Protection of our daughters is top priority. If marriages are conducted for the purpose of conversion through enticement, greed or by changing one’s name and identity, then there are strict punitive provisions. The offence has been made non-bailable and the accused will have to prove his innocence.” Entire cabinet has gone through the provisions: ShivrajNot only the offender, but also the organisation or accomplice who helped in such a conversion will be liable for punishment, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan warned, adding that these marriages can be annulled if parents lodge a complaint. The maximum prison term in the ordinance is 10 years and maximum fine is Rs1 lakh. The ‘love jihad’ victim will get maintenance, and children from such marriages will have inheritance rights from both the mother and father. “The entire cabinet has gone through the provisions thoroughly. Since we have to do this as an ordinance, we will go ahead with it,” CM Chouhan said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-clears-love-jihad-ordinance-sends-it-to-governor/articleshow/80019115.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||In ‘leopard state’ MP, 2 spotted cats killed in 3 days||BHOPAL: A couple of days after a leopard was electrocuted in Satna, another was killed by poachers in neighbouring Shahdol district on Tuesday. Villagers chanced upon the poachers when they were skinning the carcass in Ajhuli forest beat under Budhar Range, about 30km from Shahdol town. The gang fled, but villagers stood guard on the carcass and informed a forest patrol. Three suspects were tracked down and arrested. Torchlight led forest teams to poachersThe accused were using a torchlight in the forest, which helped our teams to locate them. They are being interrogated, and their cellphones are being traced to identify their connections and uncover their network,” Shahdol chief conservator of forest P K Verma told TOI. The carcass has been sent for autopsy. All its organs were intact, said Verma. “The leopard was probably around three years old. Prima facie, it seems it died in a trap. The exact cause will be revealed in autopsy,” he added. On the evening of December 27, a leopard was found dead in a forest patch near Satna’s Gohani village, about 460km from Bhopal. It had come in contact with an illegally electrified fence. Two persons, who had allegedly set up the electrified fence to keep wild animals away, have been arrested. Around a week ago, ‘Tiger State’ Madhya Pradesh also got the honour of ‘Leopard State’ after a report released by Union minister Prakash Javadekar showed it has the highest number of the spotted cats in the country — 3,421. Karnataka, which is second, has around half as many.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-leopard-state-mp-2-spotted-cats-killed-in-3-days/articleshow/80019125.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Social distancing, guidelines go for a toss in dairy polls||VADODARA: Social distancing caution was thrown to the wind as the BJP candidates registered a decisive victory in the Baroda Dairy polls. After the results were declared at the dairy headquarters in Makarpura area of the city, supporters, including elected candidates, were seen hugging each other, sans masks and even bringing out victory processions. Six seats in the dairy cooperative were won uncontested earlier while polls were held for the remaining seven seats. Of the seven seats, a panel supported by BJP son six seats while one Congress-backed candidate won. The BJP has a clear majority in the board of directors of the dairy. Attempts were not made by even the police or the leaders themselves to ensure that people did not assemble in large numbers. The victory procession could have been easily done away with, some observed. Former BJP MLA from Padra Dinesh Patel alias Dinu Mama defended the procession saying the massive victory led to the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/social-distancing-guidelines-go-for-a-toss-in-dairy-polls/articleshow/80015511.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||New Year Eve: Cops tighten security measures in Bhopal||BHOPAL: The police have made elaborate security arrangements for New Year celebrations. As many as 10 special checking points have been set up at various entry points on the city outskirts. Vehicles, including four-wheelers and heavy vehicles, were allowed to enter the city after checking. Police have set up special checkpoints to check drunk driving, overspeeding and riding triple seat on two-wheelers. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, police have decided to use breathalysers to check for drunk driving. Although no specific timings have been released for New Year parties, shops and restaurants, cops have said that they will be allowed to remain open till 12.30 am. Police will take strict action if anybody creates nuisance by playing loud music. A force of around 2,500 police officials will be deployed at around 110 checkpoints set up across the city to maintain law and order. The Bomb Diffusion and Disposal Squad (BDDS) along with the dog squad, started conducting surprise inspection at bus stands, railway stations and other sensitive points. Patrolling teams were monitoring financial institutions like banks and ATMs along with religious places. DIG Irshad Wali said apart from 10 outer checkpoints, 15 essential checkpoints have been set up at major squares and 110 internal checkpoints across the city. A force of around 2,500 police officials, including additional force from the police headquarters, will be deployed at checkpoints to maintain law and order. The DIG said that police will use breathalysers at various checking points to check drunk driving. Cops will conduct special checking to stop stunt riding and overspeeding, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-year-eve-cops-tighten-security-measures-in-bhopal/articleshow/80019136.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||Congress ratchets up pressure on govt on eve of farmers talks||NEW DELHI: Upping the pressure on the eve of the Centre’s talks with farmers, Congress Tuesday said that Modi regime should repeal the three controversial farm laws and bring fresh bills with proposed amendments in Parliament. It said the government should settle the standoff according to the demands of the farmers. Asked if his comment about making amendments marked a shift in Congress demand that the three laws should be annulled, AICC spokesperson Rajiv Shukla clarified, “You first repeal the laws and then bring new laws incorporating the changes that the farmers are demanding. It is the normal legislative process.” Shukla told a press conference that farmers were seriously worried about the attempts to end the MSP regime and Mandis, adding that it was reprehensible that government and the ruling BJP were trying to paint the agitation as a political conspiracy. “The government’s motives are dubious,” he, along with Rajasthan Congress chief Govind Dotasra, said. Dotasra claimed that farmers in Rajasthan were agitated over the “intransigence” of the Centre and were set to join the protest at the Delhi border if Wednesday’s talks don’t yield a positive result. “PM Narendra Modi sought votes by promising that he will work in the farmers’ interest and raise the MSP according to a formula based on input costs. Now, he is conspiring against the farmers. The farming community is angry and is keenly watching the talks being carried out by the Central government,” he said. Shukla said every section of society was unhappy with the Modi government because of its policies like demonetisation, GST and farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-ratchets-up-pressure-on-govt-on-eve-of-farmers-talks/articleshow/80019133.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Sixth phase of college online admissions to begin today||BHOPAL: The online admission process of the sixth phase for first year and postgraduate first semester courses will begin from December 30. Online registration for unregistered applicants will be held on December 30 and 31, according to the time-table released by the higher education department. As per time table, verification of application forms and documents can be done from the help centre of any government college till January 2. Alternatives of colleges, courses and subject groups in the prescribed format will be issued on January 4 from 10:30am to 1:30pm. The merit list of college level counselling CLC phase will be released on January 4 at 3pm. Payment of digital online fee can be made on January 4 and 5 through the portal to the allotted colleges. The colleges and institutes that get admission through the online admission process will get free online reporting on the portal of students. It will be done from December 30 to January 5. The fourth additional phase of online counselling has been organised from December 31 to January 12, 2021 for admission to the threeyear integrated B.Ed, M.Ed, B.Ed. and B.Ed.Med courses of National Council of Teacher Education. Officials said that new registrations will be held from December 31 to January 3. Such applicants, who have not been registered for admission in the past, will be eligible for admission in vacancies at the additional stage according to their qualification. In the fourth additional phase, the date of re-selection of educational institutions and receiving preference from the newly-registered applicants for allocation will be from 31 December to 4 January. The verification of documents of applicants, fitness and proficiency test of the newly-registered applicants for BPED and MPEd will be done from December 31 to January 4 on the scheduled help centre and uploading the marks on the portal. The consolidated merit list will be published on January 5 at 6pm. The seat allocation will be done on January 9 in the additional phase according to merit and preference. The date of receipt of fee payment and submission of TC and migration for admission to the allotted college has been fixed from January 9 to January 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-sixth-phase-of-college-online-admissions-to-begin-today/articleshow/80019159.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Lucknow||Railways on track due to PM Narendra Modi’s effort, says Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday that the dedication of the New Bhaupur-New Khurja section by PM Narendra Modi was a matter of happiness for the people of Uttar Pradesh. Appreciating PM’s leadership, Yogi said, “It is only because of our Prime Minister that railways is running on the track of development.” He said the work of about 6,000 new lines, gauge conversion, and doubling projects was in progress in UP. “With the formation of this freight corridor, there will be ease in carrying and transporting goods. This corridor is very important for a landlocked state like Uttar Pradesh. It is a big relief for the people of the state that 75% of this section passes through UP,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/railways-on-track-due-to-pm-narendra-modis-effort-says-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/80019164.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 25-year-old BTech girl student immolates self, reason unknown||LUCKNOW: Panic gripped pedestrians near Deen Dayal park in SGPGI police station area when a 25-year-old woman immolated herself in full public view. The woman stepped down from a two-wheeler, took a short stroll before suddenly pouring petrol and igniting herself in a fraction of a second. Police said the woman died of burns but could not ascertain the reason for her taking the extreme step. The incident took place around 6.30pm and the deceased was identified by 10.30pm as Saumya Kashyap. She was pursuing BTech from a private engineering college in the city. “A woman reached the park on a two-wheeler and stepped down. Suddenly, we saw that she started sprinkling petrol on herself. Before people nearby could react and interven, she set herself afire,” said SO, SGPGI, Ashish Dwivedi. “The flames engulfed her and she was charred while screaming in pain. Many passersby tried to douse the flames by throwing sand and water on her while someone called the fire department and police. A police team reached and rushed her to Civil hospital where she was declared brought dead,” the SO added. The two-wheeler was found registered in the name of Seema Kashyap, the mother of the deceased, a resident of Sitapur. “We are trying to ascertain the motive behind her taking the extreme step,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-25-year-old-btech-girl-student-immolates-self-reason-unknown/articleshow/80019183.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pandemic hard brakes auto demand in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Early signs of an economic slowdown coupled with dried up demand post pandemic dented vehicle registrations in Gujarat by 33% in 2020. Data by Union ministry of road transport suggests that 10.9 lakh vehicles were registered in Gujarat in 2020 (till Dec 28), against some 16.24 lakh vehicles registered in 2019. Experts claim the impact of slowdown was visible even before the pandemic when automobile sales declined. “For two months of lockdown, there was barely any sale and it took long for the market to revive in terms of growth,” said Pranav Shah, chairman – Gujarat, Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA). While car registrations declined by 14% in Gujarat, two-wheeler registrations were down 35% from 11.63 lakh in 2019 to 7.5 lakh in 2020. “Incomes of two-wheeler buyers were hit, so sales remain muted,” said Shah. Sales of three-wheelers plunge by 48% in stateReluctance to hail autos in times of Covid-19 and overall reduced venturing out due to work from home impacted the revenues of auto rickshaw drivers, said industry sources. This saw sales of three-wheelers including passenger autos and tempos plunge by a steep 48 decline. The only bright spot in vehicle registrations were agriculture vehicles including tractors, trailers and harvesters which showed an aggregated 13% growth, as agriculture was the only sector that posted growth post pandemic, outshining other sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pandemic-hard-brakes-auto-demand-in-gujarat/articleshow/80019218.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 30, 2020||Lucknow||7.5 lakh more PMAY units to be launched in UP||LUCKNOW: The central and state governments would join hands in rolling out 7.5 lakh more housing units under PM Awas Yojana (PMAY) in UP in the next few days.PM Narendra Modi is proposed to inaugurate the project, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday after transferring loans worth Rs 87cr for the construction of 21,500 housing units under Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana. The scheme is applicable to those left out under PMAY. Yogi said a host of socially oppressed communities like Musahar and Vantangiya were deprived of various benefits of the government schemes, including PMAY, until 2017, when the BJP came to power. ‘Our duty is to ensure no one dies of hunger’Many such socially deprived communities also benefitted under Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana,” he said, emphasising that more than 50,700 people reaped benefits under the scheme in the last three years. Rural development minister Moti Singh was also present on the occasion. The scheme entails a provision of providing Rs 1.30 lakh to the intended beneficiaries. The rural development department would also ensure that people are provided jobs under MNREGS. The CM reiterated that the administration of all districts will carry out a campaign to ensure that the beneficiaries be allotted land under ‘Malikana Haq’ scheme, provided the land is not reserved for the SC and is not disputed. It would help the people forced to spend a life of wanderer, he said. Yogi asked the officials to ensure that the beneficiaries of Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana be linked to various schemes of the government, including LPG connection under Ujwala scheme, ration card, power connection under Saubhagya scheme and insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh under Ayushman Bharat scheme. “This should be done on a mission mode,” he stressed. He said various people are not able to avail the benefits of the government schemes because of lack of awareness. “The district administration needs to conduct proper monitoring so that benefits reach out to beneficiaries,” he said. At the same time, beneficiaries should be associated with farming, livestock and small-scale industries by providing them funds. “It is our duty to ensure that no one dies of hunger,” the CM said. Yogi recalled how he carried out a campaign in a village in Kushinagar between 2003 and 2008 — when he was Gorakhpur MP — to provide job and ration cards to people. “The village was not under my parliamentary seat. I carried out the campaign on humanitarian grounds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/7-5-lakh-more-pmay-units-to-be-launched-in-up/articleshow/80019238.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||Big boost for infra in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan inaugurated development works worth Rs 115 crore here on Tuesday. Ginnori arch bridge, smart park, waste transfer station and sewage treatment plant etc. were dedicated to public by Chouhan. Bhopal’s Lower Lake got a new arch bridge connecting Kilol Park (BRTS corridor to Gonnori). The arch-shaped bridge, a first in the district, has been dedicated to Gond Queen Rani Kamlapati. “A programme would be held every year to remember Rani Kamlapati, event would include representatives of Gondwana region of the state. The installation of the statue of Rani Kamalapati in this series is a matter of pride for all,” said Chouhan. The Gond kings and queens of Madhya Pradesh have contributed significantly to the freedom struggle, he added. Kamlapati statue installed adjacent to the arch bridge was inaugurated on February 16 by former mayor Alok Sharma. At the inauguration of Arch Bridge, CM also said that continuous efforts will be made to enhance the beauty and hygiene of Bhopal. A development and beautification plan for the next 5 years has also been prepared. It will soon be unveiled before the general public, he said. A sewage treatment plant is being set up in Bhopal for this purpose. It will soon be made the cleanest and most beautiful city in the country, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/big-boost-for-infra-in-bhopal/articleshow/80019234.cms||Jamal Ayub
December 30, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC orders Etah CJM to probe assault on lawyer||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Tuesday directed the chief judicial magistrate, Etah, to conduct an inquiry into the alleged assault on a lawyer by police and submit a report to it by January 8, 2021. Taking suo motu cognizance of the alleged police assault on the lawyer and his family in Etah, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh directed the CJM to inspect all relevant audio-visual, electronic evidence and documents in inquiry and submit complete report on or before January 8, 2020. The bench also directed Etah district magistrate and senior superintendent of police to provide all relevant facts and documents as desired by the CJM. The court directed to list this petition before the court on January 8, 2021. Earlier, the Bar Council of UP, the apex body of advocates in the state, had written a letter to the Chief Justice of Allahabad high court with a request to take appropriate action on the assault incident said to have taken place on December 21. As per the averments in the letter, Rajendra Sharma, a practising advocate at Etah, was beaten and manhandled by police and his relatives were harassed and humiliated. Another letter from Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) was also received by the secretariat of the Chief Justice on the same issue. Besides, several advocates had raised the issue through e-mails.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/allahabad-hc-orders-etah-cjm-to-probe-assault-on-lawyer/articleshow/80019260.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 30, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Bharuch BJP MP resigns from party, begs for ‘forgiveness’||SURAT/GANDHINAGAR: Senior BJP leader and Bharuch MP Mansukh Vasava resigned from the party on Tuesday. Citing personal and health reasons for quitting, Vasava wrote to Gujarat party chief C R Paatil, informing him of his decision to quit. The senior tribal leader’s resignation comes days after he wrote to the Prime Minister, seeking the withdrawal of a notification, declaring 121 villages of Narmada district an ‘eco-sensitive zone’. He said the tribal population of the district would lose employment opportunities due to the notification. Vasava’s resignation will adversely affect the BJP’s fortunes in the coming local body elections in the tribal belt, where Chhotu Vasava’s BTP and AIMIM have already struck an alliance. In a letter to Paatil, Vasava wrote, “I thank the BJP high command and the party for giving me all that I could handle. I have been loyal to the party always. I am a human being and mistakes happen. I have resigned so that my mistakes does not harm the party. I beg that the party forgives me and I will meet the Speaker in person during the budget session and resign from the Lok Sabha.” Addressing the media in Bharuch on Tuesday, Vasava said he had no differences with the party or the government. “I have been a BJP MP for six terms. I am not upset with the party or the government, but I am suffering from a severe pain in my back for some time and am unable to travel.” He added that it is because of his ailment that he has not been able to be present in Parliament and make representations on issues affecting tribal people. Vasava often took stands that put the state government in an awkward situation. He had publicly opposed acquisition of land around the Statue of Unity (SOU), evicting small shopkeepers along the Kevadiya main road and even the declaring of the area around the SOU as an eco-sensitive zone. He had also raised the issue of bogus tribal certificates which people had been using to secure admission and government jobs. Several office bearersand 27 other members of the BJP Sagbara unit in Narmada district, also resigned in support of Vasava. Motilal Vasava, president of the Sagbara BJP and former members of the Narmada district panchayat are among those who resigned from the party on Tuesday. Publicity stunt, says DhananiLeader of opposition in the assembly Paresh Dhanani said Vasava’s resignation appears to be a publicity stunt. “Vasava’s resignation seems to be a publicity stunt and pressure tactic against his party. However, the episode clearly exposes the BJP’s tall claims. If senior MPs have to resign because their own government is not resolving the peoples’ issues, one can imagine how the BJP treats common people,” Dhanani said. Issues that he raised will be resolved: CR PaatilState BJP president CR Paatil said Mansukh Vasava had not resigned. “He is a senior leader and has been minister in both the state government and union government. He has said he will resign during the budget session in Delhi. I had spoken to him a couple of days ago,” Paatil said. Commenting on why Vasava may have quit, Paatil said, “He had raised a few issues some days back. I have discussed those issues during the meeting with the CM and those issues will be resolved. Some land was declared eco-sensitive zone a few years ago. The district collector has made some primary entries in this connection and some elements are attempting to mislead people. Mansukhbhai is trying to convince the people and counter misconceptions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-bharuch-bjp-mp-resigns-from-party-begs-for-forgiveness/articleshow/80019262.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Varanasi||Four arrested for siphoning off Rs 6 lakh from Ram Temple Trust’s bank account||AYODHYA: Four persons were arrested by Ayodhya police for fraudulently withdrawing Rs 6 lakh from the account of Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust using a pair of cloned cheques bearing forged signatures in September this year. The arrested accused are from Mumbai and Thane in Maharashtra while the mastermind of the case, who is from Varanasi, is still on the run. The arrested men were identified as Prashant Mahaval Shetty (40) from Mumbai, Vimal Lalla (40), Shankar Sitaram Gopale (54) and Sanjay Tejraj (35), all from Thane. DIG, Ayodhya, Deepak Kumar said, “Involvement of bank employees in the fraud cannot be ruled out. Further investigations are on.” The amount was siphoned off from a branch of the Punjab National Bank in Maharashtra after it was transferred from the Ayodhya branch of the State Bank of India through two cloned cheques worth Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 3.5 lakh with forged signatures of the trustees of Ram Temple Trust. It all started from the first day of September and for 10 days, Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust remained in the dark about fraudulent withdrawals from its SBI account in Ayodhya. The scam was busted after the third cloned cheque of Rs 9.8 lakh was presented at a branch of Bank of Baroda and sent to SBI’s clearing house in Lucknow for clearance. Alarm bells rung when a senior bank official sensed something was amiss and called trust secretary Champat Rai to verify if he had signed the high-value cheque. The transaction was stopped in the nick of time when he confirmed he hadn't issued any such cheque. Based on Rai's complaint, an FIR was lodged at the Ayodhya police station on September 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/four-arrested-for-siphoning-off-rs-6-lakh-from-ram-temple-trusts-bank-account/articleshow/80023987.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 30, 2020||Lucknow||Four arrested for siphoning off Rs 6 lakh from Ram Temple Trust’s bank account||AYODHYA: Four persons were arrested by Ayodhya police for fraudulently withdrawing Rs 6 lakh from the account of Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust using a pair of cloned cheques bearing forged signatures in September this year. The arrested accused are from Mumbai and Thane in Maharashtra while the mastermind of the case, who is from Varanasi, is still on the run. The arrested men were identified as Prashant Mahaval Shetty (40) from Mumbai, Vimal Lalla (40), Shankar Sitaram Gopale (54) and Sanjay Tejraj (35), all from Thane. DIG, Ayodhya, Deepak Kumar said, “Involvement of bank employees in the fraud cannot be ruled out. Further investigations are on.” The amount was siphoned off from a branch of the Punjab National Bank in Maharashtra after it was transferred from the Ayodhya branch of the State Bank of India through two cloned cheques worth Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 3.5 lakh with forged signatures of the trustees of Ram Temple Trust. It all started from the first day of September and for 10 days, Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust remained in the dark about fraudulent withdrawals from its SBI account in Ayodhya. The scam was busted after the third cloned cheque of Rs 9.8 lakh was presented at a branch of Bank of Baroda and sent to SBI’s clearing house in Lucknow for clearance. Alarm bells rung when a senior bank official sensed something was amiss and called trust secretary Champat Rai to verify if he had signed the high-value cheque. The transaction was stopped in the nick of time when he confirmed he hadn't issued any such cheque. Based on Rai's complaint, an FIR was lodged at the Ayodhya police station on September 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/four-arrested-for-siphoning-off-rs-6-lakh-from-ram-temple-trusts-bank-account/articleshow/80019283.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||Cold wave sweeps across Madhya Pradesh on New Year’s Eve||BHOPAL: All those days filled with extra warmth are now history, it is time to bear the bone-freezing, spine-chilling cold as you enter the New Year. Yes, the state is in the grip of cold wave officially and temperature is dipping to the season's lowest. Tuesday was a cold day in Bhopal and several other places in MP. There are warnings of cold day, cold wave and ground frost for several places across the state. Met officials said, dip in temperature is caused by northerly cold winds in the state after snowfall in northern parts of the country. The temperatures are set to dip further, they added. Day temperature in Bhopal on Tuesday was recorded at 19.3 degrees Celsius, six degrees less than normal mark, while day temperature remained at 7.8 degrees Celsius, three degrees less than normal. Wind direction in the city was north-easterly while average wind speed was 10 kilometres per hour. In comparison, day and night temperature of Bhopal on Monday was 22.3 degrees and 9.5 degrees Celsius, respectively. It was a cold day in Bhopal, Khargone, Rajgarh, Ratlam, Shajapur and Ujjain while it was a severely cold day in Dhar and Indore. Lowest minimum temperature in the state on Tuesday was recorded at 3 degrees Celsius in Datia. It was colder than hill station Pachmarhi that recorded minimum temperature of 5 degrees Celsius. At least 25 places in the state saw the night temperature between 3 degrees Celsius and 10 degrees Celsius. In the forecast for Bhopal on Wednesday, met office stated, there would be clear sky and dry weather will prevail. Day and night temperature would be at 19 degrees Celsius and 7 degrees Celsius,respectively, while average wind speed will be 14 kmph.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cold-wave-sweeps-across-madhya-pradesh-on-new-years-eve/articleshow/80019269.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Mumbai||BMC uses up Rs 1,600 crore reserves, wants Rs 450 crore more||MUMBAI: The BMC has nearly exhausted its contingency fund after spending around Rs 1,600 crore on Covid-19 mitigation measures, and now wants Rs 450 crore more to continue its fight against the virus. To meet this need, the BMC plans to borrow money from other departments and has asked the standing committee to approve the transfer of funds. Every year, the municipal corporation keeps aside 2% of the total budget in its contingency fund. Over the years, the amount had reached Rs 1,000 crore. Then the Covid-19 pandemic broke out and a lockdown was imposed. Civic officials said that less than Rs 30 crore now remain in the contingency fund. According to civic officials, the BMC has spent around Rs 150 crore per month on Covid-19 mitigation so far. “When the pandemic broke out, we had around Rs 1,000 crore in the contingency fund. In April, it reduced to Rs 800 crore. Later, Rs 600 crore was added to it. But all that money has been spent and we now need another Rs 450 crore to pay the remaining bills till the end of this financial year. So, we have asked the civic standing committee to approve transfer of funds for other departments to the contingency fund,” an official said, requesting anonymity. According to officials, the BMC has spent a huge chunk —around Rs 450 crore—on setting up and maintaining a Covid care facility at Seven-Hills Hospital in Marol and around Rs 210 crore on jumbo Covid facilities. Raising concern over the spending, some standing committee members have sought an audit into the expenses. “BMC’s Covid-19 spending has been riddled with allegations of mismanagement and corruption. The BMC must release a detailed white paper on its Covid-19 spending since almost all money was spent without floating any tenders. Builders have bagged contracts to set up jumbo Covid centres and even supply oxygen cylinders. There was a lot of spending in great areas that must be reviewed,” claimed Samajwadi Party MLA and corporator Rais Shaikh. BJP corporator Vinod Mishra, party leader in the BMC, concurred. “A white paper must be released. Corruption during the pandemic scaled new heights in the BMC. Though cases are reducing now, corruption in spending is still at peak Covid-19 levels,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-uses-up-rs-1600-crore-reserves-wants-rs-450-crore-more/articleshow/80018946.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Vadodara||Three UK returnees test positive||VADODARA: Three persons who returned from the UK to the city have tested positive for Covid-19. Sources said that around 200 travelers had arrived in the city in the one month since November 25. Of these, those who arrived after December 9 had to undergo RT-PCR tests. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials said that travelers who came between November 25 and December 8 had been advised self-monitoring. Those those who flew in between December 9 and 23 were tested for the virus. Officials said that those who tested positive included a person who had arrived in the second week of December, but tested positive on Monday. It is likely that this person may have been infected locally. Extensive contact tracing has also been taken up and a couple of persons in contact with the positive cases have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-uk-returnees-test-positive/articleshow/80015538.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Lucknow||Two who shot traders’ body chief held in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: In a late Tuesday night encounter, Lucknow police claimed to have nabbed two suspects involved in the traders’ association chief Sujeet Pandey's murder in the city on December 20. DCP, South, Ravi Kumar said that the duo arrested after the encounter were identified as Arun Yadav and Mulayam Yadav. They were nabbed near Ashiana area in the city. Police had announced a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on the head of the suspects and also released their sketches on December 26. Police said that the duo were shooters and hired by an alleged land mafia Madhukar Yadav for eliminating Pandey. Yadav is in jail and was arrested for anomalies in supply of vegetable oil. Cops also said that Pandey and Madhukar were political rivals and both were eyeing the post of Mohanlalganj Nagar Palika chief's post. Pandey was shot dead by motorcycle-borne assailants in Gaura village of Mohahlalganj on December 20. He was the husband of Indrajeetkheda village pradhan Sandhya Pandey and also president of the Mohanlalganj Traders’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-who-shot-traders-body-chief-held-in-lucknow/articleshow/80019298.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Noida||Eight of a Noida gang that sold stolen cars in Gujarat, J&K held||NOIDA: Eight members of a gang that allegedly stole scores of luxury vehicles, including Fortuner, Creta and Honda City, in NCR and sold them off in Gujarat and J&K through their agents have been arrested. Police said the accused would first break the windows of the vehicles parked at different locations across NCR and then make a copy of the key on the spot using a scanner tablet tool to flee with them. A scanner tablet tool can read the entire data of the car’s system once connected with the vehicle. The accused have been identified as Mohammad Asif, Mohammed Ashraf Bhat, Ravi Solanki, Kuldeep Kumar, Mohammed Hasan, Manoj Pal, Rajesh Sharma and Mohammed Amir. While Kuldeep and Hasan were the main masterminds, Moradabad resident Asif was the main connection with the agents based in Gujarat and J&K. Sources told TOI that Kuldeep had been staying in a PG belonging to a local politician, and the gang used fake ID cards of a senior central government official to ensure smooth movement of the stolen vehicles while travelling within the states and between other states. “At times, the vehicles would be stolen on demand by the accused at the behest of agents, Mohammed Ilias and Mohammed Imtiaz. Ilias would provide the data of accidental or damaged vehicles to Imtiaz, who is from Kashmir but stays in Ahmedabad. Both Ilias and Imtiaz would create fake registration certificates on the basis of the data,” additional commissioner of police (law and order) Love Kumar said. Police have recovered 10 vehicles, including four Fortuners, three Swift, one Creta, one Honda City and one Duster, which have been traced to have been stolen from across Noida, Delhi and Ghaziabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/8-of-a-noida-gang-that-sold-stolen-cars-in-gujarat-jk-held/articleshow/80015646.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||Newly-wed woman hangs self in Bhopal's Gautam Nagar||BHOPAL: A 22-year-old newlywed woman committed suicide by hanging herself at her home in Gautam Nagar locality on Monday afternoon. Police said, deceased Durga Aahirwar, hailed from Raisen; she had got married to Rakesh Aahirwar around 18 months ago. On Monday, when Rakesh had gone out for work, Durga took the extreme step in afternoon. Around 3 pm, when her sister-inlaw Asha went to call her for lunch, she found that her room’s door was locked from inside. Asha peeped inside the room and was shocked to find her hanging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/newly-wed-woman-hangs-self-in-bhopals-gautam-nagar/articleshow/80019299.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Residents of Ardee pool money to fix streetlights||GURUGRAM: After pooling in money to construct a road, the residents of Ardee City have again pooled in money to replace the defunct street lights. Residents pointed out that most of the street lights in the colony have been lying defunct for the past many years and despite several complaints to the builder, it has not been addressed. Residents have initiated the replacement of the defunct streetlights to LED lights from one of the lanes in D block for which residents have contributed Rs 500 per house. “The defunct streetlights were posing a security threat from past 3 years,” said Farah Naaz, a resident. The society has more than 12,000 residents in 2,500 houses. “The builder has been neglecting our concern for the past many years putting our safety and security at high risk. This has forced us to take matters into our own hands. We started repairing roads, installing lights, maintaining parks, cleanliness all through voluntary funds as we cannot live in this condition,” said Chaitali Mandhotra, RWA member. “The residents are not paying the maintenance charges for so many years and the RWA is doing nothing but trying to create confusion,” said Anil Hasija, senior vice president, Ardee Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/residents-of-ardee-pool-money-to-fix-streetlights/articleshow/80017316.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s Covid recovery rate zooms past 96%||LUCKNOW: In a good news ahead of the Covid vaccination drive, the recovery rate in UP has crossed 96%. With 1,369 recoveries, active cases have come down to 14,344. The government said all arrangements for immunisation have been put in place and as soon as a vaccine is cleared and procured by the Centre, UP will be in a position to roll out the distribution. On Tuesday, the state reported 18 deaths and 1,044 new cases, with Lucknow continuing to report the highest number of new patients at 194. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed to pay a special attention to some districts like Lucknow, Prayagraj and Varanasi, where cases continue to be high. Lucknow has plateaued at around 200 cases and we are hoping that in the next 10-15 days, we will be able to bring this down,” said Alok Kumar, principal secretary (medical health). Principal secretary (information) Sanjay Prasad said the final vaccination protocol is ready and is being fine-tuned as the government awaited a clearance from the Centre. He said between December 20 and 25, all ministers were sent to the districts of which they are in-charge to review preparedness for vaccination and Covid-19 management, among other issues. Currently, around 150 senior officials of the rank of secretary and above and ADG and above police officials are also in the field and will submit their reports to the CM by Tuesday night or Wednesday. As per their inputs, installation of hardware like ice lined coolers and freezers has started across all districts, while vaccinators and healthcare workers are also ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-covid-recovery-rate-zooms-past-96/articleshow/80019312.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kanpur||UP’s Covid recovery rate zooms past 96%||LUCKNOW: In a good news ahead of the Covid vaccination drive, the recovery rate in UP has crossed 96%. With 1,369 recoveries, active cases have come down to 14,344. The government said all arrangements for immunisation have been put in place and as soon as a vaccine is cleared and procured by the Centre, UP will be in a position to roll out the distribution. On Tuesday, the state reported 18 deaths and 1,044 new cases, with Lucknow continuing to report the highest number of new patients at 194. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed to pay a special attention to some districts like Lucknow, Prayagraj and Varanasi, where cases continue to be high. Lucknow has plateaued at around 200 cases and we are hoping that in the next 10-15 days, we will be able to bring this down,” said Alok Kumar, principal secretary (medical health). Principal secretary (information) Sanjay Prasad said the final vaccination protocol is ready and is being fine-tuned as the government awaited a clearance from the Centre. He said between December 20 and 25, all ministers were sent to the districts of which they are in-charge to review preparedness for vaccination and Covid-19 management, among other issues. Currently, around 150 senior officials of the rank of secretary and above and ADG and above police officials are also in the field and will submit their reports to the CM by Tuesday night or Wednesday. As per their inputs, installation of hardware like ice lined coolers and freezers has started across all districts, while vaccinators and healthcare workers are also ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ups-covid-recovery-rate-zooms-past-96/articleshow/80023962.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram sees season’s coldest morning, no relief in sight||GURUGRAM: The city witnessed the coldest morning of the season on Tuesday as the minimum temperature dropped to 3°C owing to icy winds coming from snow-capped western Himalayas. Misty condition prevailed during the early hours of the day in the city, while the skies were clear in the later part of the day. The maximum temperature was recorded at 16.5°C, down from 20.2°C on the previous day. Earlier, the season’s second lowest minimum temperature was recorded at 3.8°C on December 19, while the lowest maximum temperature so far was 13.1°C on December 17. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city will witness cold wave conditions till December 31, while there will be a slight increase in temperature from January 1. The night temperature is likely to hover around 4°C on Wednesday, while the daytime temperature is expected to be around 20°C with a shallow to moderate fog condition in the morning, stated the IMD’s weekly forecast. Doctors have advised residents to avoid morning walks and put layers of clothing to keep them warm. Dr Seema Dhir, senior consultant (internal medicine) in Artemis Hospitals said, “During the extreme cold conditions, it is better to cover yourself well in layers of clothes with special attention to hands, feet and head. Elderlies and people with cardiac ailments should avoid going out for a walk in mornings. They can do that later in the day. It is advisable to have plenty of warm fluids to avoid dehydration. Avoid alcohol.” Meanwhile, the city’s air quality improved marginally on Tuesday, but remained in the ‘poor’ category. The overall air quality index (AQI) of Gurugram was recorded at 214 on Tuesday, better from Monday’s 226, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. An official of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board said the air quality is likely to deteriorate as there will be a dip in temperature. Three of the four monitoring stations — Vikas Sadan, Gwalpahari and Sector 51 — recorded ‘poor’ air quality, while the index in Teri Gram was in the ‘moderate’ category. The AQI in Teri Gram was recorded at 157, while it was 243 in Gwalpahari, 257 in Sector 51 and 285 in Vikas Sadan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaon-sees-seasons-coldest-morning-no-relief-in-sight/articleshow/80017252.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Indore||Bhaiyyu Maharaj’s daughter seeks CBI investigation into his suicide||INDORE: Kuhu, the daughter of spiritual guru Uday Deshmukh, better known as Bhaiyyu Maharaj, on Tuesday demanded a CBI probe into his father’s death as she feared that those involved in the crime could turn into a threat to her life unless they were caught. “I and many followers of my father believe that a person like him couldn’t have been blackmailed and it cannot be the only reason for his suicide,” Kuhu said. “I have no objection to the local police’s investigation but it’s just that I know my father. Lakhs of his supporters feel that there are some more people, who could have forced him into taking the extreme step. A CBI investigation will help know the reasons,” the 19-yearold said. Kuhu feared that if any of the accused is freed from legal action, it could turn into a threat to her life. She also demanded her share in his father’s property. “I am an orphan and fighting to help my father get justice. I am not given entry to any of his three properties in Indore and have to stay in a hotel during my visits related to the court case,” she said. Kuhu urged trustees of Sadguru Datt Dharmik Evam Parmarthik Trust, which was founded by Bhaiyyu Maharaj, to take her into the board. “I want to lead my father’s legacy of social work and want to become one of the trustees,” she said. Bhaiyyu Maharaj’s first wife, Madhavi, died in 2015 and Kuhu is their daughter. He married Dr Ayushi Sharma in 2017. The spiritual guru allegedly shot himself with a licenced revolver in his residence on June 12, 2018. On January 18, 2019, Indore police arrested three of the guru’s most trusted aides — Vinayak Dudhade, Palak and Sharad Deshmukh — for allegedly driving him to suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/bhaiyyu-maharajs-daughter-seeks-cbi-investigation-into-his-suicide/articleshow/80019315.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad murder: Three cops suspended, 1 sent to police lines for inaction||GHAZIABAD: Two sub-inspectors and a head constable have been suspended and another sub-inspector sent to the police lines for alleged negligence in carrying out investigation on a complaint of attack on a florist in Loni in April. Ajay, the florist, and his brother had in April lodged a police complaint, alleging that they had been attacked by one Govind, who also ran a flower shop outside Mahakal temple in Loni. Govind, who was running his shop for the past two years, had threatened Ajay to shut his outlet because it was hampering his business. The animosity gradually snowballed, and on Monday, Govind and an accomplice killed Ajay with an iron rod in the marketplace. CCTV footage showed Ajay being dragged out of an auto-rickshaw and being beaten to death with a rod in front of a crowd just 50 metres from the Mahakal temple on Monday morning. A few in the crowd tried to save Ajay, but the two attackers threatened to kill them too. They kept hitting Ajay repeatedly in the head as blood spurted out. Later on Monday evening, Govind was arrested. His accomplice, who, too, was involved in the murder and his brother were picked up on Tuesday. The alleged negligence of the police in taking action against Govind after the first complaint in April came under scanner after the murder case was lodged on Monday. The cops who were suspended are sub-inspectors Sashipal Bharadwaj and Ankit Kumar Baliyan, and head constable Dheeraj Chaturvedi. Naveen Kumar, the in-charge of DLF police outpost, has been shunted. Ajay’s brother Sanjay, who is the general secretary of the Mahakal temple, said Govind had started threatening them with dire consequences ever since they opened the flower shop beside his in March this year. “We had lodged a police complaint after they attacked us in April, but the cops did not take any action. Govid would threaten us regularly, but we could do nothing,” he added. Ajay’s body is being taken to his village in Bihar, where his wife and 2-year-old son live. SP (rural) Iraj Raja said a departmental inquiry had been initiated against the cops after Ajay’s family accused them of inaction. “The family complained to senior cops that no action had been taken against Govind despite the attack on them in April. An investigation was conducted by the circle officer of the area and the allegations against the cops were found to be true. So, action was taken against the cops,” he added. “I am also conducting a separate investigation. Suitable action would be taken after I submit my report,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/loni-murder-3-cops-suspended-1-sent-to-police-lines-for-inaction/articleshow/80017637.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 30, 2020||Gurgaon||MNC execs to teachers, they cancelled New Year plans to stand with farmers||GURUGRAM: At least 50 professionals, including MNC employees, teachers and former professors from Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana, have joined the farmers’ protest on Delhi’s borders against the agriculture laws. Instead of making travel plans during Christmas and New Year, people from different walks of life have turned up at the protest sites at Jaisinghpur Khera on the Delhi-Jaipur highway and Atoha on the Delhi-Agra highway in support of the farmers. Tushar Dutt, a 42-year-old software developer who works in Chandigarh’s IT Park, said he took leave for seven days and came in his own car to Jaisinghpur Khera on Monday through the KMP expressway. “We belong to a farmer’s family. Whatever I am today, it’s only due to farming. I have been following the protests closely and read up on the laws. They are purely against the farmers,” Dutt, who hails from Moga district in Punjab, said. “The government says farmers are being misled. I want to ask them that if you are willing to pay farmers a price higher than MSP, then why can’t you accept their demand to make MSP a legal right?” he said. Arvind Dhawan, a former professor of Guru Nanak Dev University, who joined the Jaisinghpur Khera protest on Monday, said, “If the open market model of agriculture has not worked for nations with bigger landholding like the US, Canada, Europe and Australia, I don’t understand how it will work in a place like India.” “Instead of blindly copying their model, the challenge should be how to evolve our own model of agriculture marketing that conforms to peculiar conditions of India agriculture and help small farmers,” he added.  Naresh Malkania, an economics post-graduate teacher in a private school, has come to Atoha from Sri Ganganagar with 10 members of Grameen Shiksha Samiti. They have also brought jackets and daris. “The real freedom for a farmer will be when he knows that whether he is selling in Punjab or Rajasthan, inside or outside the mandi, he would at least get MSP,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mnc-execs-to-teachers-they-cancelled-new-year-plans-to-stand-with-farmers/articleshow/80018493.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
December 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Why they travelled 1,400km from Maharashtra||REWARI: The protest site at Jaisinghpur Khera on the Rajasthan-Haryana border has thousands of farmers who have travelled 1,400km from Maharashtra. Many of them have come with their families and are demanding adequate infrastructure for cultivating their crops. They say years of losses and exorbitant rates of interest charged by moneylenders have driven many of their counterparts to suicide. Farmers’ protests are not new in Maharashtra, where cultivators have been asking the government for adequate prices if their produce. Prashant Selke (57) and his family left their home in Nandurbar district on December 21. It took them four days to travel 1,042km to Jaisinghpur Khera and join the protests against the three laws. “I used to cultivate oilseeds, groundnuts and soybean. But after years of losses, I was forced to sell off my land. Now, I work as a farm labourer in the same land that I owned once. I am the sole earning member in my family of five,” he said. Among those affected by the declining purchasing power of farmers are the landless agriculture labourers. Mukesh Dhawle is one such. He said it is extremely important for the farmers to make profits. Else, farm labourers like him won’t get jobs. Dhawle earns Rs 200 as a day by working in the fields. The time he is spending at the protest site will cost him dear. He needs to work daily to suatain his family. Vijoo Kishnan, a farmers’ leader, spoke about the issue of high rates of interest charged by moneylenders. “Due to the low holding and inferior quality of land, these farmers do not get formal credit and have to depend on local moneylenders and micro-finance companies that charge exorbitant rates of interest. This drives the farmers to desperation and even suicides,” he said. He highlighted a few numbers. “More than 12,000 farmers have committed suicide in Maharashtra in the past five years. But the families of only half of those farmers have got government aid. The farmers cannot pay such high rates of interest. Now, if the three laws are implemented, the possibility of farmers committing suicides would go up further,” he added. Many questioned the government’s claim that they can approach the SDM office or a civil court if they do not get the right price for their produce. “We do not have the resources to take on such big corporates. After they are cheated, farmers have to choose between fighting a legal battle and running their household. They mostly choose the latter,” said Nilesh Dhanpal, a member of the Maharashtra Rajya Kisan Sabha. “For those of us already caught in an exploitative trade, the laws introduced by the Centre make it even more difficult to have any mechanism for redress,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/why-they-travelled-1400km-from-maha/articleshow/80018492.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
December 30, 2020||Gurgaon||FIR against Tikait for ‘offensive remarks’||PALWAL: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait has been booked by Haryana police for allegedly hurting the sentiments of Brahmins by his remarks during a speech at the Atoha protest site in Palwal. A purported video of Tikait’s address to farmers had surfaced on social media, in which he allegedly said temples and pandits were not ‘giving enough support’ to the ongoing agitation and none had come forward to even provide tea to them. The speech, allegedly made on December 24, upset Brahmin groups in Palwal. They organised a panchayat, following which a complaint was lodged on December 26 at the Sadar police station by Dharmchand Sharma, the district president of Zila Brahmin Samaj. An FIR was registered on Monday under IPC Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings or any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs). The complainant said that Tikait had adversely affected national integrity and social harmony by using ‘vulgar and indecent language’ against Brahmins. Anand Kumar, SHO, Sadar Police station, said appropriate action will be taken after an investigation. Tikait clarified that his remarks were not directed at any community. “By referring to Brahmins, I actually meant the ones who manage the trust of the temples. My statement was misconstrued and twisted. I have high regard for Brahmins,” he said. The controversy, he added, was “unwarranted and uncalled for”. “But now that an FIR has been lodged, I will contest it legally within the ambit of the law,” said Tikait. Tikait, also BKU’s national spokesperson, is spearheading the agitation at UP Gate in Ghaziabad against the farm laws. (With inputs from Abhijay Jha in Ghaziabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/fir-against-tikait-for-offensive-remarks/articleshow/80018497.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
December 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Dilip Chhabria ran Rs 100 crore interstate car financing & forgery scam’||MUMBAI: With the arrest of car designer Dilip Chhabria on Monday, the police claim to have unearthed an interstate car financing and forgery scam worth nearly Rs 100 crore. On Tuesday, Chhabria (68) was produced before the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate, which remanded him in police custody till January 2. Police claimed that Chhabria’s company—Dilip Chhabria Designs Pvt Ltd (DCDPL) —manufactured 127 Avanti cars in the last three years and sold them in India and abroad with multiple registrations in various states. As many as 90 of these cars were also used for fraudulent financing by taking loans from non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), they said. Assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who is probing the case, said that the accused, using DCDPL, posed as a customer of Avanti cars and took multiple loans on each vehicle from various NBFCs, averaging to Rs 42 lakh per car. He then registered the cars in another state before selling them to a third party. Many of the loans were declared non-performing assets by the NBFCs. Investigations showed that Chhabria had hypothecated 41 cars with the BMW India Financing Services and 16 cars were never registered with any RTO. Police are likely to summon the officials of BMW India Financing Services and other NBFCs for questioning. Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police (crime), said: “The scam came to light after our team got a tipoff about a two-seater DC Avanti sports car, worth nearly Rs 75 lakh, bearing a fake registration number near Hotel Trident in Nariman Point. We laid a trap, but could not find the car. On Saturday, a crime intelligence unit team lay in wait near Hotel Taj Mahal Palace at Colaba and finally intercepted it.” The car owner, Indermal Ramani, produced documents showing that it was registered with the Chennai RTO. Police also found an RTO challan issued by Chennai traffic police. But a search on the government website, vahan.nic.in, showed that the car, with the same engine and chassis number, was registered by DCDPL in Gurgaon, Haryana. “The same car was registered in two states. This led the police to dig deeper and discover the scam,” said Vaze. Ramani told the police that he had brought the car from Chhabria’s company for Rs 42 lakh and had applied for a bank loan but it was denied due to the dual registration. He added that when he tried to contact Chhabria, the latter avoided him. Police suspect that Chhabria, in connivance with his family members and employees, could be manufacturing two sets of cars with the same engine and chassis numbers or making two sets of documents of the same car. DCDPL rolled out its first model in 2016, a year after securing approvals from the Automotive Research Association of India. Chhabria’s company had courted controversy even before the inaugural sports car was launched with cricketer Dinesh Karthik moving a consumer court in Chennai over DCDPL’s dealers defaulting on refunding the booking amount of Rs 5 lakh for a car worth Rs 35 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dilip-chhabria-ran-rs-100-crore-interstate-car-financing-forgery-scam/articleshow/80018952.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Indore||14 primary contacts of UK returnees test -ve in Indore||INDORE: The health department has traced 30 people who came in contact of both the Covid positive UK returnees, and collected samples of 14 of them for laboratory test. “We have taken samples of all nine family members of a 28-year-old passenger, who returned from Scotland on December 18. We have also taken samples of five more people who were sitting close to him in the flight,” the district nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Amit Malakar said. Malakar said that the department has traced 21 people, including crew members, who were sitting next to both the passengers in the flights when they returned from the UK. “Most of the 21 people were from different cities and we have informed the officials of the concerned cities,” he said. He said that all the primary contacts of both the patients have tested negative. Even after 48 hours, the department is still waiting for laboratory reports of the remaining four out of 95 passengers, whose samples were collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/14-primary-contacts-of-uk-returnees-test-ve-in-indore/articleshow/80019322.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Noida||YEIDA needn’t pay income tax, can save Rs 200 crore||GREATER NOIDA: Entrusted with the task of developing an industrial township along the Yamuna expressway and an international airport in Jewar, Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) has been exempted from paying income tax. The Greater Noida Authority was earlier granted similar relief, while the Noida Authority is still fighting a battle with the I-T department for a tax breather. Issuing a notification on December 24, the Central Board of Direct Taxes said the Yamuna Expressway Authority is not liable to pay taxes on its income. The decision will help YEIDA save close to Rs 200 crore as pending liabilities. The Authority had earlier moved court to seek exemption from paying income tax. Issuing notices, the I-T department started demanding taxes from the Authority from 2013-14 fiscal. Over the years, the tax liability grew to Rs 200 crore. YEIDA in its favour kept contending that being a body set up by the Uttar Pradesh government under the Industrial Development Act, 1976, the mandate of the Authority is to perform works of general public utility, development and regulation without making profits. In its plea, the Authority stated that though it makes incomes and profits through various activities, the amounts generated through such activities are again applied for functions mandated by the state government for further public service. However, the tax authorities kept sending notices year after year and also asked allottees of plots to deduct tax at source before paying annual lease to YEIDA. CEO of YEIDA, Arun Vir Singh said, “We had moved the Delhi high court earlier this year against the tax department. On August 25, the high court directed the Union ministry of finance to decide the matter within 12 weeks. CBDT consequently gave us exemption from paying taxes. We will submit return of income and audit reports with the I-T department henceforth to establish we are not engaged in any commercial activity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/yeida-neednt-pay-income-tax-can-save-rs-200-crore/articleshow/80017663.cms||Shalabh
December 30, 2020||Lucknow||Two-year-old from Meerut UP’s 1st patient with new Covid-19 strain||LUCKNOW: A two-year-old who had returned from London along with her parents on December 14 was found to be UP's first patient with the new mutant Covid-19 strain on Tuesday evening. The girl, who was already in isolation along with her parents at Subharti Medical College will continue to remain in isolation and her health will be monitored throughout. She is India's seventh case of new strain. Union health ministry on Tuesday morning announced detection of six such cases in Bangalore, Hyderabad and Pune. The girl's parents had also tested positive for Covid-19 but the new strain was not found in them. State surveillance officer, UP, Dr Vikasendu Agarwal, confirmed that so far only this girl has tested positive to the new strain. “The girl had travelled with her family to the UK and returned to India on December 14. They tested positive for Covid-19 on December 24 and their samples were sent to Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), New Delhi, for genome sequencing on December 26,” Dr Agarwal told TOI. Admin to go for round 2 of contact tracing, testThe report confirming the new variant in her arrived a short while ago, Dr Agarwal said. He added that the Meerut district administration has been instructed to undertake asecond round of contact tracing and testing of any suspects who would have come in contact with the family. Meerut CMO Dr Akhilesh Mohan said that the girl had been kept at the international isolation centre at Subharti Medical College. The samples of all four persons who returned from the UK to Meerut and tested positive were sent to Delhi for another round of examination. “We had a list of over 1,650 persons who returned from the UK or via the UK after November 23. Of these, we have been able to screen more than 1,500 persons and only 10 have tested positive for Covid-19 pandemic. The genome sequencing report of five was received today while that of others is awaited.” Out of 10 who had tested positive, eight are residents of UP while two of them are natives of New Delhi undergoing treatment at Ghaziabad. Besides four cases from Meerut, three were from Gautam Budh Nagar while one from Bareilly. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Alok Kumar, urged people not to take the prevention protocol lightly. “Though the number of Covid-19 cases was declining, the new strain is known to be 70% more contagious. However, the prevention for both was the same. Therefore, wearing a mask, following social distancing and washing hands with soap and water or using sanitisers was the safest bet at the moment,” he told reporters. Experts urged people not to panic as viruses had the tendency to mutate. “Coronavirus is an-RNA based virus which is known to mutate. So, it is behaving the way it should. Now, what people need to keep in mind is that prevention protocol is common and therefore safety from this or any other strain is very much in our own hands,” said Dr Debkishore Gupta, consultant microbiologist and infection control assessor for WHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-year-old-from-meerut-ups-1st-patient-with-new-covid-19-strain/articleshow/80019332.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt officials yet to provide compliance report after CM meet||BHOPAL: The state bureaucracy is yet to provide a compliance report on the directives issued by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in the collectors and commissioners conference held earlier this month despite reminders. The general administration department (GAD) on Tuesday issued a fresh reminder to all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries to do the needful at the earliest. The conference was held through video conference on December 9. Another conference is scheduled to take place on January 4 and it will also be chaired by the chief minister. The purpose of the compliance report exercise is to rate the best and worst five districts with regards to the implementation of government schemes and directives. GAD is asking for the compliance report to do homework before the next week’s conference. However, the department heads are yet to provide the report. Officials said, barring a few departments, the information has not been sent despite a couple of reminders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-govt-officials-yet-to-provide-compliance-report-after-cm-meet/articleshow/80019337.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Gurgaon||16 more villages to come under MCG’s limit, notifies Haryana government||GURUGRAM: The Haryana government has notified the expansion of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s (MCG) limits by bringing 16 more villages under the civic body. The proposal for the expansion had been approved in a meeting chaired by the chief minister in Chandigarh earlier this month. After the government notified the order on Monday, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh wrote to all the tehsildars and naib tehsildars to sanction mutations in the revenue records in favour of the civic body. Now that the villages have been taken over by the corporation, all assets and liabilities of the panchayats will be transferred to the corporation. The move is likely to boost the civic body’s coffers as these villages have fixed deposits of more than Rs 180 crore, which would now be transferred to the MCG. Moreover, the corporation hopes to earn substantial revenue from the villages. Past records show that the 16 villages had collectively deposited Rs 35.5 crore in stamp duty in 2018-19 and Rs 41.3 crore in 2019-20. “We have already done a drone survey of these villages and started mutations of the entire land. In order to protect the land from encroachment, we are planning to construct walls around them,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner 3 at the MCG. The villagers, however, have expressed apprehension over the takeover, saying they are more comfortable approaching the pradhan with their grievances rather than any civic official. According to the order, MCG will now take over the responsibilities of all municipal services such as streetlights, water, sewerage and enforcement of buildings plans. However, all major roads, storm-water drains and water supply lines in the new sectors, which are a part of these villages, will stay with the GMDA. Like in urban areas, the villagers will now have to pay property tax too. The corporation had initially made a proposal to take over 39 villages in total. But after strong objections from the villagers, it was decided that only 16 villages would be brought under MCG while the remaining would go to the new municipal corporation of Manesar. The civic body in Manesar will have 29 villages under it. The villages that will come under MCG are Bajghera, Babupur, Mohammadheri, Dharampur, Daultabad, Kherki Majra, Dhankot, Palra, Ullawas, Nangli Umarpur, Behrampur, Dhumaspur, Bhondsi, Nayagaon (situated in the revenue estate of Bhondsi), Kadarpur and Maidawas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/16-more-villages-to-come-under-mcgs-limit-notifies-state-government/articleshow/80017285.cms||Vishakha Chaman
December 30, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow remains on top, accounts for 19% of fresh cases in UP||LUCKNOW: The city continued to record the highest number of Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with 194 more persons testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection. The figure accounted for 19% of the total 1,044 cases in the state, which means every fifth infection in UP took place in Lucknow. The biggest contributors in Lucknow's tally were Gomtinagar and Indiranagar with 23 and 22 new cases respectively. These two areas have been recording high transmission rates since August. Other ‘high scorers' on Tuesday included Mahanagar 14, Jankipuram 12, Alambagh 11 and Aashiana 10, Hazratganj and Gudumba 10 each. While the high transmission rate remained a cause of concern, the number of deaths came down to one. Also, the number of recoveries (219) in the past 24 hours were more than the new cases. According to the state Covid bulletin, the caseload has now mounted to 78,070 and deaths 1,111 (over 1.4% of the caseload) since the outbreak in March. However, nearly 95% (74,123) of those infected by the virus, so far, have also recovered. As many as 2,836 patients are still battling with the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-remains-on-top-accounts-for-19-of-fresh-cases-in-up/articleshow/80019346.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Churu at -0.4°C, Hisar 0°C and Amritsar at 0.4°C||CHANDIGARH: The mercury dropped to freezing at spots in the northern plains on Tuesday, with Churu in Rajasthan recording -0.4°C, Hisar (Haryana) 0°C and Amritsar 0.4°C. Delhi too was in the grip of a cold wave with Safdarjung recording 3.6°C — three notches below normal — making it the sixth ‘cold wave day’ this month, the second highest for December in 28 years. The mercury plummeted to 2.6°C at Ayanagar — the lowest in the capital. The maximum temperature at Safdarjung was 18.1°C, two notches below normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/churu-at-0-4c-hisar-0c-and-amritsar-at-0-4c/articleshow/80019354.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||Rajan-Sajan Mishra steal the show||BHOPAL: On Tuesday, the ongoing Tansen Festival in Gwalior reached its pinnacle with some of the superlative performances by doyens of Indian classical tradition. Day-four of the event had an intrinsic fervour that added to the energy of all those present at the venue. One of the highlights of the evening concert was sitar recital by Pandit Sahitya Kumar Nahar, who worked magic with his fingers on the instrument, and the end result was pristine music that engulfed the air and warmed the audience’s hearts, in biting cold weather. In the World Music category, the listeners got to enjoy some lilting melodies on piano by Stephen Coy, an American musician who has made India his home since 2006. Gwaliorbased vocalist Sadhana Mohite Deshmukh held her own with her khayal gayiki, but the real show-stealers were Padma Vibhushan vocalists-Rajan-Sajan Mishra, the celebrated exponents of Benaras gharana. Everyone who watched the event live, was spellbound listening to their rendition of ‘Piya gunvant’ and ‘Main toh kar aayi piya sang rangraliyan.’ The purity of romance, depth of love in their voice - stirred emotions. They ended the evening with a bhajan, which showcased yet another dimension of their singing prowess. Earlier, in the morning, it was Carnatic vocalist Kavalam Sreekumar who cast a spell on the discerning audience. Dhrupad gayan by the students of Sadhana Sangeet Mahavidyalaya was also appreciated a lot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rajan-sajan-mishra-steal-the-show/articleshow/80019356.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Why government schools saw an increase in enrolments this year||In the year of Covid, when Haryana compiled its data, it found an interesting result: enrolment in private schools witnessed a startling drop of tens of thousands of students from last year. The complete lockdown in March to stem the spread of the novel coronavirus had a cascading effect on education. Besides the shift from brick-and-mortar classes to virtual classrooms, the crashing income of people led to an increased demand for schools with lower fee structures. Not surprisingly, there was a marked shift to government schools, especially from private schools that struggled with online classes and budgets. Enrolment in state-run schools shot up by 1.4 lakh. While government schools are preferred to private ones in many South Asian countries, the scenario in India is usually the opposite. This year, however, saw many students making the switch to state schools. The pandemic led to a financial crisis in many households, and parents and private schools were for a long time at loggerheads over school fees. As a result, the total enrolment in more than 14,000 government schools in the state rose significantly — from 20,60,472 last year to 22,06,532 this time. “Our enrolment increased remarkably. People have put faith in our governance and in the sustained efforts made by the education department,” said state education minister Kanwar Pal. According to data shared by the education department, more than 90,000 boys and 55,000 girls have switched from private to government schools. Also, the maximum enrolment — of more than 35,000 students — has been seen in Class XI. “It’s a very interesting and heartening trend. The maximum switch has been in Class XI, which is a crucial year in school education. Students start studying for the streams they want to build careers in. It bodes well for us that people are convinced that government schools are in no way behind their private counterparts. In many aspects, they actually fare better,” said the additional chief secretary of education department, Dr Mahavir Singh. Furthermore, the gender-wise data suggests that among boys, the highest number of switches were seen from classes IX to XII. Among girls, the maximum switch was seen in the primary and secondary classes (I to VII). While between Class I and VIII, about 43,622 boys and 32,280 girls made the switch, between Class IX to XII, 46,632 boys and 23,426 girls made the switch. Officials said that the government’s efforts to make online education more accessible to students by distributing free tablets and launching the AVSAR app was one if the key factors behind the transfers from provate schools. “Apart from EDUSAT classes and giving access to syllabus-related e-content, the decision to give free tablets helped. The government’s effort to bridge the digital divide between the rich and poor has proven the capacity of the welfare state in ensuring each child gets an equal opportunity to access quality education,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/why-government-schools-saw-an-increase-in-enrolments-this-year/articleshow/80017847.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
December 30, 2020||Amritsar||Takht jathedar asks Navjot Singh Sidhu to apologise||AMRITSAR: A video of cricketer-turned politician Navjot Singh Sidhu where the Congress MLA is seen in a shawl adorned with Sikh religious symbols has kicked up a row. After a complaint regarding showing of disrespect to Sikh religious signs was submitted against Sidhu by Paramjit Singh Akali, Giani Harpreet Singh, officiating Akal Takht Jathedar, directed Sidhu to immediately tender an apology for hurting the Sikh religious sentiments by wearing a shawl that bears Sikh religious symbols of “khanda” and “Ek Onkar”. The jathedar said it was unfortunate that Sidhu, who is a Sikh, donned such a shawl. ‘Sidhu’s act has hurt religious sentiments’Being a Sikh, Sidhu should have known that such an act is a violation of the maryada (Sikh code of religious conduct) and his act has severely hurt the religious sentiments of the Sikhs," he added. Sidhu had uploaded a video on his YouTube channel on December 27 wherein he is seen meeting farmers of Sandhanawal village in Jalandhar district, and has wrapped a purple-toned shawl with huge Sikh religious symbols around his shoulders. Sikh intellectual and former principal of Khalsa College Chawinda Devi, Amritsar, Prof Baljinder Singh said that Shri Guru Granth Sahib starts with "Ek Onkar" so this symbol cannot be used on any kind of garment. He also said the "khanda" was a sign of the Sikh panth and should not be used for political purposes. However, a large number of items, including baseball caps, boxing gloves, T shirts and jackets, bearing “khanda” prints can be seen at ecommerce stores. Despite several attempts, Sidhu couldn’t be contacted for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/takht-jathedar-asks-navjot-singh-sidhu-to-apologise/articleshow/80019371.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Indore||Cities must emulate Indore swachhta model: Prakash Javadekar||INDORE: Impressed by Indore’s swachhta model, Union environment, forest and I&B minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday said that other civic bodies should try and emulate the country’s cleanest city. “Indore has written a success story of cleanliness in the country. Today, I learnt from the collector and (Indore Municipal Corporation) commissioner about Indore’s story (journey) of maintaining cleanliness in the last five-six years and the city is consistently following the path to cleanliness. Now, as the threat of Covid-19 spread is decreasing, we will organise special workshops for all cities and will urge them to imitate Indore’s success (in cleanliness)” Javadekar said. Javadekar said that Indore has presented a ‘successful model’ of cleanliness for all civic bodies to follow. “Civic bodies exchanging their experiences will help the country in its cleanliness drive,” the minister said, adding that in Indore’s success story of cleanliness, support and efforts made by politicians, officials concerned and the sanitation workers played an important role. Javadekar added that he will again visit Indore to have a discussion on how to implement the city’s cleanliness model in other civic bodies. During his short visit, he attended a programme on the occasion of Datta Jayanti. The Union minister also visited the houses of some local BJP leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cities-must-emulate-indore-swachhta-model-prakash-javadekar/articleshow/80019341.cms||---
December 30, 2020||World||China mouthpiece cites ‘huge Nepal investments’ to defend interference||NEW DELHI: Following China’s call for all sides in the Nepal political crisis to “properly” address internal disputes, mouthpiece Global Times quoted ‘experts’ to assert that Beijing’s efforts to resolve the intra-party conflict are entirely reasonable and legitimate. It also cited China’s “huge investment” in Nepal to justify what many in Kathmandu have described as blatant interference in Nepal’s domestic affairs. According to Nepal media reports, the Chinese delegation has stressed on political stability in Nepal and the need for Nepal Communist Party (NCP) to remain united. Efforts to keep the party united haven’t found much traction though with Nepal leaders pointing out to the head of the Chinese delegation vice-minister Guo Yezhou and others that first the Supreme Court has to rule on the validity, or lack thereof, of Oli’s decision to dissolve the House of Representatives. Significantly As Nepal witnessed street protests against Oli’s “unconstitutional” move, chairman of Dahal faction M K Nepal said the party can still remain united if Oli accepts his mistake. Global Times though said, quoting academics, that China has huge investments in and deep cooperation with Nepal under the Belt and Road Initiative and, as a neighbour, China has a legitimate reason to be concerned about the internal situation in Nepal and to provide assistance to partners which, it added, is not interfering in its internal affairs. It also said the inter-party exchanges between CPC and NCP or other Nepali parties are not India’s business, and even if the CPC is providing assistance to mediate the intra-party conflict, or sharing experiences on solving such problems, it was entirely reasonable and legitimate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-mouthpiece-cites-huge-nepal-investments-to-defend-interference/articleshow/80019279.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||Gang targets two mobile shops in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A gang of around a dozen targeted two locked mobile phone shops in Kotwali and Talaiya areas in the wee hours of Tuesday morning and made away with premium mobile phones and expensive accessories worth more than Rs 40 lakh along with cash of Rs 2.70 lakh from the two shops. In the first case reported at Talaiya police station, complainant Gopi Udasi, told police that he runs a mobile phone showroom on Neem Road near Imami Gate. He closed the shop around 1.30pm on Monday night and went home. In the morning when his employee Amalas reached the shop he found the shutter of the shop lifted from the centre. Gopi found that around 150 mobile phones were stolen and their empty boxes carrying chargers were lying in the shop. The accused stole Rs 20000 cash from the counter. Goods worth around Rs 20 lakh were stolen. The CCTV cameras at the shop were not functional. In the second case, accused stole around 150 mobile phones, including premium smartphones and keypad phones, along with expensive accessories and Rs 2.5 lakh kept cash in the counter. He said that the accused stole goods worth more than Rs 20 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gang-targets-two-mobile-shops-in-bhopal/articleshow/80019405.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bhopal||Man molests neighbour in Bhopal, arrested||BHOPAL: A 33-year-old married woman was allegedly molested by her neighbour in Berasia locality on Monday. Acting on her complaint, Berasia police registered a molestation case and arrested the accused. Police said, the survivor stated in her complaint that on Monday afternoon when she had gone to a market in Berasia, and the accused, who resides close to her home, waylaid her. When she protested, the accused sexually harassed her and fled the spot, threatening her with dire consequences. Meanwhile, in the second incident, a 19-year-old girl was allegedly harassed by her former friend in Nishantpura locality. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-molests-neighbour-in-bhopal-arrested/articleshow/80019379.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Two residents fall prey to cyber fraud in Gurugram, FIR lodged||GURUGRAM: Two residents have fallen victim to cyber crime and separate cases have been registered at Sector 65 police station. While in the first cases, a man named Krishan Lal was cheated of Rs 59,300 by someone pretending to be a bank employee, the other case saw a man being cheated on the pretext of KYC verification for his Paytm account. In April, Krishan Lal received a call from a man posing as a bank employee, who allegedly knew Lal’s account number and bank branch. “He said he is modifying my debit card and asked for the card number and OTP following which he made two transactions from my account for Rs 50,000 and Rs 9,360,” the complainant said. In the other cases, the victim, in January, had received a message through SMS to update his KYC for his Paytm account. “Upon calling on the number mentioned in the SMS, I was asked to download an app — Quicksupport — from playstore. I was asked to send a minimal amount using the app , following which Rs 1,49,998 fot debited from my account,” the complainant told police. Following investigation, over the months, the cyber crime forwarded the case to Sector 65 police station on Monday. “An FIR under Section 420 of the IPC has been registered in Lal’s case and a separate FIR under sections of fraud has been registered in the second case,” an officer with the Sector 65 police station said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/two-residents-fall-prey-to-cyber-fraud-in-city-fir-lodged/articleshow/80018046.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Doctors hail Calcutta HC order, want curbs to continue||KOLKATA: Doctors, fatigued and wary of fighting the prolonged pandemic, are happy that Calcutta High Court has intervened yet again against unrestricted festive revelry. Pulmonologist Raja Dhar, who heads the Covid treatment team at Fortis Hospital, said, “We welcome the high court order. What we witnessed on the 25th and 26th is not right. There must be stringent punishment against the violators. Out of sheer frustration, people suddenly aren’t afraid of the virus any more. We need regulators to make them fearful.” Last week, several health associations under the banner of Joint Platform of Doctors (JPD) initiated an online campaign against Kolkatans attending year-end parties. Aghast at the Christmas gatherings, where people were seen avoiding masks and throwing distancing norms into the air, haepatologist Abhijit Chowdhury said, “It’s unfortunate that the high court must raise the alarm again and again.” The mentor of Covid Care Network (CCN) that had organized a cycle rally in October, appealing people to celebrate Pujas indoors, added, “We did manage to prevent disaster post Durga Puja. Suddenly, we are oblivious to the looming danger.” The restrictive lifestyle should continue for more than a year, said the doctors. “With or without the mutated strain, we must stay on guard for more than a year. Covid will be here for the next couple of years. We don’t know if the vaccine will give us lasting immunity,” said Dhar. At least wait for the vaccine, said Ajoy Sarkar, clinical director, intensive care unit (ICU), Peerless Hospital. “We must be a little more patient,” he said. Consultant pulmonologist Suranjan Mukherjee, AMRI Hospital, said: “We won’t learn about the effect of the Christmas crowding before a fortnight. So, you can’t go by the current downward slide and let your guard down.” Cardiff-based consultant physician Raja Biswas, who has been a Covid survivor himself, said, “I am just back after visiting my parents. I was impressed with the way Kolkatans were following rules. Then I see pictures of unmasked Kolkatans on Christmas Day. It’s so scary. Do they think the virus no longer infects? Kolkata is in for real trouble then. The New Year Eve is round the corner. Unfortunately, they don’t understand the idea of pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doctors-hail-court-order-want-curbs-to-continue/articleshow/80016283.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 30, 2020||Gurgaon||MCG lessons will help set up Manesar corporation: Vinay Pratap Singh||At a time the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram(MCG) is at the centre of controversies — with contractors facing probes for alleged irregularities and councillors showing resentment towards officials — its commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh has been assigned the additional charge of heading the new civic body in Manesar. The 2011-batch IAS officer speaks to TOI about the challenges staring at him, his priorities for Manesar and how he plans to set up the new corporation from scratch. Excerpts:  You will have the additional charge of heading the Manesar corporation too. How prepared are you to handle both the responsibilities?I have decided to put some officials of MCG in Manesar for the time being but with strict instructions that their current responsibilities should not get compromised. Also, the e-office system will be implemented from the beginning itself to make the work transparent and less time-consuming. Most importantly, the lessons we have learnt from MCG will be implemented in Manesar as well to make it a model corporation.  How will Manesar change after getting its own municipal corporation?Currently being governed by panchayats, 29 villages will come under one uniform body with the setting up of the municipal corporation. Panchayats have limited capacity. But under a municipal corporation, there will be far more strong regulatory mechanisms and better civic amenities for the residents. Also, a full-fledged office along with regional cluster-based offices will be set up for offering better services.  What will be your priorities or focus areas for Manesar?To start with, we will conduct an assessment of the existing infrastructure through a detailed survey. We have already conducted a high resolution drone survey of the land under the municipal limits. On the basis of that survey, we will prepare detailed project reports for all villages under the corporation area and execute development work. As far as focus areas are concerned, they would be civic amenities — water supply, sewerage, streetlights and repair of roads.  Some villages were not in favour of a municipal corporation in Manesar. How do you plan to address their issues and ensure a smooth transition?All villagers are willing to come under the corporation. In fact, a few villages that are not under the corporation’s limits have been requesting local representatives to include them too. We have also decided to take the current staff of the panchayats on the corporation’s rolls so that the workflow isn’t disrupted. An official at the level of joint commissioner will be deputed as the nodal officer to coordinate with the panchayats for a smooth transition. We have also written to the revenue department for transfer of records and assets. Apart from these, we will start a public dialogue to understand their problems and expectations.  MCG has turned into a hotspot of controversies, with councillors, contractors and officials facing probes and expressing resentment at each other. How do you plan to address these and prevent such issues in Manesar?We understand that whenever there is deviation, there are chances of pilferage and corruption. But such things happen when there is a problem in the process. But I will make the process strong enough to not allow any wrongdoing here. The focus is on strengthening the regulatory system for Gurugramand replicate the same for Manesar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-lessons-will-help-set-up-manesar-corporation-vinay-pratap-singh/articleshow/80017877.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
December 30, 2020||Chandigarh||New Year parties on, but guests to be capped at 200 in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration on Tuesday decided not to impose night curfew or place additional restrictions for New Year celebrations on December 31, but told hotels, restaurants and nightclub owners to operate with 50% of their sitting capacity and keep the gathering limited to 200, whichever is less. Earlier, there were proposals for imposing night curfew and restricting celebration timings till 10pm on December 31. However, UT administrator V P Singh Badnore ruled out any kind of night curfew and new limits. Badnore discussed the situation during a review meeting. Considering the number of active and positive cases being detected daily were coming down and no case of new coronavirus strain was detected in Chandigarh, it was decided that there was no need for any additional restrictions. However, Badnore directed director general of police (DGP) to ensure the Covidappropriate behaviour and the restrictions on number of persons and opening and closing of hotels, restaurants were strictly enforced. Later, deputy commissioner Mandip Brar along with SSP Kuldip Singh Chahal held a meeting with representatives of hotels, restaurants, and nightclubs to emphasise compliance with the Covid-19 related guidelines, like wearing masks and maintaining social distance. The deputy commissioner asked hotel and restaurant owners to adhere to the guidelines issued by the central government. The owners were asked to provide details of sitting capacity to the administration by 1pm on Wednesday. The DC further added that any violation of these guidelines would attract severe action. The representatives of hotels, restaurants, clubs and nightclubs assured about the adherence of Covid protocols and ministry of home affairs guidelines in the establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-year-parties-on-but-guests-to-be-capped-at-200-in-chandigarh/articleshow/80019435.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 30, 2020||Kolkata||Revellers shift to responsible partying & get-togethers at home in Covid times||KOLKATA: New Year’s Eve in Kolkata is synonymous to revellers cramming Park Street, fireworks turning the city sky in a kaleidoscope of colours and parties till dawn. But that was before the pandemic. While several party places are hosting the new year’s bash, this time they will have to ensure that they meet all safety guidelines which will include proper air circulation within the premises, curtailing the number of revellers and proper sanitisation of the place. Many venues have already reached out to their guests informing them about the safety measures apart from cover charges and the menu. Several party goers have, however, expressed their apprehensions over safety measures stating that once the momentum picks up when the party is underway it is impossible to maintain social distancing. Several families have also dropped their plans of going out and decided to have low key celebrations at home. “I have been going to year-end parties for many years and the adrenaline is so high that it is difficult to maintain social distancing. It is difficult for organisers too to turn away people because they would want to make more profit. So, I have decided to skip outdoor parties and be at home this New Year’s Eve,” said Ankit Rajgaria, a resident of Sreebhumi off VIP Road. Star hotels like The Park, the Westin Kolkata, Novotel, Hyatt Regency and others have all planned special celebrations for the New Year’s Eve. “We have celebrations planned in many of our outlets so that no particular place gets overcrowded. The staff will be following all safety guidelines too,” said a representative of The Park on Park Street. At Bakstage at Sector V, too, the organisers have assured their guests of all safety guidelines. “We will not let the floor get crowded. The seating arrangements have also been made in a way that social distancing can be followed,” said Sudhir Ahuja, owner of Bakstage. Many big housing societies have cancelled all the year-end celebrations prioritising safety of their residents. Shukhobrishti in Action Area III of New Town is home to over 400 families. The residents’ welfare association organises several programmes and get-togethers on New Year’s Eve. This year, however, there will be no celebrations due to the pandemic. “It’s impossible to comply with all social distancing norms if so many people come together. We have decided to cancel all year end celebrations keeping in mind the safety of our residents,” said Mainak Kanrar, joint secretary of the residents’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/revellers-shift-to-responsible-partying-get-togethers-at-home-in-covid-times/articleshow/80016239.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: From a gram panchayat member to council deputy chairman||BENGALURU: SL Dharmegowda was not only a politician but also a businessman and farmer. He owned commercial establishments, bars and tractor showrooms and had an areca plantation. Before getting elected to the legislative council in 2018, he was elected to the assembly in 2004 from Birur segment. As a Janata Dal candidate, he defeated his nearest Congress candidate by 1,133 votes. His father SR Lakshmaiah had represented the constituency thrice. Dharmegowda started his political career as a Bilekalla gram panchayat member and became president. He joined the cooperative movement and became director of several state and national organisations. He continued his political journey in JD(S). He lost to CT Ravi in Chikkamagaluru in 2008. “In district politics, we never consider anyone an enemy. After the December 15 incident in the council, I comforted him. During the CM’s recent visit to the district, he attended a dinner at my residence. We had a good chat on Monday too,” said Ravi, BJP national general secretary. YSV Datta, JD(S) functionary, said: “A few days before the council ruckus, we discussed challenges faced by milk producers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/from-a-gp-member-to-council-deputy-chairman/articleshow/80016807.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru scientist bags World Academy Of Sciences award||BENGALURU: Prof Parameswaran Ajith, scientist with the International Centre for Theoretical Sciences of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (ICTS-TIFR) in Bengaluru, has been awarded the inaugural young scientist award for frontier science (TWAS-CAS) in physical sciences, by the Italy-based World Academy of Sciences. The award recognises outstanding young scientists from developing countries. “I was fortunate to have many wonderful mentors, collaborators and students who made my work possible. Modern science is a collaborative enterprise. This is particularly true in my area of research,” Ajit said. His research spans physics and astrophysics of gravitational waves — ripples in spacetime whose existence was predicted by Albert Einstein a century ago, and first detected by LIGO observations in 2015. A member of the LIGO scientific collaboration since 2004, Ajith and his research group at ICTS-TIFR have made important contributions towards deciphering this Nobel-winning discovery. Ajith pioneered a method to model the expected gravitational-wave signals from colliding binary black holes. Theoretical models calculated using this method are now being used to extract the properties of gravitational-wave signals from LIGO observations, ICTS stated. His research group has also developed ways to test Einstein’s theory from gravitational-wave observations and to study the properties of black holes that produce these waves. “This recognition of his important contributions to the LIGO discovery is a particularly singular honour. It is a matter of pride not only for ICTS and TIFR, but also for India, given how competitive this award is,” Prof Rajesh Gopakumar, centre director, ICTS-TIFR, said. Sustainable prosperityBased in Trieste, Italy, the World Academy of Sciences works to support sustainable prosperity through research, education, policy and diplomacy in developing countries. The TWAS-CAS young scientist award for frontier science was established in 2020 and is given to scientists not older than 45 years, from developing countries. The first edition (2020) of the award recognises achievements in the field of physical sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-scientist-bags-world-academy-of-sciences-award/articleshow/80016823.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation begins sorting through 15,000 applications for 900 carts on Marina||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation has begun an elaborate process of sorting the 15,000 applications received for vendors at Marina beach, as per directions of the Madras high court. The civic body will eventually select only 900 based on the draw of lots. Officials said the corporation has received 1,345 applications in the A category and 14,841 in the B category. The former is for vendors already operating at the beach and the latter is for other vendors. An official said 60% of the 900 carts will be allocated to A category vendors and 40% to those in B category. The corporation will procure 900 pushcarts equipped with all kinds of safety features to ensure sale of hygienic food and change the way food products are sold at the beach. The civic body will also collect an annual license fee of 3,000 from each vendor. An official said the corporation will be spending about 16.5 crore on the project and that the carts would be supplied within six months. According to sources, the pushcarts, also termed self-contained vending carts, would be around 2.2m in length. The cart would have a stainless steel finish and fitted with an overhead shade to protect food items from potential contaminants. Resistance to corrosion is an important part of the pushcarts as specified to the contractor. V Mageshvaran, general secretary of TN street vendors workers federation, said there were 1,544 permanent vendors with corporation ID cards who had been operating at the beach for several years. "It is unfair that only 540 of them will be allowed. Has the size of the beach decreased? Also in the remaining 360, outsiders who come in will be pawns of politicians. This is not right," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-corporation-begins-sorting-through-15000-applications-for-900-carts-on-marina/articleshow/80019490.cms||---
December 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Tasmac bars reopen to customers & SOP violations||CHENNAI: Nine months after they shut their doors to thirsty tipplers, several bars attached to Tasmac shops reopened in the city on Tuesday, following approval from the state-owned marketing corporation. While most air-conditioned bars remain closed, a majority of the ones that did reopen were ridden with violations of standard operation procedure (SOP) with employees forgoing the mandatory mask rule. However, the Tasmac administration said that all efforts have been undertaken to ensure that SOP is being adhered to, adding that officials would inspect the facilities for the purpose. On Tuesday, TOI found that several bars attached to Tasmac shops, including those with AC facility, were still closed. However, customers were welcomed by mask-less employees at two bars at Little Mount and Saidapet. None of the facilities that TOI visited, including the one at Kotturpuram, sought contact details of the visitors. According to the SOP, only asymptomatic customers would be allowed. Customer details, including their contact information, must be obtained by bar contractors for contact tracing and a register must be maintained. But, no such measures were seen in any of these bars. When contacted, a senior Tasmac official said officials visited bars across Tamil Nadu to check if SOPs were followed. "We have taken the best of the efforts," the official said.  About 5,300 Tasmac shops across TN have 3,000 bars attached to them. Of the 5,300 bars, Chennai region, comprising the city, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, accounts for 650 .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-tasmac-bars-reopen-to-customers-sop-violations/articleshow/80019492.cms||---
December 30, 2020||India||Trains will not need to slow down on 351-km new freight corridors||NEW DELHI: Unlike all other rail routes, the freight trains on the 351-km New Bhaupur-New Khurja section of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor won’t need to slow down all along this stretch. Sources said this will be one of the unique features of the two dedicated corridors. An official said the train that was flagged off by PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday at a designated speed of 60 kmph clocked 59.6 km per hour during the full run. While the design speed of even the fastest passenger trains such as Rajdhani and Shatabdi Express is more, the average speed falls since on several stretches there have to slow down. “One of the reasons why no train would be required to slow down is our good maintenance practice, which would be followed strictly,” the railway official said. The work on both Eastern and Western Dedicated Freight Corridors gained speed in the past few months after the PM held a review meeting on the progress. While expressing displeasure over the delay, he had asked railway minister Piyush Goyal to hold a weekly review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trains-will-not-need-to-slow-down-on-351-km-new-freight-corridors/articleshow/80019541.cms||Dipak K Dash
