December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||191 checkpoints in Bengaluru to track drunk driving||BENGALURU: Police are all set to resume enforcement against drunk driving in the city after almost nine, when New Year revellers hit the roads on Thursday night. Owing to Covid-19, cops had suspended drunk-driving checks from early March. However, considering New Year celebrations on Thursday night, traffic police have decided to undertake the drive. Joint commissioner of police (traffic) BR Ravikanthe Gowda on Wednesday said they won’t use breath analysers, but subject the suspects to blood test instead. “A pick-up team will take the driver to the nearest hospital for a blood test. If the test proves consumption of alcohol, we will initiate action,” he said. Gowda said 191 checkpoints will be set up across the city. “Pick-up teams will be deployed at all 191 points. We will use hand-held cameras and record the situation,” he said. Reiterating that vehicles are barred from MG road, Brigade Road, St Marks Road and Residency Road after 8pm on Thursday, Gowda said: “Those visiting pubs, bars and hotels on these roads will be allowed only on producing the coupon or e-coupon confirming their bookings at the particular place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/191-checkpoints-to-track-drunk-driving/articleshow/80034229.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||25% of four-wheelers in Karnataka yet to get FASTag||BENGALURU: While the Centre is yet to decide whether to extend the deadline for mandatory FASTags for all four-wheelers from January 1, around 25% of the toll payments in the state are still happening through cash. The Centre had planned to collect 100% toll on national highways via FASTag from January 1 to eliminate cash transactions. However, it is likely to extend the deadline by a month. No final decision has been taken till the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, there are several queues near toll plazas to purchase FASTtags. Ananth Kumar, a motorist, tweeted: “Huge traffic near toll booths which made motorists wait for hours at each booth despite having FASTtag due to holiday weekend (sic)”. Some motorists pointed out that FASTag is still not mandatory on NICE toll since it does not come under NHAI. Shamanth N wrote: “FASTag sensors were implemented in NICE road one year back but FASTag not implemented (sic)”. A spokesperson from Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprises (NICE) said: “The rule does not apply to us but we are trying to get the same facility to our toll road users. The state government is in the final stages of issuing NOC for the integration of FASTag into our toll system. We would provide the facility once it is done.” FASTags can be used to pay parking fees at some of the shopping malls like Brookfield mall. NHAI officials said more than 40,000 points of sale at toll plazas have been set up across the country, in partnership with 26 banks. “In Karnataka, 75% of motorists have FASTags. Some toll operators have raised apprehensions on hasty implementation of this rule since they are not ready yet. But we have not received any information on extension of deadline so far,” said an NHAI official in Karnataka. There were also complaints of overcharging of FASTag, shortage of points of sale and failure of transactions. Officials said motorists can contact toll free number 1033 for complaints and details related to FASTag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/25-of-four-wheelers-yet-to-get-fastag/articleshow/80034232.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Suburban trains to KIA from Monday||BENGALURU: Flyers and airport employees can travel by suburban trains to and from Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) in less than a week. South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to increase the number of Demu/Memu trains from existing six pairs (12 trains) to 15 pairs (30 trains) from January 4 (Monday). This includes two trains, which will pass through the KIA halt station. However, some of the existing suburban trains will be either merged or cancelled and detailed list of trains and their timings will be released in a day or two. The 06279 Yeshwantpur-Bangarpet Demu train which leaves Yeshwantpur at 8:30am, will reach KIA halt at 9.16am. In the return trip, 06280 Bangarpet-KSR Bengaluru City Demu train will leave Bangarpet at 4pm, arrive at KIA halt at 6.42pm and reach KSR Bengaluru City at 8.20pm. Another train — 06269 Bengaluru Cantonment-Bangarpet Demu — will leave from Bengaluru Cantonment at 5.55pm and reach KIA halt at 6.50pm. Likewise, 06270 Bangarpet-Yeswantpur Demu will leave from Bangarpet at 5.30pm and reach KIA halt at 8.25pm and Yeshwantpur at 9.25pm. According to sources, there is a possibility of operating trains to the airport even before January 4. SWR sources said they are planning to open the KIA halt station on Thursday or the first week of January. “Inauguration of the halt station was postponed due to the model code of conduct in place because of gram panchayat elections. We were planning to start services from December 31, 2020 or the first week of January. We are waiting for a green signal from the state government as the railway board has already given the nod. The inauguration will be either on January 4 or before,” said a source from SWR. SWR is also planning to operate three dedicated trains to KIA halt station — two from KSR Bengaluru City and one from Yelahanka. The halt station between Doddajala and Devanahalli stations is just 3.5km from the KIA terminal. It is expected to benefit 28,000 airport employees as well as passengers. BIAL will operate shuttle services between the halt station and airport terminal based on train schedules on this route. The station will have a booking counter, concourse area and restrooms with provision for the differently abled passengers. There will also be a cafeteria and vending machines. Passengers will be able to check flight details at the halt station itself. The fare is likely to be Rs 10 for ordinary trains and Rs 30 for express ones from Bengaluru City station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/suburban-trains-to-kia-from-monday/articleshow/80034248.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt seeks extension of last date of BE admissions||BENGALURU: The department of higher education has written to the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) seeking an extension of time till January 15 for undergraduate engineering admissions through CET as it wants to conduct one more round of counselling. The last date for admissions to professional courses is currently December 31. “There are requests from students to conduct one more round of counselling so that they can be given a last chance to choose from the left-over courses. KUPECA (Karnataka Unaided Private Education Colleges Association) has requested to extend the date up to January 15 for admissions to engineering and architecture courses,” said education minister CN Ashwath Narayan. Several students protested in front of the Karnataka Examinations Authority after they were asked to pay a fine of five times the college fees for surrendering seats late as per an amendment made in the rules. They said they were unaware that this was the last round and of the new rule. They said the results of the third round of counselling was announced only on Sunday, making it impossible to surrender seats before hand. Also, the counselling for AYUSH courses have still not been conducted, making it difficult for students to make a final choice of the course they want to pursue. The fine comes to around Rs 3 lakh.  If the government conducts a new round of counselling, students will not have to pay the fine, as the surrendered seats can go back into the pool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-seeks-extension-of-last-date-of-be-admissions/articleshow/80034251.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Pune||#ISurvived2020: I collaborated and learnt from other artistes virtually in the lockdown, says contemporary dancer Sayli Kulkarni||The year 2020 hasn't been kind to anyone. The pandemic and the consequent lockdown put a full stop to everything, affecting art and entertainment industry the most. However, artistes and the rest of the world are slowly trying to crawl back on their feet now. With 2020 calling it a wrap, the dawn of a new year tomorrow, bringing new hopes for 2021, city-based contemporary dancer, performer, and teacher Sayli Kulkarni summarises how the year has been for her, for her art, and how she managed to survive. Read on...."The year 2020 started with a roar for me as a contemporary dance performer. In the first two months of the year, I already had four performances in my bag. I was performing, teaching, and planning travel in the months to come. Life as an artist could have not been better is what I thought. But then, the unthinkable happened and there we all were in the middle of a pandemic, not knowing what is happening or what is going to happen. The first few days of the lockdown were amazing, as I could concentrate on myself, my art, and my routine which had gone for a toss in the past few months. But then the days turned into weeks and weeks into months of no performance, no rehearsals, no teaching, and almost no money in my bank account. I would lie to the world if I say I didn’t perform at all, I did it, but for an audience who was watching me on social media, Zoom, or on Skype. Later, I also started teaching online and learning online. Naturally, we all were and still are struggling through this weird time. With nothing to do substantial as an artist (irony), I boarded a train that led me to self-doubt. I started questioning everything I did, what I was doing or not doing and what will I do. What sailed me through that black hole were my friends, books, music, and family. My study travel to Spain in July 2020 was cancelled. Spain hosts one of the biggest contemporary dance festivals in the world named 'Deltebre Dansa', which was called off because of the pandemic. This festival was my one chance to learn from the world’s best contemporary dance teachers and watch all the work that is happening around the world. Alas! All plans went down the drain. Thanks to COVID-19! Somehow, I managed to keep my head on my shoulder and started working on smaller video projects in collaboration with other artists, applied for a few online performance festivals, did some workshop with international contemporary dancers being here in Pune. Funny, how I did not get to go to Spain to train myself but, I still did manage to learn from some amazing teachers. I guess the world for me was coming closer although it was falling apart in many ways. Albeit the art world is suffering the full force of the coronavirus pandemic, what kept me afloat is that the art and the artistes around the world brought people together, inspired the world, and kept people sane. I saw art helped people come closer, cope, heal in the face of grief in inarticulate yet undeniable ways and this is what kept me going in my difficult times. Today the world is very slowly trying to find its way back to this new normal, and as a performing artist and a teacher, I, too, have started finding ways to be better at what I do. Performance spaces have started opening up and I am happy to already have performed for a live audience of 60 at the IAPAR International Theatre Festival. The face of performance, too, has changed in these times. This performance was a collaboration between a dancer from France whose live feed was projected in space and two dancers from India dancing in front of this feed. Bit by bit let’s hope things do come back to normal and the only way to march ahead is by working together with compassion and empathy to everyone."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/isurvived2020-i-collaborated-and-learnt-from-other-artistes-virtually-in-the-lockdown-says-contemporary-dancer-sayli-kulkarni/articleshow/80033074.cms||Amrita Prasad
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbaikars to celebrate New Year’s Eve at Thailand time||Mumbai may be known as the City that Never Sleeps, but the pandemic has changed all that for sure. On New Year’s Eve (NYE) tomorrow, you won’t be able to party outside all night, walk around with friends and soak in the usual revelry owing to the COVID-19 safety protocols. With the State announcing a curfew at 11pm to 6am, hotels and restaurants have found a way to ring in the NYE celebrations an hour-and-a-half early. They plan to align the celebrations with Thailand. So, at around 10.30pm on December 31, when it will be sharp midnight in Thailand, Mumbaikars will also ring in 2021. Says Sherry Bhatia, President, Hotel & Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), “Mumbai will have its celebrations, albeit a little earlier this year on Thailand time. This way, people can have their fun and still get to be at their homes at midnight.” 'Would have been an opportune time to speed up business, but there are more serious concerns: HRAWIThe hospitality industry has been getting back on its feet since the last two months. With December 31 being one of the highest revenue points, the curfew is going to be a dampener. Says Pradeep Shetty, HRAWI, “The night curfew will certainly impact the dine-in business on New Year’s Eve. People usually tend to step out only in the evening on December 31. This would’ve been an opportune time for hotels and restaurants to speed up business recovery, but we know there are other more serious concerns now.” Mumbaikars’ new game plan to ring in the New YearWith movements in the city curtailed on December 31, many are now creating the restaurant feel at home. Says Megha Datwani, MD of a tapas bar and café, “We are focusing on catering customised meals for house parties to create restaurant-like experiences at home. We are keeping in mind all the safety precautions and sanitisation practices.” Pankaj Gupta of a lounge bar at BKC adds, “Our plan is to have a New Year’s Eve brunch, followed by an early sit-down dinner for guests. We will do the New Year’s Eve countdown with bubbly popup at 10.30pm. Mumbaikars love to party and many have embraced the new time. In fact, my place is all sold out for tomorrow. So, if you have to get out and party a little earlier, go ahead and adjust, it’s alright.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaikars-to-celebrate-new-years-eve-at-thailand-time/articleshow/80030124.cms||Ismat Tahseen
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||Encouraging art and artistes||The nine-day art exhibition titled The Beginning, organized at the Hussainganj Metro station drew a large crowd. The closing ceremony of the show was attended by Kumar Keshav, the Managing Director of Uttar Pradesh Metro Corporation, along with Sushil Kumar, Director, Operations and other officials. Kumar Keshav (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Kumar Keshav (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Abhishek Mishra (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Abhishek Mishra (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) This painting and sculpture exhibition, presented by promising fine arts students of Lucknow University also fetched praise from philanthropist and author Padmashree Dr Yogesh Praveen, renowned actor Dr Anil Rastogi, Rajan Sripada Phulari, Professor of Arts College, Bhupesh Rai and Dr Anita Sahgal. (L) Anita Sahgal (R) Bhupesh Rai (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Anita Sahgal (R) Bhupesh Rai (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Dr Yogesh Praveen (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Dr Yogesh Praveen (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Expressing happiness over the successful event, Kumar Keshav said, “Our objective behind providing a platform to Lucknow's emerging artists is to promote the city's art and heritage. These paintings and craftwork are expressing our time.” All the participants were also given certificates by UPMRC for their contribution. (L-R) Kumari Jyotisana, Geepti Katiyar and Manu Verma (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L-R) Kumari Jyotisana, Geepti Katiyar and Manu Verma (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Rajan Shripad Fulari and Geepti Katiyar (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Rajan Shripad Fulari and Geepti Katiyar (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Samreen Fatima (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Samreen Fatima (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Tradeep Khare and Swadesh Singh (R) Sushil Kumar (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Tradeep Khare and Swadesh Singh (R) Sushil Kumar (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Vishal Gupta (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Vishal Gupta (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/encouraging-art-and-artistes/articleshow/80029600.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Celebs plan to party safely and responsibly on New Year’s Eve||This has been perhaps the toughest year for most of us and honestly, we all are counting days for 2020 to get over. As most of us are gearing up to usher in the New Year in style, one shouldn’t forget that the pandemic scare is still on and the focus should be on responsible and safe partying. CT spoke to a few celebs to find out what safety guidelines they are planning to follow before heading to a restopub on New Year’s Eve or attending house parties. Here’s what they said… ‘It is best to party in an open space’Partying with a known and close circle of friends is a must now, as you know each other’s whereabouts. Avoid partying with unknown people. Wearing a mask all the time at the party is advisable. If that is not possible, then maintain distance between two people. Sanitise your hands at regular intervals. It is best to party in an open space rather than in a closed environment. Use disposable plates and cups as that will help maintain hygiene. This year I will be at my complex partying with my neighbours at pool side. — Rachna Banerjee, actress‘No hugging, no handshake, only good old namaskar’It is always advisable to use hand sanitizers at short intervals. While drinking or eating, use-and-throw plates and glasses are the best. Avoid handshakes and hugs and stick to good old namaskar as you enter a party. Partying with a known circle of friends is a great idea. Avoid crowded places as much as possible. Make sure the waiter is wearing a mask while serving food or drinks. Always request the restaurant or pub authorities to serve the food hot and covered from the kitchen. I organised a house party on Christmas and on New Year’s Eve, we are planning a party at a friend’s place. — Shaheb Bhattacherjee, actor‘Try to party only with close group of friends’It is advisable to plan house parties this year. Try to organise a party with close friends where you are sure of their medical history. Avoid hugging while you welcome the guests. Try to maintain social distancing and wear a mask all the time. Open venues, like a terrace or a garden, are ideal for having house parties. I have work on December 31  evening. After that, I’ll meet some close friends and have dinner and adda together. But I am not going to any crowded place for my own safety. — Rudranil Ghosh, actor‘Do not remove mask unless it’s absolutely necessary’This year, I have consciously decided to attend a house party and not go out on the streets. We will have a small get-together at one of our friends’ terrace. Once my friends and I reach the venue, we will freshen up, wash our hands thoroughly and then head to the terrace. I will not remove my mask unless it’s absolutely necessary. We have planned an open-air party so that there is no overcrowding. We all have elderly parents at home, so keeping their well-being in mind is of utmost importance. — Vikram Chatterjee, actor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/celebs-plan-to-party-safely-and-responsibly-on-new-years-eve/articleshow/80028917.cms||Srishti Dasgupta
December 31, 2020||World||No proof of new variant causing more fatality, says UK study||PUNE: Findings from a new matched cohort study in the United Kingdom on the impact of the new coronavirus strain on human health should come as a relief for India. The study, published by Public Health England, found "no statistically significant difference in hospitalisation, case fatality" between cases with the variant coronavirus strain and earlier cases. A matched cohort study is an analysis that relies on comparing sets of individuals. From 2,693 variant cases, identified at the time of analysis, 1,769 cases (from September 20 to December 15) were matched against another 1,769 wild-type comparator cases. Fewer new variant cases (16) were admitted to hospital compared to the wild-type comparator cases (26). Among the variant cases, 12 of 1,340 (0.89%) died within 28 days of their specimen date compared to 10 of 1,360 (0.73%) wild-type comparator cases. A spokesperson for Public Health England told TOI, "There is no evidence that this variant causes more severe disease or higher mortality."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/no-proof-of-new-variant-causing-more-fatality-says-uk-study/articleshow/80036067.cms||Swatee Kher
December 31, 2020||India||Officers 'emboldened' by Jagan's letter to CJI against judges: HC||VIJAYAWADA: Bureaucrats in Andhra Pradesh have been "emboldened" by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy's letter to the CJI, in which he levelled allegations against senior judges of the SC and the high court, a judge said in court on the eve of his retirement. Justice Rakesh Kumar of the AP high court made the observation while ruling on a plea seeking his recusal from hearing a batch of petitions challenging the sale of government land. Justice Kumar admitted to being unaware if the CJI had started contempt proceedings against Jagan for writing the letter. "But it is a fact that a recommendation has been made by the collegium of the SC to transfer the chief justices of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana," he said. Even as he clarified that he wasn't raising any question on the transfer of the chief justices, Justice Kumar said he was constrained to observe that the transfer of high court judges or chief justices should "reflect some transparency". After all, they are also holding constitutional posts, just like members of the Supreme Court collegium, he added. The division bench of Justices Kumar and D Ramesh rejected the recusal plea moved by the state government and passed an order initiating criminal prosecution against Mission Build AP director and senior IAS officer Pravin Kumar. The bench said the officer had submitted a false affidavit, which amounted to perjury. The court issued notices to Pravin Kumar, asking why action should not be taken against him for contempt of court for trying to interfere in the discharge of judicial functions of high court with false allegations. Justice Kumar also wrote a separate judgment in his defence against the allegations made in the recusal petition. "With a heavy heart, I may not refrain from recording that protection of fundamental rights of citizens of Andhra Pradesh has become very difficult," he said. He mentioned how the police filed closure reports in more than seven cases pending against the CM a day after the SC passed a judgement to fast-track cases against legislators. He said the present CM is accused in more than 30 cases, of which 10 are registered by CBI in which chargesheets have been filed long ago. Justice Kumar said he did not know if the CM would get final relief in the cases by writing to the CJI. "But the fact remains that he succeeded in getting undue advantage at present," he added. With the transfer of the judges, the cases against Jagan will get delayed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/officers-emboldened-by-jagans-letter-to-cji-against-judges-hc/articleshow/80036307.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 31, 2020||India||HC converts TOI report on killer manja into suo motu PIL||AURANGABAD: Taking cognisance of reportage on the death of a Nashik woman whose throat was accidentally slit by a dangling piece of kite string, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Wednesday turned the news item along with another one on birds into a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a strict ban on sharp, nylon manja. The division bench of Justices Ravindra V Ghuge and Vibha Kankanwadi directed lawyer Satyajeet Bora, appointed as amicus curiae, to "file a proper petition and tender the same across the bar on Thursday (December 31)". The bench said, "We had occasion to read two news reports in 'The Times of India', Aurangabad edition, dated December 30, 2020.... We find from the news items that the Maharashtra government had invoked Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, to introduce the ban. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had declared a country-wide ban on the sale of nylon and glass-coated manjas in July 2017."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-converts-toi-report-on-killer-manja-into-suo-motu-pil/articleshow/80036346.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||New Year ban orders in Bengaluru kick in at noon||BENGALURU: With new-strain Covid cases coming to light in the past 48 hours, Bengaluru police on Wednesday said prohibitory orders in the city will start at 12 noon Thursday and end at 6am Friday for New Year’s celebrations. An earlier order had said the curbs will kick in at 6pm on Thursday. Police have banned public revelry on the night of Dec 31, especially at the junction of MG Road and Brigade Road, and imposed restrictions on vehicular movement on key roads of the Central Business District. However, patrons can visit hotels and pubs with prior booking. A press note issued by the Bengaluru City police commissioner on Wednesday said, “Since more number of Covid-19 cases are being reported with the new strain (of the virus), it is considered appropriate to take further preventive measures to contain the spread of the virus by revising the duration of prohibitory orders which were announced in view of the celebrations on New Year’s Eve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ny-ban-orders-in-bluru-kick-in-at-noon/articleshow/80036796.cms||---
December 31, 2020||India||Mobile towers damaged in stir, Punjab governor summons officials||CHANDIGARH/NEW DELHI: Taking a serious view of the damage done to over 1,600 mobile towers of Reliance Jio during the ongoing farmers' protest in the past few days across the state, Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore has summoned chief secretary Vini Mahajan and DGP Dinkar Gupta to the Raj Bhawan to seek a report on the matter. Sources said the governor is concerned about the failure of law enforcement to prevent such attacks on communication installations which are vital to the economy and the mainstay of online education during the pandemic. Sources said BJP leadership has raised the issue with the governor. Centre has also been keeping a wary eye on the targeting of Reliance Jio, intrigued that assets of Reliance should have been exclusively targeted when they are not into contract farming or foodgrains. The escalation of protests against the three farm bills has been marked by attacks on the mobile towers of Jio, threats and forcible closure of 40-50% Reliance retail stores and petrol vends, which has prompted the company to often pull down shutters to ensure safety of workers in these outlets. The targeting of the company has caught the attention of central agencies who are also keeping a vigil on specific unions that are seen to be exerting pressure. "The focus of the vandals on Reliance Jio is baffling, considering that you cannot tell the tower of one service provider from another and that the parent company is not into coroproate farming or agriculture", said a senior government functionary. Times ViewThe senseless attack on Jio towers will neither benefit the farmers’ movement nor help the growth of business in the state. In fact, it will help nobody. Law enforcement agencies should firmly deal with such miscreants.Agencies said that local intel had alerted them to the possibility of the attacks. "We promptly raised the flag", said another high-ranking source. He said that the singling out of the Reliance Jio was being intensely monitored because of the company's plan to roll out an indigenous 5G network: a goal which the government has been looking forward to because of its anxiety to dodge having to depend on China’s Huawei which agencies consider to be a “security risk“. In all, 2,000 towers were targeted, of which around 1,500 were damaged. Optic fibre cables were also targeted in some areas, disrupting services. In fact, it is more difficult to fix glitches in these cables than reviving the towers. Sources said, several complaints had been filed resulting, in some cases, to registration of FIRs. Police in some districts have helped in restoring connectivity and now some villagers are also coming forward to help, which wasn’t the case earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mobile-towers-damaged-in-stir-punjab-governor-summons-officials/articleshow/80037027.cms||Sanjeev Verma
December 31, 2020||India||Loan apps scam: Chinese held at IGI before flight||The Telangana police on Wednesday arrested yet another Chinese national from Delhi in the illegal instant loan app case. Zhu Wei, alias Lambo (27), was picked up in dramatic fashion from Delhi airport minutes before he was to board a flight to Frankfurt on his way to Shanghai. His Indian colleague, K Nagaraju, was arrested from Delhi. The cops have so far arrested four Chinese nationals. Three of them, Yi Bai, Liang TianTian and Lambo, have been booked in the instant loan app case. The fourth, Yah Hao, was arrested in August in connection with running an online gambling racket in which a large number of Indians had lost crores of rupees. Read AlsoLoan apps scam: Police stunned by the Rs 21,000 crore loan racketSleuths probing the countrywide illegal instant loan app case, involving Chinese national, Zhu Wei said four companies run by him carried out Rs 1.4 crore transactions worth nearly Rs 21,000 cr. The scale of the racket can be gauged from the fact that Rs 21,000 cr is a total loss that the domesticLambo was on the Hyderabad police radar for the past few days and had been missing ever since his colleagues had been picked up. When investigating officers caught up with him at the airport, he initially denied any links with the loan app companies, but his association became apparent when his laptop was opened and important documents were accessed. Senior Hyderabad police officials say Lambo is the overall head of four different companies running seven call centres - two each in Gurugram and Bengaluru and three in Hyderabad. The tele-callers were trained to harass people unable to repay loans taken at extremely high interest rates. So far, three people from Telangana killed themselves after they were harassed by the collection agents of these companies. The victims included a software engineer and a government employee. Read AlsoRBI warns public against unauthorised digital lending platforms, appsThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday cautioned the general public against unauthorised lending platforms and mobile apps. In an official release, RBI said that there have been reports about people falling prey to digital lending scam in order to get quick and hassle free loans.The questioning of Nagaraju revealed that Lambo reports to another Chinese national, Yuan Yuan, alias Sissi, alias Jennifer, who set up the operations in India. She is believed to be in China. Investigations have also revealed that companies like Aglow Technologies Pvt Ltd, Liufang Technologies Pvt Ltd, Nabloom Technologies Pvt Ltd and Pinprint Technologies Pvt Ltd were used to make transactions in crores, many of them in bitcoins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/loan-apps-scam-chinese-held-at-igi-before-flight/articleshow/80037107.cms||---
December 31, 2020||India||Farmers ‘annadatas’, shouldn’t be called Khalistanis: Rajnath||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said it is regrettable that terms like "Khalistani" and "Naxal" were used to describe farmers agitating against the new farm laws, saying that the farming communities are "annadatas" (food givers) and deserve utmost respect. Singh's comments in an interview to ANI came in the wake of ministers alleging that the Left and Maoist elements had "infiltrated" the anti-farm laws agitation, pointing to the demands to free persons charged with being members of outlawed Maoist groups, which were raised by a section of farm unions. Singh said PM Narendra Modi and he were pained over the ongoing demonstrations, and asserted that there is no question of being insensitive towards farmers. "We express our deepest respect towards them. Our heads bow in respect towards our farmers. They are our 'annadatas'," he said. However, the defence minister advised the agitating farmers to stay away from people using derogatory remarks against Modi. "I was personally pained to watch some of the protestors shouting slogans like "Mar Jaa" for the PM. It was disappointing to see as the chair of the Prime Minister is an institution and represents the whole country," Singh said. He suggested that the farmers should be considerate and agree to a logical debate on every clause of the farm laws. Asked about agitating farmers being described as "Naxals" or "Khalistanis", the minister said such allegations should not be made at all. "These allegations should not be made by anyone against farmers ... In the time of economic recession, the farmers have borne the responsibility of taking the economy out of trouble. They are the economy's backbone," Singh said. He said the government has been working to boost the income of farmers through the farm laws and the Prime Minister was concerned about the issue before the 2014 election campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-annadatas-shouldnt-be-called-khalistanis-rajnath/articleshow/80037163.cms||---
December 31, 2020||India||Don’t play ‘Tibet card’: China to Indian media||NEW DELHI: China on Wednesday warned Indian media against advocating playing the 'Tibet card' and interfering in China's internal affairs saying the media should refrain from further damaging bilateral ties. Reacting to reports here on the US "Tibetan Policy and Support Act", the Chinese embassy here in a statement said it is in the fundamental interests of China and India, as two neighboring countries and emerging economies, to enhance political mutual trust, properly manage differences and strive to "return China-India relations to the track of healthy and stable development". "We hope some Indian media take an objective and fair stance on issues concerning China's sovereignty and territorial integrity, grasp the highly sensitive nature of Xizang (Tibet) -related issues, look at Xizang's economic and social progress objectively, do more to help China-India bilateral ties move forward instead of advocating playing Tibet card to meddle in China's internal affairs," the spokesperson of the embassy said in the statement. The embassy said the US Act interferes in China's internal affairs and "violates the fundamental principles of international laws and basic norms governing international ties." "China firmly opposes any country, organisation or individual supporting the anti-China separatist activities of the "Tibetan independence" forces in any form and under any pretext," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-play-tibet-card-china-to-indian-media/articleshow/80037177.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP-JJP beaten in 4 of 6 civic body polls in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: In a setback to the ruling BJP-JJP combine in Haryana, the alliance won only one of three mayoral polls. The BJP lost four out of six civic body polls to Congress, the Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) and independent candidates. The results were announced on Wednesday. BJP’s Kulbushan Goyal will be Panchkula’s new mayor. BJP’s Kulbushan Goyal defeated Congress’s Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia in Panchkula. In Rewari, BJP’s Poonam Yadav won MC president’s post and seven seats, losing the rest to Congress and independents. The alliance was rejected in Dharuhera, Sampla and Uklana municipal committees, where independent candidates won. In Dharuhera, Kanwar Singh defeated Rao Man Singh of BJP. In Uklana, independent candidate Sushil Singla defeated JJP-BJP joint candidate Mahendra Soni by 419 votes to chairman’s post. In Sonipat, the mayor post went to Congress’ Nikhil Madan, who defeated Lalit Batra of BJP by 13,818 votes. BJP won 10 seats while its ally lost all five seats from where its candidates had contested. In Ambala, HJCP’s Shakti Rani Sharma defeated BJP’s Vandana Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-jjp-beaten-in-4-of-6-civic-body-polls-in-haryana/articleshow/80037187.cms||Manveer Saini
December 31, 2020||India||597 fast-track courts at work, 321 for POCSO||NEW DELHI: In a status report submitted to the cabinet secretary recently, the law ministry has said that there are 597 fast-track courts functioning in 24 states and UTs as of November, out of which 321 are exclusively POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) courts. This is important considering that pendency of rape cases against women and children increased by 46%, from 1.6 lakh in 2018 to 2.4 lakh in 2019. About 96% of these cases were related to children, booked under the POCSO Act, according to data received by the law ministry from various high courts. Though the government had assured Parliament last year to set up at least 1,023 FTCs to expedite pending trials of rape cases, till March this year, only 366 FTCs were set up by 21 states/UTs, including five in the northeastern states. According to latest assessment, 231 additional FTCs have been set up in the last nine months since March when the pandemic virtually shut down all operations across the country. The POCSO fast-track courts are those set by the government to expeditiously complete trials of sexual offences cases within six months of the registration of the FIR. The Act mandatorily provides for completion of investigation within two months, from the date of filing of the FIR. TOI had earlier reported that data received by the law ministry from various high courts revealed there were at least 389 districts in the country where the number of pending cases under the POCSO Act alone exceeded 100 each. Soon, the government had allocated funds and issued advisories to all the HCs and states to immediately set up FTCs in each of these districts. The law ministry has also devised an online format to replace manual collection of data for FTCs for their monthly uploading on the dashboard. Department of justice secretary Barun Mitra has said that the ministry has written to the registrar generals of each of the HCs to implement the same and replace the manual system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/597-fast-track-courts-at-work-321-for-pocso/articleshow/80037311.cms||Pradeep Thakur
December 31, 2020||Kanpur||27-hour long yajna begins in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: World’s longest 27-hour Sri Vishnu Mahayagya started in Taramandal area of Gorakhpur at 11am on Wednesday. The yajna is being organised by ‘Vishwa ka sabse lamba tiranga samiti.’ The event commenced with hoisting of Indian flag and national anthem. The convener of the samiti, Raghuwansh Hindu said, “On Wednesday, we started the 27-hour continuous yagya, the longest yagya performed in the world, to pay tribute to Neta ji Subhas Chandra Bose. With his efforts Andaman Nicobar islands gained independence on December 30 in 1943. And also to pray for safety of 27 districts of Uttar Pradesh from Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/27-hr-long-yajna-begins-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/80032701.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Patna||Patna: Online education the order of the day in 2020||PATNA: The year 2020 witnessed the advent of online education as schools remained shut for little more than eight months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Students attended virtual classes in the comfort of their own homes and teachers made them understand otherwise dull topics in an interesting manner with the help of technology. According to Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, city coordinator of the Central Board of Secondary Education, schools distributed study materials on WhatsApp, posted videos on social media platforms and launched mobile applications. Many teachers, who had never used social media platforms, became tech-savvy in 2020. Donald Lawrence, who teaches mathematics at St Michael’s High School, learnt how to use an app for delivering lectures with the help of his colleagues. “I would record my lectures and send them to my students. This helped them understand all the topics well,” Lawrence told this reporter. DAV Public School (BSEB Colony) teacher Balram Kumar Singh also underwent training and attended a workshop before conducting online classes. “My students also came to my rescue by teaching me how to use mobile apps,” he said. Loyola High School teacher Suryakant Akela got a new Wi-Fi connection at home to ensure uninterrupted virtual classes and adopted innovative ways to engage his students. However, some like Abha Chaudhary, who teaches chemistry at Notre Dame Academy and is well-versed in computers and technology, conducted online classes easily. She pointed out, “The process of online paper evaluation was a little difficult.” Students too switched to the online mode of education effortlessly. During the last eight months, St Karen’s High School’s Adarsh Kumar focused on self- study. “Students like me, who are preparing for competitive exams, depend a lot on self-study apart from regular classes and tuitions. The year 2020 was no less than a boon,” he claimed. Don Bosco Academy student Shreya Singh loved attending online classes because “we can record the lessons and replay them till a topic becomes crystal clear.” Parents, on the other hand, were quite involved in their kids’ education in 2020. Boring Canal Road resident Veena Gupta spent nearly five hours in front of her daughter’s laptop screen while the latter attended online classes this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-education-the-order-of-the-day-in-20/articleshow/80033307.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 31, 2020||Patna||‘Rajdhani Jalashay’ to be thrown open for visitors from Jan 4: CM||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar said on Wednesday that the ‘Rajdhani Jalashay’ on the premises of the old secretariat would be thrown open for visitors from January 4. Pleasantly surprised to see flocks of birds while inspecting the pond, the CM pointed out that the water body had been developed for the benefit of schoolchildren. “Students in groups of 20 can visit the pond with guides from January 4. It will inspire them to become environment-friendly and learn about vegetation and migratory birds,” Nitish said, adding that different species of birds, including pintail, comb duck, cuckoo, roller, lesser whistling duck and ferruginous duck, could be seen in the ‘Rajdhani Jalashay’. Migratory birds can also be spotted in the pond which has fishes, insects and aqua plants. Besides, a building, christened ‘Birds’ Interpretation Centre’, will soon replace the old canteen on the premises of the secretariat. The CM was accompanied by his deputy Tarkishore Prasad, water resources minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, forest, environment and climate change department principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh and Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi. Meanwhile, the CM will visit Bagaha on Thursday and inspect NH-727.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rajdhani-jalashay-to-be-thrown-open-for-visitors-from-jan-4-cm/articleshow/80032526.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata municipal corporation to go online with applications for birth certificates from 1st week of January||KOLKATA: As the first step towards restoring transparency while issuing birth certificates and to get rid of the touts, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided to offer citizens the opportunity to apply online. The system will be rolled out in the first week of January. Depending on the response and efficacy of the KMC health department in handling the online birth registration system, the civic body will decide on online applications for death certificates too. The decision to introduce the online system was taken following scores of complaints about birth certificates being sold at a premium — courtesy a racket which has been active at the KMC headquarters and the borough offices across the city. The online system will unfold in phases, said a KMC health department source. According to an official, the civic body will first invite the citizens to apply online and wait 24 hours for a response from the civic officials. “Once the applicant finds that the application has been accepted, s/he should reach the headquarters or borough offices with valid documents to claim the certificate the same day,” said an official. In the next step, the KMC plans to upgrade its online system so that the applicants don’t need to visit the KMC offices to claim the certificates. “We are trying to modify the system so that the hallmark which is associated with the birth certificate can be processed through the online system,” said another official. Sources in the KMC health department have conceded that, depending on the situation, a genuine applicant needs to pay a hefty amount to secure a birth or death certificate. Sometimes, despite having valid papers, an applicant needs to pay Rs 7,000 to Rs 30,000 extra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-to-go-online-with-applications-for-birth-certificates-from-1st-week-of-jan/articleshow/80033945.cms||Saikat Ray
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||More Kolkata Metro ops from next week||KOLKATA: Come Monday and Metro will add another 12 services. In a bid to move further towards the old normal, the e-pass hours will also be reduced for the north-south corridor. Trains will also run at 7-minute intervals from 9am to 7.50pm in the Up direction and 8.48am to 7.18pm in the Down direction. The last trains will leave at 9.30pm from both Kavi Subhas and Dum Dum and from Noapara at 9.25pm. From Monday to Saturday, there will be 228 services instead of the existing 216. Men — aged between 15 and 59 — will need to book the digital passes from 9am-11am instead of 8.30am- 11am. In the evening, e-passes will be needed only for peak-hour travel — between 5pm and 7pm. Women, kids and senior citizens won’t need e-passes. The e-pass system was introduced when Metro resumed operations on September 14 after a 176-day hiatus. The idea was to control crowd in the country’s most populous Metro, the north-south line. Over the past three months, Metro has been relaxing e-pass norms in a phased manner. Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi said on Tuesday, “We have narrowed the e-pass window further because we were not getting enough passengers between 8am and 9am. Around 30% slots were going vacant. So there’s no point keeping the e-pass restriction. Similarly, we found slots empty after 7pm. Again, during daytime, we find more passengers, so we are adding 12 services.” Even after easing e-pass norms, Metro’s daily footfall has been only around 25% of its original 6.5 lakh in pre-pandemic times, Joshi said. On Christmas Eve, Metro breached the 1,50,000 passengers mark. When the carrier resumed services, footfall was only around 20,000. Since then, Metro Railway has gradually increased trains from 110 to 216, and eased e-pass norms so that more and more Kolkatans were encouraged to opt for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-metro-ops-from-next-week/articleshow/80033932.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 31, 2020||Business||Companies go beyond gender, eye neurodiverse talent||MUMBAI: Progressive companies understand the importance of diversity and inclusion (D&I) beyond gender. But even while India Inc is still scratching the surface with respect to gender diversity, some organisations like EY and Fujitsu India have begun to transform their work culture to embrace neurodiverse talent too. Other than dyslexia, autism and ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) that are generally known, neurodiverse would also include people who display certain behavioural traits during work pressures and group discussions. Read the full story on TOI+ Why these companies opened doors to people with special needs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-go-beyond-gender-eye-neurodiverse-talent/articleshow/80035125.cms||Namrata Singh
December 31, 2020||Patna||Junior doctors' strike in Bihar: Health services remain affected in govt hospitals||PATNA: Health services in government hospitals remained affected for the eighth consecutive day as the junior doctors continued with their strike on Wednesday. OPD, emergency and indoor services remained paralysed in government medical college and hospitals in the state as poor patients and their attendants suffered a lot. As hundreds of surgical operations had to be cancelled due to the strike, patients in general wards were forced to leave the government hospitals for lack of care. Many beds in general wards of PMCH were lying vacant on Wednesday. The representatives of Junior Doctors’ Association said they will be meeting the principal secretary of the health department on Thursday. State health minister Mangal Pandey on Tuesday had a meeting with their delegation and he had asked them to resume duty as the government would consider their demand for hike in stipend. But the junior doctors refused to join their duties saying they needed written assurance from the government. PMCH Junior Doctors’ Association (JDA) president Dr Harendra Kumar informed TOI that the strike will continue. He said they will be meeting principal secretary on Thursday. He denied the claims made by the PMCH superintendent that several postgraduate students had resumed duty. “None of the doctors on strike has come back to the work. College administration and superintendent are giving wrong information to the government as well as the common people,” Dr Harendra said. Junior doctors across the government medical college and hospitals have been on strike since last Wednesday over the demand to increase their stipend. PMCH junior doctors had several rounds of talks with the college administration, but the issue could not be sorted out. They say the revision of their stipend was due.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/health-services-remain-affected-in-govt-hospitals/articleshow/80032541.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 31, 2020||Patna||‘65% vehicles at toll plazas sans FASTags’||PATNA: Despite the fact that the use of FASTags has been made mandatory by January 1, 2021 in order to ensure cashless transactions at toll plazas on national highways (NHs), nearly 65% of the vehicles across the state are still plying without radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology. Introduced in 2016, a FASTag is an electronic toll collection system that is operated by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). The Centre has made it mandatory for all four-wheelers from January 1 to encourage digital payments and free up congestion at toll booths. According to an NHAI official, approximately 65% of the motorists are still paying cash at the toll plazas in the state. “A FASTag can be bought from online portals, toll plazas or banks. If vehicle owners fail to get one, they should be ready to pay double the toll fee applicable on the NHs from January 1,” the official told this reporter. Earlier, FASTags were made mandatory at all toll plazas across the country from December 15, 2019. However, the date was extended till January 15 due to their unavailability. The manager of a toll plaza on NH-30, Sanjeev Kumar, claimed that only 40% of the motorists were using FASTags. “Of the 12 lanes on the Patna-Bakhtiyarpur highway, one each on both the sides has been earmarked for motorists without FASTags. This will make it easier for us to collect penalty from them,” Sanjeev said, adding that vehicles plying on the two lanes would have to wait for a longer time than those with FASTags. A motorist should have a vehicle registration certificate and KYC details along with Rs 500 to get an RFID tag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/65-vehicles-at-toll-plazas-sans-fastags/articleshow/80032649.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 31, 2020||Patna||Child kidnapped to pay tout Rs 6 lakh for police job||PATNA: A nine-year-old boy was kidnapped for ransom of Rs6 lakh to pay a tout for job in police department. Three youths were arrested in this connection and sent to jail in Naugachia on Tuesday night. Police said two of the accused were the victim’s neighbours. A tout had promised them a job in state police on payment of Rs6 lakh, following which they kidnapped the neighbour’s son from outside his residence at Nayaranpur under Bhawanipur police station area of Naugachia town in Bhagalpur district on December 25. The child was recovered from Khagaria on December 28. Police arrested the three accused from different locations. Bhawanipur police station SHO Neeraj Kumar on Wednesday said the arrested youths were Saurav Kumar (25), his cousin Rakesh Kumar Roushan (31) and their associate Shivam Kumar (27). He said Saurav and Rakesh were the boy’s neighbours while Shivam is from Ganhaul village in Bhawanipur. “One accused named Rakesh Kumar is evading arrest. He had played a key role in hiding the child after kidnapping,” he said. The SHO said the boy was playing outside his residence around 4pm when the accused youths from neighbourhood lured him to a nearby village Manoharpur in the name of feeding him ‘samosa’. Kumar said Shivam and Rakesh were present at Manoharpur and they took away the child to Khagaria on a bike. “Rakesh kept him at one of his relatives’ residence at Pirnagra under Beldaur police station area of Khagaria. As there was a function in the house, none realized that the child was not a guest but had been kidnapped,” he said. The SHO said the child’s family realized that he was kidnapped only when his father received a ransom call of Rs6 lakh around 2.30pm on December 26. He immediately lodged a kidnapping case. “After investigation, Saurav and Shivam were nabbed from a line hotel at Satish Nagar under Pasraha police station area in Khagaria. Their interrogation revealed the plot following which the child was recovered,” the SHO said. Kumar said the ransom call was made by Shivam by using a cellphone snatched from a person in Khagaria on December 16. “That cellphone and sim card used in making the call were thrown into a river, the kidnappers told the police,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/child-kidnapped-to-pay-tout-rs-6-lakh-for-police-job/articleshow/80032622.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Patna||VTR, Gaya temples to attract New Year revellers||GAYA/BAGAHA: Two popular tourist destinations in Bihar, including Bodh Gaya and Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR), are likely to attract a large number of visitors from different parts of the state on New Year. Since the Mahabodhi Mahavihara, Jai Prakash Udyan and Floral Diversity Park in Dobhi are the perfect picnic spots in Gaya district, hotels and restaurants have come up with lucrative offers for New Year revellers. According to the president of the Tourist Guide Association of Bihar, Rakesh Kumar, no hotel in Bodh Gaya will organize get-togethers or musical events on New Year’s Eve due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Gaya sadar sub-divisional officer Indraveer Kumar told this newspaper, “Although the Mahabodhi Mahavihara, Vishnupad Temple and Mangala Gauri Mandir will remain open, the devotees will have to strictly follow social distancing norms and wear masks.” Meanwhile, special measures are also being taken to ensure that New Year revellers have a safe and comfortable stay at VTR in West Champaran. Nature lovers have made online bookings for availing accommodation and ecotourism facilities on www.valmikitigerreserve.com. There are altogether 10 eco huts at Valmikinagar, Naurangia Done, Manguraha and Gobardhana as well as a tree hut at Kotraha. Forest rest houses are located in Kotraha, Madanpur, Naurangia Done, Gobardhana, Manguraha and Manpur. Although picnics, bonfires and entry into the core area of the tiger reserve are prohibited, visitors can opt for canopy walk, rafting and boating on New Year. A safari package that includes a trip from Valmikinagar to Manguraha can also be availed for Rs 4,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vtr-gaya-temples-to-attract-new-year-revellers/articleshow/80033114.cms||Tirthraj Kushwaha
December 31, 2020||Business||‘20 years on, health insurance still an opportunity’||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: This month marks two decades since HDFC Life and ICICI Prudential sold the first life insurance policy by a private company. Soon after, private non-life companies also kicked off operations. TOI spoke to four CEOs who launched the startups at that time to get their views on what had they set out to do and whether the industry is where they expected it to be... Three-four of the premises we started with evolved as expected — the move away from traditional endowment to new products, diversifying from agency channel, having more professional agents, and technology being the front-runner for servicing. One big positive, which was not on the agenda at that time, was how much talent India has contributed to the rest of the world. So many global roles are now being managed by those who grew up in the new Indian insurance industry. More than a dozen CXOs have been spawned by ICICI Prudential. The surprise to me is how strong LIC has remained and retained market share. I think what has helped LIC be resilient is the trust factor, the agency force and its products, particularly the ability to provide guaranteed returns. In future, I think there is a lot more scope for pension solutions and long-term health. A separate regulator for savings and annuities has complicated matters. Globally, money that has been coming in has been pension money. So, whether it is from funding or retirement planning perspective, these are the two markets close to insurance that have a lot of tailwind. — Shikha Sharma | Founding MD, ICICI Prudential LifeAs we were the first private life insurance company, we had only one data point and, with my engineering training, I am unable to draw a trend line without multiple data points. I had no idea how big the industry would be. All we wanted was to be the most respected company as, with trust, financial success was guaranteed. Many companies came up with the plan to sell out to their foreign partner, but HDFC was not in that game. We are now seeing consolidation. I am happy that the focus is significantly more on life protection. Fortunately, now the chase for scale to build up valuations is not there. It was unfortunate that the first Irdai chief N Rangachary lost the fight with the government for financial independence. One could have argued that more product innovations could be allowed. But there was a shortage of actuaries and Irdai would not have been able to pay the same as industry. You can’t fast-forward any change as everything will happen at its pace. — Deepak Satwalekar | Founding MD, HDFC Life I had assumed the industry would grow 100% for the first 10 years, which did not happen because household insurance never took off. I had expected some of the big corporate names to be our biggest competitors, but insurance did not occupy the mindshare of corporate owners. At the same time, many foreign insurers were controlling products from head office and they could not grow. Allianz, being a decentralised organisation, we could do more and found ourselves at number one. What surprised was the depth of talent that was already there in the public sector and all that was needed was to harness it, give it focus and the right incentives. There has been a big increase in customer awareness of policies and renewal of even two-wheelers has improved thanks to digital. Overall deregulation has been positive as de-tariffing brought down the price of fire insurance and removed the cross-subsidy. Householders, SME and even health continue to remain opportunities even after 20 years. — Sam Ghosh | Founding MD, Bajaj Allianz GeneralThe evolution of non-life has been along expected lines. I had expected the first decade to be the startup years, and the next to start seeing consolidation. What has surprised me was that even after two decades we have not developed savings-linked health insurance products, which would have taken care of out-of-pocket costs in healthcare. We also do not have an acceptable healthcare cost index, which is essential for the development of the industry. I also feel that the pace of digitisation in the non-life industry has been as high as the banking industry. — Antony Jacob | Founding MD, Royal Sundaram Alliance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/20-years-on-health-insurance-still-an-opportunity/articleshow/80035289.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 31, 2020||Vadodara||Forest department to count winged guests at Wadhwana Lake||VADODARA: Bird lovers would soon learn about the species of migratory birds that have arrived at Wadhwana lake in Dabhoi. The forest department has decided to organize bird census on January 1 at the lake that is located about 40 km from Vadodara city. “The winters are on and migratory birds have arrived here in large numbers. So we have decided to conduct bird count at Wadhwana Lake and Simaliya lake nearby. Our teams will count the birds in two sessions – in morning and at sunset,” said Baldevsinh Waghela, divisional forest officer (wildlife), Vadodara. The forest officials have formed 14 teams that include about 170 persons including the staff members as well as volunteers from different NGOs. The birds will be counted as per their species and a detailed report including the total count of birds along with the variety of the winged guests will be prepared by the forest department. In the last census conducted in January, 2020, over 83,000 birds were counted in and around the lake. “This time we are expecting the bird count to reach 90,000 as a large number of birds have arrived in the lake. The census also depends on the weather. Sometimes lot of birds prefer to flock the open fields near the lake and then fly in at the lake,” Waghela told TOI. The forest department has also adopted a new way of counting birds wherein the teams now note the direction from which the birds fly in, the spot where they settle and later fly away. Spread over a radius of two km the lake is used for irrigation purpose by the villagers. The forest department took control of the lake in 2005 due to heavy influx of migratory birds – many of whom fly for thousands of miles to reach Wadhwana. As the lake become popular among the tourists and bird lovers, the forest department built watch towers and installed signboards around the wetlands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/forest-department-to-count-winged-guests-at-wadhwana-lake/articleshow/80032561.cms||Tushar Tere
December 31, 2020||Patna||Patna high court delivered crucial orders despite curbs in 2020||PATNA: The functioning of almost all offices and establishments suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Patna high court was no exception, though it opted for the virtual hearing mode and continued delivering important judgements and orders. It was the first high court in the country to conduct hearing through virtual mode on March 19, when Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh held his court proceedings through this method. Chief Justice Sanjay Karol ensured its successful implementation and continuation till the last working day on December 23 before Christmas holidays. Though initially only urgent matters were heard, cases of all nature were taken up through the virtual hearing mode as no lawyer was allowed to come to the court and only selected administrative staff worked physically on rotation basis. Till November 30 this year, the high court disposed 1.42 lakh criminal cases, including 14,108 civil cases with majority of them heard virtually. One of its most important orders during the period was delivered on December 14 when state home department was directed to find ways for recruiting transgender people in state police. The state government is mulling to raise a separate battalion of transgender people in state police, which, if finalized, would be first of its kind in the country. The high court also asked the state government to look into the cost of Covid-19 test, resulting in the reduction in rates charged for that from common man. Terming the frontline Covid warriors as the guardian angels amid the global crisis, the high court kept issuing directions to the state to ensure all help to the health workers. It also sought state government’s reply on availability of medical equipment, medicines and other required items for treatment of Covid patients at government hospitals in the state. On October 21, amid the model code of conduct for assembly elections, the high court interpreted that ‘persons’ in Bihar Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1987 would mean political parties. It allowed political parties to put up unlimited number of banners and posters on private properties for election. Earlier, only candidates were allowed to do so within limited expenditure. On December 22, the high court quashed two criminal proceedings against nine Bangladesh and nine Malaysian nationals, who were booked for violation of visa rules in Araria amid lockdown for attending tablighi jamaat congregation. The HC also kept hearing two petitions virtually on long-pending project of land acquisition for broadening and construction of national highway from Patna to Dobhi and petition to declare Vishnupad temple at Gaya a public property. In a significant judgment during the period, the high court on October 12 ruled that mere possessing a voter ID-card, PAN card or Aadhaar card can’t be said to be a proof of Indian citizenship nor relinquishing foreign citizenship confers upon a person any right of Indian citizenship, which comes only from the Constitution and Indian Citizenship Act, 1955. A woman mukhiya, Kiran Devi, who was born in Nepal but married to a Sitamarhi man, had challenged the state election commission order of setting aside her election on the ground that she had not acquired Indian citizenship after giving up Nepalese one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-delivered-crucial-orders-despite-curbs-in-2020/articleshow/80033260.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 31, 2020||Patna||When Bihar’s higher education suffered a setback||PATNA: Higher education in Bihar suffered a major setback in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Lakhs of students enrolled in different colleges and universities stopped going to their institutions. Both the chancellor’s secretariat as well the state higher education department reacted positively and managed to ensure continuity of teaching-learning online. While some institutions introduced conducting online classes for a limited number of students through various e-conferencing tools, others started uploading e-content of different subjects to their websites. Academics, however, felt that online education benefited only a microscopic section of students. “In a state where the internet penetration is limited to only 34% of its total population and that, too, mostly in urban centres, how could students attend online classes. Those who had shifted to their native homes in rural areas following the closure of their institutions were deprived of the technologies and, therefore, could not take any benefit of online education,” remarked Patna University (PU) English department’s former head Shiv Jatan Thakur. As the pandemic taught teachers and students to be tech-friendly, a new culture of ‘webinar’ in place of seminar emerged in the universities and online PhD viva voce examination and PhD course work were also introduced in Patna University. But, these webinars could benefit only limited number of academics. The academic calendars of the universities in Bihar went topsy-turvy owing to inordinate delay in conducting examinations of the last session and admission of students in the current academic session. The pending undergraduate and postgraduate examinations of different universities were delayed at least by six months due to the pandemic. Even PU could complete its pending undergraduate examinations of the last session only recently. Similarly, admission to the undergraduate classes in different universities is yet to be completed. PU has almost completed its admission in undergraduate courses and started admissions in the postgraduate courses, said PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha. Other universities are busy completing the admission process. The pandemic is also likely to affect the government efforts for increasing the state’s gross enrolment ratio in higher education. According to informed sources, seats in the undergraduate classes of different colleges across the state have remained vacant as sufficient number of students did not turn up for admission this year. The state education department is likely to inquire from the universities about the status of students’ enrolment in different courses in the current academic session, said higher education director Rekha Kumari. The department would try to find out the reason behind lower enrolment, she added. The year also witnessed some positive developments in higher education. While the academics hailed the various provisions of the Centre’s New Education Policy. Similarly, approval of new statutes for the appointment of assistant professors by the chancellor and subsequent advertisement of as many as 4638 posts of assistant professors in different universities by the state university service panel provided much relief to the teacher-starved colleges and universities. Appointment of altogether 14 VCs and pro-VCs in different universities in September also ended the state of ad hocism prevailing in the universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/when-bihars-higher-education-suffered-a-setback/articleshow/80033416.cms||B K Mishra
December 31, 2020||Patna||When Bihar lost two stalwarts, held first election amid pandemic||PATNA: In tune with the popular Bihar folk saying that ‘bees bisaataa hai’ (the twenty-trap brings unredeemable torture),’ the year 2020 started with shocks not just in terms of the coronavirus pandemic, lockdown and economic disruption, but also the rough and tumble of the state’s politics. For, the year ended on a discordant note for the political parties — be it between BJP and JD(U) in the NDA or between RJD and Congress in the grand alliance. The BJP inducted six of the seven JD(U) MLAs into its fold in Arunachal Pradesh last week, while RJD and Congress leaders have kept exchanging barbs over one or the other issue. In between, the year saw the death of its two political stalwarts — the socialist Raghuvansh Prasad Singh of RJD and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan. However, the pain caused by their deaths was immediately forgotten in the rush of the political fallouts that they generated. Yet, the year also saw a few firsts for Bihar like holding assembly elections amid the coronavirus pandemic and AIMIM led by Asaduddin Owaisi winning five assembly seats in the state after opening its account in the state in the byelection held a few months ago in Kishanganj. It also saw the near marginalization of the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha. The LJP led by Chirag Paswan managed to save its skin by winning one assembly seat and securing 6% of the votes polled. That apart, the CPI(ML) for the first time won 12 of the 19 seats it contested in the assembly polls. But, JD(U) led by CM Nitish Kumar suffered the shock of the shocks as it could win only 43 assembly seats compared to ally BJP’s 74, which put a question mark on the “elder brother” tag that JD(U) or Nitish had enjoyed in the Bihar NDA. Yet, it was owing to his aura and the pull of his face that Nitish is leading the NDA government again. Further, despite the fact that PM Narendra Modi addressed 12 rallies to rouse the electorate towards the BJP and other NDA candidates, who could win only 125 seats in the 243-member assembly. In the context of the state’s politics, Modi also coined new sobriquet for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and the grand alliance’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, calling them ‘Jungle Raj Ke Yuvraj.’ For his part, LJP president Chirag presented himself as PM Modi’s ‘Hanuman’ while pitting his party candidates mostly against the nominees of JD(U) from the NDA camp and also against that of the grand alliance partners — all to cynically burn their stakes in the assembly elections. JD(U) has not yet forgotten the shock. As a result of it, the hope of Tejashwi and the grand alliance comprising RJD, Congress and three Left parties to dislodge the NDA and Nitish from power was dashed. However, the saving grace, as the CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya has repeatedly asserted, was that the state got a strong opposition with 110 MLAs of the grand alliance in the assembly. But the year threw up a new chip on the block in Tejashwi to fill the leadership vacuum that was emerging in the state, even as Chirag met his discomfiture. Its result was obvious. Tejashwi’s personal attack on Nitish on the assembly floor resulted in the latter showing his most volcanic rage against Tejashwi. It immediately created space for Kushwaha to send overtures to Nitish for a realignment with him. Indeed, the New Year is beginning on an open-ended note and, in fact, is pregnant with surprises that may come in the form of new political realignments, or new permutations and combinations in the not-so-distant future. The delay in cabinet expansion has been a cause of concern. Nitish said the delay was because BJP had not made its proposal in this regard. To add to the emerging suspense, Nitish relinquished the post of JD(U)’s national president for his confidant and Rajya Sabha member R C P Singh, so as to give more time to build the party’s stakes in the other poll-bound states, which will naturally pit JD(U) against BJP. In the meantime, RJD and Congress functionaries have been giving enough signals that they would not be averse to his joining the grand alliance. The JD(U), for its part, appears to be biding its time, as it has told the BJP in no uncertain terms that it was against its plea for laws against what it calls ‘love jihad.’ Somehow, the ball comes to the BJP, which, in the situation, has to decide as to how it would play the game.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/when-bihar-lost-two-stalwarts-held-first-election-amid-pandemic/articleshow/80033236.cms||Abhay Singh
December 31, 2020||Patna||New Year celebrations in Patna: 1,000 additional cops to keep antisocial elements at bay||PATNA: With a view to ensuring safe and peaceful New Year celebrations, the Patna district administration will beef up security measures on December 31 and January 1. Magistrates and police personnel will be deployed at strategic locations to keep antisocial elements at bay and make sure that public places are not overcrowded amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to sources, nearly 1,000 additional cops, including nine companies of Bihar Military Police, will be deputed in Patna district on the two days. Around 50 magistrates will also be deployed at 25 different locations. “Additional forces will be deputed in 17 Patna-based hotels. River patrolling will be conducted and no private boats allowed to operate on December 31 and January 1,” Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi told TOI on Wednesday. He added, “Flying squads will keep an eye on hotels, parks, ghats, temples and other hotspots to ensure that social distancing norms are followed and law and order is maintained. A maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed in closed spaces.” Besides, excise department teams will keep tabs on public places. “Traffic police personnel will be deployed near the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park or Patna zoo and the Mahavir Temple to make sure that vehicles are parked properly and traffic remains regulated,” the DM said and urged the common people to avoid social gatherings on New Year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1000-additional-cops-to-keep-antisocial-elements-at-bay/articleshow/80033086.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Friend’s birthday party ends in 2-hour torment in car for 21-year-old||KOLKATA: A 21-year-old event manager from the Taratala Brace Bridge area has alleged that she was molested inside a moving BMW car during a ride with her friends at the end of a birthday party at Bikramgarh on Tuesday night. She has named Rajesh Roy and Sourav Roy — both of whom were present inside the car — as the offenders. The incident reportedly took place between 9.30pm and 11pm between Jadavpur and Bhowanipore, claimed cops. Among those present in the car at the time of the incident was the birthday girl — an aspiring DJ who had shifted to Kolkata and rented the Bikramgarh flat barely eight months ago. Cops said that it seems that the two men, who are on the run after the incident, are reportedly associated with a couple of call-centres in the city. According to DC (south suburban) Rashid Munir Khan, after attending the party, the complainant and her friends — the birthday girl, Rajesh and Sourav — decided to go on a ride before dropping her home. Accordingly, they boarded the car around 9.30pm from Bikramgarh and proceeded through Dhakuria and finally reached Southern Avenue. “While inside the car, the accused outraged the modesty of the complainant and touched her inappropriately despite her protests. She tried to get out of the car a couple of times but was stopped by the accused. It was finally around 11pm that she managed to get out of the car near Bhowanipore police station after reportedly threatening to seek help,” said an officer. The woman then called up a friend to come fetch her in a car. Together, they went to the police station and lodged an FIR. “We recorded a case at Jadavpur police station on charges of molestation (IPC 354 and 114) before ensuring the woman reached home safely. We are trying to arrest the accused persons. An investigation is in progress,” said Khan. Cops said that the car’s registration is being ascertained and raids are on to nab the accused. “The woman had managed to get out of the car around 11pm and sought a friend’s help to lodge the FIR later in the night. The molestation, in all probability, took place on the stretch between Southern Avenue and Sarat Bose Road. The complainant was able to provide a partial registration number of the car and we are using CCTV footage to nab the accused. We will record the woman’s statement before a magistrate at the earliest,” said an officer. Police said they are questioning the house owner to trace the whereabouts of the birthday girl. “There are a few grey areas in the probe, but we are hopeful of getting the answers once we carry out the arrest. We are tracing the roads the car had probably taken on Tuesday and whether the girl had tried to raise an alarm on the route. We have had naka checking at different spots from 10.30pm and the accused probably let the woman go when they realized they might come across a police naka, which have been set up for the New Year’s week,” said an officer. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/friends-birthday-party-ends-in-2-hr-torment-in-car-for-21-year-old/articleshow/80033922.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Cops rescue trafficked girls from Bihar||KOLKATA: Two girls and a woman — all from Kultali in South 24 Parganas — were among five women rescued by local police from Majhoulia in Bihar’s Bettiah district on Tuesday after active intervention of National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and the NGO Mission Mukti Foundation. The Baruipur police division and CID helped track down the girls who had left their homes on December 5 after telling their parents that they were going to visit relatives in Midnapore. Cops said the two girls wanted to sing and dance in shows and the traffickers had offered a fortune claiming they would get back everything that Amphan had snatched from them. The NCPCR was tipped off by the NGO and wrote to the Bettiah SP, who acted immediately. A six member team — three from Kultali police and three woman cops from Baruipur headquarters — have left for Bihar to bring the rescued girls back. Sources said that a chance call from one of the girls helped the NGO track them down. “The girls were being sexually abused and assaulted. We hope to track down a woman named Jyoti, who is the mastermind,” said a NGO spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-rescue-trafficked-girls-from-bihar/articleshow/80033991.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: Endemic viper makes rare appearance in home, wildlifers blame it on habitat loss||KERI: An arboreal venomous bamboo pit viper was found inside a house in Keri, Sattari. This has taken wildlifers by surprise. Easily identified by its triangular flat head and moss green colour, the viper has light to dark markings over its back. This snake is commonly found in the dense forest of Western and Eastern Ghats of India. Its discovery in a house, situated at the foothill of a forested hillock of Keri, is an odd occurrence. Nitin Sawant, a zoology professor at Goa University and researcher on pit viper snakes, said that the arboreal venomous bamboo pit viper is locally known as ‘Chapado’. “This snake possesses heat sensing pits between the eye and nostrils. Though commonly found in bamboo groves and inside the forest near water bodies, threat posed to its habitat today is forcing them sometimes to enter areas of human settlements,” he said. The snake is known to vibrate its tail when disturbed. The bite of this snake can lead to infection, amputation and severe, immediate pain with rapid swelling. The viper relishes geckos, lizards, mice, small birds and other small creatures and is active during the night, moving gradually from branch to branch or coiled sometimes on rocky surfaces near streams close to bamboo groves. “We saw the snake that had entered our house and informed volunteers of the Vivekanand Environment Awareness Brigade, Keri, who rushed to the spot and rescued it,” said Kamlavati Jadhav. Vitthal Shelke, a wildlife rescuer from Keri, said they have seen this snake mostly in the forest of the Western Ghats during the night. “For the first time, it was found in a house near human settlements. During the monsoon, the snake loves to feed on the Malabar gliding frogs on trees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/endemic-viper-makes-rare-appearance-in-home-wildlifers-blame-it-on-habitat-loss/articleshow/80035808.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
December 31, 2020||Patna||108 get Covaxin shots at AIIMS-Patna||PATNA: The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) has completed the target of enrolling 1,000 volunteers for Phase 3 trial of Covaxin. Doses of the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine candidate were administered to 108 people at the hospital on Wednesday. With this, altogether 1,080 volunteers have received shots of the intramuscular injection in the final phase of the multi-centric human trial so far. In Phase 3, 50% participants will receive the vaccine and the remaining 50% a placebo. AIIMS-P superintendent Dr C M Singh, who is also the principal investigator of the trial, told this newspaper that more volunteers were coming forward for the final trial of the vaccine. “We have not received a single complaint from the volunteers, who were administered the first dose of Covaxin. They will be given the second dose after completion of their 28-day period this week. Later, follow-ups will be done on Days 28, 42, 104 and 194 to check their immunogenicity,” Singh said. He added, “Our research officers keep in touch with the volunteers and interact with them twice a day over the phone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/108-get-covaxin-shots-at-aiims-patna/articleshow/80032599.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 31, 2020||Patna||236 people returned from UK to Bihar since November 9||PATNA: The government has received the list of 236 people who had returned from the United Kingdom to Bihar since November 9. State health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said 95 of them are in Patna and the rest in other districts. He said they were being tested for Covid-19 and till Wednesday no one among them was found positive. “We have tested 19 of them and they were negative,” Amrit told TOI, adding that some of them had vague addresses but the government will trace all of them by Thursday evening. Sources said in case of any positive report, the sample will be collected again and sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune to confirm the new strain of virus. Meanwhile, altogether 474 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,52,400. Officially, four deaths were reported after which the toll reached 1,393. However, with 2,46,386 recoveries, there were 4619 active cases in the state. Of the new cases, 197 were from Patna, followed by Saran (31), Begusarai (22), Muzaffarpur (20), Nalanda (17), Aurangabad (14), Bhagalpur (13), West Champaran (13), Madhepura (12) and Madhubani (11). According to the state health department, one death each was reported from Begusarai, Jehanabad, Saran and Sheikhpura. As per the tweet shared by state health minister Mangal Pandey, 558 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and state’s recovery rate was 97.62%. In the same time period, 1,12,472 samples were tested. AIIMS-Patna reported three deaths, including two from the state capital. One was from CDA Colony and another from Sita Ram Path in West Patel Nagar. The third deceased was of Mirganj in Gopalganj district. The hospital’s nodal in charge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi was showing very slow improvement. “We got his CT Scan done and report is almost the same as it was earlier. But he is talking and is stable,” he said. Manjhi was admitted there on December 20. NMCH did not report any death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/236-people-returned-from-uk-to-bihar-since-nov-9/articleshow/80032607.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 31, 2020||Patna||Rajak says JD(U) MLAs in touch with RJD, Nitish rubbishes claim||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday rubbished former minister Shyam Rajak’s claim that 17 of the 43 JD(U) MLAs were willing to join RJD. When reporters asked Nitish after his visit to Rajdhani Jalashay in Patna about Rajak’s statement to the media in the morning, Nitish replied, “Anyone making any kind of claim is baseless and it has no meat. There is no such thing.” Rajak, a former minister in Nitish cabinet and now in RJD, said JD(U) legislators were feeling insecure in their party because of the politics being played by ally BJP. He was referring to Arunacahal Pradesh where BJP merged six of the seven JD(U) MLAs into its fold, which has soured their relationship. JD(U) state president Bashishtha Narayan Singh on Tuesday categorically said that BJP should not repeat Arunachal in future. Senior JD(U) leader K C Tyagi after the two-day national executive meeting in Patna had also said that the BJP act in Arunachal Pradesh was against the spirit of coalition dharma. “Their (JD(U) MLAs are in our contact and want to switch sides because they see a bleak future in their party and feel that the Mahagathbandhan led by Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is a better option. As far as RJD is concerned, it is the party of A to Z and raises the voice of all castes and religions. It is following the path of socialist leaders like Karpoori Thakur and Jayaprakash Narayan while chief minister Nitish Kumar has deviated from that path,” Rajak told TOI. Rajak further said while the young JD(U) leaders were looking for a safer option, senior leaders of socialist background kept quiet. A day before, another RJD leader Uday Narayan Choudhary suggested Nitish to make Tejashwi the CM and himself focus on the central politics. Even Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma said the Mahagathbandhan will welcome Nitish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rajak-says-jdu-mlas-in-touch-with-rjd-nitish-rubbishes-claim/articleshow/80032506.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 31, 2020||Patna||44% rise in GST collection in Oct||PATNA: The state commercial taxes department had a significant surge in collection of Good and Services Taxes (GST) in the months of August, September and October despite economic slowdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. In a review meeting chaired by Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad, secretary in commercial taxes department (CTD) Pratima said the GST collection in October this year was 44% higher as compared to the same month in the previous year. Similarly, the GST collection in August and September was 5% and 27% higher respectively. The rise in GST collection was attributed to more transactions through e-way bills as awareness was created among traders to file returns on time under GST regime. The transaction through e-way bills was, however, very low in the months of April and May owing to complete lockdown. The situation started improving gradually from June. The deputy CM appreciated the works done by the officers and asked them to take steps for achieving the set targets by the end of the fiscal. Pratima, while making a presentation, said that tax revenue to the tune of Rs323.47crore were collected through one-time settlement scheme for the disposal of 31,117 applications for pending tax payment prior to the GST regime. The secretary also told the deputy CM that new guidelines were issued by the CTD for carrying out judicial works of the department through virtual hearings following the Covid-induced lockdown since March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/44-rise-in-gst-collection-in-oct/articleshow/80032552.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Lockdown trauma, lack of work haunt migrants||PATNA: Life is difficult for a majority of the workers who returned home from their workplace outside the state during the nationwide lockdown in March due to Covid-19 pandemic. Nearly eight months on, most of them don’t want to recall the trauma they had to suffer for no fault of theirs. “I don’t want to remember those days. It was the worst part of life,” said 35-year-old Sonu Kumar Pandey of Bahilwara village under Saraiya block in Muzaffarpur district. Pandey is searching for a suitable job at home to earn bread for his family of five. Pandey is not alone. Ganesh Sahni (44) from Paharpur under Mahua block in Vaishali district has a similar story to tell. Though a skilled labourer, Sahni is working as a part-time farmworker due to lack of job opportunities in Vaishali, one of the worst hit districts in the state as far migration is concerned. Though a number of Sahni’s co-villagers returned to their workplace in Ludhiana (Punjab) and Delhi after their employers provided them better wages and also facilitated their travel from their native village by private buses. “To say the least, they are better than us,” a visibly upset Sahni said. Around 30 lakh workers came back home from states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana among others. Around 25 lakh of them came by trains and the rest either walked or hitchhiked on trucks and buses from those states. Districts like East Champaran, Katihar, Darbhanga, Araria, Supaul, Muzaffarpur, Madhepura, West Champaran, Aurangabad, Begusarai, Saran, Vaishali, Siwan, Nalanda and Patna had witnessed a huge influx of workers, who returned home during the lockdown. The state government had conduced skill survey of the workers who returned and promised to provide them work in the state itself. Initially, a handful of them were provided work in different development schemes, but the euphoria is missing now. “The migration issue was raised by opposition parties in the recent assembly polls. Around 6.5 lakh migrant workers were enrolled as voters on the directive of the Election Commission. But the issue seems to have been thrown into dustbin after the results were declared and the government formed,” said professor DM Diwakar, a former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna. He, however, said the issue has never been taken up on a priority basis by the political masters, who ruled the state. Bihar has one of the highest outmigration rates (74.5), second only to Uttar Pradesh. However, a senior state labour resources department officer said the data base of the returnees prepared by the disaster management department during the lockdown was likely to be used for creating job opportunities for them. “The process is underway. The state machinery was busy in the state assembly polls. With things slowly settling down after the new government formation, the work will gain momentum in days to come,” he said. The officer said the work done by the state got accolades at the national level. “Our innovative initiative to transfer money directly to the bank accounts of 21 lakh stranded migrant workers outside the state through ‘Bihar Sahayata Mobile App’ has won the Digital India Awards 2020,” he asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-trauma-lack-of-work-haunt-migrants/articleshow/80033140.cms||Ramashankar
December 31, 2020||Business||At $15.5bn, Q2 current a/c surplus at 2.4% of GDP||Mumbai: India’s current account surplus moderated to $15.5 billion, which is around 2.4% of the gross domestic product (GDP) for the second quarter ended September 2020, from a high of $19.2 billion (3.8% cent of GDP) in the quarter ended June 2020. This is the third consecutive quarter that the economy has seen a current account surplus. Last year, the comparable quarter (ended September 2019) saw a current account deficit of $7.6 billion (1.1% of GDP). Economists expect the economy to record a current account surplus for FY21 — the first in over 15 years — despite a likely moderation in December 2020. “For the entire year, we could still expect a current account surplus, which is already 3.1% of GDP in H1 (first half). This can be 1-1.5% of GDP. It should be remembered that the ratio is seeming higher because the denominator is declining as real GDP has contracted in H1,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. The current account surplus largely refers to the difference between value of exports and imports of goods and services. While a surplus is generally a positive indicator and helps bridge government deficit, it can also be because of domestic demand dipping due to a recession. Releasing the balance of payment data, the RBI said that the narrowing of the current account surplus was on account of a rise in the merchandise trade deficit to $14.8 billion from $10.8 billion in the preceding quarter. Among the positive developments, services receipts increased — both sequentially and on a year-on-year basis — primarily on the back of higher net earnings from computer services. Export of computer services brought in $25 billion as compared to $22.6 billion in the preceding quarter. Private transfer receipts, which represent remittances by Indians employed overseas, declined on a year-on-year basis but improved sequentially by 12% to $20.4 billion in Q2FY21. In the financial account, net foreign direct investment recorded a robust inflow of $24.6 billion as compared with $7.3 billion in Q2 of 2019-20, thanks partly to the large investments mobilised by Reliance Jio. Net portfolio investment by foreign institutional investors was $7 billion as compared with $2.5 billion in Q2 of 2019-20, as negative rates in the west resulted in a wave of capital flowing into emerging markets. Deleveraging by Indian corporates resulted in external commercial borrowings to India recording a net outflow of $4.1 billion in Q2 of 2020-21 as against an inflow of $3.1 billion a year ago. However, investment in bank deposits by non-resident Indians slipped to $1.9 billion from $2.3 billion in Q2 of 2019-20. RBI’s purchase of dollars to neutralise the impact of capital flows resulted in an accretion of $31.6 billion to the country’s foreign exchange reserves. In the second quarter last year, the total addition to reserves was only $5.1 billion. The current account surplus for the first half stood at 3.% of GDP as against a deficit of 1.6% for the quarter ended September 2019. Foreign investors pumped in $23.8 billion by way of direct investment and $7.6 billion into equity markets. In the first half the foreign exchange reserves rose by $51.4 billion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-15-5bn-q2-current-a/c-surplus-at-2-4-of-gdp/articleshow/80035142.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Patna||State archives to upload papers on disease control||PATNA: The Bihar State Archives (BSA), as a part of its social responsibility, will upload various documents on public health, disease control and hygiene to its website in order to tell the people the way these epidemics were controlled, so that it could prove beneficial at a time when different vaccines were being developed to control the Covid-19 pandemic. The BSA has preserved various records of public health and disease control methods used in the colonial era. As per the information shared by the state information and public relations department (IPRD), the problems due to different epidemics have been faced worldwide for centuries and efforts to control them have been done both at the government and non-government level. For instance, during the colonial era, India had faced various epidemics like cholera, plague, malaria and smallpox. In the beginning, there used to be lack of proper vaccines and medicines. Hence, Britishers also had to face challenges in India. An IPRD release further stated that the primary motive of the British was to generate revenue in India, but large number of deaths due to any epidemic would have also impacted the revenue generation. Hence, they had to think about controlling the epidemics. It was made compulsory to work for the control of epidemics in military camps. This led to the entry of allopathy in India. However, it was not easy to implement this in India because of conservative thought and the British had to struggle initially. Apart from inventing medicines, vaccines were also introduced to control epidemics like cholera, malaria and smallpox.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-archives-to-upload-papers-on-disease-control/articleshow/80032566.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Met predicts a chilly New Year’s Eve||KOLKATA: If you plan to ring in the new year under the open sky, make sure to bring your woollens. Even though the mercury may not slide significantly, the wind could be piercing and chilly on New Year’s Eve, warned the Met office. On January 1, the minimum temperature is set to drop below 12°C and could remain there for at least another day. On Wednesday, Kolkata recorded a minimum temperature of 12.6°C. With the northwesterly wind set to gather pace on Thursday, it could get chillier, said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. “On Wednesday, it had a speed of about 10km/hr. It could rise to 20km/hr-25km/hr on Thursday, which will make it significantly windy and chilly on New Year’s Eve. The wind will carry in the chill and make the temperature plunge. However, we don’t expect a sharp drop on Thursday,” said Das. It has started getting chilly in central India and there has been a fresh temperature drop across north India, Das added. “Once the no-rthwesterly wind gathers momentum, the impact of the chill will be felt in Kolkata and south Bengal,” he added. Some western districts — like Bankura, Purulia and Birbhum — could see a dip in temperature on Thursday. “These districts will receive the northwesterly wind early,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/met-predicts-a-chilly-new-years-eve/articleshow/80033955.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||Debt-ridden 35-year-old builder hangs self||NAGPUR: A 35-year-old builder ended life by hanging self over financial crisis. The incident came to light on Wednesday afternoon at Sagar Apartment in Trimurti Nagar. The deceased has been identified as Nikhilesh Satishchandra Bute. Nikhilesh used to live in Mahalakshmi Apartments along with wife Bhagyashree and four-year-old twin children. His mother and sister used to reside in adjoining flat in the same building. As Nikhilesh did not have water purifier system at his place, he used to come to his mother’s flat daily to fetch water. On Wednesday morning too, he had gone to his mother for fetching water. When he did not return for a considerable time, Bhagyashree went to her mother-in-law’s flat only to find the door locked. After finding no response, she with the help of neighbours broke open the door and was shocked to see Nikhilesh hanging from the ceiling. On being informed, Pratap Nagar police reached there and sent the body to GMCH for postmortem. Police found a six-page suicide note purportedly written by Nikhilesh in which he has mentioned about his debt-ridden status and the mental stress. The police are probing further. Woman ends life in lakeA 34-year-old woman ended her life by jumping into Gandhisagar Lake. The incident came to light on Tuesday afternoon. The deceased has been identified as Aarti Shekhar Naidu, a resident of Mohan Nagar. The reason for Naidu’s suicide could not be ascertained. Ganeshpeth police have registered an accidental death and are probing further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/debt-ridden-35-yr-old-builder-hangs-self/articleshow/80034206.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Aurangabad||2020 was an eventful year for smart city project in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The year 2020 saw several developments in the implementation of smart city project in Aurangabad. The progress of the master system integrator (MSI), the modernisation of the smart city bus service, commencement of heritage conservation works, the contribution of the smart city in Covid-19 management and the introduction of people-centric initiatives made this year very successful. The Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (ASCDCL) received Rs 441 crores from the state and Centre this year. Till date, Rs 307.26 crore has been utilised. Aurangabad was shortlisted as one of the 100 smart cities in 2016, following which, ASCDCL was formed as the special purpose vehicle (SPV). However, since then, the project had been under scrutiny due to its slow progress. After joining as ASCDCL CEO in December 2019, Astik Kumar Pandey made it a point to boost the project. However, in 2020, the pandemic hit the country. The ASCDCL planned a strategic response to the pandemic to complement the mechanism of the civic body, health department and the Government Medical College and Hospital. From an allocation of Rs 5 crore, the smart city developed the ‘Majhi Health Majhya Haathi’ mobile app, procured thermal guns and pulse oximeter, installed CCTV cameras and video conferencing system at Covid care centres, deployed manpower for contact tracing, mobile testing, Covid war room and task force. ASCDCL got IAS officer Arun Shinde as additional CEO for full-time smart city charge. Shinde has been helped in accelerating the project’s implementation. Recently, significant progress has been seen in the flagship project — the MSI. Currently, the feed from CCTV cameras installed at traffic junctions is reaching the command and control centre at police headquarters. Crucial work of conservation of historic gates and Shahgunj clock tower also started. The smart city bus service, which was stopped due to Covid, was relaunched with new features like e-ticketing system, smart card for passengers, vehicle tracking system and mobile app. This makes the service one of the smartest, yet affordable, public transport systems in India, said deputy CEO Pushkal Shivam. The city is now participating in Cycles4Change Challenge, as a part of which 20km cycle track will be created and under the Streets For People Challenge of Smart Cities Mission, four major streets will be transformed. The tendering process for the Safari Park, e-governance and GIS survey has been initiated. ASCDCL additional CEO Arun Shinde said: “The movement of projects from paper to execution stage took the Aurangabad smart city to the highest national ranking of 43 in early 2020 and to the 3rd position at the state level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2020-was-an-eventful-year-for-smart-city-project-in-aurangabad/articleshow/80036610.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 31, 2020||Goa||Goa CM Pramod Sawant to meet dept heads to discuss new revenue sources||PANAJI: Financial constraints have prompted chief minister Pramod Sawant to convene a meeting of 11 government departments on Thursday to discuss revenue generation strategies along with cost-cutting measures. The meeting also comes as the finance department prepares the budget for 2021-22 and Sawant is expected to review the measures taken over the last six months to increase revenue streams while also identifying additional revenue earning measures, sources said. Sources said that the inputs collated from these revenue generating departments could make their way into the state budget. Sawant will hold the meeting at the Paryatan Bhavan building where senior officials from the departments of commercial taxes, town and country planning, directorate of transport, registration and notary services, excise, electricity, public works department, water resources, directorate of mines and geology, and revenue will be present. During the meeting, each department will have to make a presentation on the available resources, performance over the last five to 10 years and possible revenue sources for the coming years. Aside from an analysis of past expenditure patterns and the revenues earned over the last 10 years, each department will have to provide data on the present tariff structure and losses or pending recoveries for the present and previous financial year. To address the fiscal crunch triggered by the nationwide lockdown, Sawant had unveiled a series of austerity measures. The drastic steps had included a freeze on new government jobs and infrastructure projects, which were withdrawn in November. However, with the state still facing a shortfall in its monthly earnings, the pressure is building on Sawant to find additional revenue sources. Sawant announced that 10,000 people will be recruited to fill vacant posts, but with the wage bill already ballooning, questions are being asked about the government’s ability to foot an additional salary burden. With around 60,000 employees, the government has to shell out around Rs 50-60 crore per month just on salaries, pension, provident fund, gratuity, group insurance and other heads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-to-meet-dept-heads-to-discuss-new-revenue-sources/articleshow/80035843.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Pune||Highest property registrations for month of December in four years||PUNE: A record 4.15 lakh property documents were registered in the state till December 29 — the highest for the month over the past four years — and over 44,000 registrations were made on Monday on Tuesday this week. In December 2017, a total of 1,97,148 documents were registered. The December of 2018 saw registration of 1,79,443 documents. In 2019, the registration figures for the month went up to 2,32,992. Till December 29 this year, a total of 4,15,160 documents have been registered. People queued up in large numbers at registration offices across the state in the last week of this month to avail the 3% reduction in the stamp duty till December 31. On Monday, a total of 21,462 documents were registered in the state. The number increased to 22,866 on Tuesday. The Maharashtra government had earlier this year reduced the stamp duty payable on property transactions in two slabs — by 3% from September to December 2020, and by 2% from January to March in 2021. D Khilari, the joint inspector-general of registration and stamps, said, “According to the registration act, it is allowed to execute the sale deed by paying the stamp duty and finish the registration process within four months. Many people are completing the execution process because of the stamp duty concession and leaving the registration process for a later date.” The state registration department allotted time slots to people to manage the rush following the Covid-appropriate behaviour. The state registered more than 17.57 lakh documents and collected a revenue of Rs13493.25 crore till December 29 this year, achieving about 90% of its revenue target set for the “Covid year”. Pune Credai president Suhas Merchant has written a letter to the state revenue minister for continuation of the stamp duty concession till June 30 next year. “ The government’s stamp duty concession move has reflected well on the realty sector. It helped many people to make up their mind and buy properties,” he added. Rohit Gera, the managing director of Gera Developments Pvt Ltd, said the government had taken an extremely smart step by offering a greater stamp duty discount up to December. Terming it an incentive for homebuyers, he said it helped “demand to make a comeback” in the real estate sector. “Whether this is a sustainable bounce-back or pent-up demand will be revealed in the months to come,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/highest-property-registrations-for-month-of-december-in-four-years/articleshow/80035819.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 31, 2020||Dehradun||Govt should take back farm laws: AAP MP Bhagwant Mann||Dehradun: Bhagwant Mann, member of parliament (MP) from Sangrur constituency of Punjab, on Wednesday said that the central government should apologise to farmers and repeal the three farm laws. Speaking to media persons after the culmination of the two-day-long Farmers’ Justice Rally in Udham Singh Nagar district, Mann, who is also Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab president, said that the farmers were not taken into confidence by the government before introducing the laws. Mann said that AAP will continue supporting the farmers’ cause and put pressure on the central government to revoke the controversial laws. He added that AAP will ensure legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP) to the farmers. Notably, the Farmers Justice Rally, organized by AAP, started from Jaspur on December 29 and ended at Khatima assembly constituency on Wednesday. The rally also covered Kashipur, Rudrapur, Kichha, Sitarganj, and Nanakmatta towns. These regions form the Terai belt of Uttarakhand which is hailed as the ‘rice bowl’ of the state. “The farmers — be it from Punjab or from Uttarakhand — are facing similar problems and are united in the ongoing fight against the black laws,” Mann added. He further said that the Modi government is acting in a stubborn manner with farmers, who are currently protesting for their existence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-should-take-back-farm-laws-aap-mp-bhagwant-mann/articleshow/80032679.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 31, 2020||Pune||Body found near garbage depot in Pune||PUNE: A tempo driver (34) was found brutally murdered near the garbage depot at Mantarwadi Phata on Katraj-Kondhwa bypass on Wednesday morning. The Hadapsar police identified the victim as Anil dada Pawar of Kalepadal based on a driving licence and Aadhaar card found in his wallet. Senior inspector Balkrishna Kadam from the Hadapsar police said, “A tea vendor, Ashok Sarote (28), called us and said the body of the man was lying behind his stall near the garbage depot. After visiting the spot, we found the victim had suffered multiple injuries to his head. A blood stained hammer, suspected to be the murder weapon, was recovered from the spot.” He said, “The motive behind the murder is not known. We suspect that the assailant killed Pawar by assaulting him with the hammer and dumped his body behind the tea stall to destroy evidence.” Kadam said, “We are questioning the victim’s family members to get more information about him, like if he had any enmity with any persons and if they suspect involvement of a known person in the murder. We are also checking with local residents if they saw any suspected persons and vehicles transporting the victim’s body.” He said, “Sarote has registered an FIR related to the incident. The crime branch is conducting a parallel investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/body-found-near-garbage-depot/articleshow/80035825.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Coimbatore||2 UK returnees, 1 contact test +ve for virus in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Two of the 16 UK returnees have tested positive for Covid-19 in the Nilgiris so far. While officials had traced 35 of their contacts and tested them, only one was found to be infected. Now, officials have sent the trio’s throat swabs to the Pune lab to ascertain whether they are infected with the new strain of the virus or not. P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said the three were admitted to the Ooty government hospital. “Results from the Pune lab are expected in a day.” According to him, 134 people, who had returned to the district from foreign countries other than the UK in the past 25 days and their 182 contacts were also subjected to the Covid-19 testing. “They all tested negative for the virus.”The official said they were getting details of people who had returned to the district from abroad from their headquarters in Chennai. Meanwhile, the district logged 13 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to 7,930, of which 113 are active cases. The total number of recovered patients rose to 7,771 on the day, with 15 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. The recovery rate now stands at 98%.The Covid-19 toll shot up to 46 on the day, with one more patient in the hill retreat succumbing to the virus. Of the 113 active cases, 35 are being treated at government and private hospitals in Coimbatore, 15 are in home quarantine and the remaining cases are admitted to the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-uk-returnees-1-contact-test-ve-for-virus-in-nilgiris/articleshow/80035816.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Bareilly||Barber refuses to cut hair of Dalit youth in UP, booked||BAREILLY: A barber has been booked for refusing to cut the hair of a Dalit youth at a village in Uttar Pradesh. The matter came to light after video clips emerged in which the barber - in his mid-50s - can be purportedly seen turning away the youth, apparently, due to his "caste". The barber can be also heard saying in one of the clips that he would rather shut his shop, than do the hair cut. An FIR has been registered against the barber under sections of the SC/ST Act following a complaint. The barber is on the run. "After speaking with locals and the complainant, we came to know that the barber had often refused to entertain customers from the Dalit community. This is not acceptable,” Anirudh Singh, Bilsi circle officer (CO), said on Wednesday. The incident has been reported from Kariamai village under Ughaiti police station limits in Budaun. The video clips were filmed by one Bablu, 24, who had also put it up online. Bablu is a graduate and works at a private firm in Delhi. He visited home recently and heard about the barber insulting a man of his "community who came to the village for a hair cut". Bablu, soon, decided to play an activist. The barber turned him away only because he is a Dalit, Bablu alleged. "When I came to know that the village barber is not allowing people of our community into his shop, I decided to make a video. I sent a local youth to his salon and recorded the incident on my mobile," the young man told TOI. The barber has been running his shop for the past 15 years and, according to Bablu, refuses to entertain any Dalit customer. The case is under investigation and we have taken the 'video evidence' into consideration and sent it for forensic examination, the Bilsi CO told TOI. "The accused is absconding. We will arrest him soon," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/barber-refuses-to-cut-hair-of-dalit-youth-in-up-booked/articleshow/80031712.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 31, 2020||Allahabad||Admin imposes restrictions on New Year revelry, bans partying on boats, sand bed||VARANASI: The district administration has imposed prohibitory orders and restricted presence of people on the sand bed across the river after 4.30pm on December 31 and January 1, 2021. The administration has banned crossing the river by boat after 4.30pm, partying and consumption of liquor on boats and sand bed on the opposite bank of the Ganga on December 31 and January 1. However, normal boat rides will be allowed till 8pm. No one will be allowed to remain present on the sand bed opposite the river after 4.30pm from Thursday, the New Year’s eve, as part of public safety measures. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma issued orders promulgating section 144 of CrPC in the district. The DM said that the operation of boats for crossing the river would be allowed till 4.30pm only. No person and boat would be allowed to go to the opposite bank after the prescribed time. The decision has been taken in the interest of the safety of common public and tourists during the New Year celebrations. According to the order, the boat operation in Ganga would not be allowed after 8pm. No boat would be allowed to cross the river from any ghat after 4pm, and no revelry would be allowed on the sand bed after 4.30pm. Partying and liquor consumption on boats and sand bed is strictly prohibited. The order will be effective till February 28. The violation of the order is a punishable offence under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/admin-imposes-restrictions-on-new-year-revelry-bans-partying-on-boats-sand-bed/articleshow/80032789.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||Taunts by in-laws part of married life: Court||MUMBAI: Observing that “talking sarcastically and taunting by in-laws is part of the wear and tear of married life” which every family witnesses, a sessions court recently granted anticipatory bail to a Malabar Hill-based couple, aged 80 and 75, who were accused of ill- treatment by their estranged daughter-in-law. The court also refuted the woman’s arguments that their plea should also be rejected on the grounds that her in-laws were on the list put together by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) of people who had offshore entities. Observing that this was an independent crime, the court said, “There may be a probe pending under ICIJ against the applicants which has no concern while deciding the application. It is not shown if any crime is registered against the applicants for alleged involvement. So at this juncture, there is no need to get impressed by the proceedings.” The 30-year-old woman got married to her now Dubai-based school friend in 2018. She claimed that it was only a few days before the wedding, while she was preparing documents to get the marriage registered, that her family realised that her husband was actually the biological child of the domestic help and was adopted and raised by her purported in-laws. The woman alleged, among other things, that while her in-laws did not gift her anything at the wedding, her parents gave her diamond and gold jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore. She claimed that she was not allowed to touch the fridge, was given stale food and made to sleep in the living room. She further added that she was not allowed to go to her mother’s home. The woman said that every time she complained to her husband, he would sarcastically ask her to obey his parents. According to her, while returning from Dubai, her husband gave her dry fruits weighing 15 kg. The woman said that when she returned to her in-laws’ home to deliver the dry fruits, her mother-in-law weighed the package before accepting it. The prosecution added that the woman’s in-laws and husband were in custody of her jewellery. However, the advocate for the in-laws submitted that the woman was aware of her husband’s adoption and that she had lived with her in-laws for only about 10 days after the wedding. The defence also said both families had borne the wedding expenses equally. The advocate also claimed that the accused were unaware of the FIR and only got to know of it after their accounts were frozen. They denied having the jewellery. The court, however, called the woman’s allegations “general in nature.” While granting the in-laws’ plea for pre-arrest bail, it directed them to submit their passports with the police as the woman apprehended they would flee to Dubai. The court also said that as far as recovery of her ornaments were concerned, the investigating agency had already frozen their accounts. “The continuous custody of the applicants is not required with the police on that count. Applicants can be directed to co-operate with the police in the investigations,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/taunts-by-in-laws-part-of-married-life-court/articleshow/80036621.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Traffic diversions for anniversary of Koregaon Bhima battle||PUNE: Vehicles heading towards Ahmednagar city from Kharadi will be diverted to Solapur highway on Friday, following the Pune rural police’s decision to not allow private vehicles heading towards Perne Phata near the Koregaon Bhima war obelisk for the commemoration ceremony of the Koregaon Bhima battle on January 1. Deputy commissioner of police (Traffic) Rahul Shrirame issued the orders in this regard. According to police, the vehicles heading towards Ahmednagar from Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad will be diverted to Solapur highway from Kharadi. From Solapur highway, the vehicles will have to travel till Kedgaon Chouphula before taking a left turn to reach Shirur. Similarly, the vehicles heading towards Ahmednagar from Katraj – Kondhwa, Phursungi, and other parts of the city will be diverted to Solapur highway from Hadapsar. From Hadapsar, the motorists will have to travel till Kedgaon Chouphula. The Pune rural police have diverted the vehicles heading towards Ahmednagar from Loni Kand to Chakan-Shikrapur road from where motorists can reach Pune city, the Pune rural police said. The vehicles heading towards Mumbai and Pimpri Chinchwad from Ahmednagar will be diverted towards Chakan from Shikrapur, the police said. At least 4 lakh people had paid their respects till 3pm at the Koregaon Bhima memorial this year. Violent clashes had broken out in the area around Koregaon Bhima on the 200th anniversary of the 1818 battle on January 1, 2018, in which one person was killed and several others were injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traffic-diversions-for-anniv-of-koregaon-bhima-battle/articleshow/80035845.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||CBI registers 1st case in Maharashtra after GC withdrawal||NAGPUR: In a first after Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had withdrawn general consent (GC) to CBI to investigate any case in the state in October this year, anti-corruption division of the central agency, Nagpur region, has registered a case against an assistant labour commissioner rank officer after arresting him while taking Rs60,000 bribe. The general consent was withdrawn by the MVA government accusing the central government of using the CBI as a ‘political tool’ to target opposition parties following controversy over actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The latest case pertains to the anti-corruption division seizing Rs52 lakh from the assistant labour commissioner with ministry of labour and employment, government of India, after he was arrested for bribery. Following sanction from the additional chief secretary, home, the CBI’s Nagpur unit under SP Nirmala Devi S had registered an offence on December 28 against assistant labour commissioner Sachin J Shelar under the Prevention of Corruption Act (Amended 2018), after he was allegedly caught red-handed while receiving Rs 60,000 bribe from a deputy project manager of a private firm, working in association with the Railways at Badnera in Amravati district. Shelar had allegedly demanded the bribe to ignore irregularities related to safety at work site and issuing bona fide labour licences. As per the FIR, regional labour commissioner TK Singh and assistant labour commissioner Shelar had visited M/s Premco Railway Engineering Limited at Badnera on December 13 for inspection. Following their visit, the officers had summoned the complainant at their office at CGO Complex in Seminary Hills on December 16. Later, the complainant was asked to meet Shelar at his residence after office hours by a senior official, who too is under scanner now. The complainant had approached the CBI on December 18 and subsequently a trap was laid at the office of Shelar where he was nabbed accepting the bribe. Shelar has been remanded in CBI custody till January 2 by a special court. A search at the residence of Shelar in Friends Colony in the city had resulted in seizure of Rs38.5 lakh cash and another Rs13.5 lakh from his Pune residence. Shelar’s office, which coincidentally is also located on the same premises as the CBI, was also searched by the investigating agency. The agency is now looking into the source of the huge cash seized from Shelar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbi-registers-1st-case-in-maha-after-gc-withdrawal/articleshow/80034324.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 31, 2020||Aurangabad||CLAT registration begins tomorrow, exam on May 9||AURANGABAD: Online registration for the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) is scheduled to begin from January 1 with the test scheduled on May 9, 2021. As per the official notification, registrations for the exam will close on March 31, 2021. Every year, the Consortium of National Law Universities organises CLAT, which is a gateway to admission to the undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) law programmes offered by 22 national law universities across the country along with other reputed law institutes. Ashok Wadje, the acting registrar of Maharashtra National Law University, Aurangabad, said that his law school is a part of CLAT. “The law field offers exciting and lucrative job opportunities. Candidates can give an edge to their career by opting for different specialization,” he said. For UG courses, there will be no upper age limit for CLAT 2021. Candidates must secure 45% marks in Class XII in case they belong to General or OBC among other identified categories, and 40% in case they belong to the SC/ST categories. Similarly, there is no upper age limit for CLAT in PG courses and a candidate with 50% marks in LLB degree can take the test. The candidates belonging to SC/ST categories need to have a minimum of 45%. Candidates appearing for the qualifying examination in April/May 2021 are also eligible to apply for CLAT for UG and PG categories. For registration related queries, competent authorities can be reached by mail on clat@consortiumofnlus.ac.in or can be contacted on 08047162020 between 10 am and 5 pm on all working days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/clat-registration-begins-tomorrow-exam-on-may-9/articleshow/80036619.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Man who flew into city via London from Spain tests positive for Covid||Coimbatore: A 27-year-old man who flew into the city via London from Spain on December 26 has tested positive for Covid-19. He had a 10-hour layover at Heathrow Airport. Since he is asymptomatic, he has been quarantined in a separate ward at ESI Hospital. On Wednesday, a fresh nasal swab was taken to confirm whether he has been infected by the new UK strain. The nasal swab has been sent to the state public health laboratory at Teynampet, Chennai.The man, a navigation engineer by profession, flew from Gibraltar in Spain to Dubai via London on December 22. In London, he had a 10-hour layover at Heathrow airport. He stayed in Dubai for two days and flew to Mumbai on December 25 and from there reached Coimbatore on December 26. “The nasal swab taken by us at the airport on December 26 returned positive on December 28. Since then, he has been admitted in a separate ward at ESI Hospital,” deputy director of public health G Ramesh Kumar said. “He is asymptomatic so far,” he added.Officials immediately tested his three family members who stayed with him from December 26 to 28, but all tested negative. They are trying to trace the cab driver who drove him home from the airport. “The state government has asked us to send a fresh nasal swab to Chennai to confirm whether it is the new strain,” an official said.The arrvial of this passenger points to loopholes in our system, despite banning flights from the UK. “They come to Dubai and book a fresh ticket to India and fly in. With so many stamps on some passports, it is hard to spot a recent UK stamp on it,” an official said.Coimbatore’s first Covid-19 patient was also a Spain returnee who tested positive on March 22.Meanwhile, the district recorded 91 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday taking the tally to 52,247. 101 people got discharged bringing down active cases further to 821. District collectors have been instructed to check all international passengers arriving at airports for a negative Covid-19 certificate, and if they do not have one, to make them undergo an RT-PCR test. They have also been instructed to check their passport for recent UK travel history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-who-flew-into-city-via-london-from-spain-tests-positive-for-covid/articleshow/80035864.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Dehradun||Tyre shop gutted in Rudrapur, valuables worth over Rs 30L gutted||Rudrapur: A fire broke out at a tyre shop in Palika Market near Ambedkar Park in Rudrapur at 11.30 am on Wednesday. While no human casualty (or injury) was reported because of the fire, valuables worth over Rs 30 lakh were gutted. The owner of the shop, Dhiraj Miglani, informed the police and fire services about the fire. Thereafter, four fire tenders were pressed into service, however, it took them about two hours to put off the blaze. Meanwhile, thick smoke billowed from flames, creating panic in the surrounding areas. Fire officer RD Yadav told TOI that the fire broke out on the ground floor of the three-storey building. Along with tyres, documents, furniture, and some cash got reduced to ashes. The officers suspect short-circuit in the electric wire network to be the cause behind the fire. Notably, the owner of the shop has filed a complaint with the city police. He said that he incurred a loss of over Rs 30 lakh in the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tyre-shop-gutted-in-rudrapur-valuables-worth-over-rs-30l-gutted/articleshow/80032693.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 31, 2020||Pune||Forest officials give cops a presentation||Pune: Officials from the Pune forest circle gave a presentation on man-animal conflict before senior police officers on Wednesday. The meeting was crucial in view of two Indian bison straying into residential areas recently. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/forest-officials-give-cops-a-presentation/articleshow/80035841.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ludhiana||2 use salon owner’s PAN and Aadhaar number to avail loan||LUDHIANA: The police on Tuesday night arrested two fraudsters who used the PAN and Aadhaar number of a man to open a bank account and avail a loan of Rs 1.25 lakh. When the bank did not receive the installments, they approached the victim who stated that he had neither opened an account in that bank nor availed any loan. Thereafter, the victim, Pankaj Kumar, a salon owner of Rishi Nagar, lodged a police complaint on November 21. An inquiry was marked following which the police traced and arrested the accused—Arun Goyal of Maha Singh Nagar and Naveen Kumar of Jain Colony, both 37-year-old. When the installments were not paid, the bank officials checked the address and found it forged. The PAN helped them trace the actual address, which was of Pankaj. Pankaj said, “On November 20, two officials of HDFC bank visited my house. They asked me to deposit installments for the loan of Rs 1.25 lakh. I told them I had not availed any loan from the bank. On checking, it was found that someone had used my PAN and Aadhaar number with a different picture, address and cellphone number to open an account in AU Small Finance Bank, Pakhowal Road. Thereafter, the accused got a smartphone financed from HDFC bank for Rs 1.25 lakh.” The next day, Pankaj lodged a police complaint. Division 5 police station SHO sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh said, “The accused have been arrested. Naveen used to work for a travel agency and Arun was earlier a private loan agent. Arun knew that for a small loan, banks would not emphasis on verification. The two know many tricks. It seems they have committed more such frauds.” A case has been registered under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly using as genuine document), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-use-salon-owners-pan-and-aadhaar-number-to-avail-loan/articleshow/80032691.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Man, 51, gets life imprisonment for sexually abusing minor girl||Coimbatore: The special court for cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, here on Tuesday sentenced a 51-year-old school van driver to life imprisonment for sexually assaulting a five-year-old girl with disabilities three years ago. Judge J Radhika also slapped a fine of Rs 1.5 lakh on N Balan, who had sexually assaulted the girl several times while she was travelling in the van. The incident came to light in 2017 after the girl told her parents about the abuse. Based on her mother’s complaint, the Gandhipuram all women police filed a case and arrested Balan under sections of Pocso. The judge ordered the government to confiscate the accused’s van for giving compensation to the survivor. She also issued directions to provide Rs 5 lakh to the survivor from the victim’s compensation fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-51-gets-life-imprisonment-for-sexually-abusing-minor-girl/articleshow/80035882.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Goa||Departments will soon get NOCs to start filling posts: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that the Goa Staff Selection Commission will soon start granting no objection certificates (NOC) to various departments for carrying out requirements in their respective departments. The government has planned to recruit 10,000 people. Departments will issue advertisements for recruitment, Sawant told reporters. With greenshoots in Goa’s economy improving the state’s finances, Sawant had said that the process to recruit over 10,000 people — one of the largest recruitment drive — would begin from December 1. Currently, Goa has approximately 65,000 state government employees, including those in autonomous and semi-autonomous bodies. In November, the government issued an office memorandum to pave the way for the departments to start the recruitment process and infrastructure works from December 1. “Due to lifting of lockdown restrictions and subsequent rise in economic activities, the expenditure restrictions imposed will stand withdrawn with effect from December 2, 2020,” undersecretary finance Pranab Bhat had stated in the office memorandum. Over the last two to three months, the economy has started recovering. If one takes GST collections as a barometer for economic recovery, October saw GST collections nearly match the Rs 311 crore collected a year ago. The revival of tourism, along with the periodic release of funds to meet the GST compensation gap has buoyed the state’s coffers. An office memorandum issued by the finance secretary in March, had stated, “defer recruitment in all the government departments, autonomous bodies/state PSUs/local bodies receiving grants from the state up to December 2020”. The memorandum had stated that the government will stop granting expenditure approvals for infrastructure projects till December even if the project has received administrative approval. This had a bearing on projects initiated by government departments, as well as corporations, state undertakings and panchayats and municipalities, except projects partly or wholly funded by Centre or deposit works||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/depts-will-soon-get-nocs-to-start-filling-posts-sawant/articleshow/80035910.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Goa||Goa CM Pramod Sawant junks cannabis cultivation plan||PANAJI: Two days after TOI exclusively front-paged a report about the state government’s plan to introduce a bill to permit cultivation of cannabis for medicinal purposes, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said the government would not go ahead with the proposal. On Monday, the chief minister had confirmed to TOI that there was a proposal to allow cannabis cultivation for medicinal purposes, but he was not in favour of granting permission. “This proposal was sent by the health department to the law department, but it does not mean the government has finalised it,” he said. The law department had vetted the file and it was supposed to be placed before the cabinet for final approval before being introduced in the assembly. Sawant said the proposal came after Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine had written to the state government about cultivation of cannabis for medicinal purposes. He said there were many who criticise the government “over any issue as they don’t find reasons to corner the government”. Bills to allow cannabis cultivation for medicinal purposes have been passed in three states, Sawant said, adding that these states were looking at it as an industry. Earlier, Goa law minister Nilesh Cabral had told TOI that the health department, under minister Vishwajit Rane, would bring the proposal to the cabinet and it would then be tabled in the assembly. Cabral had said that as per the proposal, the health department would be the nodal agency to give permission to people to grow cannabis in the state. Recently, India voted in favour of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs to reclassify cannabis and drop it from the ‘most strict’ drug control list. India has favoured the removal of cannabis from Schedule IV of the 1961 Convention, where it has been listed alongside drugs like heroin. The decision to reclassify cannabis and drop it from the list followed a recommendation by the World Health Organisation (WHO) for a change in the scope of control of cannabis and cannabis-related substances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-junks-move-to-grow-cannabis-for-med-purpose/articleshow/80036073.cms||Murari Shetye
December 31, 2020||Ludhiana||6 rob factory worker of Rs 5 lakh||LUDHIANA: A group of six miscreants robbed a factory worker of Rs 5 lakh in Phase VII of Focal Point on Wednesday evening. Rajneesh Kumar said in his police complaint, “I have been working at a forging factory in Focal Point for the past 15 years. On Wednesday, salaries were to be given to the employees. After collecting Rs 5 lakh from the house of factory owner Manish Gupta in Sarabha Nagar, I was on way to the unit when three men on a bike intercepted my way in Phase VII. As they started arguing with me, another bike halted there. It too had three riders, who pushed me. When I fell on the road, they overpowered me and escaped with my two-wheeler. I had kept the cash under the seat of the two-wheeler.” Rajneesh then called up his employer and the police. SHO inspector Davinder Sharma said a case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/6-rob-factory-worker-of-rs-5-lakh/articleshow/80032697.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kanpur||Bro being framed by friend, his wife: Col Gehlot’s sisters||KANPUR: Two sisters of Colonel Neeraj Gehlot, who was arrested and sent to jail for allegedly raping his friend’s Russian wife, have accused the latter and her husband of cooking a false story of rape for extorting money from their brother. The sisters of Gehlot had met IG Range Mohit Agarwal and SP West Anil Kumar on Tuesday and gave a written complaint to them demanding a fair probe in the case. The sisters alleged that the couple had asked Gehlot to pay them Rs 25 lakh, failing which they registered a false rape case against him. Inspector Cantt Aadesh Chandra said, “On the instructions of senior officials, we have started a probe on the allegations made by the two sisters of the accused.” Police sources further added that the sisters of accused had provided some evidence in support of their claims. To recall, the Russian woman’s husband, who hails from the state capital had told police that his old friend Neeraj Gehlot, posted in Central Ordnance Depot (COD), had invited him and his wife for dinner at his place in Cantt area of Kanpur. He added that he accepted the invite and reached Kanpur from Lucknow on December 10. After shopping, when they reached Gehlot’s official bungalow in COD, the latter offered him a drink laced with sedatives. Soon after consuming it, he was knocked out of his senses. He alleged that Gehlot then dragged his wife to another room and tried to force himself on her. She had pushed him away and screamed, but Gehlot allegedly brutally assaulted her and raped her when she lost her consciousness. Later, the victim’s husband had accompanied her to the Cantt police station to file a complaint on December 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bro-being-framed-by-friend-his-wife-col-gehlots-sisters/articleshow/80033324.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Bar serves minors, flouts Covid rules||LUDHIANA: The Punjab Agricultural University police have booked the manager and the owner of Urban Vibes restro-bar near South City for serving liquor to minors, both boys and girls, and violating the Covid-19 protocol. Additional deputy commissioner of police-3 Sameer Verma said the cops had raided the resto-bar based on a secret input and found some girls and boys being served liquor at a year-end party over there. The revellers were without face mask and there was no sign of social distancing. Police stopped the party and registered a first-information report (FIR) against resto-bar owner Manjeet Mangat and the manager. The matter came to light when some inebriated youngsters beat up a boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bar-serves-minors-flouts-covid-rules/articleshow/80032717.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Property tax defaulters to pay 10% penalty from Jan 1||LUDHIANA: Property owners of the city, who fail to clear their property tax dues by December 31, will be slapped a penalty of 10% of the total outstanding from January 1, 2021. According to municipal corporation officials, until December 31, the owners will have to pay just the property tax without any penalty or interest, while from January till March, there will be 10% penalty and after March, interest will also be added to the outstanding. The officials further said for the outstanding arising during the current financial year, the residents still have the option to pay their taxes with penalty, but for the properties on which taxes dues are pending since before this fiscal, the process of sealing has already started. As per the civic body records, from April 1 till December 30, as many as 1.92 lakh returns were filed, which fetched it Rs 57.29 crore. The maximum returns came from Zone D, where 66,542 assessees paid property tax. In zones A, B and C, 38,289, 47,435 and 40,686 returns, respectively, were filed. The civic body has set a target of Rs 130-crore revenue from property tax this financial year. An official said due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the pace of recovery of dues was slow this year. Owing to the lockdown, people could not move out of their houses and thereafter, they avoided visiting the MC following the increase in cases. He said the recovery had picked up pace in September-October, but after that it slowed down again. Besides, not much recovery could be made from big commercial establishments, like malls or multiplexes, this year as their business was badly hit during the lockdown and now, they are waiting for some relief from the government, he said. Confirming the imposition of penalty on the tax outstanding from January 1, superintendent of the corporation Vivek Verma said till December 31, the residents can clear their property tax dues without any penalty or interest. He also urged the people to file their tax returns in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/property-tax-defaulters-to-pay-10-penalty-from-jan-1/articleshow/80032714.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||ED searches premises of Gayatri Prajapati, sons in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday searched the premises of former UP cabinet minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati and offices of his sons, and residences of their driver and accountant in Amethi, Lucknow and Kanpur in connection with the allegations of money laundering related to the mining scam. The mining scam relates to violation of norms in awarding mining leases in various districts of the state between 2012 and 2016 when Samajwadi Party was in power. The ED teams searched Prajapati’s Awas Vikas Colony residence in Amethi, house of his driver Raja Ram in Tikari area of Amethi, and Vibhuti Khand, Lucknow, office of Gayatri’s sons Anil and Anurag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-searches-premises-of-prajapati-sons-in-up/articleshow/80036820.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||Now, Varanasi civic body to raise funds via municipal bonds||LUCKNOW: Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will become the second city after Lucknow to raise funds through municipal bonds. A government spokesperson said Varanasi would raise Rs 200 crore through stock exchange which would be used to fund various infrastructure development schemes. The jurisdiction of Varanasi Municipal Corporation (VMC) was recently increased with the addition of 89 revenue villages. “The municipal corporation has started ground work to execute the plan. To issue the bonds, a consultant firm or merchant banker will be selected through a tender process. As per the guidelines of the department of municipal development, Government of India, nine companies can participate in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-varanasi-civic-body-to-raise-funds-via-municipal-bonds/articleshow/80036836.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||1,043 fresh cases in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: With 1,043 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday, UP’s total number of positive cases went up to almost 5.85 lakh. However, with 1,202 recoveries, the number of active cases continued to fall and reached 14,155. The state also reported 13 deaths. During a review of Team 11 on Wednesday, the CM said that the integrated command and control centres in all districts should continue to remain alert. Protocols for Magh Mela and other festivals in the coming days have been released, said additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1043-fresh-cases-in-state/articleshow/80036657.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Allahabad||Two shot dead in Chitrakoot, SO suspended||JHANSI: A former district vice-president of Congress and his minor nephew was shot dead on Tuesday late night over a trivial issue in village Prasidhpur under police station Pahari in Chitrakoot district. In retaliation, the victim’s family members set the house of the accused on fire. The accused is absconding. Meanwhile, SP Chitrakoot Ankit Mittal has suspended SO of Pahari police station Shravan Kumar for laxity in duty. As per the reports, Ashok Patel (55) and his 16-year-old nephew Shubham were on way to home when they had an altercation with one of the neighbours Kamlesh Raikwar after Ashok objected to his abusive language. The argument took a violent turn after Kamlesh shot both with his licenced gun killing them on the spot. He then fled from the place along with his son Rahul. Meanwhile, the family members of the deceased set the house of Kamlesh on fire. Fortunately, the police reached there and rescued four persons trapped in the house. Heavy police force has been deployed in the village to avoid any Untoward incident. SP Chitrakoot Ankit Mittal said that three teams have been formed to nab the accused after lodging a case against Kamlesh and his son under related sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/two-shot-dead-in-chitrakoot-so-suspended/articleshow/80032896.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kanpur||Former Bar Council prez abducted in Mahoba, saved by constable; one held||JHANSI: In a daring broad daylight incident in Mahoba on Wednesday, five persons abducted an advocate, who is also a former president of the Bar Council, from the main road after hitting him. Luckily an auto rickshaw driver noticed it and raised an alarm after which a constable intercepted the vehicle and got the advocate freed. One person has been arrested while the other accused are absconding. As per the details, Raj Kishan Tiwari, advocate,was going to court from his residence at Malakpura on a two-wheeler. As he reached near Government Girls Inter College, a SUV hit him from behind throwing him on the ground and few people came out of the vehicle, bundled him inside the vehicle and sped away. An auto rickshaw driver when noticed the incident raised an alarm and chased the vehicle. Meanwhile, the victim also shouted inside the vehicle. As the vehicle crossed Subhash Chowki, it was intercepted by a constable who forced the vehicle to stop. The moment the vehicle stopped, Tiwari jumped out of it crying for help whereas four of the accused escaped from the spot while the driver was caught by the police. The news spread like a wild fire as the victim happens to be the cousin of UP chief secretary Rajendra Tiwari. SO Kotwali, Shashi Kumar Pandey said a case has been lodged against Ashish Tiwari, Nand Kishore Tiwari, Raj Kumar, Mahendra and driver Shailendra under sections 392, 341, 279 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/former-bar-council-prez-abducted-in-mahoba-saved-by-constable-one-held/articleshow/80032945.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu announces schedule for PET||AURANGABAD: The Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) on Wednesday announced the schedule of the Ph.D Entrance Test (PET). Addressing the reporters, Bamu vice-chancellor (VC) Pramod Yeole said most of the activities of the PET would be carried out in an online manner on the line of recently conducted test for M.Phil admissions. “The PET will be conducted for 42 subjects. The subject-wise intake and availability of guides will be disclosed shortly. The examination will be conducted in student-centric manner by making the best use of available technology,” he said. As per official schedule, the online registration for PET will start from January 1 to January 11 followed by the test for first paper on January 30 and the result will be declared on February 1. The second paper of PET is scheduled to be held on February 21 and result will be out on February 24. The commencement of online submission of Ph.D registration application for candidates who have cleared both papers will take place from March 1 to March 15. “While online reforms such as e-file tracking system and online leave management system were introduced before the outbreak of Covid 19, we laid more focus on online reforms during the pandemic. Right from student registration to the conduct of examinations, the university successfully embraced many online reforms,” the VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-announces-schedule-for-pet/articleshow/80036636.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Activists who opposed illegal mining held||Coimbatore: Police arrested two activists who had opposed illegal red sand mining from Thadagam on Wednesday, a day after they attempted to stop transportation of ‘illegally’ mined red sand. Manickaraj and Parameswaran were arrested based on a complaint from brick kiln owners, said police refusing to divulge details. They were produced before a judicial magistrate and were remanded till January 11. Meanwhile, family members of activist S Ganesh and Rajendran petitioned the collector seeking protection from brick kiln owners kon Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/activists-who-opposed-illegal-mining-held/articleshow/80035906.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Allahabad||ABAP opposes proposal for temples’ registration||PRAYAGRAJ: The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad has opposed the registration and regulation of religious places in the state amid unconfirmed reports of the government bringing such an ordinance. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said all monasteries and temples in UP are safe and there is no threat to them. If it is very important to bring an ordinance for religious places and it is necessary to set up a directorate for them, then the opinion of saints should be taken, he added. It would not be appropriate to out seers and saints under the authority of state in any way, said Giri. The prevailing system in math and temples and other religious places is functioning without any hiccups or controversy, he said. “Since chief minister Yogi Adityanath is himself a saint and Peethadheeshwar of Gorakshpeeth, the decision taken by him would be in larger interest of saint community, but the government should take the opinion of saints before bringing ordinance,” Giri added. “ABAP demands that if the government brings a law, then it should not bring monasteries and temples under the government. The government should not acquire monasteries and temples in any way,” said Giri. He, however, assured that if the government brings any law regarding law and order, then monasteries and temples will follow it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/abap-opposes-proposal-for-temples-registration/articleshow/80032878.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kanpur||Girl abducted from Mandhana found in Kannauj district||KANPUR: A day after a 17-year-old girl was allegedly abducted by a van-borne miscreant from Mandhana area of the district, she was found unconscious in Kannauj district on Wednesday. The girl has been admitted to a hospital and her parents, who live in Nai Basti area of Mandhana in Kanpur, have been informed. On the basis of medical examination, the police have ruled out the possibility of sexual assault on the girl. Police said that the victim, an intermediate student and a resident of Nai Basti area of Mandhana, had gone to attend classes at a nearby college on Tuesday morning. “At around 2.30pm, the girl was on her way back home when she was dragged into a van near railway crossing in Mandhana area by some unidentified miscreant. The miscreant, thereafter, administered her some injection following which she lost her consciousness and later dumped her near Jalalpur railway crossing in Kotwali police area of Kannauj. Some passersby informed the police control room afetr which local police reached the spot,” said a police official. The police team rushed the girl to the district hospital where she was admitted and initiated an investigation into the matter. “During the medical examination, a doctor at the district hospital, has ruled out the possibility of sexual assault,” said circle officer (city) Shiv Pratap Singh, who added, “We have apprised the girl’s parents, who stay in Nai Basti in Mandhana area of Kanpur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-abducted-from-mandhana-found-in-kannauj-district/articleshow/80033394.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kanpur||Two killed as tank shell explodes in Jhansi village||JHANSI: Two persons were killed here on Wednesday after a tank bomb shell exploded while they were trying to open it for scrap in Babina area of Jhansi district. The incident has been reported from village Harpalpur falling under police station Babina, a few kilometres away from the army firing range. Two persons picked up an unexploded bomb shell which got missed during firing from the firing range. Both the victims were trying to open it in order to sell the metal which is expensive when it suddenly exploded. While one of the victims Rajesh Raikwar (45) died on the spot, the other victim Ramjee (32) was referred to Babina community health centre from where he was further referred to Jhansi Medical College where he died on the way. As per CO Sadar, Himanshu Gaurav, both the victims had entered the restricted area in order to get the metal and found the unexploded shell of T-90 tank. Bodies of both the victims have been sent for post-mortem and will be later on handed over to their relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-killed-as-tank-shell-explodes-in-jhansi-village/articleshow/80032911.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Wind up New Year celebration by 9.30pm||LUDHIANA: Not only the New Year party organisers and guests, but the owners of restaurants, hotels and banquet halls may also face FIR if the celebrations violate curfew and Covid-19 guidelines on December 31. The government has given no relaxation for the New Year Eve even as the night curfew will be discontinued and the gathering cap increased from January 1. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “As per the orders of the Punjab government, night curfew will continue till the New Year Eve. All parties will have to wind up by 9.30pm as the curfew will start by 10pm. All the ADCPs, ACPs and SHOs have been directed to ensure compliance of the curfew as well as the Covid guidelines.” Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezihan said, “As per the guidelines, gathering of 100 people indoors and 250 outdoors is allowed. The police can anytime crash into a party to check gathering and if people are wearing mask. An FIR will be lodged against violators, be it guests, the party organisers or the venue owners.”  “The police will remain on roads to ensure law and order after 9.30pm. The city residents are requested to follow the norms and cooperate with the police,” he added. From January 1, the night curfew will be lifted and the indoor gatherings will be increased to 200 and outdoor to 500 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/wind-up-new-year-celebration-by-9-30pm/articleshow/80032711.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||CM’s vision gave UP an upper hand against Covid: Navneet Sehgal||LUCKNOW: Being the most populous state, UP has managed to keep the number of Covid positive cases under check compared to other states due to the vision of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his unrelenting efforts, said additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal. Speaking at the health webinar organised by TOI and Navbharat Times, Sehgal said the CM is now keen on getting the vaccine administered systematically and has instructed 75 officers to travel to every district to monitor and oversee the preparation for vaccine storage. “I myself travelled to Bareilly and spoke to people concerned,” Sehgal said. The CM is holding a review meeting daily with the departments and it is bearing results, he said. Talking about the preparedness, Sehgal said that maintenance of cold chains for vaccine storage is the priority right now. The vaccine will be stored at two degrees to eight degrees temperature in Ice Lined Refrigerators (ILRs). ILRs have been received in all districts. “Our system is geared up to have large storage of vaccines. Due to polio immunisation programme in the past, we already have an infrastructural backup. Also, the state government will get it administered in phases and systematically to avoid chaos and confusion,” he said. Those who would be given the first dose are health workers. Police and jail personnel will get in second phase and those aged above 50 years third phase. “The state government is creating awareness on this phased plan to administer vaccine to people to avoid chaos,” he said. Ensuring security of the vaccine and cold chains is the topmost priority of the government. The home department has already been instructed to ensure the security of vaccine at every step. Vaccination team will be accompanied by one constable and one homeguard, he said. The government is constantly getting the news on social media verified to check the spread of misinformation and fake news. “We are posting back the wrong news as fake news,” said the official. There would be lot of efforts taken up to ensure there is no panic but to talk of them right now will be early, he said. UP’s Covid-19 management has been appreciated by the PM. Team 11 concept of the state government has been taken up by the Centre and also replicated by other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cms-vision-gave-up-an-upper-hand-against-covid-sehgal/articleshow/80036620.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||New Year’s gift: 16,000 constables promoted in UP||LUCKNOW: As many as 16,929 police constables have been promoted to the rank of head constables. Additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar told TOI that after IAS and IPS promotions, the government has ensured timely promotions to police constables also. “In one of the biggest exercises, as many as 16,929 constables have been promoted. There is happiness among the cops. Such moves encourage cops to perform better and also inculcates a sense of responsibility in the police force,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-years-gift-16k-constables-promoted-in-up/articleshow/80036617.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||68 beds earmarked for patients with UK strain||LUCKNOW: Even as all UK returnees have tested negative for Covid-19 so far, as a precautionary measure the health department on Wednesday reserved 68 beds if cases infected with the new strain of novel coronavirus are found in coming days. Additional CMO Dr Milind Kumar said, "While a 30-bed wing has been created at Era's Lucknow Medical College, 20 beds have been reserved in Lok Bandhu hospital and 18 in Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences.” Meanwhile, test reports of three more UK returnees came negative for Covid-19 on Wednesday. With this, all the 117 persons with UK travel history between December 9 and 22 have tested negative, but they have asked to remain in isolation for some days and report if any symptoms appear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/68-beds-earmarked-for-patients-with-uk-strain/articleshow/80036613.cms||Nikhil J Nair
December 31, 2020||Kanpur||Cops bust betting racket, nab 4 bookies, seize Rs 2 crore||KANPUR: Police busted a betting racket in city and arrested four bookies and also seized Rs 2.07 crore in cash in one of the biggest seizures besides a currency counting machine in raids at three locations on Wednesday. As per sources, police officials received reliable inputs about a betting racket flourishing in the city after which teams from three police stations launched a coordinated operation. Police got tip-off from sources that Anil Gupta, Vinay Mishra, Vinay Kumar Gupta and Vicky were indulging in betting on cricket matches along with other persons by using different mobile numbers. Acting on the information, a team from Naubasta Police Station conducted a raid and arrested Anil Gupta and Vinay Mishra from O Block area of Naubasta and recovered Rs 6.52 lakh cash from them. In another raid, Govindnagar police arrested one Saurabh Arora from near Natraj Talkies and recovered Rs 10.6 lakh cash from his possession. Likewise, Raipurwa police arrested Vinay Kumar Gupta and Vicky from Afeem Kothi area and recovered 1.9 crore cash besides a currency counting machine from them. A case under relevant sections of IPC, besides 3/4 Gambling Act has been registered at separate police stations and hunt has been launched to nab other persons involved in the illegal trade. Police teams made the arrests under the supervision of SP (West) Anil Kumar and SP (South) Deepak Bhuker. The operation to bust the betting racket was a coordinated effort between Naubasta, Govindnagar and Raipurwa police. During interrogation, the bookies revealed having links with some person by the last name Kapoor in Delhi, said police officials. “Besides, they also took names of two persons, Ankush and Vicky, both of Agra, who are agents of Kapoor. We are in the process of zeroing in on them and hope that they will be in our net soon,” said SP West Anil Kumar. “Our police teams recovered a currency counting machine, three registers, several mobile phones and several ATM cards from the four arrested bookies,” the SP added. The cops also suspect the involvement of some big fish and think the investigation could lead to an international network of bookies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-bust-betting-racket-nab-4-bookies-seize-rs-2cr/articleshow/80033202.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||Existing corona combat infra to augment vaccination in UP: Jai Pratap Singh||LUCKNOW: The state government has built up a robust infrastructure while managing Covid-19 pandemic in the past 10 months which will be effectively utilised in the upcoming vaccination drive in the state. Besides, the vast experience in handling large-scale immunisation drives that the state has will come handy, said UP's health and family welfare minister Jai Pratap Singh while speaking at the TOI-NBT Project Health webinar on Tuesday to discuss Covid-19 vaccination programme in UP. Talking about the preparation for the vaccination drive, he said that master trainers were providing information and guidance to field staff regarding the protocol laid down by the Centre. Additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal said due to the vision and unrelenting efforts of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Uttar Pradesh managed to keep the number of Covid-19 positive cases under control despite being the most populous state. “The CM is keen on conducting vaccination programmes in a systematic manner and has instructed senior officers to travel to all the districts to monitor and oversee preparations for vaccine storage,” Sehgal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/existing-corona-combat-infra-to-augment-vaccination-in-up-min/articleshow/80036830.cms||Neha Shukla
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Shared what we learnt with a million youngsters across globe through podcasts’||By Naveen Samala & Sudhakar NagandlaToday we are seasoned IT professionals, with prominent positions. But this journey to the top wasn’t easy for either of us, since both came from humble backgrounds, studied in rural parts of India and completed our engineering from tier 2 colleges. Also, there weren’t too many technologies or opportunities available to us during the late 1990’s or early 2000’s. So, when we started working, we decided to share our knowledge with the younger generation. With a passion to give back to society, we used to visit engineering colleges and B-schools, in our spare time, to guide and mentor students and help them in pursuing corporate careers or launching their startups. Once the lockdown was imposed in March, we too went online and started conducting webinars and guest lectures using virtual meeting platforms like Zoom, Teams, WebEx & Google meet. However, our dream was big. So, during the first week of April, we decided to do something different to realise our target -- of reaching out to at least one million youngsters across the globe. We launched a podcast series titled, The Guiding Voice, with the tag line -- For a Better Future – available to all for free. As part of the series, we started interacting with Industry experts, academicians, coaches or young achievers to drive insightful conversations that could help the audience learn things and make informed decisions about their careers. On our part, we learnt new skills like audio editing, mixing, creating graphics and videos from scratch. We also identified podcast hosting platforms and fed our channel details to all podcast streaming platforms. We packed the series with career information in technology, engineering, soft skills and management. Initially, we started reaching out to our friends, colleagues, bosses, senior leaders within our network to drive the conversations. After launching a few episodes, recognizing our reach, hard work and passion to make a difference in society, many professionals started approaching us voluntarily and started contributing to this initiative. While the work is challenging as every episode, on an average, takes 7 to 8 hours to put together – all done over weekends or holidays -- the response we get, is overwhelming. So much so, that we have now started even listeners in to the podcast, encouraging them to ask questions to our experts. It’s been a great learning curve for us as well, and we hope to be able to support and inspire many more through our story. (The two are senior MNC executives)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shared-what-we-learnt-with-a-million-youngsters-across-globe-through-podcasts/articleshow/80035916.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Goa||Undertrial held after fleeing from Mapusa hospital||PANAJI/MAPUSA: A 28-year-old undertrial Vivek Kumar Gautam alias Aryan, a native of Agra, Uttar Pradesh escaped from the North Goa district hospital premises in Mapusa on Tuesday night allegedly with the help of two bike-borne accomplices. He was later apprehended along with the accomplices, including his wife, in Morjim by the crime branch of Goa police late Wednesday evening The accused was referred to the hospital after he started vomiting in the night. An official at Colvale Central jail said that the accused was examined by the doctor at an in-house clinic and was advised to be taken to the hospital. He was sent to Mapusa in a jail ambulance along with two police escorts. “The accused pushed the escort who was holding him handcuffed while they waited for the ambulance in the parking lot to take them back to the jail. With the jolt, the handcuffs came off and the accused ran towards the gate. The escort also chased him,” a police official said. One of the accomplices of the accused, police said, attacked the escort with pepper spray, momentarily blinding him. However, the escort still managed to catch hold of one of the accomplices, while the undertrial and other person managed to escape. However, the duo returned as the escort was wrestling with their companion outside the hospital gate along the road. “One of them, who was armed with a pistol, fired a round, compelling the escort to lie down on the ground to avoid getting shot. The trio later fled the scene,” he said. After being examined by the doctor, the accused was brought out of the hospital by the police escort assuming the ambulance was waiting to take them back, while the other personnel were still inside completing the paperwork. “They (prison authorities) had not received any information from Mapusa police till late Wednesday evening about what exactly transpired apart from the fact that the undertrial had escaped. We suspect everything was pre-planned,” jail official said. The accused is facing trial in a dacoity case. He has also been accused in a theft case registered against him in Uttar Pradesh, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/undertrial-held-after-fleeing-from-mapusa-hospital/articleshow/80035923.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||‘Awards inspire us for quality research’||LUCKNOW: From finding out how ladybirds choose the father of their offsprings, to how polyunsaturated fatty acids found in fish can help cure cancer, students doing high impact research that made a mark at national and international levels were felicitated by Lucknow University (LU) under its Udeepan scheme. Total 89 awards for research were bagged by students, with the highest 49 awards being won by students of physics department, followed by 21 from Zoology, six from Geology, four Botany, three Biochemistry and six of Chemistry. “I have published two research papers in University Grants Commission-listed journals. In my research, I reported that soils of some blocks in Lakhimpur Kheri, UP, are contaminated with arsenic and the block soil in Pallia is highly arsenic contaminated, exceeding WHO limits,” said post doctorate fellow Kiran Gupta of Botany department. Botany PhD student Ved Prakash, who was awarded for his research on biogenic silver nanoparticle being more efficient contrivance for wound healing acceleration than common antiseptics, said, “Awards motivate us and make us more confident to proceed in research.” Four students of zoology department, Tripti Yadav, Priya Singh, Swati Saxena and Shashwat Singh got Udeepan award for their high-impact research papers on ladybirds. “Recognition by the university is like an energy booster drink for all research scholars who get inspired to produce more quality research,” said Swati Saxena involved in research to find out how ladybirds choose the father of their children?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/awards-inspire-us-for-quality-research/articleshow/80036634.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ludhiana||A poor year for bizmen, but taxmen made rich recoveries||LUDHIANA: While pandemic made 2020 a bitter year for the city businessmen, the GST departments tasted sweet success for the first time ever since the implementation of the new tax regime in 2017. Many cases of tax evasion, bogus billing, fleecing the exchequer by misusing e-way bill system were detected by the Central GST (CGST) commissionerate, State GST (SGST) department and directorate general of GST intelligence (DGGI). Besides, the largest number of arrests were made, including the first arrests under the GST Act. There have also been significant tax recoveries. The year started with CGST, Ludhiana, conducting raids on two Ludhiana firms in the Old City that were claiming wrongful refunds on exports by gross overvaluations. During the search, Rs 1.12 crore of GST was deposited voluntarily by one of the firms. Ludhiana DGGI zonal unit too started the year by slapping a case of GST evasion on two prominent passenger bus service companies for suppressing taxable supplies of Rs 15 crore and Rs 2.5 crore. In another major case, DGGI headquarters booked a city firm for fraudulently claiming IGST refunds of more than Rs 61 crore and two directors of the company were also arrested. SGST, in its first major action, busted a bogus billing nexus involving 10 companies that had done fictitious sale and purchase of Rs 350 crore and evaded taxes worth several crores. Three persons were arrested. In August, CGST department conducted a search on a prominent builder having offices in Mohali and other places besides Ludhiana. During the search operation, the company officials tried to hide several documents and other incriminating evidence in the kitchen of their office, but officials discovered them and tax evasion was detected, after which the company deposited Rs 90 lakh. In September, Ludhiana CGST commissionerate booked a distributor of mustard oil for evading tax worth several lakhs by clandestinely selling Rs 10-crore worth oil. After the action, the company deposited GST of Rs 32 lakh and a penalty of Rs 4.8 lakh. In October, in an investigation of a case of availing Rs 61 crore GST by fraudulent means, an on-the-run city businessman was arrested by DGGI headquarters. He was found holidaying in a five-star hotel in Shimla. November was the most action-packed month as officers of the special investigation team of Ludhiana SGST arrested three persons who used non-existent firms to generate fake invoices of more than Rs 350 crore, taking ITC of over Rs 30 crore. The CGST then arrested a businessman who was running 14 firms in his and his family members’ names. The accused was involved in bogus billing of Rs 252 crore and had taken GST worth Rs 17.65 crore. After this, the CGST busted another case involving Rs 158-crore bogus billing and Rs 21-crore ITC and arrested a prominent chartered accountant of Ludhiana and an accountant. The investigation then led to the arrest of a Noida businessman. In a big case of bogus billing busted this year, DGGI unearthed a Rs 1,600-crore bogus billing scam with the arrest of one. In December, CGST made three arrests in Rs 158-crore bogus billing case. And in a Rs 252-crore fake billing case, authorities arrested another businessman who was running seven phoney firms. He had done bogus billing of Rs 97.43 crore, involving ITC of more than Rs 8 crore. Besides, the DGGI conducted raids at more than 12 business and residential premises and detected bogus billing of over Rs 100 crore and a person was also arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/a-poor-year-for-bizmen-but-taxmen-made-rich-recoveries/articleshow/80032728.cms||Mohit Behl
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||Noida woman 2nd UP patient with new strain||LUCKNOW: A 33-year-old woman from Gautam Budh Nagar is the second person from UP who has tested positive for the mutant UK strain of Covid-19. On Tuesday, a two-year-old from Meerut was the first detected case of the UK strain in the state. A senior official said that the latest patient, a resident of Noida, returned to India from the UK on December 17. About 86 contacts of Meerut patient have been tracked through contact tracing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/noida-woman-2nd-up-patient-with-new-strain/articleshow/80036822.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||Cancelled breaks to bring courses back on schedule||LUCKNOW: Lucknow University (LU) has decided to do away with summer and winter breaks in 2021 with an aim to regularise the academic session delayed by six months this year due to Covid-19 and prolonged admission process. Besides, the university will also apply for re-evaluation by the National Accreditation and Assessment Council (NAAC), which has been pending for the past 18 months. This was revealed by LU vice-chancellor Prof AK Rai in an exclusive interview to TOI on Wednesday, the day he completed a year of his three-year term in LU. “The session of first-year of postgraduate courses (PG) has been delayed by six months, while that of undergraduate (UG) is a month behind schedule. However, classes of the rest of the years are on track. We will make up for the period lost in the first year of various courses by cutting on summer and winter vacation in the next one or two years so that both PG and UG courses are complete within their stipulated timeframes of two years and three years. respectively,” he said. Prof Rai added that getting NAAC re-evaluation done was his priority in 2021. “But before that, we are putting our house in order by organising our academic research records, improving teacher-taught ratio by filling vacant posts and adding infrastructure required for better NAAC rating,” Rai said. He also said that LU has registered for the National Institutional Ranking Framework’s assessment in 2021. Replying to a controversy over goofs in PG admission merit lists, the VC said that a committee has been formed to ensure error-free process in future. Explaining how he brought a turnaround in university management, Prof Rai said that he focussed on TEE—Trusting capabilities, Entrust with responsibilities and Empowering to carry out tasks—to motivate teachers to deliver their best. “I introduced decentralisation and transparency in academics, examinations, teachers’ selection and administrative affairs that expedited things pending for long. From teachers’ promotion and recruitment to redressal of students academic and personal problems through one-to-one interaction with teachers and from technical innovations for online education to creation of sports infrastructure, we left no area untouched to make LU excel in all spheres,” he said. Moreover, he added, the new PhD and D’Litt ordinances will ensure better selection of research scholars and introduction of the choice-based credit system at UG and PG levels will make LU courses on a par with international standards. He also informed that LU has requested the government to increase grants and submitted a proposal to the Software Technology Parks of India for making the campus Wi-FI enabled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cancelled-breaks-to-bring-courses-back-on-schedule/articleshow/80036641.cms||Mohita Tewari
December 31, 2020||Ludhiana||9 returnees from UK not Covid-19 infected||LUDHIANA: Nine of the 14 flyers, whose sampling had been done after they returned from the UK recently, have tested negative for coronavirus, while the health officials are still waiting for the virus genome report of a Ludhiana woman, who was also among the returnees. Her virus genome sequencing will confirm whether she is infected with the new virus strain in the UK or the one prevalent here. Health department officials said of the 18 passengers from the UK, including 15 Ludhianvis, samples of 14 were collected. Twelve were high-risk travellers sitting in close proximity to the 35-year-old woman in the UK-Amritsar plane. Their sampling was done after the local health authorities managed to trace them out. “The UK returnees, who have been tested negative, include seven from Jagraon area and one each from Samrala and Payal, while the report of five persons, including four from Lohara, is still awaited. Hopefully, the reports of the remaining five returnees will also be negative,” said a health official. “Although they had been tested at the airport, their sampling was necessary, as the incubation period of the virus can go up to 14 days. Most of the returnees are in home quarantine,” the official said. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat confirmed that nine of the UK returnees have tested negative. Talking about the infected woman, the health officials said the report would make it clear whether she has been infected with the new mutated strain that is 70% more infectious or with the one already prevalent across the globe. She was shifted to the Ludhiana civil hospital on December 26 after testing positive at the Amritsar airport. Dr Hatinder, SMO of the Covid Centre at the civil hospital, said the patient is doing fine. 12 persons most vulnerable According to the health officials, in all 18 persons had returned from the UK by that flight, out of whom 12 were considered to be in the high-risk category, as they were sitting close to the woman carrying the infection. It was crucial to collect their samples, as they were most vulnerable to contracting the infection, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/9-returnees-from-uk-not-covid-19-infected/articleshow/80032752.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath to inaugurate Carpet Expo Mart in Bhadohi today||LUCKNOW: Bhadohi’s carpet industry is set to get a boost with a new Carpet Expo Mart in Bhadohi. The building, to be inaugurated by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday, will house shops and an exhibition centre which will help bring sellers and buyers under one roof. During Thursday’s ceremony, the CM is also scheduled to inaugurate 10 development projects for Bhadohi and lay the foundation stone for five other projects. “At present, the annual export of carpets from Bhadohi is about Rs 8,000 crore and this mart will help to increase exports. Other than making available all types of carpets to buyers under one roof, the mart will also help carpet makers and sellers to explore new markets and find new buyers,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (MSME). The mart has been built by the MSME and Exports Promotion Department at a cost of Rs 170 crore. Spread over 7.50 acres, the mart has two buildings which include a shopping mart and an exhibition hall. The three-storey shopping mart complex is built in an area of 7,000 sqm and has 94 shops, which include 30 shops on the ground floor, 31 on the first floor and 33 on the second floor. The two-storey exhibition hall building is spread over an area of 3,400 sqm and has two exhibition halls, one each on the ground floor and the first floor. The building is centrally air conditioned and will also have a canteen. The Bhadohi carpet industry is part of the state government’s one district-one product scheme where traditional crafts of each district have been identified for improvement and promotion. The new mart will also function as a common facilitation centre for all stakeholders where international export conferences, buyer-seller meets and other activities will be organised to give a boost to the carpet industry and generate employment, said Sehgal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogi-to-inaugurate-carpet-expo-mart-in-bhadohi-today/articleshow/80036685.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||Of arts of overcoming crisis & taking on flaks||In the year of Covid-19, if UP not only did reasonably well in containing the number of cases and fatalities, but also raised the health infrastructure in an unprecedented way, a lot of credit for this should go to the leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. His balancing act -- protecting his people from the disease and at the same time maintaining pace of development and economy -- has earned him plaudits from experts. The WHO has praised UP for its extensive contact-tracing to check the pandemic and experts have welcomed his bold moves like relaxing labour laws to invite investment and pulling out all stops to facilitate the establishment of Film City in Greater Noida. He was on the move right from the time Covid cases started pouring in and a migrant crisis erupted suddenly in March. With a fragile medical infrastructure and limited manpower, it was a major challenge to prevent an outbreak in the state with a 23 crore population. “Yogi marshalled his resources well, and led from the front. He formed Team 11 and is still holding its daily meeting for the past 10 months. It helped the strategists to get a grip on the problem and stay ahead of the virus,” says a political analyst. He was the first CM to announce that he would not only bring back migrants from other states but also students from Kota and many other UP residents stranded elsewhere. Nearly 40lakh migrants came to UP and the government did skill-mapping of nearly 32 lakh of them so that they could be provided with employment as per their expertise. Following the dictum ‘‘apda mein awsar” (opportunity in crisis), the CM set up a special group of ministers, including Suresh Khanna and Sidharth Nath Singh, for fetching investment in the state , especially those which are flying out of China. German footwear giant Von Wellx has already shifted and started production in Agra while Korean mobile phone major Samsung is all set to start its augmented facility in GB Nagar. After three months of low, UP finances are back to pre-Covid levels. All big-ticket projects like Noida International Airport, Metros in Agra and Kanpur, or a chain of Expressways are well in track. PM Modi has time and again praised UP for the handling of Covid crisis and recently went up to the extent of calling UP ‘the state of expressways’. On the political front, Yogi scored well and did not compromise on his beliefs. From forming anti-Romeo squads to anti-conversion law for checking ‘love jihad’ and from a crackdown on organised gangs and anti-CAA and NCR protesters, he was unrelenting. “UP was also in news for wrong reasons like handling of Hathras case and lodging of frivolous cases against interfaith couples. Besides, many of his moves invited criticism, but Yogi was nonchalant. He knows what will give him benefits in 2022 state polls,” says another political commentator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/of-arts-of-overcoming-crisis-taking-on-flaks/articleshow/80036816.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||144 teachers & scholars bag LU honours for excelling in research||LUCKNOW: It was a red-letter day for Lucknow University on Wednesday when 144 teachers and research scholars were honoured for bringing laurels to the institution with their research work and projects. The awards, instituted to recognise and boost research and innovation, were given in three categories – ‘Udeepan’ for bring name to LU by bagging fellowships, awards and projects, ‘Acclaim’ for ongoing innovative research and ‘Protsahan’ for publications in high-impact journals. Of total 144 awards, 59 were given to teachers and 85 to research scholars. Among departments, physics topped the list with 65 awards followed by zoology (39), geology (11), chemistry (10), botany (8), biochemistry (5), statistics (2) and Sanskrit, sociology, English and social work (one each). Assistant professor in physics department, Punit Kumar, bagged highest four awards in three categories. “I have received recognition at various national and international platforms in 15 years of service but this is special as for the first time my university has honoured me,” he said. He has carried out six research projects with various national and international agencies, written three books and has 45 research works published in international journals. Faculty members Poonam Tandon (physics) and Shalie Malik (zoology) got three awards each. Nine teachers – Rajesh Singh (geology), Omkar, Madhu Gupta, M Serajuddin, Monisha Banerjee, Amit Tripathi, Geetanjali Mishra (all from zoology department), Shambhavi Mishra (statistic) and Rajiv Manohar (physics) – bagged two awards each. Rudra Pratap Singh (English) who was honoured under ‘Acclaim’ category, said recognition would boost research activities, particularly in humanities. Another ‘Acclaim’ awardee Pawan Kumar Misra (sociology) said, “Appreciation from one’s own organization fills one with energy and motivation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/144-teachers-scholars-bag-lu-honours-for-excelling-in-research/articleshow/80036627.cms||Mohita Tewari
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||Jawahar Bagh set to open in new avatar||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will dedicate the renovated Jawahar Park in Mathura to the public next month. State energy minister Shrikant Sharma told TOI that the Jawahar Park, once a hub of squatters, has been given a grand makeover by the state government. The chief minister is likely to inaugurate the park around Makar Sankranti in mid-January, Sharma said. Spread over 150 acres, the sprawling park will have many attractions for the public, the minister said. He added that some parts of the park have been named after the two policemen who were killed in the violent clash between the police and the squatters in the Jawahar Park in 2016. A violent clash took place in the Jawahar Park during the Samajwadi Party rule on June 2, 2016, when the police tried to evict the encroachers led led by Ram Vriksh Yadav. The squatters were heavily armed and attcked the police personnel. In the ensuing clash, two policemen and about 35 squatters, including Yadav, were killed. Yadav ran a parallel government, complete with administration, revenue and armed forces, within the park. Sharma, who represents Mathura assembly constituency, has carried out various beautification drives in his constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jawahar-bagh-set-to-open-in-new-avatar/articleshow/80036809.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 31, 2020||Goa||Active Covid tally drops, death toll at 738 in Goa||PANAJI: Goa’s active tally of Covid-19 cases dropped to 930 on Wednesday as recoveries for the day exceeded new infections detected. As many as 114 people were cured, while 97 more people tested positive for the virus. With two mortalities, the toll rose to 738. Two men – a 72-year-old from Ponda and an 85-year-old from Canacona – both suffering from chronic kidney disease besides other morbidities, died while undergoing treatment at Goa Medical College and hospital. The positivity rate reduced to 4%, whereas the recovery rate rose by a point to 97%. The day saw 37 hospital admissions, while 70 patients opted for home isolation on testing positive. Centres such as Mapusa, Panaji, Pernem, Chimbel and Corlim witnessed a marginal rise in infections, and in the South, Curtorim, Quepem, Loutolim and Shiroda reported a few new cases, whereas Margao and Ponda saw a drop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-tally-drops-death-toll-at-738/articleshow/80035942.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||Launch drive against drugs, liquor: CM Yogi Adityanath to youth, women||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has appealed to Yuvak and Mahila Mangal Dals, local groups of youngsters formed at village level to promote sports and assist in various social projects, to start a campaign against alcoholism and use of drugs. While distributing sports kits to over 67,000 groups on Wednesday, the CM said Yuvak and Mahila Mangal Dals should work towards creating harmony in their respective villages, especially when panchayat elections are around the corner. “You have helped the administration in emergency situations during Covid-19 lockdown and many have been holding weekly sanitation campaign. You can also contribute towards educating people, increasing awareness and resolving disputes. During panchayat elections, the groups can help prevent petty disputes and instil sporting spirit in candidates,” he said. “If the members of the groups think that someone is trying to breach peace and influence election, they should inform the administration,” the CM said. Referring to Opposition parties, Yogi said those who claimed to enjoy the support of youth had actually done nothing for them, adding that it was under his government a scheme for youths, which was lying defunct for 20 years, was revived. “It is important to harness the energy of the youth for positive outcome as it is necessary for the development of society. Encouragement of sports activities among the youth will encourage them to join services like police,” he added. “If the youth power is threatened by intoxication, fights and other negative things, it is a huge loss for society and country. Sports teaches us the importance of teamwork. A team is like a family which works together. Our victories should not make us arrogant while our losses should not dissuade us from trying harder. A person who wins the Olympics does not suddenly reach that level but starts small,” the CM said. Yogi said there should be a Yuvak and Mahila Dal in each of the 2 lakh revenue villages in the state. Currently, 67,852 dals are registered in the state of which 38,058 are Yuvak Dals and 29,794 Mahila Dals. These groups, formed by the youth welfare department, comprise of members in the age group of 15-35 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/launch-drive-against-drugs-liquor-cm-to-youth-women/articleshow/80036722.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||Research insts parrot govt line on farm laws||NAGPUR: Amid protests over new farm laws by farmers, two premier research affiliates under Indian Council for Agriculture Research (ICAR) in the city have backed the legislations. The Central Institute of Cotton Research (CICR) and Central Citrus Research Institute (CCRI) have said the laws are beneficial for farmers. The institutes primarily deal with research, breeding of variety, agronomy, plant protection and production of cotton and citrus fruit respectively. Their statements in support of the controversial laws at this juncture suggest the Modi government is deploying its machinery to convince farmers to give up their demand for repealing the laws. At the same, the backing raise questions on the autonomy of institutes, as the step appears to have been taken under pressure. A former ICAR official explained such institutes do have economic research wings. If such statements come after a study by experts in this field, then the institutes can always have a say. However, it should not come as a diktat from the higher-ups to the institutes. Activists have also raised objection over the statements. “CCRI and CICR need to review their own work first. Has there been any notable research that has benefited farmers so far? It appears the statements have been issued under pressure from government,” said Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission, a state government agency. “It’s indeed unusual for CICR or CCRI to speak on such matters. In that case, they should have also come up with statements on other issues raised by farmers,” said Vijay Jawandhia, a veteran activist. When asked what message they want to send to farmers, CICR director YG Prasad said, “We have not talked about general laws, trade Act or purchase agreement. We have only tried to relate it to cotton production and what are the current practices. We have a social sciences wing — economics and extension. It does market studies. Because of Covid, they could not do a detailed study this year. We have a mandate of market studies as well, besides being a research body. Cotton production is a supply chain system. We address supply side constraints.” However, the CICR release also says misleading information on closure of APMCs and abandoning of MSP is a myth to be dispelled. “Government steps in when cotton prices fall below MSP through purchase of seed cotton by Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), apart from CCIs commercial operations to ensure quality cotton supply for domestic consumption. Highest quantity of about 106 lakh bales of cotton was procured by CCI during last year. This is about 30 per cent of the cotton produced in India. These acts are beneficial to farmers and their implementation will make farming more profitable even for small and marginal farmers,” the note further said. In its press statement, CICR has said that the delays in payment, market charges and complex methods of price determination are deterring cotton farmers from selling in APMCs. “The new farm acts enable the cotton farmer to sell directly to the ginner. As per the old laws, direct purchase by the ginners was not allowed. There was also fear of rejection of the cotton at APMC due to quality aspects,” the note reads. “New farm acts facilitate the farmers and buyers to sell or buy cotton wherever they want. Removal of interstate restrictions enables ginners of other states to purchase cotton at competitive prices. Alternatively, if the prices fall below MSP, farmers can sell cotton to the government agencies,” it states. The later part of the press statement indicates the research body is toeing the BJP government’s line. CCRI director MS Ladaniya didn’t respond to TOI’s calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/research-insts-parrot-govt-line-on-farm-laws/articleshow/80034405.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Need to reflect: Glow tape for strays, none for parked trucks||LUDHIANA: To prevent collisions with stray animals in the fog, the district police now put reflective tape on their horns and collars. It's a question, however, why they left the barricades, the concrete diverters, and the vehicles parked on the national highway. Additional deputy commissioner of police-1, Deepak Pareek, said the high-standard reflective tape was good for long-distance visibility. The glowing strays can be spotted from more than a kilometre in the fog. ADCP Pareek added: “We started this campaign from the vegetable market and have now taken it to the grain market and Hambran Road. Volunteer oganisation People for Animals (PFA) helps us.” On December 4, the traffic police gave away pamphlets about fog driving tips at Bharat Nagar Chowk. On December 18, they had a meeting with the transporters to ask them to put reflector tapes on the trucks parked on the highway. This is to avoid accidents in the dark and conditions such as the current foggy weather. Collisions with the stray animals have even killed some motorists. The Ludhiana rural police had started similar campaigns in October 2009 and April 2018. The district legal service authority (DSLA) was the partner oganisation. The authorities, however, have neither moved the concrete lane-marker blocks from roads nor put any reflector tape on those. Roadside parking remains a problem. The tailing cars keep crashing into those stationary trucks behind the curtain of fog. The TOI saws truck parked on the fog-enveloped Delhi and Amritsar highways. Parking on the national highways is forbidden. Assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Gurdev Singh said: “We are on with an enforcement campaign of daily fines to the drivers who park on the highways. On Thursday, we will start catchig the defaulting cyclists as well. The traffic police will visit factories to distribute the reflector tape that can save the Ludhaina cyclists from fatal road accidents. Asked about the measures to remove the concrete blocks, he said: "We will write to the NHAI (Natinal Highways Authority of India) and the local municipal corporation."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/need-to-reflect-glow-tape-for-strays-none-for-parked-trucks/articleshow/80032742.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 31, 2020||Varanasi||Cops alert people against fake calls for Covid-19 vaccine registration||GORAKHPUR: The health and the police department appealed to people not to fall into the trap of fraud in the name of registration for Covid-19 vaccination and to not share any important personal details like their Aadhaar card number, bank account details or OTP if they receive any phone call regarding the same. “No phone calls are being made by the health department for registration of Covid-19 vaccination. The vaccination of front line warriors (health workers) will be made in the third week of January next year and there is no registration programme being conducted for Covid-19 vaccination at present,” said CMO Dr Srikant Tiwari. “There is no need of giving any details to anyone in the name of registration of vaccination as people could become victims of cyber crime and many cases of fraud in the name of registration for Covid-19 vaccination have come into cognizance, however no such case has taken place in the district so far,” he said. ADG Dawa Sherpa said, “Cases of online fraud in the name of Covid vaccine registration have come into light so I appeal to people not to become victims of such fraud and I would also like to make it clear that no company or the government has appealed for vaccine distribution or vaccination. The public will be informed as and when the vaccination process starts. We are making preparations to handle the crowd as everyone is eagerly waiting for Covid-19 vaccination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cops-alert-people-against-fake-calls-for-covid-19-vaccine-registration/articleshow/80032761.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Goa||Follow SOPs during New Year celebrations: CM||Panaji: In view of the New Year celebrations amid the Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that hotels, tourists and party organisers should follow standard operating procedures (SOP) to curb the spread of coronavirus. Sawant said that the state government is committed to creating awareness among citizens regarding social distancing, sanitisation and wearing of face masks during celebrations. “The police and health department are working to enforce the guidelines,” Sawant said. In a press conference held to spell out the government’s list of “achievements” during the year while handling the Covid outbreak, the chief minister said that the government took up the task of repatriating stranded seafarers. He also said that 1.2 lakh migrant labours returned to their respective states with the assistance of the state government during the pandemic. Within a short span, the government created infrastructure for Covid, including setting up of testing facilities, hospitals, etc, Sawant said. Goa began manufacturing sanitisers and personal protection equipment (PPE) kits in the state, while the pharma sector continued operations and exporting medicines to foreign countries, he said. The chief minister said that while the state faced financial crisis due to the pandemic, the government did not halt any social security scheme. Elaborating on the government’s future plans, Sawant said that 12 farmers producing organisation in all talukas will be formed that will boost the agricultural sector. He also said that 500 clusters have started for organic farming. Sawant said that through the Swayampurna Goa initiative, 50% of Goa’s requirements would be met next year, and that the government will focus on export of Goan items. He said also that 15 to 20 new items have been shortlisted for Geographical Indication (GI) tagging. The chief minister said that the state government is also exploring the idea of commencing cruise tourism in Goa on public private partnership (PPP), while also exuding confidence that Mopa airport will begin operations in 2022. He added that the government will work towards completing the electronic manufacturing cluster at Tuem next year. Training for Goan youth to appear for UPSC exams, commencement of 150 electric buses for Kadamba, plans for setting up a tribal research centre, the new tourism policy, etc, were some other aspects that Sawant touched upon during the media briefing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/follow-sops-during-new-year-celebrations-cm/articleshow/80035984.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Dehradun||Muted celebrations in Nainital, Mussoorie this New Year||Nainital: The year-end rush is not the same this time but major tourist destinations of the hill state have put up festive lights anyway, on a small scale. In Nainital and Mussoorie, decorations could be seen on the Mall Road and other tourist attractions. Hotel lobbies have also been decked up for the New Year. “Because of the pandemic and the consequent restriction on gatherings, we haven’t made any arrangements for parties. This year, we avoided putting up elaborate decorations and opted for a small makeover. The tourist footfall is low compared to previous years but it’s the highest we have had this year,” Nainital hotelier Ved Sah. “We will not organise any DJ party on New Year’s Eve as per instructions of the district administration,” said RN Mathur, president of Mussoorie Hotels’ Association. In Mussoorie, hoteliers said they had lost quite a bit of business because of the ban on parties. “We did make arrangements to organise parties but then the Dehradun district administration issued a ban and we cancelled those,” said the general manager of a five star hotel in Mussoorie. Last week, Doon district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava had issued an order banning any kind of party. An amended order on Tuesday allowed for parties sans DJ and dancing, while maintaining social distancing. “While hotels in Rishikesh and Corbett are packed, a lot of our bookings were cancelled due to the curbs,” rued a hotelier, who refused to be named. In Nainital, district magistrate Savin Bansal said as there was no curfew, tourists could roam around on the Mall Road as late as they wanted to. “There is no restriction on movement as such, as long as physical distancing and other precautions against the virus are followed,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/muted-celebrations-in-nainital-mussoorie-this-new-year/articleshow/80032777.cms||Prashant Jha
December 31, 2020||Goa||Raze Chaudi buildings, govt urged||MARGAO: Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco has written to chief minister Pramod Sawant and deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar, stressing on the need for demolition of the remaining two buildings of the Ruby Residency project at Chaudi, Canacona. One of the four buildings of the project had collapsed on January 4, 2014, killing 36 labourers, while the other next to it was demolished subsequently. “A committee constituted by the government led by then chief minister Manohar Parrikar comprised experts from Goa Engineering College that did a thorough investigation, and (they recommended demolition of) all the remaining three 5 storey buildings as the structures are unstable, but sadly only one of the three was demolished for name sake,” Lourenco said in his letter. “One wonders how our state government continues to turn a blind eye to the matter after the furore that surrounded the official ‘state’ disaster,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/raze-chaudi-buildings-govt-urged/articleshow/80035971.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||Launch special job campaign for welfare of tribals, says Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: For the uplift of the tribal community in the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to carry out a special recruitment drive with emphasis on filling reserved government posts. During a review of the department of tribal welfare on Wednesday, the CM said that tribals have a rich cultural heritage and it is necessary to enrich it further. “A special drive should be conducted to ensure that they get government jobs and proper representation as per their numbers. Tribal youth should be given coaching and connected with skill development programmes. They should be encouraged to become self-employed,” he said. He asked basic education department to ensure that children of tribals are inducted into primary schoools. A mega festival on tribals should also be organized even as a museum on tribals should also be developed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/launch-spl-job-campaign-for-welfare-of-tribals-says-yogi/articleshow/80036733.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||'Books to tea, lockdown gave me time to pursue my hobbies'||By Vikas SinghThe lockdown and the raging pandemic had every reason to make me feel depressed and stressed. For more than six months we kept hearing horrifying stories about ambulances charging exorbitant amounts, ventilators and ICU beds not being available and Covid patients dying unattended. I had never imagined such a grim scenario. But there was, however, a silver lining. The lockdown offered me an opportunity to indulge in my passions, which had taken a back seat due to time constraint. To start with, I pursued my fascination with the world of teas. I enrolled in a four-part course offered by the International Tea Academy on Udemy and became a certified Tea Sommelier. Then came the Indian steam railway, narrow-gauge and heritage -- another of my passions. A founder member of the Indian Steam railway society and Rail Enthusiast society, I have been indulging in railfanning trips and railway photography whenever I had time. During the lockdown, I finally found time to shift through thousands of pictures and complete my book on the Indian Steam Survivors. Our society also found more participation from across the globe, thanks to our online talks. We are now organising a two-day conference- ‘Romancing the railways’ in March. A passionate bibliophile, I also found time during lockdown to read the entire works of Agatha Christie – one of my favourite authors -- and even write a paper, ‘My Journey with Agatha Christie’. This year at the Agatha Christie annual festival I was invited as fan guest of honour to deliver a talk on the same subject. I also increased traffic on my two fan community pages for Agatha Christie and Ruskin Bond. Since I had time in hand I started curating and sharing engaging content on the pages that led to fan following increasing dramatically. The Agatha Christie fan page now has more than 5,000 followers while Ruskin Bond fan page has close to 30,000 followers. Holocaust and Jewish racial discrimination have always been an area of interest for me. During the lockdown I completed courses on The Holocaust: The Destruction of European Jewry, a UC Santa Cruz course offered on Coursera and The Holocaust - An Introduction: Nazi Germany: Ideology, The Jews and the World, a Tel Aviv University and Yad Vashem course offered on Coursera. I also read a number of books on the subject including those by Primo Levi, Elie Wiesel and Hannah Arendt. I could also watch movies on the subject on various OTT platforms. In all, the last 10 months have been in many ways a happy diversion for me to indulge in my hobbies and passions, fighting off the pandemic stress with a positive mindset. (The writer is a band & marketing executive)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/books-to-tea-lockdown-gave-me-time-to-pursue-my-hobbies/articleshow/80035969.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Goa||80% of UK-returnees, contacts at ESI-Covid hospital below age of 50||MARGAO/PANAJI: Most of the Covid 19-infected persons admitted in the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, are younger people, with over 80% of them under the age of 50. All of them, altogether 47, are UK-returnees and their immediate contacts. The ESI hospital Margao, the state’s first designated Covid hospital, which hadn’t seen any fresh admissions ever since the last patient under treatment was discharged on November 30, has suddenly witnessed a flurry of activities over the last few days. The hospital had successfully treated nearly 2,400 Covid-19 cases over the last nine months, including critical ones and those with multiple comorbidities. Of the 47 Covid-infected people currently admitted in the ESI-Covid hospital, 35 are under the age of 50, while just 12 are in the 50-70 age bracket. Only 4 are senior citizens. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the samples of two returnees sent for genomic study at National Institute of Virology, Pune, has returned negative while reports of the other suspects are awaited. The largest number of patients admitted in the ESI-hospital is within the 21-30 age group, followed closely by those in 31-40 range. Eight of them are under the age of 20, with two aged below 10 years, data obtained from health department sources revealed. Sources in the ESI hospital said that while almost all the patients are asymptomatic, a very few have comorbid conditions. Significantly, most of them – 41, are from South Goa. Meanwhile, the work of upgradation of the new South Goa district hospital, Margao has gathered pace. Sources in the state’s health department said that work is under way to turn the new medical facility into a state-of-the-art Covid hospital, complete with operation theatre, ICU, modern medical facilities and diagnostic tools, at the earliest. Currently, only mild to moderate cases, as well as step-down patients, are admitted in the South Goa district hospital. Though there haven’t been any major spikes of Covid-19 cases in the state of late, medical experts are keeping a close watch on the emerging situation, particularly following the detection of the new coronavirus variant in the UK, and with hordes of domestic tourists thronging the state for the New Year celebration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/80-of-uk-returnees-contacts-at-esi-covid-hospital-below-age-of-50/articleshow/80035965.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Goa||High influx of tourists keeps lifeguards busy||Calangute: Thousands of tourists thronging the Calangute-Candolim beach stretch are keeping lifeguards on their toes. Drishti Marine stated that domestic tourists venture into deep waters despite being advised over loudspeakers against doing so due to dangerous rip currents. Two tourists were saved from drowning on Wednesday. In the first incident, one tourist among a group of 10 persons from Hyderabad drifted into deeper waters. Two lifeguards rushed to his rescue and brought him ashore. In another incident, a Maharashtra tourist got caught in a rip current. Lifeguards rushed to his assistance and brought him ashore using a rescue tube and board. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/high-influx-of-tourists-keeps-lifeguards-busy/articleshow/80035987.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||SP sole challenger from Oppn camp in poll year||The gloom and desperation that 2020 symbolised reflected onUP's opposition parties as well. Barring occasional flashes from Congress, the other opposition parties, including BSP, RLD and other regional parties, remained listless, leaving the field open for the Samajwadi Party and its leader Akhilesh Yadav to emerge as the sole challenger to the BJP in the year before the Big Battle of 2022. The fact the SP has become the destination for a large number of well-established functionaries of other opposition parties bears testimony to this. In the past three months, since the lockdown restrictions were withdrawn, more than 50 former MPs, MLAs and office-bearers of the BSP and Congress have hitched on to the Samajwadi bicycle, abandoning their parties with 'no future’. Akhilesh stunned the Congress when he inducted former MP of the grand old party from Unnao Annu Tandon into the SP fold. Amidst the strict lockdown protocol when political activities had come to a standstill, most of the parties had restricted their activities only to virtual interactions. When the migrant crisis erupted,Akhilesh guided his team to reach out to the workers in need. It was a well-calculated political move to ‘reach out to masses’ as was exhorted by partyideologue Ram Manohar Lohia. At the same time, he also kept meeting his workers virtually across the state and opened channels to smaller outfits like Peace Party and the SBSP. After two failed experimentswith BSP and Congress, he has announced that his party would have alliances only with smaller parties. Akhilesh also trumped his political opponents when he sprang a surprise in the Rajya Sabha elections by fielding Prakash Bajaj as an unexpected candidate, forcing the BJP and the BSP to join hands for the BSPcandidate. An agitated Mayawati reacted immediately, stating that to defeat theSP she would not even mind taking support of any party, including the BJP. On the other hand, while the BSP president was seen goingsoft on the BJP, she also removedMuslims from holding any key position in the party, sacking Munqad Ali as theparty’s state president. This triggered an exodus of netas and many of its MLAsand cadres joined the SP. Same is the case with the Congress in the state as AICC general secretary and in charge of the party affairs of UP Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has restricted herself to tweets and video-conferences, causing discontent among party cadres. Her on-field protest during anti-CAA agitation and Hathras case did well on social media,but hardly got any traction in the masses. UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu,though remained active all through the year on the streets, is not taken seriously by his own party men who are perturbed over the manner the party has been ‘hijacked’ by leaders with left approach. Today, the UPCC is a divided house where loyalists and the committed workers are on the margins, says a political analyst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-sole-challenger-from-oppn-camp-in-poll-year/articleshow/80036770.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||Agriculture department officials asked not to process offline proposals||LUCKNOW: The state agriculture department has sounded an alarm over repeated complaints of officials resorting to processing of investment proposals offline despite UP government clear instruction of providing all services online. Additional chief secretary, Devesh Chaturvedi, in a strongly worded missive sent to UP State Agro Industrial Corporation, directorate of agriculture, Mandi Parishad and agro-marketing and seed development corporation, said that the department was repeatedly receiving complaints about officials adopting offline practice. He said that the department would initiate strict action against the officials against whom the complaints are found to be true. The state cabinet had on December 11 made single window ‘Nivesh Mitr’ applicable since July 1, 2018. Chaturvedi pointed out that chief minister Yogi Adityanath during a meeting to review ease of doing business on September 14 had stressed that all departments would ensure that the services which have been made online or are proposed to be made online would impose a complete ban on submission of offline applications without any exception. “Departmental action would be initiated in case any official accepts an application offline,” Chaturvedi said. Significantly, UP made its entry into the top ranks of states that have become better destinations to do business in 2019, jumping 10 positions to displace Telangana as the second best performer. The state rose up the ranks based on its ability to better implement a range of reforms ranging from single-window clearances to easier access to information. UP has implemented 186 of the 187 reforms suggested by the Union government’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) under Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP) 19. The ACS said the government was receiving complaints that officials, in some cases, were demanding hard copies of documents for processing of applications. “The applicants were also forced to come to offices to get their application processed which is not acceptable,” Chaturvedi said. He said that a three-month stabilization period be provided for the services which have been made online. “After three months, no application will be received offline and no application would be asked for hard copies,” Chaturvedi said. He said that the agencies associated with the agriculture department should conduct reviews every month and take strict action against officials who are found violating the directive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/agri-dept-officials-asked-not-to-process-offline-proposals/articleshow/80036779.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||BJP inducts, sacks ‘Shaheen Bagh shooter’||LUCKNOW: The Ghaziabad unit of BJP on Wednesday cancelled the membership of Kapil Gujjar, the alleged ‘Shaheen Bagh shooter’, hours after he was reportedly inducted into the party fold in the district. BJP’s Ghaziabad district president Sanjeev Sharma said that Kapil was among a host of party workers who were inducted into the party from the BSP. “We did not have the knowledge of his alleged involvement in the Shaheen Bagh shootout. It was after his involvement in the incident was confirmed that the party leadership decided to cancel his membership with immediate effect,” he said. Early on Wednesday, reports about the man known for firing shots in the air amid Anti CAA-NRC protests at Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh locality joing the BJP went viral. A video of the incident, that took place on February 1, 2020, showed Gujjar screaming, “In our country, only Hindus will prevail, nobody else.” According to witnesses, he fired two or three times while standing besides the police. Gujjar was arrested and booked in various sections of the IPC for firing and using illegal weapon. BJP sources said Wednesday that the party leadership wanted to distance itself from the person who was reportedly engaged in unlawful activity, in what could have given opposition an opportunity to corner the saffron party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-inducts-sacks-shaheen-bagh-shooter/articleshow/80036774.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Goa||New Year’s Eve may get light rain in Goa||PANAJI: The year is expected to come to an end with showers of blessings from the sky. The India meteorological department (IMD) forecast reveals that Goa may experience light rain as the year ends. Light rain and thundershower is very likely at isolated places over the state on December 31, IMD warned. The weather is very likely to be dry on January 1st, 2nd and 3rd, however. IMD also said that there was no large change in minimum temperature over North and South Goa. “They were normal over North Goa district and South Goa district of the state. The lowest minimum temperature of 21.0°C was recorded at Panaji and Mormugao.” IMD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-years-eve-may-get-light-rain/articleshow/80036010.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Allahabad||MNNIT’s 17th convocation to be held virtually today||PRAYAGRAJ: The 17th annual convocation-2020 of Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)-Allahabad, Prayagraj, will be held in virtual mode on Thursday. As many as 1,397 students of various courses shall be awarded degrees on the occasion. Union minister of education, Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, will be the chief guest of the event while DP Singh, chairman of MNNIT board of governors (BOG) will preside over the ceremony, informed MNNIT-Allahabad director and chairman of the institute/senate, Professor Rajeev Tripathi. Addressing media persons online on the eve of the ceremony, Prof Tripathi said that the event will witness 861 B.Tech, 304 M.Tech, 83 MCA, 39 MBA, 18 MSc, and 92 PhD degrees being awarded to students virtually. During the convocation event, 82 foreign students admitted through Direct Admission of Students Abroad (DASA) and three students admitted through Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) shall also be receiving their degrees, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mnnits-17th-convocation-to-be-held-virtually-today/articleshow/80032831.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Goa||KTC buses trade Chorla for Anmod ghat||Panaji: Rough travelling conditions and bad roads on Chorla ghat route have prompted the Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTCL) to divert its buses back on the Goa-Belagavi route via the Anmod ghat from Wednesday onwards. “We had been operating the Goa to Belagavi buses through Anmod ghat but had diverted them to travel via the Chorla ghat. Now, we have restored the operations via the Anmod ghat from Wednesday onwards,” KTC general manager, Sanjay Ghate said. Currently, only one bus is plying through the Chorla ghat while five are travelling on the Anmod ghat route. “The forest department has allowed buses to travel via the Anmod ghat. We are glad because currently, the Chorla ghat road is in a very bad shape,” Ghate said. Compared to its other interstate routes, KTC buses to Karnataka had been receiving good response after they resumed following the lockdown. Initially 15 buses were started on this route. The strength was slightly reduced later. In mid-November, the Valpoi block Congress committee members submitted a memorandum, giving PWD’s roads section a 15-day ultimatum for repairing the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-buses-trade-chorla-for-anmod-ghat/articleshow/80036016.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Gangsters land in trouble, police seized Rs 758 crore property in a year||LUCKNOW: The mafiosi of UP’s badlands appear to have had a tough time this year with the police cracking down on them on a war footing. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that the police brought down the economic empires of gangsters by seizing their property worth Rs 758 crore across the state. While Rs 88 crore worth property was seized in Lucknow, other top districts included Gautam Buddh Nagar with Rs 66 crore, Balrampur with Rs 58 crore, Ghazipur with Rs 42 crore, Gorakhpur with Rs 38 crore, Auraiya Rs 31 crore, Jaunpur with Rs 29 crore, Muzaffarnagar with Rs 28 crore, Prayagraj with Rs 26 crore and Deoria with Rs 24 crore. The officer said that the confiscation of the property was done after registration of Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986 against them. Officials said that the action followed directives of chief minister Yogi Adityanath for adopting a zero tolerance policy against crime and criminals. According to a senior UP police official at the DGP headquarters, 2,703 cases have been registered under the Gangster’s Act since January 1 after which 8,906 people were arrested and properties of 445 listed criminals were seized, which included Mukhtar Ansari, Atiq Ahmed, Khan Mubarak and Sundar Bhati gang members. While properties to the tune of Rs 75 crore were seized from Mukhtar Ansari and his aides, assets worth another Rs 50 crore belonging to Atiq Ahmed have either been seized or razed. Property worth Rs 25 crore of Nizamuddin alias Nizam, Satyaveer Bansal and Brijesh Mavi, an active member of the Sundar Bhati gang, was attached by the police commissionerate in Gautam Buddha Nagar under the Gangster Act. Properties worth Rs 6 crore belonging to gangster Raman Sahni of Sitapur, who has 18 criminal cases against him, were also confiscated. Likewise, assets worth Rs 7 crore belonging to gangster Khan Mubarak of Ambedkarnagar were also seized by the district administration and police. Mubarak has 35 cases registered against him in different districts of the state. At least a dozen gun licences of his aides have also been seized. Last month, property worth Rs 16 crore belonging to Deoria’s zila panchayat president Ram Pravesh Yadav, who was booked in four cases, was confiscated by the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gangsters-land-in-trouble-police-seized-rs-758cr-property-in-a-year/articleshow/80036794.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 3-year-old leopard rescued from residential area||JAIPUR: After a five-hour long operation, a leopard that strayed out of Jhalana Forest Reserve and reached a residential colony was rescued safely by the forest department on Wednesday. The rescue team tranquilised the wild cat in the fourth attempt after the dart hit the tail. The team said the leopard was three-year male popularly known as Kajod. TimesViewJaipur’s growth as a city has severely reduced the habitat of leopards in the Jhalana Forest Reserve over the last decade. With no buffer area, the reserve's issues have been compounded by colonies developed outside the forest land. As the number of leopards increase, demanding more space, authorities have to find solutions to ensure a safe and sustainable habitat for these wild animals. An official body consisting of forest officials and related departments can be deputed for making better use of forest land, taking into consideration all the needs of wildlife as well as tourists.On Wednesday, panic gripped in the area surrounding Jagatpura, when local resident Shiv Charan Sharma of Riddi Shiddi Nagar situated in Karol Bagh area of Ramnagariya spotted the leopard around 8.45 am. Soon after, the forest team reached the spot after receiving intimation. The wild cat hid under the bushes where it was successfully tranquilised around 12.15 pm. A member of the forest team said, “It was difficult to see the leopard under the bushes. The first two attempts to tranquilise the big cat were futile. The third dart hit the paw, but wasn’t successful. After the bushes were removed using sticks from the roof, the leopard was slightly visible and it was successfully tranquilised,” the forest staff said. Though the operation was successful, the forest department did not release the leopard in wild till night. A source said, “The leopard was kept in a cage for hours by the department. This could adversely affect the behaviour of the animal.” The leopard was first spotted in Hari Colony around 7 am before it reached Riddhi Siddhi colony after crossing three other colonies. For last many days, the movement of the young male was recorded near the Jagatpura shooting range. Jhalana is spread over 22sqkm and the big cat population is higher than its carrying capacity. There are four dominant males (Rambo, Bahadur, Bageehra and Sultan) in Jhalana and two (Bluethunder and Prince) in Galta region. The young leopards do not have any territory and possibilities of straying into residential areas is high. State wildlife board member Dhirendra Godha said, “I have raised an issue at the wildlife board meeting that male and sub-adults at Jhalana should be radio-collared. The forest staff can identify the territories of the wild cats for effective monitoring.” Currently, there are approximately 35 leopards, including the young offsprings, in the safari park which means less than one square kilometre per animal once they grow up. “Earlier, the leopards that strayed out were sent to other districts. However, this time request was made not send the male leopard. Serious steps should be taken to meet this challenge at reserve, where project leopard was initiated.” Times View Jaipur’s growth as a city has severely reduced the habitat of leopards in the Jhalana Forest Reserve over the last decade. With no buffer area and colonies developed outside the forest land too have compounded the issue. With increasing number of leopards and the consequent demand for more space, authorities have to find solutions to ensure a habitat for these wild animals. A cell consisting of forest officials and related departments of civic bodies can make better plans for the use of forest land that is both sensitive to the needs of wildlife as well as of tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-yr-old-leopard-rescued-from-residential-area/articleshow/80034481.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Puducherry||No New Year revelry in Puducherry hotels, resorts||PUDUCHERRY: After Tamil Nadu and Karnataka banned New Year-eve celebrations in view of Covid-19, the Puducherry administration has imposed several restrictions on the revelry to control the expected influx of merrymakers into the territory. The administration has banned New Year-eve event in hotels, restaurants and resorts and will allow only an ‘appropriate domain size of visitors’ on the beach road ‘on first come first served basis’. The entire promenade has been divided into zones to enforce protocol. “All tourists will be subjected to thermal screening at entry points and those with symptoms will checked by special teams. If symptoms are confirmed, they will be isolated and sent to the government hospital for further tests,” said a joint statement issued by the Puducherry administration and police. The entire town and beach road will be under surveillance through CCTV cameras as well as drone cameras. Plying and parking of all types of heavy vehicles have been banned on the boulevard in boulevard from 2pm on December 31 to 6am on January 1. Earlier, lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi insisted on banning all types of celebrations, while chief minister V Narayanasamy deciding to allow them by adhering to the presecribed norms. Narayanasamy said several states including Kerala and Goa had not banned celebrations and clarified that neither the Centre nor any court had imposed a blanket ban. They only insisted that adherence of norms should be ensured, he said and maintained that his administration would take all steps to make sure the prescribed guidelines are followed. Bedi requested the people to celebrate at home and not to be a part of super-spreaders of Covid-19 infection. She said ‘no celebrations are allowed anywhere’ and requested the tourists not to visit Puducherry and not to be a part of super-spreaders. She pointed out that the Union health and family welfare ministry has warned that New Year celebrations could lead to revelers becoming super-spreaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/no-ny-revelry-in-pondy-hotels-resorts/articleshow/80034665.cms||Bosco Dominique
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Frost hits Ajmer region, farmers alerted||AJMER: Amidst severe cold, frost has started affecting Rabi crops in many districts in the state. With orange alert in Bhilwara, Tonk, Ajmer and surrounding districts, the state agriculture department has asked farmers to take care of their crops and cattle. The department has asked them to burn garbage near crops during the evenings to save them from frost. Mohan Kumawat of Sarwar village sowed cumin in his three-hectare land but in the last two three days, his crop started rotting because of frost. The leaves melted and now, there is no flowering. The same situation can be also seen in Pushkar where crops of vegetables have started rotting. Officials said that because the temperature has come down to 4 degree Celsius, frost is affecting crops. “Dipping of temperature and cold weather is good for the crops like wheat and other grains, but not for cumin, mustard and vegetables,” added the official. The department has also directed to keep cattle safe from cold as it can increase infections among cows and buffaloes. It is important to provide a warm place to cattle, mostly during night. In Nalla village of Pushkar, dew and frost were witnessed by farmers which spread panic as they were expecting good yield this time. According to meteorological department, temperature in Ajmer, Bhilwara and in surrounding regions went down to 4 degree Celsius, which is below the average temperature. The department has forecast that in coming days, temperatures will dip more in these regions. In Ajmer and nearby towns like Pushkar, Kishangarh, Beawar, dip in temperatures is affecting lives and number of cases of people suffering from viral infections and fever has increased in last three to four days. The outdoor of JLN Hospital went nearly to 800 patients per day and there are also queues in private hospitals and clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/frost-hits-ajmer-region-farmers-alerted/articleshow/80034486.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Relieve teachers of Covid duty: Bengaluru education department||Bengaluru: Even as schools are set to reopen on Friday after a nine-month gap, government school teachers in Bengaluru are yet to be relieved of Covid duties. The commissioner of public instruction has written to the BBMP commissioner asking the civic body to relieve the teachers of the Covid duties as soon as possible. “We are hoping they will be relieved from their duties soon. If it doesn’t happen by Thursday, I will follow it up. There’s no issue in other parts of the state, it is only in Bengaluru,” said V Anbukkumar, commissioner of public instruction. About 5,000 teachers are on Covid duty in the city. Many teachers said they are ready to be on campus for three days and on Covid duty for three days as per an order dated December 15 from the chief secretary, asking all government employees who are on Covid duty to report to the parent department from Monday to Wednesday. COVID DUTYEducationists seek quick govt actionThe commissioner said there will be clarity on Covid duty by Thursday. “If the teachers are not in full strength, we will have to go slow on Vidyagama classes as we need to split students into small batches. For class 10, we have seven teachers, while only three are on duty,” said the headmistress of a government high school in east Bengaluru. Educationists sought quick action from the government to relieve teachers. “We have huge vacancies among teachers, adding up to around 30,000 both in elementary and high schools... This is violation of fundamental right to education. There’s no doubt people are required for Covid emergency, but it should not be teachers. Government should make alternative arrangements and should relieve teachers from Covid duty to ensure justice to children,” said Niranjanaradhya VP, Centre for Child and Law, NLSIU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/relieve-teachers-of-covid-duty-edu-dept/articleshow/80037531.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||4 more from Karnataka test positive for new Covid strain||BENGALURU: The number of people infected by the UK variant of SARS-CoV2 virus in Karnataka went up to seven on Wednesday from three on Tuesday. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa urged all returnees from the UK and other countries to get themselves tested for their own safety and help prevent the spread of the new variant. “Instead of disappearing, they should get tested. The UK variant spreads very easily... ” he said. Health minister K Sudhakar said that of the 26 UK returnees who had tested positive upon their arrival in Karnataka, seven of them have been infected by the new variant — three are from Bengaluru and four from Shivamogga. hree B’lureans being treated in govt facilitiesThe UK variant spreads very easily, and there shouldn’t be unnecessary trouble,” Yediyurappa said. The CM tweeted in the evening: “Dear citizens, the danger of corona has still not subsided. As we enter the New Year, there shouldn’t be even slight negligence about the pandemic. Follow the government’s guidelines and stay safe.” The three Bengalureans are being treated in government facilities — a mother and her six-year-old daughter are in Victoria hospital — and the same protocol has been followed for the four from Shivamogga. The house of the infected persons in Shivamogga town has been sealed, and vigil is being maintained . “None of the 26 positive patients, including the seven with the new variant, have shown any severe symptoms. The infection appears to be mild,” Sudhakar said. “However, we have to be cautious as the new variant is known to spread at a faster rate. We’ve identified 39 contacts of the three people in Bengaluru and seven contacts of the four from Shivamogga,” he said. Of the seven contacts of Shivamogga patients, three have tested positive and it is yet to be determined if they, too, have contracted the new variant. “None of the contacts of the Bengaluru patients have tested positive, which shows quick identification and isolation helped,” Sudhakar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/4-more-from-ktaka-test-ve-for-new-strain/articleshow/80037532.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Investigate Karnataka council dy chief’s death: Lok Sabha speaker||BENGALURU: A day after Karnataka legislative council deputy chairperson SL Dharmegowda was found dead on a railway track in Chikkamagaluru district, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Wednesday called for a high-level probe through an independent agency into his death. Birla said in a tweet he was distressed by the news. “The unfortunate incident in the House, when he was in chair, is a serious attack on democracy. It is the duty of all of us to safeguard the prestige of legislative bodies and dignity and freedom of presiding officers,” he said. According to railway police, the JD(S) legislator’s body was found on the railway track near Gunasagara in Kadur taluk of Chikkamagaluru district, which is his hometown, on Tuesday. Gowda was in the news recently after Congress members pulled him out of the chair in the ruckus over a no-confidence motion against the chairman in the Upper House on Dec 15. Gowda was elected deputy chairperson in 2018. DHARMEGOWDA DEATHMin: Govt will examine need of high-level probeThe Lok Sabha speaker’s tweet could compel the state government to order a high-level inquiry into the incident. Law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy said the government will certainly examine the need of a high-level inquiry. However, some of his cabinet colleagues said there was no need since Dharmegowda had reportedly left a note. Council chairman Prathap Chandra Shetty told TOI the ball is now in the state government’s court as it is out of his purview. “As far as the council is considered, we have formed a committee of legislators to inquire into incidents of that day. For a high-level inquiry, it is out of the council jurisdiction and up to the state government to take a decision,” said Shetty. JD(S) MLC KT Srikante Gowda said the government should heed Birla’s suggestion. Opposition leader in the legislative council, SR Patil, said the state government should first file a case of abetment to suicide against the legislators and members of the BJP and JD(S) because they had allegedly forced him to sit on the chair in violation of all the rules and procedures of the house. Revenue minister R Ashoka said council ruckus and death of the deputy chairman must serve as a reminder to all politicians to protect integrity of the chair. “The truth will come out after the police inquiry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ls-speaker-investigate-council-dy-chiefs-death/articleshow/80037534.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Ravi Kumar is new Karnataka chief secretary||BENGALURU: Karnataka will have a new chief secretary from January 1 with additional chief secretary P Ravi Kumar set to get the administrative baton from TM Vijay Bhaskar, who is retiring on Thursday. Kumar, a 1984-batch IAS officer from Karnataka cadre, is holding additional charge of IT, BT and science and technology department. He was earlier additional chief secretary to CM BS Yediyurappa. Kumar, from AP, has studied and worked for a major part of his life in the state. He has done MSc in mathematics, besides PG diploma in econometrics. He will have an 18-month tenure. Kumar helped boost state’s energy positionHaving handled a long list of portfolios, Kumar shot to prominence during the previous Congress regime when he was principal secretary (energy) with present KPCC president DK Shivakumar as the minister. Kumar is said to be instrumental in bringing most Karnataka’s energy requirements under the renewable sources and boosting Karnataka’s energy position from being a coal-deficit to an energy-surplus state. Kumar was the third senior-most Karnataka-batch officer after Bhaskar and DV Prasad; the latter opted for central deputation and retired in November this year. Bhaskar is one of the longest-serving chief secretaries in recent times with 2.5 years, while average stint ranged between six months and two years. Having taken charge in June 2018, soon after the assembly elections, Bhaskar served as chief secretary under the JD(S)-Congress coalition government and the BJP government notwithstanding a series of political uncertainties and the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ravi-kumar-is-new-ktaka-chief-secretary/articleshow/80037536.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Goa||Taleigao’s road issues flagged via mobile app||Panaji: In a step towards eliminating road hazards from Taleigao, over 38 potholes, among 80 other road safety issues, have been flagged in the village and the data has been submitted to the Taleigao panchayat to set up a road safety committee. A collaborative initiative by ActforGoa, NineStack and Cecille Rodrigues, who initiated the Rosto Campaign highlighting road safety issues, led to the flagging of these black spots in the village, on the PinIt App. The mapped data was submitted to the Taleigao panchayat to be included in the Village Development Plan (VDP). Besides the 38 potholes, 18 unpainted speed breakers, 24 broken or missing signboards, 13 broken street lamps, and four bad stretches of uneven roads across Taleigao were identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/taleigaos-road-issues-flagged-via-mobile-app/articleshow/80036056.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Cong to organise protest against guv for not giving assent to farm bills||Jaipur: The state cabinet met on Wednesday decided to organize a dharna on January 3 in protest against the governor for not giving his assent to the farm amendment bills passed by the state assembly to bypass the central laws. The protest is being organised to express solidarity with farmers. The bills include amendment to the code of criminal procedure (amendment) bill 2020 which provides for protecting the farmers with a landholding up to five hectares from attachment of their land for financial indebtedness as the land in question is the sole source of livelihood to the farmers. The party will also organise a week-long campaign named ‘Kisan Bachao, Desh Bachao’ from January 5 under which ministers, MLAs and Congress workers will fan out in the villages to highlight the anti-farmer laws passed by Parliament recently. The meeting also took stock of the Covid situation, the issue of supply of electricity to farmers, budget preparations, three assembly by polls among other issues. The meeting reviewed the performance of various departments and directed to give their suggestions on the schemes and projects to be taken up in their departments in the coming year. CM reaction on farmers talks Chief minister Gehlot later tweeted “The year 2020 is about to end and we are about to enter the new year. The whole country was waiting for the positive result of today's dialogue between the central government and the farmers so that the farmers can return to their homes and start a new year with their families.”He added, “But unfortunately, the government's stance did not go soft and the result came in the form of another dialogue on January 4. It is sad that our peasants New Year is being welcome the New year in the bitter cold, in the open, on the streets away from our home. A sensitive and accountable government never lets this happen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-to-organise-protest-against-guv-for-not-giving-assent-to-farm-bills/articleshow/80034502.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Goa||Covid fails to dampen air fares, hotel room prices for New Year in Goa||PANAJI: Going by the tourist footfalls, it seems that pandemic or no pandemic, Goa was, is and will remain the number one destination for desis to usher in the New Year. The demand for flights and rooms at starred hotels proves this. Despite Covid-19, including the new strain, air fares to Goa for New Year’s Eve and to travel out to the metros from here remained as high as during any previous year-end season. Take the air fare to Bengaluru for instance. A flight ticket to Goa from this metro usually costs around Rs 3,000. But on December 30, it was priced more than double the normal rate at close to Rs 7,500. It will cost even more to fly back from Goa to Bengaluru after the New Year celebrations as tickets are priced over Rs 10,000 on January 2 and 3. Flight tickets to travel back to Pune have seen the biggest jump, with tickets that cost between Rs 4,000 and Rs 5,000 on the route on a normal day priced at over Rs 15,000 on January 2 and 3. Air fare to Mumbai, too, from Goa has more than doubled at close to Rs 7,000 on the first three days of the New Year 2021. Ticket cost has at least doubled for those flying to other cities as well like Delhi, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Chennai. The only difference this year is that flight prices to travel from Goa to nearly all destinations have dipped by January 4 or 5. This is unlike the pre-pandemic seasons when air fare would remain high at least for the entire first week of the New Year. Starred hotel room rates in Goa, too, are nowhere down from the previous seasons, with a room in the topmost luxury hotels in the state priced at between Rs 40,000 and Rs 50,000 a night for New Year’s. The lowest rate at which one could book a night in a starred hotel on New Year’s Eve was around Rs 20,000. The bus fares, in the meantime, on the Goa-Mumbai and Goa-Bengaluru routes are also as high as previous years. A ticket costs between Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 for an air-conditioned sleeper in a luxury bus. This is double the regular rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-fails-to-dampen-air-fares-hotel-room-prices-for-ny-in-goa/articleshow/80036052.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Cold conditions prevail in state||Jaipur: Cold conditions persisted in parts of Rajasthan where mercury dipped below freezing point at two places on Wednesday. There will be no relief from cold in the coming few days, according to Met office. Mount Abu logged minus 4 degree Celsius, while in the plains Churu was the coldest, recording a minimum temperature of minus 1.5 degree Celsius, followed by Pilani where the mercury plunged to 0.5 degree Celsius. The chilling northerly wind is said to be the reason for the dip in temperature. The Met office said cold to severe cold wave conditions will prevail in parts of the state in the next few days with ground frost conditions in isolated pockets. Fog also can be observed in parts of east Rajasthan. In Jaipur, the minimum temperature dropped to 5.1 degree Celsius, a departure of minus three from normal temperature while the maximum was 20 degree Celsius which is a departure of minus two degree Celsius. However, the bright sunshine during the day gave relief to the people here from the icy wind and biting cold.In almost all the places, the minimum temperature is below normal. In Bhilwara, minimum temperature dropped to 1.5 degree Celsius, followed by Sikar at 3 degree Celsius. While and Vansthali reported 3.6 degree Celsius, minimum temperature at Chittorgarh dropped to 3.8 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cold-conditions-prevail-in-state/articleshow/80034512.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Despite dip in cases, Rajasthan among top 5 states reporting highest infections||JAIPUR: Despite the state reporting a fall in Covid cases in December, it is still among the top five states in the country to report the highest number of infections between November 23 and December 22. Centre’s report showed that 55,973 persons in Rajasthan were found infected with the virus from November 23 to December 22, which accounted for 6% of the cases reported in the entire country. Kerala (1,46,597), Maharashtra (1,19,144), Delhi (87,945) and West Bengal (81,982) are at the first four positions in the list. In the country, 9,35,251 persons were tested positive 19 from November 23 to December 22. “We are taking all measures to prevent spread of the virus. Now, the daily new infections in the state have reduced. In December, the state has reported almost half the cases reported in November. The Covid situation in December has improved in the state,” said a health department official. In the last 24 hours, six persons died and 770 tested positive taking the cumulative count to 2,689 and overall tally to 3,07,554. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (136), Jodhpur (101), Kota (53), Bhilwara (44), Udaipur (39), Nagaur (38), Pali (33), Ajmer (32), Sriganganagar (29), Rajsamand (26), Dungarpur (25), Chittorgarh (23), Churu (22), Sirohi (21), Bundi (20), Sikar (16), Jalore (14), Sawai Madhopur (13), Alwar (12), Baran (9), Pratapgarh (8), Tonk (8), Jaisalmer (7), Hanumangarh (6), Jhunjhunu (6), Bharatpur (6), Banswara (5), Bikaner (4), Barmer (4), Jhalawar (3), Karauli (3), Dausa (2) and Dholpur (2). Jaipur reported its 500th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 288th, Bikaner 166th, Sikar 96th, Barmer 49th and Bundi reported its 19th Covid-19 death. Active cases in the state have gone below the 10,000-mark. It has been reducing since December first week and currently stood at 9,835.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-among-top-five-in-list-of-states-having-reported-highest-cases-from-nov-23-to-dec-22/articleshow/80034527.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19: Despite dip in cases, Rajasthan among top 5 states reporting highest infections||JAIPUR: Despite the state reporting a fall in Covid cases in December, it is still among the top five states in the country to report the highest number of infections between November 23 and December 22. Centre’s report showed that 55,973 persons in Rajasthan were found infected with the virus from November 23 to December 22, which accounted for 6% of the cases reported in the entire country. Kerala (1,46,597), Maharashtra (1,19,144), Delhi (87,945) and West Bengal (81,982) are at the first four positions in the list. In the country, 9,35,251 persons were tested positive 19 from November 23 to December 22. “We are taking all measures to prevent spread of the virus. Now, the daily new infections in the state have reduced. In December, the state has reported almost half the cases reported in November. The Covid situation in December has improved in the state,” said a health department official. In the last 24 hours, six persons died and 770 tested positive taking the cumulative count to 2,689 and overall tally to 3,07,554. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (136), Jodhpur (101), Kota (53), Bhilwara (44), Udaipur (39), Nagaur (38), Pali (33), Ajmer (32), Sriganganagar (29), Rajsamand (26), Dungarpur (25), Chittorgarh (23), Churu (22), Sirohi (21), Bundi (20), Sikar (16), Jalore (14), Sawai Madhopur (13), Alwar (12), Baran (9), Pratapgarh (8), Tonk (8), Jaisalmer (7), Hanumangarh (6), Jhunjhunu (6), Bharatpur (6), Banswara (5), Bikaner (4), Barmer (4), Jhalawar (3), Karauli (3), Dausa (2) and Dholpur (2). Jaipur reported its 500th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 288th, Bikaner 166th, Sikar 96th, Barmer 49th and Bundi reported its 19th Covid-19 death. Active cases in the state have gone below the 10,000-mark. It has been reducing since December first week and currently stood at 9,835.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-among-top-five-in-list-of-states-having-reported-highest-cases-from-nov-23-to-dec-22/articleshow/80038856.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19: Despite dip in cases, Rajasthan among top 5 states reporting highest infections||JAIPUR: Despite the state reporting a fall in Covid cases in December, it is still among the top five states in the country to report the highest number of infections between November 23 and December 22. Centre’s report showed that 55,973 persons in Rajasthan were found infected with the virus from November 23 to December 22, which accounted for 6% of the cases reported in the entire country. Kerala (1,46,597), Maharashtra (1,19,144), Delhi (87,945) and West Bengal (81,982) are at the first four positions in the list. In the country, 9,35,251 persons were tested positive 19 from November 23 to December 22. “We are taking all measures to prevent spread of the virus. Now, the daily new infections in the state have reduced. In December, the state has reported almost half the cases reported in November. The Covid situation in December has improved in the state,” said a health department official. In the last 24 hours, six persons died and 770 tested positive taking the cumulative count to 2,689 and overall tally to 3,07,554. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (136), Jodhpur (101), Kota (53), Bhilwara (44), Udaipur (39), Nagaur (38), Pali (33), Ajmer (32), Sriganganagar (29), Rajsamand (26), Dungarpur (25), Chittorgarh (23), Churu (22), Sirohi (21), Bundi (20), Sikar (16), Jalore (14), Sawai Madhopur (13), Alwar (12), Baran (9), Pratapgarh (8), Tonk (8), Jaisalmer (7), Hanumangarh (6), Jhunjhunu (6), Bharatpur (6), Banswara (5), Bikaner (4), Barmer (4), Jhalawar (3), Karauli (3), Dausa (2) and Dholpur (2). Jaipur reported its 500th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 288th, Bikaner 166th, Sikar 96th, Barmer 49th and Bundi reported its 19th Covid-19 death. Active cases in the state have gone below the 10,000-mark. It has been reducing since December first week and currently stood at 9,835.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-among-top-five-in-list-of-states-having-reported-highest-cases-from-nov-23-to-dec-22/articleshow/80038854.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19: Despite dip in cases, Rajasthan among top 5 states reporting highest infections||JAIPUR: Despite the state reporting a fall in Covid cases in December, it is still among the top five states in the country to report the highest number of infections between November 23 and December 22. Centre’s report showed that 55,973 persons in Rajasthan were found infected with the virus from November 23 to December 22, which accounted for 6% of the cases reported in the entire country. Kerala (1,46,597), Maharashtra (1,19,144), Delhi (87,945) and West Bengal (81,982) are at the first four positions in the list. In the country, 9,35,251 persons were tested positive 19 from November 23 to December 22. “We are taking all measures to prevent spread of the virus. Now, the daily new infections in the state have reduced. In December, the state has reported almost half the cases reported in November. The Covid situation in December has improved in the state,” said a health department official. In the last 24 hours, six persons died and 770 tested positive taking the cumulative count to 2,689 and overall tally to 3,07,554. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (136), Jodhpur (101), Kota (53), Bhilwara (44), Udaipur (39), Nagaur (38), Pali (33), Ajmer (32), Sriganganagar (29), Rajsamand (26), Dungarpur (25), Chittorgarh (23), Churu (22), Sirohi (21), Bundi (20), Sikar (16), Jalore (14), Sawai Madhopur (13), Alwar (12), Baran (9), Pratapgarh (8), Tonk (8), Jaisalmer (7), Hanumangarh (6), Jhunjhunu (6), Bharatpur (6), Banswara (5), Bikaner (4), Barmer (4), Jhalawar (3), Karauli (3), Dausa (2) and Dholpur (2). Jaipur reported its 500th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 288th, Bikaner 166th, Sikar 96th, Barmer 49th and Bundi reported its 19th Covid-19 death. Active cases in the state have gone below the 10,000-mark. It has been reducing since December first week and currently stood at 9,835.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-among-top-five-in-list-of-states-having-reported-highest-cases-from-nov-23-to-dec-22/articleshow/80038855.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Dehradun||2020: When Covid-19 forced online hearings and HC adapted to the new ‘normal’||Nainital: After the outbreak of Covid-19, Uttarakhand HC and all subordinate courts in the state had to remain shut for almost a month. However, the HC quickly adapted to online hearings and some important judgements were pronounced through video conferencing. And though both the bar and the bench faced difficulties in adapting to the online mode, the number of both civil and criminal cases that had plummeted in April and May reached their pre-pandemic levels in a short time. As soon as the online hearing began, the court decided on the Public Interest Litigations (PILs) highlighting the plight of the migrants who had to walk hundreds of kilometres to reach their native villages. While hearing one such PIL in May, the HC said that the fundamental rights of the migrants will be violated if they are not brought back. Later, the court directed the state government to make arrangements for their travel, food, and shelter. In July, a division bench of the HC dismissed the petition filed by BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy and upheld the constitutional validity of the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Board Act, effectively giving control of the Char Dham shrines – Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri — to the state government. In a matter of alleged corruption filed against chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in which it was alleged that a bribe of Rs 25 lakh was paid to Rawat’s associates when he was BJP state-in-charge for Jharkhand, the court in October directed the CBI to file an FIR and probe the allegations. However, the HC order was later struck down by the Supreme Court. In another significant development, the court issued notices to the sitting governor of Maharashtra Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in contempt petitions alleging that they had failed to pay the dues for using facilities like bungalows and cars after demitting office. Apart from Nishank and Koshyari, notices were also sent to former chief ministers BC Khanduri and Vijay Bahuguna. However, all the former chief ministers approached the apex court which stayed proceedings in the high court. The high court also displayed a tough stance in the matter pertaining to formation of a lake near the Gangotri glacier and pulled up the government officials concerned for not submitting periodic reports. As the year came to an end, the court has now decided to hold physical hearing, starting January 2. Meanwhile, the registrar general of the court has written to the HC bar association asking for suggestions to hold regular proceedings in the court. This has raised hopes among advocates who argue that online hearings are no alternate for physical hearings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2020-when-covid-19-forced-online-hearings-and-hc-adapted-to-the-new-normal/articleshow/80032909.cms||Prashant Jha
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Nine samples of UK-returned and their contacts test negative for UK’s mutated Covid-19 strain, report of two awaited||JAIPUR: Samples of nine out of the 11 UK-returnees from Rajasthan tested negative for the mutated strain. Their samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. The reports of two samples are awaited. Three more samples have been collected from UK returnees in Sriganganagar for testing the new strain. They have been found infected with Covid. Following detection of the new Covid strain in the UK, all collectors have been directed to increase viral genomic surveillance in order to understand the spread of the virus in a rapid and robust manner. Samples will be collected from infected people and will be tested on a regular basis for the new strain and variant. The state had sent five samples from Udaipur, three from Bhilwara and one each from Jaipur, Ajmer and Jalore. The report of samples sent from Ajmer and Jalore is awaited, while rest of the nine reports have been received, said a senior health department official.“In Bhilwara, three samples were sent of those people who were in contact of the UK-returned people. They were found infected with Covid and all of them have tested negative for the UK’s mutated strain,” said the official.From now on, the state government will send samples to CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB, Delhi) to ascertain the current status of new variant of SARS-CoV-2 and to establish a sentinel surveillance for early detection of genomic variants with public health implication and to determine the genomic variant in the unusual events or trends such as super-spreader events, high mortality or morbidity trend areas. “We have sent the samples collected from the UK-returned people who were found infected with the virus in Sriganganagar and sent them to Delhi for testing the strain,” said the official. The Centre has written to the states that in order to fully understand the spread and evolution of the SARS CoV-2 virus, and to tackle its future spread, sequencing and analyzing the genomic data of the novel corona virus would be required. The study of accumulated of mutations in the viral genomes will enable the Centre to compare virus samples and viral lineages in order to understand if local outbreaks are caused by transmission of single or multiple lineages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nine-samples-of-uk-returned-and-their-contacts-test-negative-for-uks-mutated-covid-19-strain-report-of-two-awaited/articleshow/80034547.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||PHED identifies 17 spots with low water pressure||Jaipur: There are more than 17 places in the city where there are low pressure issues in water supply. This was revealed in an exercise undertaken by the public health and engineering department (PHED). PHED engineers have been tasked to locate low water pressure spots in the city where adequate supply will be required in summer. For the last 15 days, the department had engaged field engineers to mark areas where drinking water was flowing under low pressure and detected such 17 places. According to a senior PHED engineer, low pressure water areas have been identified in Mandi Khatikan, Amagarh, Amritpuri and Nagatlai areas on Delhi Road. Similarly, areas of low-pressure water have been identified in Jaswant Nagar, Katewa Nagar, Devi Nagar, Pratap Nagar and Nirman Nagar in Khatipura in the south of the city block.Areas which often complain of low pressure in water supply include DK Nagar, Nivaru Road, Tara Nagar A, Jhotwara, Murlipura, Vijaybadi, Naya Kheda, Vidyhadhar Nagar Sector- 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/phed-identifies-17-spots-with-low-water-pressure/articleshow/80034554.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Panel to examine demands of Asha Sahyoginis||JAIPUR: The state government has formed a committee to examine the demands of Asha Sahyoginis. The panel has been formed under K K Pathak, secretary, women and child development, Siddharth Mahajan, secretary, medical, health and family welfare and director, ICDS. The committee has apprised the finance department of the demand for honorarium increase and a letter is also being written to the Government of India for a reasonable hike in the incentives for their services in the medical and health department. Director of ICDS, Dr Pratibha Singh said a delegation of Asha Sahyoginis was invited for talks and was informed about sending the proposal for a hike in honorarium to the state government. Asha Sahyoginis are being given honorarium of Rs 2,700 per month by the Integrated Child Development Department, which is being given entirely from the state head. Apart from this, an incentive amount of Rs 3,000 per month is also being provided on average for various services rendered under health department. Asha Sahyogini organisations demanded clear work division, simplification of procedures in the medical department apart from hike in their remuneration. Most of their demands have been positively agreed upon and advance action on the demands related to medical department is under process. In respect of increase in honorarium, the demand is being considered sympathetically by the state government, it was said. The government informed that under NHM, the post of Asha worker has been created by the Government of India as an incentive-based post. It was renamed as Asha Sahyogini by incorporating the post of honorarium in the women and child development so that they could get additional incentive. Additional honorarium is provided to Asha workers only in Rajasthan, claimed the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panel-to-examine-demands-of-asha-sahyoginis/articleshow/80034563.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC extends interim bail of Unitech MD on medical grounds||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Wednesday extended the interim bail of Unitech MD Sanjay Chandra, accused of allegedly cheating homebuyers, till January 21 on medical grounds. Justice Vibhu Bakhru allowed the relief to Chandra, earlier granted interim bail by a magistrate court for four weeks on December 3. The court had said that in the prevailing circumstances and considering Chandra’s aggravated medical condition and the report of the doctors, it was necessary to release him on interim bail for four weeks. The court said that it was not disputed that interim bail granted to various prisoners is now being extended uniformly and in the light of Chandra’s medical condition it was appropriate to allow the interim bail to be extended. Senior counsel Mohit Mathur and advocate Neeha Nagpal, who appeared for Chandra, sought the extension of interim bail by 45 days, submitting that there is high risk of complication as he is suffering from co-morbidities. The CBI has booked Chandra, his father Ramesh Chandra and brother Ajay Chandra for allegedly cheating a public sector bank of Rs 198 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-extends-interim-bail-of-unitech-md-on-medical-grounds/articleshow/80034570.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Mayors yet to decide on general body meeting||Jaipur: Mayors of both the Jaipur Municipal Corporations will complete two months in office, but there is no sign of a general body meeting yet.According to rules, a general body meeting should be organised within 60 days of board elections. Somya Gurjar, mayor of JMC, Greater and Munesh Gurjar, mayor of JMC, Heritage took charge on November 11. With only 10 days left, there seems to be no planning for the board meeting. Sources in the JMCs said mayors have planned to call the meeting before January 10.A senior BJP councillor said, “Until the board meeting is called, chairman for separate committees will not be decided. These committees will be to deal with different civic issues in the city. However, everything now has been put on hold because of that.”Somya and Munesh are constantly holding meetings with councillors of different wards. Somya is taking public meetings in every zone to listen to the grievances directly, but until board meeting is called, many issues will stay unresolved.After the general body meeting, a budget session will be called in the next meeting. Last year, the budget of board was passed by Directorate of Local Bodies as the board wasn’t functioning. Now, with the board being elected, pressure is increasing on the mayors to call the general body meeting soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mayors-yet-to-decide-on-general-body-meeting/articleshow/80034550.cms||---
December 31, 2020||India||PMO to monitor 50 key projects worth Rs 2L cr||NEW DELHI: The government has shortlisted 50 key infrastructure projects worth more than Rs 2 lakh crore for regular monitoring by the prime minister's office to ensure their early completion. The PMO has set up a monitoring group consisting of secretaries to thrash out the issues holding up these projects or causing delay. The projects include Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project, Char Dham road connectivity improvement, Delhi-Meerut expressway, redevelopment of New Delhi railway station, JNPT terminal-4 in Mumbai, phase-1 of Pune Metro Rail, Navi Mumbai International airport and 1,200-km Paradip Hyderabad Product Pipeline. PM Narendra Modi has laid the foundation stone for all these projects barring the redevelopment of New Delhi railway station which the transporter hasn't yet bid out. The bid dates have been extended in this case. "There has been regular monitoring of the progress of these projects since these are mega projects. Some of these projects also came up in the past two Pragati meetings chaired by the Prime Minister. Many of these projects have been delayed due to various reasons including non-availability of land and green clearances," said a source who did not wish to be named. Earlier, the PMO had sought details of projects from different ministries and departments which could be completed in 2022 when India celebrates the 75th year of independence. Sources said the government is ensuring that the projects get completed as per the revised schedules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pmo-to-monitor-50-key-projects-worth-rs-2l-cr/articleshow/80037549.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Appeal to organise Army recruitment rallies in Raj||Jaipur: Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari on Wednesday shot a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot requesting him to give approval to organise Army recruitment rallies in the state.She said Army sources recently informed her that after the unlocking all over the country, Army recruitment rallies are being organised in various states. But no recruitment rally has been approved yet in Rajasthan. Instructions should be issued to organise recruitment rallies in the state at the earliest, she demanded. This will provide the unemployed youth with employment and the borders of the country will also get new sentries.The MP said, “I have a familial and emotional relationship with the Indian Army. My father, Late Brigadier Maharaja Sawai Bhawani Singh’s entire life was devoted to the Army. It is my belief that thousands of young people are recruited into the army from Rajasthan. According to sources in the Indian Army, about 2.23 lakh youth attend Army rallies every year, and about 5,000 youth get jobs every year from Army recruitment rallies. Every state is given a fixed quota by the Army. If the state does not organise the recruitment rally by the due date, then the quota is transferred to another state.”So far, around 1.60 lakh youth have registered themselves for Army recruitment. The Army Recruitment Headquarters is all set to conduct recruitment rally in Jaipur, Ajmer, Jodhpur, Udaipur and Nagaur districts of Rajasthan. All the safety guidelines of Covid-19 will be followed in these rallies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/appeal-to-organise-army-recruitment-rallies-in-raj/articleshow/80034567.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||New Year rush in Jaisalmer cheers up hoteliers||JAISALMER: A large number of tourists have arrived in Jaisalmer to celebrate New Year’s. As many as 70%-80% of hotels and tent resorts have been booked, but due to the pandemic, only 35% international and 28% Indian tourists have come to the desert district. Due to a relatively lower tourist footfall, the hoteliers in the city have to suffer huge losses, but they are hoping for a good flow of tourists in 2021. This year, New Year celebration will take place in Sam and Khuhadi Sam dunes and tent resorts of Jaisalmer district. As per government guidelines, there will be night curfew from 8pm on December 31 to 6am on January 1. Hotelier Mayank Kumar who owns a tent resort here said that a large number of tourists have come to Sam and the camel riders and Langa Manganiyars are elated. They have made special arrangements for New Year celebration. Many special dishes will be prepared. DJs have been called in, ‘Gala Party’ and Rajasthani folk dance programmes have been organised. The pandemic however has disrupted the tourism business in Jaisalmer this year as till now, more than 1.16 lakh domestic tourists and more than 25,000 international tourists have arrived here and 1.28 lakh tourists have come from January to March. In the period from January to November, 16,061 tourists had come to the desert district. In December, thousands of tourists have arrived but with closure of international flights, fewer foreign tourists could come. Meanwhile, large number of domestic tourists have come from Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, New Delhi etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-year-rush-in-jaisalmer-cheers-up-hoteliers/articleshow/80034575.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Revenue department to verify disputed land in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The revenue department has begun verification of the disputed property in Neyyattinkara, that led to the death of a couple, Rajan and Ambili, while police tried to evacuate them from the property based on a court order. District collector Navjot Khosa entrusted Neyyatinkara tahsildar to verify and prepare a report on the land in question. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy who visited the children on Wednesday demanded action against the police officials who were responsible for the death of the couple. SP (Thiruvananthapuram rural) is probing lapses by police in the matter. Rajan and his neighbour Vasantha were involved in a dispute over the ownership of three cent land at Nettathottam Laksham Veedu colony, Pongil near Neyyattinkara, and the matter was under the court’s consideration. While Vasantha claimed that she was the legal owner of the property and had the title, Rajan argued that it was puramboke land. He built a temporary shed on the land where he was residing. Vasantha approached the court against this, and on the neighbour’s plea, the court ordered to demolish the shed. Rajan and Ambili threatened to self-immolate when police arrived to evacuate them from the property based on the court order. The police tried to snatch the lighter from the couple, when they they were set alight accidently. The duo succumbed to burn injuries while undergoing treatment at medical college here. Rajan breathed his last on Sunday night and Ambili passed away on Monday. As government announced that the guardianship of the couple’s children will be taken over by the government, Thiruvananthapuram district collector would submit a detailed report on what all can be done for the children. It is learnt that the cabinet that would meet on Thursday will take a call based on the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/revenue-dept-to-verify-disputed-land/articleshow/80032948.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolhapur||23 UK returnees from Kolhapur traced, all -ve||KOLHAPUR: Twenty-three individuals with recent UK travel history have been reported in Kolhapur district, and they have all be traced. In Sangli district, there are 31 similar UK returnees. As per the procedure being followed by the Kolhapur district authorities, the details of the travellers are sent to the district administration before they leave the Mumbai airport. The district authorities then dial each traveller asking them to first visit the district collector’s office upon arriving in Kolhapur. Prasad Sankpal, the district disaster management officer, said, “After they come to the collector’s office, we give them a reference letter which they have to take to the CPR Hosptial. At the hospital, they have to undergo screening and testing. They have to then return to the collector’s office and submit a copy of the test reports along with the address and phone number details. So far, no one has tested positive. We are asking them to go for compulsory 14-day home isolation. The local committees are provided details to keep an eye on the travellers.” Sankpal said the foolproof procedure followed by the administration leaves no chance for the travellers to escape testing. As per the state government’s guidelines, those testing positive have to be put in institutional quarantine. Sankpal said since the travellers arrive directly to the collectors office, the chances of them coming in contact with the relatives, neighbours etc. here is low. In Sangli, however, the travellers are not directly going for screening and testing. This is because Sangli town is located far away from their places of residence and, therefore, they prefer to go home first. The screening, testing of the 31 UK returnees, along with their first contacts, is currently going on, said Milind Pore, Sangli’s district health officer. Pore said, “We have screened 38 relatives of the travellers. These relatives were the first contacts. All have tested negative.” He said two travellers from Islampur have, however, skipped the testing process and have left to meet their relatives in Karnataka. They have been called back to get tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/23-uk-returnees-from-kolhapur-traced-all-ve/articleshow/80036823.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 35-year-old man killed by friend over lockdown loan||NEW DELHI: A 35-year-old man who had gone missing two days ago from Prem Nagar in outer Delhi was allegedly murdered by his friend over non-payment of a lockdown loan. The accused, Ankit, has been arrested. Ankit has told police that he had lent Rs 77,000 to Ravi during the Covid-19 lockdown, but didn’t get the money back in time. He wanted the money to buy a motorcycle and, when he didn’t get it, a desperate Ankit had called Ravi home and killed him, police said. The accused first banged Ravi’s head against a wall a couple of times and strangled him, police said. He then gagged his mouth, and tied hand and legs with a plastic cable and tape, put it in a gunny bag and took the sack in his scooty to dump it in an isolated place. On Tuesday, police were informed about a body in a gunny bag. A murder case has been registered and a team led by ACP Atul Verma started investigating it, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) P K Mishra said. The team scanned CCTV camera footage from the nearby areas and also delpoyed local informers. Finally, a man, riding a blue scooty with a gunny bag, was spotted in a CCTV camera footage and the rider was identified as Ankit alias Bitto, a resident of Prem Nagar-III, the DCP said. The accused was nabbed from his house and the scooty was also seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/35-year-old-man-killed-by-friend-over-lockdown-loan/articleshow/80034606.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Rajkot||Wife, her parents booked for man’s suicide||RAJKOT: A farmer along with his wife and their daughter in Rati Devdi village of Morbi were booked by the Morbi police on Wednesday for abetting his son-in-law’s suicide on December 27. An offence of abetment to suicide was registered against Girdhar Vikani, wife Paru and daughter Suman at Vankaner city police station after the deceased Mahesh Solanki’s father Jayanti filed a complaint against the trio. A vegetable vendor in Gandhinagar, 25-year-old Mahesh had consumed pesticides after recording a video on his mobile phone stating that he is taking the extreme step as he is harassed by his wife and parents-in-law. Mahesh and Suman got married five years ago, but she spent only a year with her husband in Gandhinagar and would keep going back to live with her parents on any pretext. Even the parents would encourage their daughter to return home, deceased had alleged in the video. Suman even filed a court case against Mahesh for maintenance but the couple reached a settlement and Suman agreed to live with Mahesh in Gandhinagar. The complaint stated that while living in Gandhinagar, the couple used to have heated arguments as Suman would not cook food and order meals online. She again went back to her parental home on December 27, and when Mahesh went to bring her back, she refused to come. “The deceased consumed pesticides and died the next morning. His father grew suspicious and took the body to Rajkot for forensic post-mortem examination and also found the video in his mobile phone,” said inspector B P Sonara of Vankaner City police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/wife-her-parents-booked-for-mans-suicide/articleshow/80032928.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: M Sivasankar’s bail plea rejected||KOCHI: Additional CJM (economic offences) court dismissed the bail petition of former principal secretary M Sivasankar ‘observing that strong prima facie grounds exist to hold that Sivasankar is concerned with smuggling operation’. ACJM Deepu C accepted customs’ arguments that if Sivasankar is released on bail, he would tamper evidence and influence witnesses with the help of ‘big shots’. The court observed that the statements of prime accused Sarith P S and Swapna Suresh under CrPC Section 164 ‘meticulously stated the names of those high-profile persons, complicity of the petitioner [Sivasankar] and his active involvement, misusing of power, etc’. The court observed that the contention of Sivasankar’s counsel that he is falsely implicated purely on the basis of the statements of accomplice cannot be allowed. “Truly, he manipulated his powers as he could easily influence all machineries of state government. Those facts are not highlighted since the case at hand relates to smuggling and his alleged role of abetment,” the court order stated. Court added that it found force in the the special public prosecutor’s contention that Sivasankar hasn’t fully cooperated with the investigation. “With sufficient knowledge, Sivasankar misused his privileged position as principal secretary and close-proximity with CM, to support smuggling activities. The evasive answer to the queries put to him by the investigating officer and his deliberate attempt to feign loss of memory about the details certain WhatsApp chats that pinpoint his role of abetment, can be considered as strong indication of his complicity,” the order said. “An effective intensive investigation is required to find out the co-signer, financier, facilitator and also the stakeholders of the deal in India. As economic offences will destroy the economic fabric of the nation, the contentions such as offences under Customs Act are compoundable and summarily triable and thus offences are generally considered as less serious, cannot be accepted,” the court observed. The court rejected Sivasankar’s illness claim. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankars-bail-plea-rejected/articleshow/80033036.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||1 held, 1 detained for Bihar man’s murder||Jaipur: Within 24 hours of murder of a 42-year-old man Ramavtar alias Bhagwan, originally from Bihar, Bassi police arrested one person and detained another.One accused has been identified as Suresh alias Surya, 25, and the other is believed to be a minor, police said.According to police, Ramavtar had been working at RIICO industrial area for the past 2-3 years. “While he was returning from work on December 27 evening after getting a payment of Rs 4,000 from his employer, he met the accused persons (whom the victim knew from before) on his way to Bassi. They decided to drink together at Bassi crematorium,” said a police statement.“When the liquor got over, the accused asked Ramavtar to give money to buy some more liquor. When the victim refused to give money, Surya tried to take out money from his pocket forcibly. The victim kicked him in return and this led to a fight. Later, the accused hit him with sticks fracturing his leg. The victim fell unconscious and he was dragged along the way about 100 meters by the two accused. They left his body in that state at the crematorium and escaped,” read the statement.A team of police officials identified the body and handed it over to his family members after post-mortem. Police arrested Surya and the minor has been detained within 24 hours, read the statement.BoxConstable injured, admitted to SMSA constable of Sadar police station, Indraj, was injured after a person named Bhawani Sharma, against whom a police warrant was issued, hit him with his vehicle near Gopalpura bridge. Bajaj Nagar police arrested Sharma later. The constable has been admitted to SMS hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-held-1-detained-for-bihar-mans-murder/articleshow/80034582.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Wind power falls out of favour in Rajasthan, new capacity dwindles to 45MW in 4 years||JAIPUR: The recent focus on solar and lack of policy support has stalled the growth of wind power in Rajasthan with new capacity addition falling to 45MW in the past four years. But the hybrid park policy can revive interest if RERC increases discoms’ renewable purchase obligation (RPO) from wind which has also stagnated over the past four years. Renewable power journey in Rajasthan started with wind in 1999 having 2MW and the capacity reached 4,292 MW by March 2017. But since then the capacity has inched up to 4337 MW so far in 2020-21. In the meantime, discoms in the state were procuring 7.38% of total energy needs from wind in 2016-17. But the share of wind power has remained even less than that in the subsequent years. In 2019-20, discoms purchased only 7.24% of the power from the wind against a target of 8.30%. Whereas, the RPO from solar has increased from 1.4% in 2016-17 to 5.97% in 2019-20 against a target of 6%. “Of course the focus has shifted to solar in the recent years. But the hybrid energy parks that are aimed at generating both solar and wind are expected to give a fillip to the wind power. Even the Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy has increased estimation of wind power’s potential in Rajasthan to 127 gigawatt (GW) from about 18,000MW earlier. We need right policies, including for RPO, to expand wind energy’s footprint in the state,” said Subodh Agarwal, chairman and managing director of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation (RRECL). Agarwal said the assessment of potential carried out by National Institute of Wind Energy last year has put Rajasthan at second position in the country after Gujarat’s 142GW. Experts in the renewable energy sector said that the state needs to promote both wind and solar. They said the hybrid park concept is the right strategy as it saves cost, maximizes resources and neutralizes risks that come when the focus is only on solar. At one time, Rajasthan was the third largest wind power producer in the state after Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. Tamil Nadu today has a capacity of 9,426MW and Gujarat 8,042MW. States like Maharashtra and Karnataka have progressed rapidly leaving Rajasthan behind. After 2016, there have been no new tenders for wind power following the scrapping of feed-in tariffs and making bidding mandatory like in solar. The bidding regime discouraged developers as their margins were reduced significantly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wind-power-falls-out-of-favour-in-raj-new-capacity-dwindles-to-45mw-in-4yrs/articleshow/80034592.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kanpur||Neighbour held for abducting, raping minor girl||KANPUR: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly held captive and then raped by her neighbour in Sachendi police area of the district on Tuesday. The accused, identified as Rahul Savita, was arrested on Wednesday, said Sachendi police station in-charge Devendra Kumar Solanki. The accused, aged between 22-25 years, abducted the girl on late Tuesday evening when she had gone out of her house. He lured her over some pretext and took her to his house where he allegedly raped her for the whole night before issuing serious threats, police said. The girl managed to reach home on Monday morning and narrated her ordeal to her parents, who subsequently filed a complaint, the police further said. Earlier, the girl’s family members nabbed the accused, who was hiding in his neighbour’s house and handed him to the police after thrashing him severely. The accused, a resident of the same village, has been booked under sections 376 (rape) and 363 (abduction) of IPC and under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act following the complaint filed by the girl’s parents, said the police official and added, “The girl has been sent for medical examination and investigations are continuing.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/neighbour-held-for-abducting-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/80033157.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Rajkot||Fed up of Covid duty, nursing student hangs self||RAJKOT: A 22-year-old nursing student committed suicide, allegedly because she was fed up with the Covid duty assigned to her in the Rajkot Civil Hospital. Sujata Chauhan, who was studying in the third-year of a private nursing college in the city, was founding hanging in her room at the government hostel near Jubeli Baug on Tuesday evening. Chauhan was a native of Lakhtar village in Jamnagar’s Jodiya taluka. “Her father Pravin, a farmer, told us that Sujata had spoken to her mother on Tuesday afternoon and lamented that she was extremely tired of work and wanted to return home by taking one month leave,” said HS Nimavat, investigating officer, A-division police station. Sujata has been studying in Rajkot for the last three years and she was assigned Covid duty in the civil hospital for the past four months. On Tuesday evening, her room mate knocked the door but there was no response from inside. She even called up on Sujata’s mobile, but that was also went unanswered. On breaking open the door, she was founding hanging from the ceiling fan. Sujata has two brothers. Police said she had been studying in the boarding school since Class V.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fed-up-of-covid-duty-nursing-student-hangs-self/articleshow/80032970.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Azharuddin, 3 others escape unhurt in mishap near R’bore||Jaipur Former cricketer and India captain Mohammed Azharuddin escaped unhurt on Wednesday when an SUV in which he was travelling along with three others overturned about 7km from Ranthambore in Sawai Madhopur district.However, no case was registered in the matter, according to police. The other passengers of the vehicle, too, escaped unhurt but an employee of a dhaba near which the SUV overturned received minor injuries, said Soorwal SHO Chandrabhan Singh.“The vehicle and the benches which were placed at the dhaba got damaged. The damaged vehicle has been taken to the police station,” said Singh. The dhaba employee, Sirajuddin Ali, was admitted to a government hospital in Sawai Madhopur.Ali was discharged after providing first aid care, the SHO said. “No case has been registered yet. We will take his (employee) statement later,” he said.Singh said the vehicle overturned into the field nearby as it lost its balance when the driver was negotiating traffic near the dhaba and got too close to the edge of the road. “But, there was no collision with another vehicle”, he added. The SHO said Azharuddin and the co-passengers later resumed their journey in another vehicle which was following them and reached their destination safely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/azharuddin-3-others-escape-unhurt-in-mishap-near-rbore/articleshow/80034629.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kochi||Govt fulfilled 570 of 600 promises: Kerala CM||KOCHI/ALAPPUZHA: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state government has fulfilled 570 of the total 600 promises LDF made to the people before it came to power in 2016. Speaking at “Mukhamukham” (Face-to-Face) programme in Kochi on Wednesday, Vijayan said that the state witnessed comprehensive development which encompassed all sectors and all parts of the state in the past four-and-half years. The LDF government has defined the development as based on social justice and comprehensive one, the chief minister said. He said that the Mukhamukham programme is a platform for the people to share their dreams, suggestions and views regarding development of the state. “We faced many challenges like Ockhi, Nipah, 2018 floods, excessive rains and landslides in 2019 and Covid-19. The state earned the respect from even developed countries, considering how we took on Covid-19,” Vijayan said. Meanwhile, in Alappuzha as part of his ‘Kerala Yatra’, the chief minister said that the four missions of the government had played a pivotal role for the state’s social development. “Through the government’s mission ‘Pothu Vidyabhasa Samrakshana Yajnam’ (protection of general education), the government could upgrade the schools in the state into international standards,” he said. “The government could also bring cardinal changes in the industrial sector of the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fulfilled-manifesto-promises-says-pinarayi/articleshow/80033069.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Delhi||Admit students who cancelled enrolment before December 27: Delhi University||NEW DELHI: With Delhi University issuing a missive to colleges to examine and give admission to students who had cancelled their enrolment before December 27, teachers and colleges have raised questions about the sudden change in rules under the special cutoff drive. They also stated that it was unfair to students who had obeyed the rules and hadn’t cancelled their admissions. Under the two special cutoff drives, DU had said the list was only for those students who had not taken admission in any college. With cutoffs in the third list falling considerably, teachers and parents have questioned the fairness of the merit-based exercise. On December 29, when admissions under the third list were nearing completion, DU sent a circular to colleges after 2pm clarifying that applicants who had cancelled their admissions on or after December 27 would not be considered. Principals were advised to make the merit list of vacant seats after taking this into account. An admission in-charge at a college said, “The notice came when the merit list was already prepared and admissions completed. A commerce student who had earlier joined BA (programme) cancelled his admission and reapplied for BCom as the cutoff came down in the third list of the special drive. However, based on the new rule, we had to cancel his admission.” Citing another case, a teacher at Ramjas College said, “A student took admission in history (H) at Lady Shri Ram College, but she wanted to shift to English (H) at Ramjas. We rejected her application and filled our seats. Now, the university expects us to redo the entire process. Most importantly, half the students are unaware of the development allowing those who had cancelled their admission before December 27.” “The new rule is creating problems for all of us. We will be in a precarious situation if any applicant moves court,” said a college principal. Sanjeev Singh, director, DU computer science centre, said that students had time to pay fees till December 31. “The new order is for students who had cancelled the admission for some reason. The college principals have to look into each case and put the application before the admission committee,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/admit-students-who-cancelled-enrolment-before-dec-27-du/articleshow/80034647.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Hotel restaurants, bars to stay open for in-house guests||Jaipur: The home department on Wednesday issued an order extending night curfew for the New Year’s eve (Dec 31) to all municipal corporations and city council areas across the state, even in those towns and cities whose population is less than a lakh.In the previous order, the state government had imposed night curfew in all towns and cities with a population of over one lakh from 8pm on December 31 to 6am on January 1.However, in a big relief to the hotel industry, the department allowed the in-house guests to avail bar and restaurant services without time restrictions imposed under the night curfew.After meeting the senior representatives of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Rajasthan (HRAR), officials in the home department said the hotels can serve the guests food and drinks without any time stipulation, but no outsider is allowed in the hotels after the night curfew time.“In fact, this is only for the guests of the hotels. But the hotels cannot hold any gala function under the pretext of New Year celebrations. The night curfew rules prevail for standalone restaurants,” said N L Meena, secretary, home department.HRAR president Kuldeep Singh Chandela, along with other representatives of the industry body, met principal secretary (home) Abhay Kumar and principal secretary (finance) Akhil Arora to seek relaxation after some hotels were informed by police to close operations by 7pm on December 31.Chandela said, “We are thankful to the government for considering our proposal to allow in-house guests of the hotels to avail the services till midnight. They have come to Rajasthan and are staying in our hotels to celebrate the New Year. Even though we are not organizing any event following the government orders, these guests should be allowed to enjoy food and drinks. The senior officials of the home department agreed with our views, but made it clear that there should be no outside guests entering the hotels after the night curfew time starts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hotel-restaurants-bars-to-stay-open-for-in-house-guests/articleshow/80034635.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Rajkot||PM Modi to lay foundation of Rs 1,195-crore AIIMS today||RAJKOT: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for the All India Institute of Medical sciences (AIIMS) Rajkot on Thursday via video conferencing. The prestigious 750-bed multispeciality hospital which expects completion by June 2022 will be built at a cost of Rs 1,195 crore. It will come up in 201 acre land near Khandheri village in the outskirts of Rajkot city with an aim to reduce the gap in affordable healthcare. Governor of Gujarat Acharya Devvrat, chief minister Vijay Rupani, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel and other union and state ministers and officials will remain present in this event. AIIMS Rajkot is one of the 22 hospitals being constructed under Pradhanmantri Swasthaya Suraksha Yojna (PMSSY) and will have 125 MBBS and 75 nursing seats. The first batch of 50 students commenced on December 21 in the temporary premise of PDU medical college. According to a statement, AIIMS are to develop patterns of teaching in undergraduate and postgraduate medical education in all its branches so as to demonstrate a high standard of medical education to all medical colleges and other allied institutions in India, to bring together in one place educational facilities of the highest order for the training of personnel in all important branches of health activity and to attain self-sufficiency in postgraduate medical education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pm-to-lay-foundation-of-rs-1195-crore-aiims-today/articleshow/80033030.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Trichy||Flagpoles to welcome EPS obstruct two-wheeler track||Trichy: When prominent political leaders visit the city, the violation of rules by political parties often goes unchecked. It was the turn of AIADMK to flout rules on Wednesday while the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami visited Trichy.Trichy police had recently laid two-wheeler tracks on both the sides of the road between Head post office and MGR roundabout to provide a safe ride for the motorists. The AIADMK cadres on Wednesday installed flagpoles on the track obstructing the movement of the two-wheelers on the stretch adjoining the district court campus and Anna Nagar link road.The violation by cadres of the ruling party caused a lot of inconvenience to the motorists. Several two-wheeler riders had a tough time evading the poles. The city police officials too turned a blind eye to the brazen violation by the party cadres despite the risk posed to commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/flagpoles-to-welcome-eps-obstruct-two-wheeler-track/articleshow/80036127.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||25-year-old alleges rape by live-in partner in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A 25-year-old rape victim registered an FIR at Bajaj Nagar police station on Monday night. The survivor alleged that the accused raped and exploited her for several years. She also alleged that the accused had promised to marry her, as they were in a relationship, but later refused, said police. According to police, both were preparing for competitive exams in Jaipur and were in a live-in relationship for 3-4 years. An FIR has been lodged at Bajaj Nagar police station under Section 376 of the IPC (punishment for rape). “Both (victim and accused) are related to each other. The victim is the sister of the accused’s sister-in-law. They were in a relationship for the past 3-4 years and the accused had promised to marry the victim. When the accused refused to marry the victim, she lodged an FIR alleging rape and exploitation,” said station house officer (SHO) of Bajaj Nagar police station Ramesh Saini. “We are investigating the matter. The accused will be arrested soon after taking statements from other people. If required, we will also take the statements of the family members as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/25-year-old-alleges-rape-by-live-in-partner-in-city/articleshow/80034645.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kochi||Suggestions pour in at Mukhamukham programme||Kochi: Chief minister’s Mukhamukham (Face-to-Face) programme in Kochi on Wednesday became a blueprint for the state’s developmentas various stakeholders poured in suggestions. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the suggestions will be used for preparing LDF’s manifesto for the upcoming assembly elections. Writer and critic M K Sanoo said that the government’s performance had been excellent. Responding to writer N S Madhavan’s suggestions, Vijayan said that the proposal for universal basic income will have to be discussed in detail before including it in LDF’s manifesto. He said that the demand of flat owners’ associations to be given legal rights over management of apartment complexes can be considered. Environment expert Muralee Thummarukudy suggested that state government should formulate a department headed by a minister for artificial intelligence (AI). Many NRIs returned to Kerala and they should be provided with shares work space, he said. Chief minister said that the government has already mooted shared work space for those who work from home in the wake of the pandemic. Vijayan said that the government will start measures to strengthen the sector. On litterateur K L Mohana Varma’s suggestion that the state host the first-ever water Olympics, the CM said that it would be discussed with experts in sports sector. On focussing on new energy sources, the CM said that implementing GAIL pipeline and solar energy projects were part of it. Though the state government can’t design a separate industrial policy, there will be strong norms for supporting MSME sector, Vijayan said. Many who spoke at the programme, including litterateur Muse Mary and Swami Sivaswaroopananda of Aluva Advaitha Ashram, demanded more public toilets. The CM replied that the government started such a project but slowed down due to the civic polls. Vijayan said that suggestions to start Memu services in the state will be explored. Measures will be taken to strengthen the functioning of old-age homes and schools for mentally-challenged children, he added. Many including poet Balachandran Chullikkad, Dr Jose Chacko Periappuram, CGH Earth group CEO Jose Dominic and FICCI Kerala chapter chairman Deepak L Aswani made their suggestions at the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/suggestions-pour-in-at-mukhamukham-programme/articleshow/80033088.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19: No death in Satara dist for fifth consecutive day||Kolhapur: Satara district has not recorded any Covid-19 death for the fifth consecutive day while 102 fresh Covid cases were reported on Wednesday. The last Covid death was reported on December 25 (Friday) in Wai tehsil. Of the fresh cases, Maan tehsil reported 20 cases, Satara tehsil added 15 cases and Phaltan tehsil registered 12 new patients among others. The district has 54,756 patients so far, of them 51,781 have recovered, 1,795 have succumbed to Covid while 1,180 are currently undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, Solapur rural reported 40 fresh Covid cases while 252 patients were discharged after recovering on Wednesday. Two deaths were reported in the rural parts. While all tehsils added new cases, which were in single digits, North Solapur and Mangalwedha tehsils did not report any case. Solapur rural has reported 38,052 patients, of them , 1,126 have succumbed to Covid, 569 are undergoing treatment and 36,357 have recovered. Solapur city reported 14 new cases and two deaths on Wednesday. The city has reported 11,110 cases, including 596 deaths and 318 active cases. As many as 10,096 patients have recovered from Covid so far. Besides, Kolhapur district identified 13 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of patients to 49, 519. Of these, 1,703 have succumbed to the contagion while 47,750 have been treated. The number of active patients in the district rose to 66 on Wednesday. Almost all patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals or Covid care centres. Sangli district, on the other hand, added 23 patients to its list. With this, the district’s Covid count swelled to 47,581. Sangli also reported two Covid-related deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of fatalities to 1, 732. At present, Sangli has 191 active cases with the number showing a rising trend since the last two days. So far, 45,658 people have been cured of coronavirus infection in Sangli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-19-no-death-in-satara-dist-for-fifth-consecutive-day/articleshow/80036887.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Rajkot||Seven fishermen rescued from sinking boat||RAJKOT: Seven fishermen were rescued off Diu coast on Tuesday after their boat developed leaks and started to sink. According to sources, Prarthna boat owned by Nanji Bambaniya left for fishing from Diu coast on December 16, but developed cracks on Tuesday and sea water started entering into the boat making it sink rapidly. However, another fishing boat 'Trilokesh' which was nearby saw it and reached them and rescued all the seven sailors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-fishermen-rescued-from-sinking-boat/articleshow/80033066.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Trichy||M K Stalin trying to cause a split in AIADMK, but it won’t work: EPS||TRICHY: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday accused DMK president M K Stalin of attempting to cause a split in the AIADMK but said he wouldn’t succeed. Speaking at an election rally in Thottiyam on the first day of his campaign in Trichy, EPS said Stalin was spreading lies as none of his plans had worked out. “Stalin is trying to drive a wedge in the party but it will never succeed. None in our party will give room for it. No one can shake the AIADMK ever and even thousand Stalins cannot touch our party,” he said adding Stalin should save his party. The chief minister’s comment comes a day after the DMK president claimed at a grama sabha meeting that deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam will break away from AIADMK soon. As part of his two-day campaign, EPS reached Thottiyam around 12pm after finishing his campaign in Namakkal. He addressed the public in Thottiyam, Musiri, Kannanur, Thuraiyur, Mannachanallur, Lalgudi, Pullambadi Chinthamani in the city. The CM also met farmers, rice mill owners and business men. Responding to the long-pending demand of the people in Musiri, he said the road between Musiri and Namakkal will be converted into four-lane. On the corruption charges levelled against AIADMK by the DMK, he said unlike that party, AIADMK had nothing to fear. He criticised the DMK for not fulfilling its 2006 electoral promise to provide 2 acres of land to landless farmers. “Either he (Stalin) criticises our schemes or speaks as if the DMK had brought those schemes,” he said adding that DMK government was the one which was dissolved for corruption. The CM said more than 41% of students were enrolled in government schools in Tamil Nadu. The CM asked why Stalin attempted to stop the Rs 2,500 cash dole in the Pongal gift hamper by moving the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stalin-trying-to-cause-a-split-in-aiadmk-but-it-wont-work-eps/articleshow/80036131.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chennai||No posts reserved for OBC, SC/ST scientists in ICMR recruitment||CHENNAI: No reservation for candidates from other backward classes (OBC), scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST) at the scientists recruitment drive held by by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has prompted a complaint from a employees welfare association. All India Federation of OBC Employees’ Welfare Association (AIOBC) has taken up the matter with the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC). ICMR’s assistant director general Jagdish Ramesh, in response, said reservation policy doesn’t apply during direct recruitment of level C, D and E scientists. Hierarchy of scientists starts with B and ends with H. According to ICMR’s ad on December 5, applications were invited to fill 65 vacant posts for D and E-level scientists at top central institutes such as National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, National Institute of Malaria Research and ICMR headquarters. On appointment, their pay scales will vary for level D scientists from Rs 78,800 to Rs 2,09,200 (pre-revised grade pay of Rs 7,600) and for level E Rs 1,23,100 - Rs 2,15,900 (pre-revised grade pay of Rs 8,700). But unlike other recruitment drive ads, this did not mention anything about the reservation policy. ICMR, which falls under the Union health ministry, is constitutionally bound to implement reservation policy in all direct recruitment posts, said G Karunanidhy, general secrerary of AIOBC. Other central organisations such as Department of Science and Technology (DST), All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) follow reservation policy at higher level posts, even up to H-level scientists and professors. “Already in All India Quota (AIQ) seats contributed by the states, the Director General of Health Services is denying OBC reservation and now, another wing of Union health ministry is denying it,” he added. AIOBC also complained that they were made to pay Rs 1,500 as application fee while it was free for those from economically weaker sections (EWS). In response, Jagadish Rajesh said there is no clause for fee exemption for OBC candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-posts-reserved-for-obc-sc/st-scientists-in-icmr-recruitment/articleshow/80034738.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 31, 2020||Trichy||Nagapattinam: Central team assesses crop loss for second day||NAGAPATTINAM: The eight-member central team, visiting delta districts to assess crop loss cause due to cyclones Nivar and Burevi, inspected the agricultural fields in Nagapattinam and Thanjavur districts on Wednesday. The eight-member team headed by the joint secretary, Ministry of home affairs, Ashutosh Agnihotri, visited Karunkanni village in Keelaiyur union, South Panaiyur in Kilvelur union in Nagapattinam district on Wednesday. District collector Praveen P Nair said that as per the report sent to the Union government, it was assumed that a total of 2.06 lakh acres of crops were damaged during the cyclones. “The team members have assured to get required compensation to the farmers,” he said. The team inspected paddy fields in Periyakottai village near Mathukur in Thanjavur district, where around 12,000 acres of paddy crop were inundated following a breach on Kannan river during the cyclone. The team members assessed the extent of damage caused to the paddy crop ready for harvest at Mela Ulur village in Orathanadu. Farmers expressed their grievances to the central team. They said that they had spent Rs 40,000 per acre to raise samba paddy. So, the compensation should be on par with the money spent, farmers appealed. Officials from the agriculture department have provided photos of various fields and crops that were affected during the cyclone. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/central-team-assesses-crop-loss-for-second-day/articleshow/80036165.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolhapur||Cops on guard during New Year's eve||Kolhapur: Citizens will celebrate the New Year’s Eve amid tight police cover as sistrict police superintendent Shailesh Balkawade has ordered police stations to start deployment of personnel from Thursday morning and ensure police are on the field till the morning of January 1. “We will keep a watch on violators, especially those gathering after 11pm or driving under the influence of alcohol. We will not just impose fine for drunk driving, but will also take them to the hospital for medical check up. There will be watch on open spaces. Parties on open spaces will not be tolerated at all and cases will be filed against those violating Covid norms,” Balkawade said. The excise department has set up check posts at five major entrances of the district and the transport of liquor from Goa will be watched carefully. There are also chances of transport of liquor in bulk from Karnataka borders. Also three separate teams of excise inspectors will be deployed in Kolhapur city. They will ensure bars and wine shops do not remain open beyond 11pm. The officials claim that chances of high decible celebrations for welcoming new year cannot be ruled out since grampanchayat elections are near and parties may be thrown by candidates and political leaders to woo the voters. Hotel and restaurant operators have been asked to ensure the establishments are closed early along with closing of home-delivery or parcel services. Also the traders and other commercial establishments have been asked to shut early to ensure that their employees reach home early.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cops-on-guard-during-new-years-eve/articleshow/80036890.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Trichy||Lokayukta will get teeth if I am CM: Kamal Haasan||TRICHY: Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan has said that giving teeth to Lokayukta will be his first step if he becomes chief minister. Speaking in Pudukottai during his ongoing election campaign in the delta districts, the actor-turned politician said strengthening the anti-corruption ombudsman, which presently remains toothless, will be a foundation for all their initiatives. Asked if he wasn’t biased towards DMK leaders when it comes to levelling corruption charges, he said AIADMK was planning to release a list of corruption charges against DMK. “By doing so, AIADMK has reduced our workload, else we were planning to do it,” he said. On prepoll alliance, he said a decision would be taken in January. His party members want him to lead the alliance which he also wishes. Asked on the contradiction of him claiming to be a Dravidian but wanting to be an alternative to DMK and AIADMK, Kamal said, “Dravidam is not the asset of DMK and AIADMK alone. In fact, it is applicable to all. Archaeological findings say that Dravidam comes from Harappa and Mohenjo-daro (Indus valley civilisation).” While campaigning in his mome town Paramakudi he said if MNM is voted to power towns would be developed on a par with cities, said Kamal Haasan. He said he had walked and played in the streets of Paramakudi and learned horse riding on the river bed. The town is a part of a rich riverside civilization, which has now been reduced to the state of a sewage side civilization. “Give us a chance and we will show you what we can do. I am not seeking your votes because I am a son of the soil, but asking you to consider the capabilities of the candidates of my party and vote,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lokayukta-will-get-teeth-if-i-am-cm-kamal/articleshow/80036203.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Rajkot||Inquiry ordered into cop’s b’day celebration in Morbi||RAJKOT: Two days after the video of a high-profile celebration event at a Morbi mall attended by local political leaders, a policeman and government official went viral on social media, Morbi superintendent of police, S R Odedara, ordered an inquiry into the matter where Covid guidelines were seen being flouted flagrantly. The event at Sky mall located on Sanala road in Morbi town which was also attended by local BJP MLA Brijesh Merja and the deputy collector, shows people dancing without wearing masks and not maintaining social distance. The inquiry has been handed over to police inspector B T Sarvaiya, A division police station of Morbi town. According to primary details, the event to felicitate corona warriors was organised by Young India Group where the organiser, Sanjay Rabari, also celebrated the birthday of his friend, Deven Rabari, a police constable posted at Ahmedabad police control room. While the organiser had taken police permission for the felicitation programme, there was serious violation of Covid-19 guidelines, said cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/inquiry-ordered-into-cops-bday-celebration-in-morbi/articleshow/80033095.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chennai||Another UK returnee +ve, state reports 17 deaths||Chennai: Though the number of fresh Covid-19 infections remained below the 1,000-mark for the second day in Tamil Nadu, the number of deaths increased to 17 on Wednesday, taking the death toll in the state to 12,109. Also, one more person who returned from the United Kingdom recently, to Nilgiris district, tested positive. So far, 20 UK returnees have tested positive (through RT-PCR tests). Another 20 people who were in contact with the returnees have also tested positive. Only one from Chennai has tested positive for the new strain of Covid-19 and test results of remaining 39 samples that were sent to National Institute of Technology in Pune for genome analysis are awaited. All the 40 were treated in separate isolated wards at various hospitals in the state and their conditions are stable so far. Of the 2,300 UK returnees, the state government has traced 1,895 (83%) people and a majority of them have tested negative. Others are being traced, said an official release. Though TN stands fourth in the country in case tally (8,17,077), it has the 10th most active cases (8,615). Several northern states such as Gujarat and Rajasthan that reported less than 3 lakh cases so far, have more active cases than Tamil Nadu. Public health experts said figures indicated that the disease is nearing its end in the state given that mask and social distancing rules are strictly adhered for the next four or five months. Vulnerable groups have been advised to remain cautious as even on Wednesday 14 people with comorbidities died of Covid. Hotspot Chennai continued to report a maximum number of new (275) and active cases (2,678). Coimbatore once again stood second with 91 new cases. Except Madurai (22), none of the southern districts reported 20 or more cases. In other districts in north and central TN, the case incidence rate remained the same with districts such as Kallakurichi, Perambalur and Ariyalur reporting one case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/another-uk-returnee-ve-state-reports-17-deaths/articleshow/80034765.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Man gets life in jail for killing father||KOLHAPUR: A man has been sentenced to life imprisonment by Sangli court for killing his 81-year-old father on July 19, 2019, at Chikurde village in Walva tehsil. According to the prosecution, the convict, Laxman Hari Patil-Waghmare, hit his father with a wooden stick as the latter had refused to give him money for alcohol. On the day of the incident, the convict had asked for Rs 2,000 from his mother, but she refused to pay. Later, Laxman went to his father and asked for the money as the family had recently sold a buffalo. However, his father also refused to pay the money which infuriated Laxman. Assistant public prosecutor Adv Vinay Kulkarni argued in the court that Hari was an alcoholic and had frequent quarrels with the family members. District and sessions judge Shekhar Munghate delivered the judgment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-gets-life-in-jail-for-killing-father/articleshow/80037011.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bhopal||Ahead of inauguration, restored Sadar Manzil glitters with grandeur of glorious past||BHOPAL: The Sadar Manzil palace, all lit up at night, is attracting scores of photo enthusiasts in the state capital. While the restoration work of the 18th century palace is complete, it awaits inauguration before it is opened for the public. Adaptive re-use of the palace is planned so that it becomes a template for other restoration works in Bhopal. Conservation of the wall paintings in the Durbar Hall was the only attempt at restoration of the palace until 2016. Located in the heart of the walled city, Sadar Manzil is a royal building of the erstwhile rulers of Bhopal State. Attempts at restoration around year 2000 were stopped as the central Darbar Hall carvings were considered to be too intricate and experts felt that they should be left untouched. The monument is set amidst the picturesque and well-laid out gardens and reflects oriental traces of architecture. After restoration, the middle garden has disappeared. Red stone has replaced the green path, with a middle fountain —the only remaining symbol of the original design.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/editedahead-of-inauguration-restored-sadar-manzil-glitters-with-grandeur-of-glorious-past/articleshow/80033122.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Trichy||Preparing students for board exam a challenge: Teachers||TRICHY: The school education department’s plan to conduct special classes at school for students of class X-XII for the upcoming board examination will benefit students who are cut off from academic activity ever since schools closed in March. At the same time, teachers say that getting them back to academic activity would be a herculean task. The Covid-19 outbreak transformed teaching and learning methods by taking physical classroom sessions to virtual mode. Academic activity largely remained unaffected in private schools because of virtual classes, but that was not the case with students in government schools. Many families could not afford gadgets for virtual classes while a cross-section of such students didn’t have conducive atmosphere at home for studies. According to teachers, a majority of the students are not in sync with Kalvi Tholaikatchi which telecast pre-recorded classes. “Government is refusing to reopen schools over fears of Covid-19 but these teenaged students are out of their homes. Many have started going for work which is fetching income to families that are economically affected by Covid-19 lockdown,” said the headmaster of a government school in Lalgudi. Since most students were found to have not followed Kalvi Tholaikatchi, we have to prepare them from scratch. This can be possible only in classroom atmosphere, said senior officials of Trichy district chief education office. Board examination may be conducted in May – June. As 35% of the syllabus is reduced, most of the portions can be completed by then. The spread of the new strain of coronavirus being a challenge, adequate steps will be taken to ensure safety of the students at school, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/preparing-students-for-board-exam-a-challenge-teachers/articleshow/80036207.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 31, 2020||Bhopal||New Year bash: 12am deadline for hotels plays party pooper in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Although hoteliers and pubs organising parties on New Year’s Eve are still not happy with the deadline of 12 am as decided by the district administration, they are expecting a full house as only half the capacity will be allowed to participate in the New Year revelry under the Covid-19 norms. “The deadline of 12 am means that we shall have to ask the guests to start winding up by 11.30 pm. In fact, that’s the time when a New Year party is at its peak as the participants start waiting for the clock to strike 12 and the New Year rings in with new hopes and resolutions,” said Tejukpal Singh, proprietor of two hotels at Bhopal. When asked when New Year parties used to get over in the past, he said, “By 2 am. People used to sit for dinner after 12 am, and by the time they finished food, it would be 2 am.” Some hoteliers and pubs also tried to get the party time extended by paying extra money to the excise department, but it didn't work. “I had paid Rs 5,000 online to the excise department since there is a rule that on eight days in a year, we can get two hours extra on payment of extra money. They had assured me that it would be done, but now they have refused”, said the proprietor of a popular pub in MP Nagar. He said a ban on loud music and celebrity DJ has also hampered preparations for a proper New Year bash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/edited12-am-deadline-not-good-enough-for-ny-parties-say-hoteliers/articleshow/80033147.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: ‘Project to double banana farmers’ income soon’||TRICHY: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has said the government will undertake a research project to double the income of banana farmers in the state. He said this while interacting with farmers during his election campaign at Thottiam. He said the government has been taking various measures to double the income of banana farmers. “As a farmer, I know the problems faced by them while raising banana crop. The government will take up a research project with the help of aerospace scientist Mylswamy Annadurai by roping in Chennai IIT to utilize all parts of a banana tree,” he added. Banana is a major crop for farmers of Thottiam, Musiri and Lalgudi in Trichy district where they cultivate it on 25,000 acres next to paddy, pulses and oilseeds. On the demand to release water in Cauvery from Mettur to safeguard summer crops, the CM said the Godavari – Cauvery river linking project will be implemented. A detailed project report is getting ready for a barrage between Musiri and Kulithalai across Cauvery. When the project is completed there will be no water shortage for the whole year, he said. On his way to Trichy, the CM stopped his vehicle and went over to a banana field in Thottiam to interact with labourers who were at work on the field. He borrowed a spade from one of them and started digging the earth to soften the soil. Farmers usually dig the soil for weeding and to make the soil loose. Those who saw him work were impressed by the way he handled the spade like an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/project-to-double-banana-farmers-income-soon/articleshow/80036210.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Cops take detection rate to all time high||Aurangabad: Covid-19 pandemic clubbed with months-long lockdown has considerably brought down the total number of serious offences in Aurangabad city from 4,540 in 2019 to 3,503 till November. Importantly, despite being on bandobast during the lockdown period, Aurangabad city police have taken the detection rate to an all time high of 76% for 2020. In 2019, the detection rate stood at 70%. Authorities said that it was 63% in 2015 and joint efforts helped it to register improvement each year. However, cases of chain snatching, house breaking, vehicle and mobile thefts continue to pose challenge to the police. Out of 20 chain snatchings reported this year, only three have been detected. Out of 141 house breaking, 44 have been detected. 583 vehicle thefts have been registered and 231 stand detected while out of 82 mobile thefts, 24 have been detected. Out of all the other forms of thefts, 988 cases have been registered, of which, 396 have been detected. Appreciating the efforts taken by police personnel across the hierarchy, commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta said that this year, a total of 3,339 minor offences including arms act, gambling essential commodities act were registered. Of these, 3,323 offences (almost 100%) have been detected. In 2019, 2,133 minor offences were registered, of which, 2,122 were detected. Gupta said that there has also been a dip in the total number of crime against women this year. In 2019, a total of 700 cases were registered in which women. In these crimes, victims of suicide, rape, domestic violence, molestation, human trafficking were identified. However, this year, the number has dropped to 573. Deputy commissioner of police (zone-I) Nikesh Khatmode Patil said that in cases of vehicle thefts, it has been found that youths without any criminal background too are getting involved, making the police suspect that the ones who lost jobs recently are getting into bike lifting as an easy means of making money. Since the breaking out of the pandemic, a total 22 police officers and 234 constables of Aurangabad city police have been infected with the contagion. Of those infected, three policemen lost their lives while battling the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-take-detection-rate-to-all-time-high/articleshow/80032050.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Watchtowers & drones: Kolkata cops pad up to control New Year crowd on Park Street||KOLKATA: From several extra watchtowers, multiple channels for crowd movement, mask distribution to announcements and putting up barricades, cops have decided to implement all Covid norms in the city for the next three days. They have taken up the challenge to manage crowds at the city’s hotspots on New Year’s Eve and the long weekend that follows. While Park street has been divided into different sectors under nine deputy commissioners, no traffic restriction has been announced yet for the road. Times ViewThe need to celebrate responsibly becomes all the more important because of the news of the new strain's arrival in the state. The time to let our guard down may not come any time soon.“The watch towers, drones and CCTV cameras will focus on the crowds. Instructions issued from the watchtowers are important as cops posted there will have a bird’s eye view of the swelling crowds. We will deploy 5,000 cops in the core zone (Exide-Park Street). There will be camps at specific intervals along the stretch, from where we will distribute masks and sanitizers. There will be announcements throughout the day. Once the revellers cross certain camps, those not wearing masks will be prosecuted,” said joint CP (headquarters), Subhankar Sinha Sarkar. Overall, the city will deploy 12,000 cops to usher in the New Year. In a bid to beef up the security, Park Street has been divided into nine zones, where multiple watchtowers will come up to prevent people from crowding at a particular spot. A team from the detective department’s watch section in plain clothes and officials from the anti-rowdy squad will also be posted to keep tabs on drink driving. “Traffic movement will remain normal till late in the evening. But if there is overcrowding of people, we will divert both vehicles and revellers from Wood Street and Mayo Road from Gandhi Statue towards J L Nehru Road, Middleton Street, Russell Street, Little Russel Street and Camac Street (from Park Street to Middleton Street),” said an officer. Taking a clue from the efficient crowd management during Durga Puja, cops have decided to follow the same strategy for New Year’s Eve at Park Street. Though cops will turn Park Street into a pedestrian zone only at midnight on December 31, demarcating more areas for people to walk and take entry from both the flanks of the road. However, they have decided not to allow anyone to hang around for long and block the entrances of eateries. “We will stop people at one zone if the crowd is unable to move ahead,” said the officer. Cops, though, are still worried about the crowd management, especially at the hotspots like Maidan and Alipore Zoo in the morning as well as Park Street in the evening. “There are certain stretches like the escalator outside the main entrance of the zoo or the sidewalk near Allen Park, where social distancing is next to impossible,” said an officer from the Bhowanmipore traffic guard. The plan on traffic movement around Park Street, from Exide Crossing, is likely to be tweaked from December 31. “Given the amount of pressure on EM Bypass as people are travelling to Eco Park, Nicco Park and Science City, we are drawing up our plan afresh for the morning,” said police sources. “We will be stressing on smooth pedestrian flow around Alipore zoo, Victoria Memorial, Park Circus, Exide Crossing and Science City. Jaywalking has to be stopped. All traffic guards have been instructed accordingly,” said an IPS officer.s “Depending on the situation, traffic has to be restricted or diverted on several roads leading to Park Street. We don’t want to put too much pressure on JL Nehru Road. Vehicles bound to Behala, Alipore and New Alipore may be directed to Red Road and Mayo Road from Esplanade and Dalhousie,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/watchtowers-drones-cops-pad-up-to-control-new-yr-crowd-on-park-st/articleshow/80034849.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 31, 2020||Nashik||Halcon starts getting onion export enquiries||Nashik: Centre’s decision to lift the onion export ban from January 1 has led to Halcon — a joint venture between Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) and the Container Corporation of India (Concor) — receiving enquiries pertaining to the export of roughly 1,000 tonne of the produce. Halcon facilitates exporters in exporting onions and provides all custom clearance and plant quarantine facilities. “We are ready to facilitate the exporters. We have started receiving enquiries. The enquiries will increase further after January 1,” said Sudhakar Sen, the CEO of Halcon. Halcon has set up an inland container depot (ICD) and an air cargo complex adjacent to the Ozar airport, 20 km from Nashik city. It has provided all the facilities for grading, packaging, customs clearance etc. The containers are sent directly by road to the JNPT in Mumbai, from where they are exported by sea to various countries. All the custom formalities are carried out here at the ICD, which saves times. Therefore, most of the onion and grape exporters from Nashik district prefer exporting via Halcon. Meanwhile, the average wholesale onion price continued to increase on the second consecutive day on Wednesday at the country’s largest wholesale onion market at Lasalgaon APMC following the lifting of the export ban. The average wholesale onion price increased by Rs 150 per quintal to Rs 2,550 per quintal on Wednesday, against Rs 2,400 per quintal on Tuesday. The average wholesale onion prices have increased by 31% in just two days from Rs 1,950 per quintal on Monday to Rs 2,550 per quintal on Wednesday after the Centre decided to withdraw the ban on onion export from January 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/halcon-starts-getting-onion-export-enquiries/articleshow/80032058.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 31, 2020||India||Fill up consumer panel posts, PM tells states||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged states to fill up the vacancies in consumer commissions for speedy redressal of consumer grievances while chairing a web-based Pragati meeting on Wednesday. He also urged the Gujarat government and urban affairs ministry to expedite the Ahmedabad Metro Rail project and to complete it by August 2022 to coincide with 75th year of India's independence. "Prime Minister directed all the officials to ensure and expedite comprehensive resolution of grievances," said an official statement from the PMO. In every Pragati meeting attended by secretaries in the central government and chief secretaries from state, PM reviews grievances handled by at least one ministry. Vacancies in consumer commissions is one of the major reasons for delay in redressal of grievances. The government has enacted a new Consumer Protection Act with provisions for expeditious processing of complaints filed with consumer commissions and has also streamlined the process for appointment of the members in these commissions. Sources said the PM asked chief secretaries and secretaries to ensure early resolution of pending issues and target completion by due date. He flagged how a number of litigations had impacted a railway project for nearly five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fill-up-consumer-panel-posts-pm-tells-states/articleshow/80037647.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 31, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Rise in coronavirus numbers drops to 16% in December from November high of 20%||BHOPAL: In what could be a positive sign, the cumulative count of Covid-19 cases in the month of December grew only by 16%. While in November, there was a growth of more than 20% in the cumulative count of Covid-19 cases in the state compared to the figures till October 31. Not only this, the day to day positivity rate between December 1 and December 30 had remained below 5%. Overall, in the state, there were at least 17 districts where the growth in the number of Covid-19 cases between December 1 and December 30 was below 10%. Only in Burhanpur and Morena districts, the least growth in Covid-19 cases was observed in this period. While only 32 new cases were reported in Burhanpur, 120 cases were reported in Morena. However, when seen in terms of increase in the cumulative number of Covid-19 cases in the same period, in both the districts, the overall growth was 3.9%. If seen numerically, Burhanpur had reported the lowest number of positive cases in the past 30 days, when only 32 cases were reported, followed by Dindori where only 61 cases were reported and then Agar Malwa where only 70 cases were reported. But when seen in the overall growth in cumulative count of cases, while it grew by only 3.9% in Burhanpur, it grew by 6% in Dindori and 12% in Agar Malwa districts. Sources said that the most important aspect of the decline in numbers is the fact that the day to day positivity rate has been below 5% for a long period. However when compared to other states, less tests have been done in Madhya Pradesh so far, which ideally should be increased. In another good sign, the number of active cases has also decreased, and as on December 30, there are only 9,387 active cases in the state, which was 14,771 on November 30. This decrease of more than 5,000 is primarily due to more recoveries and less number of people testing positive, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/growth-of-cases-drops-to-16-in-dec-from-nov-high-of-20/articleshow/80033212.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 31, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal active cases slide||Bhopal: There has been a near 20% drop in active Covid-19 cases in the state capital, after a spike in mid-December. Overall R-value of Madhya Pradesh has dropped to 0.91 from 0.94 on December 3. Reproduction rate or the R-value of Covid-19 is rating the coronavirus’ ability to spread. If R is 0.83, it means every 100 people are infecting 83 others, hence a downward trend in infection, according to experts. Ideally, R must be below 1 to indicate that the infection is reducing. Active cases of the infection have come down from 2454 as on December 19 to 1987 ten days later. A drop in hospitalisation rate has also been observed in the same period. In the month of December, Bhopal has reported over 50 deaths attributed to Covid-19. “There are varied learning from the pandemic in 2020. In 2021, these health front learning’s can be a stepping step for better health for all,” said MS general surgery, Dr J P Paliwal. Experts have warned against complacency and insist on preventive measures to keep Covid-19 at bay. Experts stress that to keep Covid-19 away, people must clean their hands often; use soap and water, or an alcohol-based hand rub; maintain a safe distance from anyone who is coughing or sneezing; wear a mask when physical distancing is not possible; avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth; cover nose and mouth with bent elbow or a tissue while coughing or sneezing; stay home if you feel unwell and if you have a fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical attention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-active-cases-slide/articleshow/80033187.cms||Jamal Ayub
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||ISKCON vs ISCON: Court refuses a stay||AHMEDABAD: In a setback to the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON), a local court refused to stay the temple’s neighbour, a real estate developer, from using the trademark ‘ISCON’. ISKCON, the temple trust, sued JP Infrastructure for using the trademark ISCON for its construction business and fitness centre in 2013, on the ground that the similarity in the names would confuse people and the realty firm would benefit from the temple’s goodwill. It had also sued a fitness centre run by the construction firm under the same brand. The temple claimed that it has had the trademark registered for a long time. The realty firm adopted the trademark JP ISCON and constructed various residential schemes under this brand name. Its mall – JP ISCON Mega Mall – is situated next to the temple. The court said that services of the temple and realty firm are absolutely different. There is absolutely no chance of confusion or deception as assumed by the temple. It is a charitable institution which spreads the awareness of Lord Krishna, whereas JP Infrastructure is in the business of construction. “Therefore, the business activities of both the plaintiff (ISKCON) and defendant (JP Infra) are totally different. The consumer group of the defendant is absolutely different from that of the plaintiff’s group of devotees,” the court said. The court, however, has reserved for adjudication the larger issue over whether a temple or charitable trust, which is not a profit making body and does not deal in business, can claim trademark rights or not. This was because the realty firm argued that the trademark suit filed by the temple was not maintainable because its activities are not aimed at making profit. Since the temple is not into any trade or business, it cannot claim goodwill also, for ‘goodwill’ is always attached to the business and not to a non-profit making organization. Additional district and sessions judge, H A Shah, observed that this issue would be decided after the trial in this case. What weighed with the court in favour of the construction firm is that it has used the trademark for long and the temple knew about it. It had issued notice first in 2007, but approached the court only in 2013. Meanwhile, there was also a settlement between the two parties and the realtor agreed to insert JP as a prefix to ISCON. While the temple claims ISKCON is an abbreviation of its name, the realty firm also put forth a similar claim and maintained that each letter in its trademark is the initials of a family member of the promoter. The court also considered that both trademarks do not appear similar. While the temple’s mark shows a lotus prominently, the realty firm has JP as its prefix. Moreover, the court also considered how the construction company has been vigilant in protecting its trademark before the trademark registry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iskcon-vs-iscon-court-refuses-a-stay/articleshow/80034879.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Harnessing technology for enforcing traffic rules||Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Hyderabad, Anil Kumar answers queries of TOI readers on the city's traffic issues and what the police is doing to tackle them Q. Most street lights are not operational. Why don't we address this? Also, can we not enable some of our signals with IoT to regulate traffic? -- Mir Noaman Ali A. Maintenance of street lights in Hyderabad and other GHMC limits is under the supervision of the civic body. They installed several LED street lights. GHMC also does online monitoring of street lights and has a sensor-based on and off system. Installation and maintenance of traffic signals are under the purview of the electrical department of GHMC. All signals are connected to the traffic command control centre (TCCC). All traffic signals are IoT based and work with vehicle actuated control (VAC) system through virtual loop cameras. These cameras sense the vehicles and allot time accordingly. But due to heavy traffic during peak hours, these signals are mostly operated manually. Q. The stretch between East Marredpally and Secunderabad railway station/Paradise and beyond is a nightmare for commuters. Since cops are unable to manage the traffic, they go through colony roads making lives of residents miserable. -- N Ramanathan A. There is a bottleneck at the above junction. It is located on SP road/inner ring road. During peak hours, commuters take colony roads to save time at the junction. In coordination with the GHMC authorities, no-honking signages will be erected inside colonies to avoid honking. Q There is a lot of unnecessary honking that motorists in the city resort to. Is there any way the traffic police can curb this nuisance? -- Satyanarayana B S A. All possible measures are being taken up. We are erecting no-honking sign boards, organising awareness programmes, displaying messages on digital signboards, making announcements at junctions through public address system. Besides this, Hyderabad traffic police has also procured sound detectors to book cases against violators to curb the menace using modified horns and silencers. CASES BOOKED FOR HONKING Year 2019 2020 (up to 27-12-2020): No. of cases booked 2,685 763 Q What are the timings for heavy vehicles to be permitted inside the city? In my area (Kukatpally) I find heavy dumping/construction tippers even during the day, creating traffic blockage. Can traffic police launch an application for citizens to upload image/video of traffic violators? -- Ashish Patnaik A. Kukatpally area comes under the limits of Cyberabad police commissionerate and it is on the National Highway. In the above area, tippers/dumpers/lorries and earth movers are allowed from 10.30 pm to 6.00 am. RMC vehicles are allowed from 11.30 am to 4.00 pm and 10.30 pm to 7.30 a.m. Cases are booked on vehicles violating the above rules. Already a facility is available for citizens to report traffic violations, i.e. 1) Cyberabad traffic police WhatsApp no 9490617346, 2) Hyderabad city police WhatsApp no 9490616555. Citizens can share all traffic violation details on these numbers. Q. Due to flyover work underway at the Bahadurpura X Roads, motorists have to travel an additional 1.1 km to take a U-turn. Can you provide a U-turn close to the X Roads? -- Bhagvat Handikere A. We will explore the possibilities of providing u-turn at Bhadurpura X-Roads after joint inspection with field engineers of GHMC (SRDP Project). Hyderabad traffic police will take up the matter with concerned authorities to speed up the flyover work. Q. Jumping signals and wrong-side driving are rampant in the city. Fixing cameras and imposing fines do not seem to deter offenders. Is there something else cops can do? -- Rudresh S V A. Hyderabad traffic police are regularly cracking down various traffic violations including signal jumping and wrong-side driving as per the MV Act 1988. We are also using various electronic gadgets like digital cameras, laser guns and surveillance cameras etc to capture traffic violations. Hyderabad traffic police launched the ITMS (Integrated Traffic Management System) which has automated traffic enforcement through Automated Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras. More than 90% enforcement is being done with these cameras. Special drives are also being conducted to curb violations. Every commuter has to follow traffic rules and obey the law. Hyderabad traffic police will increase contact enforcement against signal jumping and wrong-side driving. CASES BOOKED Violation 2019 2020 (up to 27-12-2020): Signal jumping 35,241 29,731 , wrong-side driving 2,07,512 1,55,205 Q. Despite proper traffic rules, motorists are being intolerant on roads. What other practical measures can police department take to make citizens know the importance to oblige traffic rules? -- Girish Sakkuri Violations such as over speeding and rash driving are being booked under appropriate laws. We are counselling family members of violators, also filing charge sheets in specific cases in the court of law which may end up with imprisonment. This year (up to November) 177 people died due to rash driving/over speeding. 11 died due to negligence. Hyderabad traffic police is regularly conducting awareness campaigns to control road accidents by educating public on the importance of following road safety rules. Social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook are also being used to create traffic awareness. Why is it that only the common public gets fined for wrong-side parking, when fruit and vegetable carts are seen mushrooming along road sides? -- Rakesh Thakur Apart from booking cases for wrong-side parking, number of cases are being booked against street vendors for encroaching footpaths under 39(b)CP Act. Special drive is being conducted with the help of GHMC for removal of encroachments. Counselling sessions are also being held for other vendors to confine to earmarked areas. In 2019, Hyderabad traffic police booked 18,140 cases against violators. This year (up to 27-12-2020) 9,358 cases have been booked under 39 (b) CP Act against several vendors. What are the facilities being provided to pedestrians to cross roads as zebra markings are not to be seen? - Dr G V Kumar Pedestrian safety is a main concern of Hyderabad traffic police. GHMC provided zebra markings, signages, pelican signals, FOBs, pedestrian refuge islands and footpaths at identified places to ensure pedestrians safety. Traffic staff is being deployed near schools, hospitals and market places to facilitate pedestrian crossings. Public awareness programmes are being held to use the metro station bridges as FOBs for crossing the road. Each metro station has facilities like staircases/lifts/escalators to cross roads. Traffic police is removing encroachments along footpaths by conducting regular enforcement drives. Pedestrian fatalities are reducing with each year in the city. During 2018, pedestrian fatalities stood at 125, in 2019 it was 106 and this year it has come down to 64 (November end). Most constables concentrate on taking photographs of offenders without helmets. There are so many people violating traffic norms. I feel you must concentrate on all these offences rather than concentrating only on helmet less driving. -- Vijaya Kumar Offences which endanger others are dealt with stringent action in contact and non-contact form of enforcement to reduce fatalities. To inculcate the habit of wearing of helmets and seatbelts, non-contact enforcements are done. Hyderabad traffic police also takes up contact enforcement against such violators. However, it is the policy of state police to do more contactless enforcement. CASES BOOKED FOR EXTRA PASSENGERS : Violation 2019 2020 (up to 27-12-2020), extra passengers by autos 7,850 12,327 Traffic police seem to be going easy on those resorting to triple riding, wrong-side driving, under-age driving and overloading autos with passengers, resulting in an increase in reckless driving and accidents. When can we expect stricter action from your end to curb these hazardous practices? -- Satya Prasad All of the above violations are life endangering. Hyderabad traffic police are even counselling violators’ parents/guardians for bringing change in their behaviour. LIFE ENDANGERING VIOLATIONS –2019 AND 2020 (Up to 27-12-2020) S.No. Violations 2019 2020 1 Drunken drive 29,756 5,748 2 Over speeding / dangerous Driving 47,398 1,42,059 3 Wrong side driving 2,07,472 1,55,205 4 Triple Riding 86,467 1,07,036 5 Minor driving 4,610 1,412 6 Extra passengers 7,850 12,327 7 Without helmet 3,519,064 4,017,173 8 Without seat belt 23,576 48,518 9 Signal jumping 35,241 29,731 10 Cellphone driving 22,192 26,788  Total 3,983,626 4,545,997 I am residing at Manikonda near Sunder Garden Function Hall. The road from Marchetti to Andhra Bank X Roads is completely encroached causing traffic jams. Kindly do the needful to ensure smooth flow of traffic. -- Pravin Singh  Manikonda comes under Cyberabad limits, Madhapur traffic police is conducting special drives to remove illegal encroachments at Khajaguda and Manikonda as per 39 (b) of CP Act. A traffic officer will be posted in this stretch to ensure smooth flow of traffic Traffic congestion near Oliphant Bridge crossing is horrible. This is perhaps the most challenging task for police with vehicles coming from eight different directions. I see accidents daily and traffic going helter-skelter. Only few traffic constables are there in the morning to regulate traffic. Surprisingly, there are no traffic signals on this route. The other evening, there was a lady inspector waving her walkie-talkie trying to control traffic flow. She seemed totally bewildered and helpless. I request you to kindly attend to this on priority. -- C P Raj Kumar It is a big junction called Chilkalguda rotary. Many take this route to reach Secunderabad railway station. After metro rail corridor, the geometrics of the junction has changed. Proposal for new signal has been approved and shortly a new signal will be installed. Skywalk is also sanctioned for this junction. Sufficient manpower is also being deployed for traffic regulation on this stretch. Road safety works will soon be taken up by GHMC at this junction. I am a resident of Kavadiguda. I face illegal parking on both sides of my neighbourhood. I lodged many complaints in the past on the Hawk Eye app. Traffic constables from Chikkadpally PS came and took photos issuing challans. Though I was informed that they would bring a towing vehicle to remove illegally parked vehicles, there is no such move till now. Can this be followed up? -- Phani Kumar Eranki Chikkadapalli traffic police will attend to the above issue on noticing/receiving such complaints. Recently they cleared vehicles on the road for unauthorized parking. Kindly contact Chikkadpally traffic PS for any traffic-related issues along Kavadiguda road stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harnessing-technology-for-enforcing-traffic-rules/articleshow/80036228.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Singing bars to pay Rs 10,000 per extra hour to stay open till 2am in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The government has allowed the singing bars in central Kolkata to remain open till 2am on December 31 if the owners apply and pay fee for every extra hour beyond 11pm. The bar owners, who have applied for the permission, submitted an undertaking to follow all social distancing norms and other safety guidelines inside the bar. Local police stations have also been directed to step up patrolling in the area on New Year’s Eve and ensure that there will be no over-crowding in any of the bars as the new Covid mutant strain was detected in a resident of the city. The owners, who want to keep their bars open, will have to pay Rs 10,000 for every hour beyond 11pm. They can stay open till 11pm on regular days. “Time for the music bars has been extended till 2am on the New Year’s Eve but the owners will have to pay a fee for every hour. The owners, who sought permission in this regard, submitted an undertaking, ensuring that they will follow all the safety guidelines. We are concerned after the new mutant strain of the Coronavirus was detected in a resident of the city,” said a senior police officer. According to local police stations, almost all singing bars in Esplanade, Chandni and Central Avenue have applied for the extended timing on the night of December 31, expecting a surge in footfalls. The owner of a bar in Chandni said he had sought the permission on being asked by his regular customers. “We are expecting the business to be better on the last day of the year. That is why I have applied for the extension. Our business has been worst-hit this year due to the pandemic,” he said. Crooning was permitted only days before Durga Puja but only for an hour. Earlier this month, the authorities extended the timing till 11pm. The authorities had extended the timings till 2am on Christmas Eve too, but hardly any bar owner had applied for the extension. “There are so many bars in the city and the number of customers has dipped drastically. So, I decided to spend the extra money for being granted the permission on December 31 when there is a higher probability of profits,” said the owner of another bar in the city. But the discovery of the new mutant strain has added to the headache of bar owners. “We have already applied for the extension of timing and paid the money. I am worried over the discovery of the new Covid mutant strain in the city. If people do not step out to party, we will suffer heavy loss,” said the owner of a singing bar in Chandni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/singing-bars-to-pay-rs-10k-per-extra-hr-to-stay-open-till-2am/articleshow/80034909.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Churches take guard against Covid, change mass timings||KOLKATA: Two of the city’s cathedrals, the main churches of the Roman Catholic and Church of North India, are gearing up to celebrate special masses on New Year’s Eve on Thursday and January 1. Pandemic will be the theme for the religious heads to deliver their sermons. For the Roman Catholic order, the mass on Thursday at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary, will be a thanksgiving service. The prayer with a limited number of parishioners will start before 7pm and end by 9:30pm as there will be no midnight mass this time to follow Covid safety guidelines. The masses on Thursday and again at 7am on Friday will be read by archbishop Thomas D Souza, head of the Roman Catholic archdiocese in the city. The Roman Catholics will celebrate January 1 as the day of Mother Mary’s feast. “We shall offer ourselves as her children in complete surrender and seek her protection in these difficult times,” the archbishop said. “We have lost lives and there have been serious issues with our health, jobs and businesses, but we have to be grateful for what we still have and do our bit to make it better for others,” the archbishop told TOI. At St Paul’s Cathedral, the main church of the CNI, midnight mass on New Year’s Eve will start at 11pm and end a little after midnight. Only a limited number of members will be allowed to attend the service. Visitors will not be allowed within the premises like previous years.However, in the two morning services on Friday, a limited number of visitors will be allowed to attend. “Nothing happens without God’s will and we must not lose hope and faith,” Bishop Paritosh Canning, head of the Kolkata diocese of the CNI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/churches-take-guard-against-covid-change-mass-timings/articleshow/80034864.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||UK virus strain scare forces most Kolkata clubs to scrap New Year party plans||KOLKATA: New Year celebrations at premier clubs in the city will be muted, following the scare over the UK strain of the coronavirus and the high court directive for New Year’s Eve. Most of the clubs have not organized any celebration party and the few who intend on doing are keeping it low-profile. Some of the clubs have not even sought permission for extension of time to serve liquor beyond midnight on December 31. Calcutta Club will break tradition this year to organize a ‘sit-down silver service’ dinner, said committee member Pramit Kumar Ray. He said that the club took all the necessary measures well ahead in view of the observations made by the High Court during Durga Puja. “The maximum headcount allowed on December 31 evening will be 180,” he added. Bengal Club is not organizing any function or special dinner for the evening. Tolly Club CEO Anil Mukherjee told TOI that they will not hold the dance on New Year’s Eve this year. “We are also restricting the number to 150-200. There will be sanitization at the entrance and other Covid protocols will be strictly followed,” he added. Calcutta Rowing Club secretary Chandan Roychowdhury said there will be no live music and band this year. “There will be no dance floor either,” he added. According to him, the club will allow only 150 people for the evening. “The club will arrange a special menu for December 31, but service will be closed by midnight,” he added. He pointed out that average attendance at CRC on New Year’s Eve is 600-700 every year. Lake Club secretary Subrata Guha pointed out that there will be no party on the day. “There will be a saxophone performance on the lawn, but no dance.” he added. According to Guha, they take permission from the excise department to extend the time to serve liquor to 2am every year. But this year, the club has not applied for that. However, some, like Saturday Club and Princeton Club, will organize parties with limited attendance. The operations manager of Princeton Club, Sanjay Karmakar, said there will be a party with live music. However, they will allow up to 150 heads. “We shall close by 1am,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/uk-virus-strain-scare-forces-most-city-clubs-to-scrap-new-year-party-plans/articleshow/80034869.cms||Udit Prasanna Mukherji
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Forum to help ryots sell produce in Hyderabad directly||HYDERABAD: After helping the tomato farmers to sell their produce at a better price, members of Forum for IT Professionals (ForIT) will now be spending the first weekend of the New Year by facilitating farmers in transporting and selling their vegetables and fruits in the city directly. About 100 volunteers from the ForIT will be helping farmers sell three types of vegetables and two varieties of fruits at about 15 different locations, including gated communities, in the city. “At a time when farmers were being offered Rs 2 per kg, we facilitated them to sell about four-and-a-half tonnes of tomato at Rs 15 per kg. This time, the plan is to help them sell about 12 tonnes of their produce at a better price,” Kiran Chandra, resident, ForIT, told TOI, adding that while the IT employees paid for transport charges last weekend, this time, the farmers are more confident. “Farmers are going to get vegetables and fruits directly to the city this time. All we have to do is show them a place to sell their fruits and vegetables,” he added. Members of the forum said it is disheartening to see that farmers are not able to get the minimum support price for their produce. They said that because of the Delhi protests, denizens are aware of the farmers’ struggle and are sympathetic towards their cause. “People are coming forward to buy directly from the farmers even if it means they have to spend slightly more,” said Praveen Chandrahas, general secretary of the forum, adding that they received an overwhelming response from denizens last Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forum-to-help-ryots-sell-produce-in-city-directly/articleshow/80034866.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 31, 2020||Chennai||Tamilaruvi Manian, Rajinikanth’s confidante, calls it quits too||CHENNAI: A day after actor Rajinikanth said no to electoral politics, his close confidante and founder of Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam Tamilaruvi Manian too called it quits. “I am quitting politics and will not re-enter till my death,” Manian said in a statement. Manian had been one of the key leaders, urging the Tamil Superstar to enter politics. “I involved myself in politics drawn by K Kamaraj in my college days. My only wish was to change the way politics is conducted in Tamil Nadu, where it has been muddled for long by the two Dravidian parties. I never sought any personal gain and continue to stay in a rented house,” Manian said. “Today, politics has become home to those who indulge in caste, religion and community-based approach and not for the honest. People have started abusing me for my attempt to change the way political discourse happened, and it has hurt and shocked my family,” he said, while thanking all those who worked with him in Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam. Starting his political career with the Congress, Manian later shifted his allegiance to Congress (O) when former chief minister K Kamaraj led the breakaway unit of the Congress. He later became TN president of Ramakrishna Hegde’s party, before moving on to Janata Dal. He later returned to the Congress and left the party once again. After a period of political hibernation, he launched Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamilaruvi-manian-rajinis-confidante-calls-it-quits-too/articleshow/80034886.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bhopal||New Covid cases drop to 866 in MP, recovery rate inches to 95%||Bhopal: The count of Covid-19 patients in the state reached 2,40,947 on Wednesday as 866 people tested positive for the infection. And on Wednesday, too, more people recovered from Covid-19 than testing positive in a single day. Against 866 new people testing positive in the state on Wednesday, 1,061 patients recovered. So far, the total number of recoveries has reached 2,27,965. As on December 30, the overall recovery rate for Covid-19 in the state was 94.61%. As many as 13 casualties were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the total death toll in MP has reached 3,595. Districts where these casualties were reported include 4 deaths in Indore, 2 in Bhopal and one each in Jabalpur, Khargone, Ujjain, Vidisha, Morena, Barwani and Damoh districts. On Wednesday, fresh cases were reported from 51 of the total 52 districts of the state. It was only Ashok Nagar district where no new cases were reported on Wedensday. A total 27,081 samples were tested on Wednesday, of which 866 tested positive. Thus the positivity rate for Wednesday stood at 3.1%. As on December 30, there were a total of 9,387 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-covid-cases-drop-to-866-in-mp-recovery-rate-inches-to-95/articleshow/80033219.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||10pm-6am curfew from Jan 1||Gandhinagar: The state government on Wednesday announced that night curfew will continue in all four big cities of Gujarat. However, some relaxation has been announced with effect from January 1. Instead of 9pm to 6am, night curfew will remain in force from 10pm to 6am. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, night curfew will remain in force from 10pm to 6am in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Surat cities. Hotel, restaurants and other industries which operate during the night hours, had been demanding withdrawal of night curfew, as it was impacting their economic activity and causing losses. There have been representations from other sections of society as well, complaining of police harassment. The government has decided to relax curfew by just one hour with effect from January 1, as a large number of Covid-19 cases are still being reported from different parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/10pm-6am-curfew-from-jan-1/articleshow/80034903.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bhopal||200+ new Covid cases in Bhopal, 193 more recover||Bhopal: On Wednesday, 202 new cases of Covid-19 were diagnosed in Bhopal. Two more people died due to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll so far in the state capital to 575.  Since the pandemic began, 39123 people have been infected with Covid-19 in Bhopal. In the past 24 hours, 193 people recovered from the infection. So far, 36554 have recovered from the infection. On Wednesday, there were 1994 active cases of Covid-19 in Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/200-new-covid-cases-in-bhopal-193-more-recover/articleshow/80033240.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||12-year-old boy injured after being hit by tractor in Ajmer||Ajmer: A 12-year-old boy was injured after being hit by a speeding tractor in Ashaganj area of Ajmer on Wednesday afternoon.The driver fled from the spot while residents came out on the road and staged protest. Some taxi drivers sitting on the stand took the boy to JLN Hospital where he is undergoing treatment.According to police, the incident occurred when Jagdish Kichi, 12, a resident of Paharganj, was going to Ashaganj with his friends.Protesters said that tractors are banned in the city during day, but they are seen speeding everywhere. These tractors have no number plates. Around two years ago, a boy died after being run over by a tractor in the city which resulted in a ban on tractor trolleys during day time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/12-year-old-boy-injured-after-being-hit-by-tractor-in-ajmer/articleshow/80034920.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Mask awareness drive on tram from Esplanade today||KOLKATA: A specially decorated tram with messages on the need to wear masks will roll out from the Esplanade tram depot on Thursday morning. The initiative, ‘MaskMovement’, by Covid Care Network (CCN) aims to remind people that Covid-19 is still very much around and they need to be more careful in view of the cases from the UK strain of the novel coronavirus. “As the year ends, we want to remind Kolkatans that numerous people got infected and many families lost their loved ones in 2020. The virus would continue to hound us in 2021, too, if we lower our guard,” said public health activist Parthasrathi Mukherjee of CCN. The organization was set up by survivors, family members of survivors and healthcare professionals. The tram will have CCN volunteers along with artistes who will perform during the ride and urge people to wear mask when stepping out of home. “Looking around, it would seem that the situation has become normal with people hardly sticking to Covid-19 prevention protocols. Hence, a reminder on the pandemic is needed,” said SSKM hepatology head and CCN mentor Abhijit Chowdhury. With the state reporting cases in daily in more than a week now, there is a decline in number of Covid cases in Bengal. But healthcare professionals said that a sudden spike will not time much if people shun the preventive protocols. “Whether the UK strain invades us or not is a different concern. The existing virus is capable enough to spike up the numbers if we fail to take guard,” said Diptendra Sarkar, professor of surgery at SSKM hospital who is also part of CCN. Mountaineer Satyarup Siddhanta, a member of the organization, said the tram will go to Shayambazar and Garihat junction. During the seven-hour long campaign, CCN volunteers will interact will people, stressing the importance of wearing masks. Street plays on the theme will also be staged at various junctions. The organisation will repeat the campaign on January 1. “With the conventional strain still haunting us and the arrival of a new strain, mask and hygiene are the only measures that can keep us from getting infected,” said Sayantan Chakraborty, a Covid survivor medic and member of CCN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mask-awareness-drive-on-tram-from-esplanade-today/articleshow/80034891.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 31, 2020||Pune||In 11 months, as many as 847 vehicles stolen from Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: A total of 847 vehicles have been stolen from Pimpri Chinchwad in the last 11 months. The police have so far been able to trace only 162 vehicles. The Pimpri Chinchwad police said that the thieves have been targeting two-wheelers parked along the roads in the city. Cars have also been stolen from parking lots in housing societies. Even those parked on the road have been stolen, too. An officer from the crime branch said, “Most two-wheelers have been stolen for joy rides. They are used till their fuel lasts and then they are abandoned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-11-months-as-many-as-847-vehicles-stolen-from-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/80034829.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP-JJP alliance suffers major setback in mayoral elections||Chandigarh: In a setback to ruling BJP-JJP combine in Haryana, the alliance could win only one of three mayoral polls for which results were announced on Wednesday. The BJP lost four out of six civic body polls to Congress, Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP) and independent candidates. BJP’s Kulbushan Goyal will be Panchkula’s new mayor. He defeated Congress’s Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia by 2,057 votes. In Rewari, BJP’s Poonam Yadav won MC president’s post and seven seats, losing the rest to Congress and independents. The alliance was rejected in Dharuhera, Sampla and Uklana municipal committees, where independent candidates won. In Dharuhera, Kanwar Singh defeated BJP’s Rao Man Singh. In Uklana, independent candidate Sushil Singla defeated JJP-BJP joint candidate Mahendra Soni by 419 votes to chairman’s post. Soni had been a panch and a councillor once. In Sonipat, the mayor post went to Nikhil Madan, who defeated Lalit Batra of BJP by 13,818 votes. BJP won 10 seats while its alliance partner lost all five seats from where its candidates had contested. In Ambala, HJCP’s Shakti Rani Sharma, wife of former Union minister Venod Sharma, defeated BJP’s Vandana Sharma by a margin of 8,084 votes. The party also won seven seats here, while BJP bagged eight, Congress three and Haryana Democratic Front two. “After Baroda bypoll, this is the second major defeat of BJP and its ally. While the opposition, especially Congress, has gained. We made a clean sweep in Sonipat, we almost won Panchkula and BJP faced clear defeat in Ambala. We gained ground everywhere,” said HPCC president Kumari Selja. (WIth inputs from Kumar Mukesh in Hisar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-jjp-alliance-suffers-major-setback-in-mayoral-elections/articleshow/80034917.cms||Manvir Saini
December 31, 2020||Surat||No partying beyond 10pm in Daman||Surat: In yet another dampner for revellers in Daman, the administration of th union territory has set a deadline of 10pm for New Year celebrations. According to the notification issued by district collector of Daman, Rakesh Minhas on Wednesday, bars and restaurants will be allowed to operate only till 10pm and the hotels will have to follow all the directions regarding to timings. In the notification, Minhas stated that the decision to limit the timings in Daman has been taken due to the coronavirus pandemic. A total of 1,360 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from Daman. According to the administration only one person has succumbed to the infection. Haresh Thangal, secretary of Daman Hotel and Restaurant Association (DHRA) said, “The hotels in Daman had received bookings from tourists from Surat and Mumbai for the celebration of New Year eve. Limiting the time till 10 pm will not go down well with anyone.” Gopal Tandel, a resort owner, said, “All our plans for the New Year eve celebration have gone haywire. We have communicated to our guests that they will not be able to engage in revellery after 10 pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/no-partying-beyond-10pm-in-daman/articleshow/80033216.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt extends migrant labourers’ hospital contracts||KOLKATA: They dove into the Covid wards — feeding the infected, cleaning them, helping them to the washroom — when the disease was still dreaded even by trained healthcare workers. But migrant labourers roped in by the state government to assist doctors and nurses in caring for Covid-19 patients, had been living in fear for the past few weeks. The feared not the virus but their fate as their contracts were expiring on December 31. However, the state government has now allayed their trepidation by extending their service tenures for three more months. “This is the biggest New Year gift we could have asked for. All of us were under tremendous stress as our contracts were ending on December 31,” said Arob Sheikh, who works in the Covid ward of Medical College Hospital, Kolkata. Migrant labourers, like Arob, who had returned home during the lockdown were left with no work. Many of them had even tested positive on their return. The Mamata Banerjee government took some of them under its wing setting up the Covid Warriors’ Club (CWC). These migrant workers were trained and sent to Covid wards at various government hospitals to assist doctors and nurses. “Workload has never been a stress for people like us who are used to toiling at construction sites for hours. But the past few weeks have been mentally exhausting as we constantly worried about the future once our contracts expired. It is a huge relief now that the government has extended the contract,” said another migrant worker Khudu Shiekh from Murshidabad. The 24-year-old returned home from Mumbai in May and started working at ID Hospitals in July. About 380 such labourers are part of the CWC, working at different Covid hospitals. The government gives them Rs 15,000 a month as remuneration. The 52 people working in Kolkata Covid hospitals have been provided, food, lodging and transport as well. “When there was fear of Covid patients, these warriors started taking care of patients and established themselves as dedicated healthcare providers within a short span. I hope the government retains these warriors,” said Amarendranath Roy, assistant professor, orthopaedic surgery, Murshidabad Medical College, and a key person in setting up the CWC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-extends-migrant-labourers-hosp-contracts/articleshow/80034912.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt allows licensed liquor permit rooms to open||HYDERABAD: The state government on Wednesday issued orders to run licensed liquor permit rooms. The permit rooms attached to wine shops were closed along with the wine shops when the Covid-19 pandemic had hit.  The wine shops were opened post lockdown, but the permit rooms were not accorded permission to run. The city has around 600 wine shops which have licensed permit rooms. “The permit rooms must follow Covid-19 rules,” officials told wine shop owners. Though bar shop owners were allowed to run shops till 12am on December 31, they are pessimistic about seeing good business. “This month we saw less customers, maybe it’s due to Covid-19,” said a wine shop owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-allows-licensed-permit-rooms-to-open/articleshow/80034900.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||‘It’s beginning of BJP downfall’||KARNAL/PANIPAT: Leader of opposition in Haryana Bhupinder Singh Hooda has termed the municipal election results as the beginning of BJP downfall in the state. Hooda was in Panipat on Wednesday, where he met protesting farmers at toll plaza to express solidarity with them. Reacting over the municipal corporation results, Hooda said, “It’s the beginning of the BJP downfall in the state as people of Haryana handed out a decisive defeat to the alliance in the urban local bodies’ election. The BJP-JJP alliance has lost the two mayor seats (Ambala and Sonipat) out of a total of three in the state. Now, it (BJP) will have to face defeat in the entire state.” “The three farm laws are not only anti-farmer, but also affect labourers and other sections of society. The government should feel the pain of the farmers, who have been camping under the open sky in the bone-chilling nights and immediately withdraw the laws,” he added. The former CM Hooda claimed that Congress had been with the farmers since the beginning and continuously raising their voice as farmers’ demands are justified. He added that the Congress had already demanded an emergency session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha as some people are playing “double-role” while claiming themselves to be pro farmers. The no-confidence motion would make it clear that who stands with the farmers and who stands with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/its-beginning-of-bjp-downfall/articleshow/80034926.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Five techies to turn traffic volunteers in Cyberabad||HYDERABAD: Instead of partying or spending time with family on New Year’s Eve, five techies will be acting as traffic volunteers in different areas in Cyberabad. Techies said they will be assisting the police in regulating traffic from 10 pm to 4 am on December 31 and January 1. “Time and again I noticed that people are not obeying traffic rules. I have seen newly-joined IT employees indulging in drunk driving and dying in accidents. This is one reason why I decided to act as a traffic volunteer. On New Year’s Eve, there are far too many cases of drunk driving,” said Uplanchiwar Surendra, an IT employee, who has been acting as a traffic volunteer for the last couple of years. He said that many don’t want to get tested for drunk driving and would try everything possible to get away with it. Surendra, who has two children— a 10-year-old and a four-year-old, said that he generally goes out for dinner on special occasions, but added that this time he doesn’t have any plans. “I will be helping with traffic management from around 9.30 pm,” he added. Vinay Vangala,35, who works at an office in Raheja Mindspace IT Park, said that he is actively taking part in social work, including acting as a traffic volunteer, for about five years now. “Not just for New Year, whenever I get time I help police with traffic management. In fact, it’s fun to work on December 31 as a traffic volunteer as one gets to meet different kinds of people,” said Vinay. He said that last year, he met a chartered accountant, who in an inebriated state, offered to provide services for free. The techies are also planning to distribute about 200 to 300 blankets to the needy on December 31 and January 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-techies-to-turn-traffic-volunteers-in-cyberabad/articleshow/80034936.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Private education institutes tell parents to send pupils from Monday||PUNE: Private schools in the city have urged parents to give their consent to sending their children for classes from January 4. According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) schools will open as per the declared timetable on Monday. “As of today, no decision on postponing the schools’ opening has been taken. If any postponement is made, it will be announced," additional commissioner of PMC Suresh Jagtap said on Wednesday. Schools said they are at present orienting the parents on how they will conduct classes. Representatives said they would try to get a majority of their students to school with parents’ consent so that the mode of teaching remains offline. For the past one week, schools have been contacting parents and sending out emails and messages over the phone. Principal of The Stepping Stone School, Ritu Mendiratta, said, “We are trying to get the majority of the consent letters from parents. A child’s health is our topmost priority. We have CCTV cameras in all classrooms, and are planning to record the classes if any child has an issue attending the physical school. We also have a plan to provide online support if the child is unwell.” School representatives said although the government nod came recently, the schools have been preparing for the reopening for many months. They have trained their staff and rearranged furniture on the premises. Trustee of the Sanskriti Group of Schools, Praneet Mungli, said the school had prepared video clips of their preparedness and school bus safety and floated the video to all parents at the time of taking consent. Mungli said, “We have been meeting almost every month since March with the PTAs and updating them about the school's progress. At present, we will be starting only standard XII as they have 30% of marks carrying practical assessment so we have sought the consent from standards XII parents only.” Mungli said nearly 90% parents have already given their consent to send their children to school. Principal of Vidya Pratishthan's Magarpatta City Public School Chandrika Banerjee said the school was ready to host their students for face-to-face teaching and was in the process of seeking consent from their parents. The school had prepared a Google Form through which the consent was being sought and they had received consent from 50%, she added. “The parents and students are happy to return to school and especially those in standard X since they all realise that it is a crucial year. We are trying to take consent from a majority of the parents so that they all can join classroom teaching,” she added. At Akshara International school, classes for X and XII will resume as of now according to the principal Sonali Balwatkar.  She said 60% of parents are happy to send their children to school and more were coming in. “We have been communicating about the functioning of the school to parents since the beginning. They are positive about sending the children for classroom teaching,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-edu-institutes-tell-parents-to-send-pupils-from-monday/articleshow/80034838.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Family scuffles with cops over mask fine in Satellite||AHMEDABAD: Three members of a family allegedly fought with Satellite pos and allegedly abused and shot their videos near Tagore Park in the Satellite area on Tuesday evening. According to an FIR filed with Satellite police by ASI Amit Narshi, a team was on duty to implement wearing of masks when the incident took place. “One of the three persons — a man, 47, sitting on the backseat of a car, was not wearing a mask. When cops stopped the car and asked the man why he was not wearing a mask, he told cops that he had some respiratory trouble and feels suffocated in a mask,” states Narshi in the FIR. He states that the man showed an image of a medicine saying that it was his medicine for respiratory trouble. But when cops showed the medicine to a chemist, they came to know that it was not a medicine of respiratory trouble, reads the FIR. Then, the cops took the man to a police chowky to charge him for not wearing a mask. When the cops were taking him to police chowky, they saw that the man’s daughter was recording their act on her cellphone. The FIR states that they told the girl not to record their action, but she continued to capture them. This time, the man’s wife also intervened and told the cops not to book her husband in a wrong case. She threatened the cops that she was an advocate and knew the law. Police finally booked the entire family including the man identified as Vipul Pandit, his wife Varsha Pandit and their daughter Mimansa Pandit, residents of Vasna, for allegedly obstructing in cops’ duty, uttering of abusive words and abetment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/family-scuffles-with-cops-over-mask-fine-in-satellite/articleshow/80035072.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Pune||Security firm owner booked for running illegal business||Pune: The Koregaon Park police on Tuesday registered an FIR against the proprietor of a private security firm on the charge of illegally running his business and appointing security guards without conducting their police verification. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta has issued instructions to all police stations to launch a drive to check the licences of private security firms.Senior inspector Dilip Shinde from Koregaon Park police said, “We have prepared a list of security firms in our area and circulated it among our beat marshals to check their licences issued by the city police and verify credentials of their security guards.”Shinde said one of their beat marshals spotted few security guards manning a building in a lane in the area. “The marshal found the guards’ police verification was not done. We then summoned their employer, who is an ex-serviceman, for questioning and asked him if he possessed or had applied for a licence issued under the Private Security Agency Regulation Act (PSARA), ” he said. The firm owner replied in the negative. He furnished a Shop Act licence to show that he was legally running the business, Shinde said. “We then took a call to register an FIR under Section 188 of the IPC and Sections 4 and 20 of the PSARA,” Shinde added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/security-firm-owner-booked-for-running-illegal-business/articleshow/80034867.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Retirement age move will hurt job prospects’||Hyderabad: The state government’s decision to enhance the retirement age of all government employees has not gone down well with the unemployed youth in the state who want the government to first fill vacancies in various departments. The government has announced the enhancement of retirement age in government sector jobs from 58 years to 60 years. Many students who TOI spoke to were disgruntled by the move as they demanded that the government should first fill vacancies and then raise retirement age. “By enhancing the retirement age, the government is further reducing the opportunities for youth who have been waiting for government job notifications in education, police and various other departments for many years,” said Manavatha Roy, chairman, Telangana Joint Action Committee of Unemployed Youth, that held a protest at Arts College, Osmania University, on Wednesday. With nearly 26,000 government employees scheduled to retire in next three years, students say the move closes their opportunity to bag a government job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/retirement-age-move-will-hurt-job-prospects/articleshow/80034963.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Bootleggers bet on 180ml to sneak by||AHMEDABAD: Bootleggers have taken to favouring 180ml bottles of liquor for their small size which is easy to conceal. Senior police officials said in three separate cases registered on Tuesday, 180ml bottles of liquor were seized from bootleggers, who were not carrying the more familiar 750ml bottles. Two cases were registered in Sardarnagar, and one in Krishnanagar area of the city. Additional commissioner of police, Sector -2, Gautam Parmar said small bottles are easier to hide, and that may be a reason for their sudden popularity with bootleggers. “However, we are keeping a strong vigil on roads coming from Rajasthan and several checkpoints have been set up on those routes,” he added. On Tuesday, Isanpur police held Mohammed Irfan Shaikh from Danilimda with a silver-coloured gutka bag. “They found 85 bottles of of IMFL, each of 180ml, worth Rs 12,750 in the bag,” said a senior official of Isanpur police station. Similarly Kagdapith police on Tuesday held one Jigar Sohra of Chandlodia from near Bhoot ni Ambli with 150 bottles of IMFL, each of 180ml, cumulatively worth Rs 18,750 from a bag kept on the footrest of his scooter. “He confessed the IMFL was brought for celebration of New Year party in a transport company. He said his employer, Ashwin Patel of Science City Road, Sola, had ordered the liquor for celebrating a New Year party. Patel is absconding,” said a police source. In yet another case, Krishnanagar police held one Praveen Marwadi of Krishnanagar with three bottles of IMFL of 180ml each, from a sack kept in his house. Police are also checking home delivery boys. “Daneshwari Ghasi of Kubernagar was held with two bottles of IMFL,” said a police official. In another case, Vatva GIDC police held Kartik Mudaliyar of Khokhra with four bottles of IMFL kept in a black bag, from near a bank in Vatva GIDC on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Sardarnagar police on Tuesday intercepted a car and seized 678 bottles of IMFL worth 87,000 from near Noblenagar Nandigram Township. “When chased, the car driver parked the car on the side of the road and fled,” said a Sardarnagar police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bootleggers-bet-on-180ml-to-sneak-by/articleshow/80035073.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
December 31, 2020||Pune||Attendance consent forms just a trickle in PMC schools||PUNE: Only 13% of parents of students from standards IX to XII in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) schools have given their consent for joining schools from January 4, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Jagtap said on Wednesday. He said an inspection of all schools will be held before the reopening and only if the school is able to fulfil all norms of safety precautions, will it be allowed to reopen. “There are 529 schools that will reopen on January 4. Before reopening, a committee consisting of both the medical officer and the PMC secondary education administration staff would visit the schools and inspect them. Only if they comply with all norms, such as getting RT-PCR test for Covid 19 done for all their teaching and non-teaching staff, proper marking on the school’s premises to maintain physical distancing, availability of thermal guns as mentioned in the letter by the commissioner about SoPs to be followed, will the schools be allowed to reopen on January 4,” Jagtap added. Consent forms have come in from parents of students studying in 44 PMC schools, the rest is awaited. “Only 12-13% of parents have consented to send their children to school when they reopen. We are trying to convince parents to send their wards, at least those in standards X and XII as the board years are crucial,” Jagtap added. Responding to concerns that PMC schools have fewer class IV employees and that the contracts of teachers have not been renewed, Jagtap said, “We have already released advertisements for contract teachers. Within 15 days to one month of the school reopening, we will be able to employ them. As for cleanliness staff, tenders have already been floated and they too would be employed.” PMC education officer Shivaji Daundkar said they are compiling data received from all schools and within two days, a clear picture of the preparedness and possible attendance of students would emerge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/attendance-consent-forms-just-a-trickle-in-pmc-schools/articleshow/80034861.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 31, 2020||Pune||Students can edit forms for agriculture courses||PUNE: The state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell, Mumbai has once again revised the schedule for the Centralized Admission Process (CAP) for agriculture courses giving students time till December 31 to edit their application forms online. The students can do so through their login at cetcelladmissions.mahait.org irrespective of whether the application form is approved or on hold. The cell via its circular on Tuesday said many candidates and parents had requested to open the application of the registered candidates for editing to fulfil the various grievances/upload the late issued documents by visiting CET cell, Mumbai office and through e-mails to the office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-can-edit-forms-for-agri-courses/articleshow/80034897.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 31, 2020||Surat||Four cops accused of driving bizman to suicide denied bail||SURAT: Four policemen accused in the suicide of quarry owner Durlabh Patel in September were denied bail by a court in Bardoli town. The court rejected bail plea of Laxmansinh Bodana, then inspector of Rander police station, constable Ajay Bhopala and Vijay Shinde and writer Kiransinh Parmar. In all, 10 people including the four cops and a scribe were booked for abetting suicide of a 73-year-old whose body was fished out from a water-filled quarry near Khanjroli village in limits of Mandvi police station. Police had recovered a suicide note from Patel’s office at the quarry. In the suicide note Patel had stated that he was taking the extreme step as he was upset over the dispute related to ownership of some property. Applications were filed by Patel and other individuals involved in the dispute with the police. However, Patel alleged that police did not take his point into consideration and favoured the other parties during investigation. Patel’s son Dharmesh Patel had lodged a complaint with Mandvi police against the 10 persons including four Rander cops of forcing his father to commit suicide. Public Prosecutor N L Sukhadwala opposed the bail plea stating that it was the glaring example of misuse of police power. All four cops are in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-cops-accused-of-driving-bizman-to-suicide-denied-bail/articleshow/80033233.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Results set alarm bells ringing in BJP, JJP||Chandigarh: The results of civic body polls held in some parts of Haryana have rung alarming bells for deputy CM Dushyant Chautala-led Jannayak Janata Party, which had emerged as kingmaker in the October 2019 assembly and formed coalition government led by BJP’s Manohar Lal Khattar. JJP has lost both Uklana and Dharuhera municipal body election, where its candidates contested for the municipal committee chairman’s post. It has lost Uklana in Hisar district despite the fact that the assembly segment is represented by JJP’s Anoop Dhanak, who is also a minister and Dushyant had a strong influence in this seat. The party could win only one seat in Panchkula, where it was given four of 20 seats to contest the polls. The performance of its alliance partner, BJP, which is under fire on account of farmers agitation, was slightly better and it managed to win prestigious mayoral post in Panchkula and of chairman in Rewari municipal council. JJP, which is also facing criticism for supporting the BJP that introduced three contentious agri laws, had a great opportunity to showcase its popularity in the state if it had registered victory on a single municipal body. Claiming to have a sizeable vote bank in the rural belt of the state, JJP was contesting the civic body polls for the first time and was given around 25% of the total seats contested by the alliance in these polls. BJP was given the post of mayor in Panchkula, Sonipat and Ambala, while JJP had share in municipal body chief’s posts for Dharuhera and Uklana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/results-set-alarm-bells-ringing-in-bjp-jjp/articleshow/80034943.cms||Ajay Sura
December 31, 2020||Chennai||Ashok Ngr park facelift at standstill for 5mths||Chennai: It’s been more than five months since the corporation playground in Ashok Nagar was dug up for renovation, but it was left midway with rubble all around, say residents. The park on 6th Avenue, Ashok Nagar, is in the heart of a residential area. “They left the construction midway and dust blows over the entire area every time there is a wind. We can’t even keep our windows open because of the dust,” said T Keerthi Reddy. “My house is right opposite the park and there’s a layer of dust always on my living room furniture,” she said. Keerthi wasn’t alone, several residents in the area complained of dust pollution. “Construction debris is also dumped at the entrance of the park and it takes up a lot of space on the road,” said Selva Kumar, an auto driver. “We used to park our vehicles here, but due to this, we have to park on the other side of the road. The authorities should at least clear the debris. It’s causing traffic,” he said. Residents said people have also begun dumping waste, mostly liquor bottles, at the debris site. “There is a dustbin right next to it and the site attracts a lot of stray dogs. Some people even drink in the park. It has become unsafe for us to pass by,” said Govardhan, another resident. Govardhan said residents have been sending regular reminders to local authorities to speed up the renovation. “We need the park for recreation, especially during these stressful times and ever since it was closed, we have had nowhere to go. The other park in the area is at least 2km away,” he said. The area engineer of zone 10 said the renovation was stopped because of the unavailability of workers due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Later, when we resumed work, cyclone Nivar hit the city and there was excessive rainfall. But we will be having a meeting with contractors this weekend and the park renovation will be over by mid-January,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ashok-ngr-park-facelift-at-standstill-for-5mths/articleshow/80034952.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||225 co-flyers of infected man to undergo RT-PCR in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Bengal government will conduct fresh RT-PCR tests for all the 225 passengers who landed in Kolkata by the same Air India direct flight from the UK as the man in his late 30s, who had been detected with the new UK strain of the novel coronavirus, a senior state official said on Wednesday. Among those travellers, 46 flyers, who either sat in close proximity of the infected person for over nine hours on the flight or waited with him at the old terminal in Kolkata to get their RT-PCR test results, will continue to remain under watch even if their Covid test reports came negative. They have been asked to strictly abide by home quarantine measures and contact the health department at the slightest sign of developing Covid-like symptoms. The man, who is believed to have contracted the new strain of the virus in the UK, had arrived in Kolkata on December 20. Of the 226 passengers travelling on that flight, 26 had not got Covid tests done in the UK and underwent RT-PCR tests on arrival. Two among them were found to be Covid-19 positive. While one of them had the normal strain that has already infected millions across the world, the other had the UK strain that has been detected only recently and has led to renewed lockdowns in the country. “The passenger with the UK stain of the novel coronavirus was travelling in Seat 28-J, which is a window seat. That is a stroke of luck because only passengers seated in the right row may have been infected and need to be carefully monitored. Had he travelled in the middle row, the situation would have been more complicated,” an official said. The Boeing 787 Dreamliner is a wide-body aircraft with twin aisles and nine seats split into three pairs in each row. They are numbered A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H and J. From the passenger manifest, the health department has identified flyers seated in rows 25 to 31. In each row, passengers in seats F, G, H and J, or 27 passengers, will be cautioned to stay in home quarantine and monitor their health. Also, 25 people in addition to the infected flyer, who had undergone RT-PCR tests and spent several hours together in the confined space of a terminal, will be alerted. The airline has already got the cabin and cockpit crew of flight AI 1150 tested for Covid. Sources said all of them had tested negative. While the AI flight that reached on December 20 was the last direct flight to arrive from the UK before the ban on air services from the country had kicked in, seven more passengers from the UK, who had transited Dubai or Doha to reach Kolkata, were also tested for Covid-19 though their reports had come negative prior to boarding the Kolkata-bound flight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/225-co-flyers-of-infected-man-to-undergo-rt-pcr/articleshow/80034964.cms||Subhro Niyogi
December 31, 2020||Pune||Sale of 2021-themed paraphernalia drops||By: Anjali Jhangian PUNE: The upcoming New Year’s Eve celebrations is set to be unconventional for most people due to the implementation of night curfew. Encouraged to stay home, people decided to make the most of the situation only to encounter a lack of 2021-themed paraphernalia. “We are hosting a small house party and wanted to buy 2021-themed items, such as paper cups, but we could not find any at shops nearby,” said Saurabh Oberoi, a resident of Magarpatta. Shopkeepers said new stock of the usual year-end decorations, party props and favours is missing this year. “The items are imported from China but due to restrictions, we have not received fresh stock this year. We have some items such as funky 2021 eyewear, headgear and other props that are manufactured in India but they are more expensive than the Chinese products we would sell earlier,” said Suresh Chougule, a shopkeeper based in Ghorpadi. “Many customers are looking for paper plates and cups but we don’t have the stock. The most popular items bought this time are 2021-themed metallic coloured balloons, cake toppers. These are selling at the same price as last year,” said Asfaq Khan, who owns a party supplies shop in Hadapsar. “Year-end sales are not comparable to last year,” said Ajay Dhopate, who owns a gift shop in Salunke Vihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sale-of-2021-themed-paraphernalia-drops/articleshow/80034921.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Depressed, man ends life||Hyderabad: Unable to overcome depression, a 31-year-old supermarket supervisor ended his life at his Bandlaguda house on Wednesday. N Seetharama Sai Prasad Varma, 31, hanged himself in the working. His wife had gone to her parents’ house in Ramanthapur recently. “Ever since his father passed away in July this year, Varma was suffering from depression. Varma’s father died of a heart attack,” LB Nagar inspector Ashok Reddy said. He was working in Musheerabad. He did not leave behind any suicide note. However, police registered a suspicious death case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/depressed-man-ends-life/articleshow/80034991.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Are breath analyzers Covid spreaders?||AHMEDABAD: In their enthusiasm to show their efforts to prevent drunk driving and prohibition violations during New Year festivities, city traffic cops may end up spreading Covid-19 among people. This was apparent at various crossroads and checkpoints in the city, where traffic cops with breathalyzers were randomly stopping people and checking them to ascertain if they were drunk.  The cops were seen using the same breathalyzer on several people, who had to put the nozzle into their mouth and blow air into it. City traffic police have been holding this drive to prevent drunk driving cases since December 24, when such efforts were made only for part of the day. For December 30 and 31, these efforts are to continue through the day. A traffic policeman said people are very resistant to using the same breathalyzer. This comes at a time when people accused of any offence have to undergo coronavirus tests before their arrest, but city traffic police have been on their drive without any safety protocol in place. When senior traffic police officers were contacted, they claimed the breathalyzers were being used from a certain distance. “This time we are not putting the nozzle in the mouth and rather ask suspects to blow into the nozzle from a distance. If the breathalyzer detects that the person is drunk, we send them for a blood test,” said deputy commissioner of police, traffic (admin), Tejas Patel. Sources in the city traffic police said the cops were supposed to be given straws which could be used as disposable nozzles, but as funds for this were not allocated, the use of such straws has been put off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/are-breath-analyzers-covid-spreaders/articleshow/80035010.cms||Ashish Chauhan
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||City records 10.7C min temp||Ahmedabad: The city recorded a minimum temperature of 10.7 degrees celsius which was 1.6 degrees below normal. IMD officials said the city reported the maximum temperature of 24.3 degrees which was 3.7 degrees below normal. Keshod and Deesa recorded the lowest temperature of 7.2 degrees in the state. Gandhinagar shivered at eight degrees celsius which was the second lowest temperature in the state. IMD officials said that the cold wave condition will continue for another couple of days. The city had on Tuesday reported 10.2 degrees minimum temperature. The IMD had forecast that minimum temperature was likely to be about 11 degrees in city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-records-10-7c-min-temp/articleshow/80035077.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man held, trio detained for stealing 25 two-wheelers||PUNE: The Bhosari police have recovered 25 stolen two-wheelers worth Rs10 lakh in separate actions after arresting a 25-year-old man and detaining three minors. The suspect, Ajit Sable (25) of Akole taluka in Ahmednagar district, has previous cases of vehicle thefts against him. A police team, led by senior inspector Shankar Awtade, made the arrest. “The suspect and his minor accomplice had stolen the motorcycles from Pimpri Chinchwad, Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts,” Awtade said. He said that the police have recovered 18 motorcycles from Sable and his accomplice. “The duo had kept 11 vehicles in Akole taluka,” Awtade said. He said that in another action, the police recovered seven two-wheelers from two minors. “The duo used to steal the vehicles for joy rides,” Awtade said. “We have detected 22 cases and are tracing the owners of the three vehicles,” he said. Awtade said that Sable and his minor accomplice used to steal the motorcycles parked on the road. "They used to sell the stolen motorcycles at throwaway prices in Ahmednagar district. The investigating team comprised assistant inspector Sidhheshwar Kailase and sub-inspector Mahendra Gadhave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-trio-detained-for-stealing-25-two-wheelers/articleshow/80034947.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Don’t panic, follow Covid restrictions to prevent new strain spread: Experts||KOLKATA: The man in his late 30s, who was detected with the UK-strain of the novel coronavirus after he landed in Kolkata on December 20, is doing fine at Medical College and Hospital (MCH). Even on the 11th day of his admission, after he tested positive to the RT-PCR test, the patient has not exhibited any symptom. But as a precautionary measure, he has been kept in a single, isolated cabin right from the first day and doctors are monitoring his condition closely. Experts said that the patient not exhibiting any symptom should not be surprising as there was not much difference in the disease caused by the conventional novel coronavirus and that by the new strain. Pointing out that the new strain was more contagious than the earlier one but data from the UK confirmed it had less harsh effects, healthcare experts said that the city needed to be on the guard, following all the protective guidelines, as the UK virus could transmit fast. “The data published by authorized sources showed that this new UK strain had a higher basic reproductive ratio, by almost 0.4. In other words, the transmission rate is higher. Also, the same report emphasized that there was no evidence that the disease caused by this was starkly different. So, there is no need to panic for a more severe disease,” said immunologist Dipyaman Ganguly of Indian Institute of Chemical Biology. “It is natural for a virus to replicate. Viruses are supposed to mutate and take less severe forms. They need the host to survive for their own survival. This single isolated case being asymptomatic should not surprise us as the conventional strain also does not lead to any symptom in many infected people. But the challenge is the high transmission rate of this new strain. We have to be armed with the diagnostic system to identify the strain in more people, if suspected to have been infected by this UK strain,” said clinical and experimental pharmacology specialist Santanu Kumar Tripathi of School of Tropical Medicine. Echoing him, Debkishore Gupta, a specialist in infectious diseases, said, “RNA viruses naturally mutate quite frequently. Still we should be proactive in suspecting mutated strains from ambiguous PCR amplifications. Gene sequencing should be done whenever there is suspicion. Preventive measures must be strengthened as this mutated strain spreads faster.” National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBG) director Saumitra Das also stressed, “Mutations in RNA viruses are normal and expected. We need to dig deeper to understand whether it is changing the characteristics or not. Further research on the mutated strain is needed to understand the functional implications better. So, it is too early to conclusively say anything.” The high transmission rate of the new strain has led to another concern among doctors: if there is a sudden spike in the number of positive cases, the healthcare system could again be under stress all over again. Due to the decline in the number of positive cases, hospitals in Kolkata currently have just about 30% to 60% occupancy currently. “The healthcare system could get overwhelmed very fast if the UK strain starts infecting people here. Also, given the our population, even if the fatality rate does not rise after being infected by the new strain, we could still have quite a large number of people dying again. Therefore, we need to keep up our guard on,” said Diptendra Sarkar, professor of surgery at SSKM Hospital. But experts allayed fears of the vaccine not being effective against the new strain. “Although mutation is in the spike protein, which is the target of almost all vaccines, there is no need of apprehension around vaccines not working. Any vaccine generates immune effectors that target various parts of the same protein. So lack of protection due to a single mutation is not a given,” added Ganguly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dont-panic-follow-cov-restrictions-to-prevent-new-strain-spread-experts/articleshow/80035002.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Corona, curbs hit New Year’s biz||AHMEDABAD: New Year’s Eve in Gujarat doesn’t merely translate to flocking to watering holes. With the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic coupled with the night curfew imposed in four major cities of the state, the New Year’s Eve party scene is expected to be just another day of monotony. While the celebration spirits will be muted for people across the state, a huge loss in business ranging from retail to hospitality and hotels and restaurants to even musicians is expected. For hotels and restaurants, business over these two days alone is usually double of a normal day’s business in Ahmedabad alone. Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA) – Gujarat, said, “People are visiting during lunch hours. However, that is not likely to add to our revenues in a big way as it is a working day. The business has been adversely impacted as nobody would plan a dinner in a rush on New Year’s Eve.” That apart, retail sales tend to grow at least by 15% in textile and accessories segment, according to industry estimates. However, this year, thanks to a weakened sentiment due to the pandemic as well as the night curfew, the sales and in turn, revenue has taken a big hit. “After the second wave of coronavirus infections, footfall reduced at malls once again and the night curfew has further added to its decline. The demand has taken a hit and if we compare against last year’s business, it has reduced by 70%. Thriving online business has also eaten into our business,” said a retailer in a city-based mall. A number of venues including party plots as well as hotels organize dance parties, live music performances and gala dinners during the Christmas-New Year season. However, with the night curfew and restrictions on gatherings, this year, the entire business is expected to be a dull affair. This has impacted musicians in a big way as usually they have higher earnings during this time of the year. Nicolette Gore, a musician based in Ahmedabad, said, “Many musicians play commercial gigs during this time of the year as it is the peak season when performances take place from time to time. No doubt most of 2020 was lost out in terms of business for musicians. However, some who are really active have also ventured out of Ahmedabad to perform at parties and gatherings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-curbs-hit-new-years-biz/articleshow/80035070.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||After UK strain reaches Kolkata, families abroad worry for parents back home||KOLKATA: As reports of the UK strain of Covid-19 reaching Kolkata trickled in, Kolkatans living in the UK experienced a sense of deja vu. It was as though the clock had wound back to March when the first case of Covid-19 was detected in Kolkata. Then, too, the virus had reached the shores from the UK. “I vividly remember all the noise around the UK student, the son of a WBCS officer, who landed in Kolkata with Covid-19 at the time. Few in Kolkata had any clue what was coming at that point. With the UK and other European countries, like Italy and Spain, already in the grip of the pandemic, we were anxious about how the health system in Bengal and India would eventually cope and spent many sleepless nights, worrying about parents and family. India though did well and appeared to be emerging from the pandemic, bruised but not battered. But now that the new strain, which can spread more quickly, has reached Kolkata, the anxiety is back,” said Sankha Narayan Biswas, a bank manager in London whose parents live in Hooghly. London-based IT professional Ekalabya Ghosh is also concerned about his parents who live in Tollygunge, particularly owing to the disregard for Covid restrictions, like maintaining distance and wearing masks, among many citizens here. “If the UK strain is not controlled, it will spread a lot faster. I have asked my parents to restrict their travel outside the home. But chances of getting infected from domestic help or others still remain,” said Ghosh, who makes it a point to remain in touch with his parents on a daily basis with video calls to keep the mood light and bright. Sreepriya Bhowmick, founder of British Education Support Services that caters to special needs in children and adults, is worried about the spread, particularly among the young population. “Schools will open, and hence, children and staff from different households will be mixing. Is it alright for students, teachers, and other members of staff to mix with kids from various backgrounds? I hope we are not unknowingly putting all the family members at risk by being asymptomatic carriers,” she said. While December began with hope and optimism as the Pfizer vaccine got approved in the UK, the new strain that has led to a record jump in daily cases to the highest has left people scared. Dr Sharbani Chakraborty at Royal London Hospital could just mutter “we are all extremely tired” as she completed her night shift after a record admission of 90 Covid cases at the hospital. Roshni Mukherjee, a senior operations manager at a bank in London, who had planned to visit her parents in Naktala this winter, is distraught over the latest developments. “I am worried about them. With flights being cancelled till January 7, we will not be able to visit Kolkata right now. And that feels terrible, given the uncertainty all around,” she said. UK has also approved the second vaccine by AstraZeneca for use in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-uk-strain-reaches-kol-families-abroad-worry-for-parents-back-home/articleshow/80035014.cms||Subhro Niyogi
December 31, 2020||Pune||Cops arrest two, crack 20 cases of theft||PUNE: The crime branch of the Pimpri Chinchwad police on Tuesday claimed to have detected 15 chain snatching and five motorcycle theft cases with the arrest of two persons, including a criminal on the records. The police have recovered 200gm of gold ornaments, worth Rs10 lakh, and five motorcycles worth Rs2.6 lakh from the duo Prabhakar Dodmani (23), a resident of Chinchwad, and Altaf Shaikh (19), a resident of Hadapsar. “Dodmani is a criminal on the police record. He has been named in seven cases of snatching gold chains in trains in Pune and Karnataka,” said police inspector Shriram Paul of the crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-arrest-two-crack-20-cases-of-theft/articleshow/80034995.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Surat||Nine cops booked for demanding Rs 3 lakh bribe||SURAT: Nine policemen and a gram rakshak dal (GRD) jawan of Kamrej police station were booked on Wednesday for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs three lakh from an man accused in a cheating case. Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sources said the cops demanded money to favour the accused in the cheating case. ACB had laid a trap on September 13 but the accused did not accept the bribe amount. Those booked were police inspector, J B Vanaar, assistant sub-inspectors Chanda Vasava, Sushila Rawal and Sardar Bhagora, head constable Kuldeepdan Barhat, three constables Jayesh Nirjani, Alpesh Desai and Dipak Desai, Jaydeepsinh Chauhan, and GRD jawan Sagar Radadiya. Of the 10, Bhagora and Radadiya were arrested by ACB on Wednesday. In September, a man had approached ACB alleging that the accused cops had demanded bribe for not taking action against his brother. ACB police inspector R K Solanki laid a trap but it failed and the accused did not turn up to accept the bribe. “Though the accused did not accept the bribe, investigation revealed involvement of all these persons including the police inspector. All will be arrested,” said N P Gohil, assistant director, ACB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nine-cops-booked-for-demanding-rs3l-bribe/articleshow/80033256.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nirma University student gets Rs 46 lakh offer||AHMEDABAD: Sulbha Garg, a student of the Institute of Technology at Nirma University (ITNU), has bagged a placement offer of Rs 46.27 lakh per annum from a Bangalore-based IT company, the varsity announced on Wednesday. Garg is pursuing a BTech in computer science and engineering at ITNU. Selections took place in three stages. These included an online test, a few technical rounds and a culture fit round. The institute took classes for students and groomed their technical skills. In the Cultural Fit round, the top management of companies interviewed these students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nirma-uni-student-gets-rs-46-lakh-offer/articleshow/80033266.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Dehradun||86 SI of civil police promoted to inspectors post, transferred||Dehradun: The state police headquarters on Wednesday issued a list of 89 sub-inspectors of civil police who have been promoted to inspectors post. All of them were transferred on-promotion. Separately, police headquarters also issued a list of 59 sub-inspectors, belonging to armed police, traffic wing and Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), who have also been promoted, according to the release issued by police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/86-si-of-civil-police-promoted-to-inspectors-post-transferred/articleshow/80033350.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Loss-hit RTC looks to restore all services in ’21||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) incurred more than Rs 2,600 crore revenue loss in 2020 on account of the nationwide lockdown. Even after Unlock 5.0 guidelines were issued allowing public transport, APSRTC is yet to reach pre-Covid levels in terms of operations and revenue generation. APSRTC lost 78.84 crore kilometres of operations between March 21 and November 30, compared to the corresponding period of 2019. With occupancy still below satisfactory levels, the state-run transport corporation is yet to restore all its services. While the lockdown brought all bus services to a standstill for about a period of three months, the inter-state agreement with Telangana worsened APSRTC’s financial woes. With Telangana raising objections, APSRTC was forced to reduce bus operations by more than one lakh kilometres by withdrawing 372 buses on a daily basis. During the lockdown, APSRTC operated 11,802 buses and transported more than three lakh migrant workers as well as primary and secondary contacts of infected persons to hospitals and quarantine centres. It also converted 52 of its buses into mobile testing laboratories. Vice-chairman and managing director (VC&MD) of APSRTC, M T Krishna Babu said all employees worked against all odds in the pandemic, no less than other frontline warriors. He said 5,586 employees contracted the virus out of which 91 died and 112 are still under treatment. Moving forward into 2021, APSRTC plans to restore all services, including hired buses, from the first week of January. Krishna Babu said they are also planning to open fuel stations at 10 locations across the state and developing four bus stations with enhanced commercial activities, acknowledging there have been challenges on the operations front with buses missing schedules due to bad roads. As the government plans to repair all roads by February-end, the RTC expects improvements in efficiency in bus services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/loss-hit-rtc-looks-to-restore-all-services-in-21/articleshow/80033292.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Women entrepreneurs to help bridge digital divide in T: Ranjan||Hyderabad: Even as the state government fast tracks the T-Fibre project to ensure that people across the state get access to broadband connectivity, it is women entrepreneurs who will be bridging the digital divide in the state’s rural and semi-urban areas in the coming days, said Jayesh Ranjan, principal secretary, IT & industries, Telangana, on Wednesday. T-Fibre, that attempts to take broadband optic fibre cable to every home in the state, was scheduled for completion in 2022 but due to the importance that digital connectivity has assumed in Covid times, the state government is planning to complete this project by 2021, Ranjan said while participating in a session on ‘Intelligent Automation and Future of Work’, conducted by ISB. “We must be conscious towards the fact that the race towards the digital (transformation) can potentially exacerbate the digital divide also. In fact, we have not been able to substantially lower the digital divide in the last 10 years or so … while we lay the hardware, it is equally important that we also get buy-in from the people. Therefore, we are setting up these facilities called Digital Telangana Kiosks run by women entrepreneurs, who will play a key role in spreading digital literacy,” he explained. The women will be trained in digital activities and supported by government agencies to open digital centres in their respective villages or towns where they can help villagers undertake digital activities, he said. “We already have 1,000 such women entrepreneurs, who have been running these digital centres for nearly two years and the response has been very encouraging. In 2021, we hope to train another 10,000 women, who will be opening these centres in coming days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/women-entrepreneurs-to-help-bridge-digital-divide-in-t-ranjan/articleshow/80035022.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Vadodara||Gaekwad accuses cops of assaulting him over mask fine||VADODARA: Former Vadodara MP Satyajit Gaekwad, on Wednesday, accused cops of assaulting him near Polo Ground after heated arguments over face mask fine Gaekwad said that a police sub-inspector (PSI) posted at the spot misbehaved and later assaulted him in full public view. The police, however, refuted the claims and said that it was Gaekwad who first used derogatory language against the cops. “My sister, Gita Gaekwad, was intercepted by the cops for not wearing mask when she was passing from Bagikhana Road in her car. She didn’t have the money so she called me as I stay nearby. I reached the spot and told the cops that I will pay the fine. But they didn’t have a challan book,” the Congress leader claimed. “When I argued why they were charging penalty without a challan book, PSI Patel, who was present at the spot along with other cops, began hitting me. I went to my home but Patel followed me in my house and threatened me,” Gaekwad, who is chairman of Baroda Cricket Association press and publicity committee, told TOI. When contacted, ACP (C division) Megha Tewar said, “We had challan book but it was Gaekwad who wasn’t ready to pay penalty. He first asked his sister to leave and then began abusing the policemen present at the spot. Gaekwad even got into scuffle with the cops and later went to his house.” “A former MP shouldn’t be abusing the cops. If he was assaulted, why hasn’t Gaekwad approached the police station to file a complaint against the policemen? We haven’t got any formal complaint from him. Also, he is yet to pay the penalty for the challan of his sister,” she added. Over last few days, a couple of similar incidents have been reported wherein angry citizens got into arguments with cops over penalty for not wearing face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gaekwad-accuses-cops-of-assaulting-him-over-mask-fine/articleshow/80032581.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Surat||Drones to spy on rule violation in farmhouses parties||SURAT: City police will keep an eye literally everywhere to catch violators of Covid guidelines and prohibition Act during New Year festivities, particularly at the farmhouses and and party lawns in peripheral areas of the city. Of the multiple technology options they will adopt to track offenders, drones will be put to rampant use in the city. City police have planned to use eight drone cameras, two in each of the four zones. Cops have already alerted all the farm owners to avoid organising parties with participation of a large number of people. “Police will not disturb families celebrating New Year while following all Covid guidelines. Hence without creating problems for those celebrating within permissible limits cops will keep an eye from a distance through drone cameras,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. Police will also keep watch on city roads and important locations through its existing network of over 600 CCTV cameras. Police will take immediate actions at locations where people are found violating rules on the camera. Cops are to use 225 breath analysers to check drunkards instead of the regular method of smelling the mouth, owing to the current pandemic situation. From Thursday evening police will not allow crowds to gather on popular gathering spots in the city. Food joints on main roads too will not be allowed to operate by cops with Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) staff to avoid gathering at one spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/drones-to-spy-on-rule-violation-in-farmhouses-parties/articleshow/80033273.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
December 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Retired principal falls from balcony, dies||PUNE: A 60-year-old retired principal of an engineering college died at the Aundh chest hospital on Tuesday night of multiple injuries he suffered in a fall from the third floor balcony of his flat in Aundh. Senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police said, “Based on circumstances, we suspect it to be a case of death by suicide.” “ We have registered a case of accidental death for now. We are investigating the reason behind his extreme step. The deceased did not leave behind any suicide note. We are yet to record statement of his wife and others,” Shewale said. He said, “The elderly man and his wife (56) were in their flat on Tuesday. He went to the balcony of their flat around 10pm and jumped off. Residents of the area moved him to the Aundh hospital, where he died at 11.45pm.” Shewale said, “The wife of the deceased was not in a condition to speak. Their two sons work in foreign countries. The elderly many had retired as the principal of an engineering college in Chinchwad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retd-principal-falls-from-balcony-dies/articleshow/80035003.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||Teachers, school staff add to Covid test numbers ahead of Jan 4 opening||Nagpur: Covid testing shot up over 50% on Wednesday with teachers and non-teaching staff once again queuing up at NMC centres and in school premises where mobile vans have been set up for collecting samples ahead of reopening of schools from January 4. Over 5,000 tests including 4,178 RTPCR were done on Wednesday.The figures have gradually been increasing since Sunday. The district labs were conducting an average of 3,200 tests for over a month now.In November, sudden rush of teachers had piled up samples and also impacted functioning of public labs though eventually the schools reopening was put off. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B had taken note of the chaos and instructed not to send more samples than the capacity of each lab.Recently, NEERI-CSIR lab too stopped processing RTPCR test as it has taken a break.On November 10, the school education department had mandated RTPCR test of each teacher tbe done between November 17 and 22. This led to a sudden rush at all testing centres as well as labs since teachers had to get the report before the deadline set by the government. This time the department has relaxed the deadline to prevent rush.Chintaman Vanjari, district education officer, said, “I have discussed details with principals of city schools and a relaxation has been given regarding tests. If the test has been done within a week of school reopening, it will be accepted.” School representatives feel the previous test result must still be held valid. Zafar Khan, president of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA), said, “The trouble for teachers going for RTPCR is the repetition of the process. Also, a teacher can get infected a day after getting tested. There is still no provision for getting students tested. Our teachers are also vulnerable. It would be best if either everyone gets tested or none at all.”Dilip Bose, executive member of SHCA, said, “Already teachers are coming to school. They had done the test in November. We strongly feel teachers must be allowed based on last month's report.”The decision on reopening of CBSE schools rests with the respective managements who may take a call as per parents’ feedback. Some have started classes and more are expected to resume with others on Janaury 4.NMC chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said civic-run school teachers would be tested at three centres. “The teachers have been asked to report at Vidarbha Buniyadi High School at Om Nagar, CB Adarsh Vidya Mandir at Gandhibagh, and Saraswati Vidyalaya at Shankar Nagar over the next few days,” he said.Dr Chilkar said sufficient labs with capacity of 2,500 to 3,000 RTPCR test per day would ensure smooth run. “Our labs have touched 5,000 tests a day,” he said. NMC has 10 mobile testing vans which would be deployed in schools in each of the 10 zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teachers-school-staff-add-to-covid-test-numbers-ahead-of-jan-4-opening/articleshow/80033385.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Speed up rehabilitation work to meet deadline, urges PPA chief||Vijayawada: Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) CEO Dr Chandrasekhar Ayyar has directed the irrigation department to monitor the implementation of Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) works of the Polavaram project. Ayyar said a delay in completion of rehabilitation works would hamper the progress of the main project. He held a review meeting with top officials of the irrigation and revenue departments here on Wednesday. Chief secretary (designate) Dr Adityanath Das was also present at the meeting. After seeing just around 19.85 per cent of progress in total R&R works, Ayyar asked how the revenue department wanted to complete work to enable the irrigation department continue its work on the main dam. According to sources, the PPA chief said they might be compelled to revise the schedule of the main project if R&R works do not gain momentum. Sources said that Ayyar directed the officials to ready a separate plan for speeding up R&R works to complete the project as per the deadline. He said the first phase R&R works should be completed by March 2021. “There is no dearth of funds for early completion of Polavaram project. We are ready to clear all the bills as soon as you submit them,” said Ayyar. Although the R&R implementation is the responsibility of the revenue department, the PPA CEO asked top officials in the irrigation department to monitor the progress as it would not be possible for them to achieve their own targets without finishing R&R works. With the project authorities planning for closure of the coffer dam by March 31, the PPA CEO said the shifting of displaced families should be completed by that time. The closure of the coffer dam is required for the construction of the main dam. According to sources, the irrigation department submitted that only around 3,110 project displaced families (PDFs) have been shifted as against the total identified PDFs of 1,05,601. “Over one lakh families are yet to be shifted to the R&R colonies in case water is to be stored at the 45 meter level,” said a senior official. As the government plans to store water at 41 metres in the first phase during the first season, shifting another 15,000 families is said to be sufficient. Sources said the revenue department assured the PPA CEO that they would take up works round-the-clock to complete as many colonies as possible by March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/speed-up-rehabilitation-work-to-meet-deadline-urges-ppa-chief/articleshow/80033347.cms||Samdani MN
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Mgmt guru Madan is new ISB dean||Hyderabad: Premier B-School, the Indian School of Business (ISB), on Wednesday said it has appointed Prof Madan Pillutla as its sixth dean. Pillutla, who succeeds Rajendra Srivastava, will formally take over on July 1, 2021. A globally renowned management academic and leader in the field of organizational behaviour, Pillutla is also a visiting faculty member at ISB and currently serves as a professor of organisational behaviour at the London Business School (LBS). Pillutla said it was not only a privilege to be selected as the dean of ISB but also special to lead an institution that he has been associated with since its inception. “ISB has gained a position of pre-eminence on the strength of its excellent faculty and students. As business education transforms globally and in India, I am excited about the opportunities for ISB to set new benchmarks for others to follow,” he said. Outgoing ISB dean Rajendra Srivastava said he was excited to hand over the baton to Madan as he believed ISB would see tremendous progress under his leadership. “We have worked closely together over the last 20 years and I look forward to continuing working with him as I transition into a faculty role as the Novartis Professor of Marketing Strategy and Innovation over the next few months,” Srivastava said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mgmt-guru-madan-is-new-isb-dean/articleshow/80035042.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR writes to Nirmala, seeks Rs 1,950 cr for civic infra projects||Hyderabad: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao has sought Rs 1,950 crore central funds for Metro Neo Rail project being taken up in Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation, comprehensive sewerage master plan-cum-strategic nala development project in Hyderabad urban agglomeration (HUA), underground drainage and solid waste management project works taken up in municipalities. KTR wrote a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Union urban affairs and housing minister Hardeep Singh Puri urging them to allocate at least 20% funds in the ensuing Union budget for 2021-22 fiscal for these projects. The state government has taken up several projects in urban areas and the Rs 2,000 crore central funds being sought is 20% of the total cost of various projects, he pointed out. In the letter, KTR stated that to develop sewer network infrastructure for liquid waste collection in HUA area, the government has introduced a Comprehensive Sewerage Master Plan (CSMP). In compliance with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directions to mitigate the sewage pollution in Musi river stretches and water bodies in HUA, the above plan is being given top priority. The cost would be Rs 3,722 crore. He said as a permanent solution to the flooding, the state has set up a Strategic Nala Development Plan (SNDP). While its cost is Rs 1,200 crore, KTR sought Rs 240 crore funds for the project. A detailed project report has been prepared for Warangal Metro Neo Rail which will cost around Rs 1,050 crore. KTR requested for a sanction of Rs 210 crore for the project. He also urged the Centre to share 20% of cost of various solid waste management-related projects in ULBs by providing Rs 750 crore in 2021-22 budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-writes-to-nirmala-seeks-rs-1950-cr-for-civic-infra-projects/articleshow/80035056.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||Civic chief leaves standing panel meet after member creates ruckus||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Wednesday left a meeting of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) standing committee soon after one of the members allegedly created a ruckus. The panel chairman later clarified the civic chief had taken his permission and left.The committee kept pending all proposals on the agenda, including Rs21.06 crore strengthening of Ambazari lake’s embankment including spillway, which was tabled following orders of Nagpur bench of Bombay high court.Chairman Vijay Zalke had convened the meeting on Tuesday but postponed it to Wednesday due to the absence of the civic chief. The meeting started on Wednesday when Radhakrishnan was present.NMC sources told TOI, “The committee sought an explanation from the civic chief for his decision to stop works approved by the committee in the budget. Radhakrishnan explained to the committee that there are pending bills of around Rs700 crore. He also said NMC’s administrative expense will increase as general body and government took decision to implement 7th Pay Commission to employees. He added NMC experienced financial implications due to pandemic too.”One of the members — Sanjay Chawre, BJP corporator from ward no. 5, reportedly started to speak in a high voice. Sources said, “Chawre threw a file kept on his table. He also snatched the mike and tried to break it. He shouted, demanding an assurance from commissioner of starting works.”Radhakrishnan then informed Zalke that he will have to leave for an urgent meeting and left the hall.“I was requested to come and explain financial status of NMC. I went and explained in detail. I also stated new works will be taken up whenever situation improves. I informed the chairman and asked additional municipal commissioners to continue the meeting and left for my urgent meeting,” he said later.Zalke said the civic chief did not walk out of the meeting. “He left the meeting after taking my permission,” he said.After the civic chief left, the committee did not discuss proposals on the agenda. Zalke directed officials of accounts department to table a report before the committee related to pending bills. Zalke postponed the meeting to January 4.A few months ago, after remarks over his name by one of the corporators, the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had walked out of general body meeting, calling it character assassination.After lapse of HC deadline 32 months ago, NMC has finally proposed to spend Rs21.06 crore to strengthen Ambazari lake’s embankment including spillway. The proposal was to seek funds from the state government. Still, the committee kept it pending.”Zalke said, “All proposals were kept pending following unanimous decision by all 16 members. Corporators are upset with stoppage of works, including Rs293 crore work orders issued in last fiscal.”Radhakrishnan is the fourth municipal commissioner against whom BJP-led ruling party has protested after works were stopped citing cash-strapped condition of NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-chief-leaves-standing-panel-meet-after-member-creates-ruckus/articleshow/80033330.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 31, 2020||Pune||Views sought for road widening||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started the process to widen six-metre wide roads by another three metres. The civic body will soon seek suggestions and objections on road widening. Residents along 323 roads, particularly in the Peth areas, will benefit from the road widening work. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/views-sought-for-road-widening/articleshow/80035008.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad woman accuses Mumbai dentist of demanding dowry||AHMEDABAD: A 36-year-old woman from Sabarmati on Tuesday filed a complaint with police alleging that her husband, a dentist at Borivli in Mumbai, thrashed her and abandoned her because she could not give him money to set up a new clinic. The woman stated in the FIR that she married the accused on January 29, 2012, and her family members gave him gold ornaments weighing 50g and also others household materials. She said her husband began harassing her soon after their wedding and began coming home late at night. When she asked him why, he told her she was not as beautiful as other women he knew and had relationships with. She also alleged that her husband did not have sex with her for a long time after their wedding and was convinced to have sex with her only after she told him she would begin sitting at his clinic in Borivli. She states in the FIR that she delivered their first child in 2015 while at her parents’ home in the city. She said her husband and in-laws did not take her to her marital home for three years. She returned in 2018 as she struck a compromise with them. She said her in-laws again began picking fights with her and on March 9, 2020, kicked her out of their home with her child. She had to return to her parents’ place and when she spoke to her husband, he demanded Rs 35 lakh to build a new hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-woman-accuses-mumbai-dentist-of-demanding-dowry/articleshow/80033301.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Pune||Two constables suspended||PUNE: Two police constables were suspended on Wednesday for “unprofessional conduct” while executing their duties. “They had visited the robbery scene in a housing society in Aundh. On seeing the robbers, they left the spot,” police commissioner commissioner Amitabh Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-constables-suspended/articleshow/80035015.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Pune||Bhama Askhed project inauguration tomorrow||PUNE: The Bhama Askhed water pipeline project would be inaugurated on January 1. City mayor Muralidhar Mohol said a function would be organised at the PMC’s main building.  “Most infrastructural work pertaining to the project have been completed, while technical trials are under way,” Mohol said. Anirudh Pavaskar, head of PMC’s water supply department, said commissioning of project would reduce additional pressure on Cantonment Water Works.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhama-askhed-project-inauguration-tomorrow/articleshow/80035013.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Partying in public? Cops have a ‘booking’||AHMEDABAD: New Year celebrations in public, the violation of the curfew, or the breach of Covid guidelines will make cops book you. Addressing the media on Wednesday, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Harshad Patel said that those who have gone out of the city should return before 9pm when the curfew begins. “Those who flout the 9pm deadline will be booked, unless they have a strong reason or are in essential services,” Patel said. He said that as cops no longer carry out the mouth-sniffing procedure, they will send people suspected to be intoxicated for blood tests. Persons found to have consumed alcohol or drugs will be booked. “As of now, we have not received any application for New Year gatherings, in line with Covid guidelines, to be scheduled in the day,” he said. City police chief Sanjay Srivastava said that the question of organizing New Year parties in the night does not arise as the night curfew is in place. “People who organize parties at home, bearing the corona guidelines in mind, will have to accommodate visitors for the night,” he said. “Visitors can’t venture out when the curfew comes into effect.” Informers to report parties DCP Harshad Patel said that areas on the periphery of the city are being watched closely by cops. He said that the human intelligence network has been activated to get inputs on any party organized at night. 3,500 police personnel deployed Police officials said that the bandobast is in place and will last throughout Thursday, going well into the night. “A force of 3,500 police personnel has been deployed,” Patel said. “They include seven officers of the DCP rank, 14 officers of the ACP rank, 50 inspectors, and about 100 sub-inspectors. Surprise checks will be carried out at private places too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/partying-in-public-cops-have-a-booking/articleshow/80035100.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIM-Ahmedabad to revisit plans to demolish Louis Kahn buildings||AHMEDABAD: The management of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A), seems to be heading back to square one as far its plan to partly demolish the work of American architect Louis Kahn on its campus goes. The country’s premier business school’s decision to raze 14 of 18 student dormitories earlier this month has been opposed by architects, heritage experts and historians who highlighted the need to conserve these historic buildings. They also questioned the reasoning behind the move. The institute’s director, Errol D’Souza, had in a letter to the alumni on December 23 said that the buildings would be redeveloped as they had become ‘unsafe for living’. The revised plans include conducting a structural analysis of the dorms by an independent entity. The IIM-A director said he will recommend an independent entity such as the Central Building Research Institute to do a structural analysis of the dorms and provide inputs on the feasibility of restoration. The proposal will be made at a coming IIM-A board meeting, the director wrote to architect associations, in reply to their petitions to stop the demolition plan. He had also stated that IIM-A buildings are not “heritage buildings” but ‘legacy buildings”. A copy of the response on December 29 has been reviewed by TOI. The institute, in 2014, had announced a competition for the restoration and updating of all of Kahn’s buildings on the campus. Mumbai-based firm, Somaya and Kalappa (S&K) Consultants, with a long record of restorations, won the challenge to preserve Kahn’s architecture while updating the functionality of the interiors. Dormitory number 15, which was the most dilapidated, was chosen as a prototype. Brinda Somaya, principal architect, S&K Consultants said they would not like to respond to queries sent by TOI. On December 4, IIM-A had come up with an EOI on its website inviting architects and designers with proposals to reconstruct the student dormitories. The institute cited multiple problems such as earthquake damage, leaks in the roof, dampness in the walls, leaks in toilet walls, slabs etc, to justify its decision to demolish most of the dormitories and build new structures in their place. The feasibility factor The cost of restoration has been projected to be at least Rs 3.5 crore per dorm, according to a senior official privy to the matter. “So while Dorm 15 was restored successfully, experts were not willing to certify that it will be ‘safe’ for two decades. So in the case of Dorms 15 to 18, which are to be restored as per earlier plans, the restoration cost could be about Rs 3.5-4 crore every three years,” the official added. Questions are also being raised about how the dorms reached such an irreversible state. “IIM-A management and whoever is involved and responsible, need to examine why is the institution in this predicament now, why are the buildings in such a state of distress, just 50-60 years after they were constructed? Why in such a small period do they require major repairs, big budget restorations and even demolition?” said Kirtee Shah, chairman of KSA Design Planning Services and president of Habitat Forum. He also questioned the building maintenance, both minor and short term and major and long term, done by the institution all these years. The main causes of deterioration in these buildings were the techniques used for construction and localized repair carried out thereafter, according to an article by Somaya that was published in Documentation and Conservation of Buildings, Sites and Neighbourhoods of the Modern Movement, popularly known as DoCoMoMo. The conservation plan for Dorm 15 entailed restoration of architectural features and space designed by Kahn that were earlier altered, such as the staircase drum roof and common rooms on the ground floor. Director speak: After the restoration of one dorm that was taken up on experimental basis, an independent structural consultant opined that the dorm was unsafe The structural consultant of the conservation architect opined that the dorm would resist moderate earthquakes with limited damage but there would be significant damage with severe earthquakes The bricks used were not the best in class, had inbuilt efflorescence, and nothing was done to protect them especially when the walls are load bearing. Pointing was used to hide the blunt edges of the bricks and this got damaged and allowed the collection of water which resulted in ingress into the masonry. Concrete encasing was not used to protect the embedded reinforcement bars. Errol D’Souza, director, IIM-A||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-to-revisit-plans-to-demolish-louis-kahn-buildings/articleshow/80033363.cms||Maulik Pathak
December 31, 2020||Surat||Jalim gang in Surat second to get booked under GuCTOC||SURAT: With 11 members of Amit Rajput alias Lalu Jalim’s gang booked for carrying out organized crime, Surat crime branch registered second offence under Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime Act (GujCTOC) on Tuesday. Of the 11, cops have already arrested three accused. The gang has 94 offences including murder, extortion, threatening, assault and others registered against it which it executed jointly or individually. On November 27, Asif Tameta’s 13-member gang was the first to be booked under the Act and 10 members of the gang have been arrested so far. Of the Jalim gang, police arrested Shivam Rajput, Nilesh Avchite and Jagdish Kantariya while eight others including kingpin Amit alias Lalu Jalim, Dipak Jayswal, Shailendra Sharma, Jagdish Kantariya, Aashish Pande, Nikunj Chauhan, Ravi alias Dhanu Shinde, Nayan Barot and Avnesh Rajput are still on the run. Police are yet to arrest Amit who had escaped to Uttar Pradesh (UP) a few days ago fearing his arrest. “Crime branch teams are working to trace Amit but he is changing his locations. City police teams are camping in UP and he will be arrested soon,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. Amit rose to fame after his gang shot a video of murder in Amroli area on mobile phone in April 2017 and made it viral. The gang wanted to establish their supremacy in the Amroli area after coming into existence for which they shot the video. The gang members attacked crime branch cops when they went to nab those involved following the sensational murder. Amit also has fan pages on Facebook and in the recent past people in the group celebrated his release from Lajpore Central Jail on bail. Amit managed to visit UP twice during nationwide lockdown, sources in police informed. After gaining muscle power and notoriety among local goons, the gang started extortion activity and was despartely attempting to seize slain criminal Surya Marathi’s place in property-related disputes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jalim-gang-in-surat-second-to-get-booked-under-guctoc/articleshow/80033325.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||One more UK returnee tests +ve, admitted in GMCH||Nagpur: One more city resident who returned from United Kingdom (UK) tested positive for Covid-19 and is admitted as suspected patient of new coronavirus strain at special ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The patient, 42-year-old woman from Shreyas Nagar in Wardhaman Nagar, was admitted two days after testing positive.Additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane and medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) told TOI, “Latest patient reached Mumbai from UK on December 5. She arrived in city on December 16. Her name was in the list sent by Bureau of Immigration. Our team asked her to get tested which was done on December 27. Report came positive on December 28.”NMC sources told TOI, “Patient was not at home when team from NMC Lakadganj Zone reached for taking her to GMCH on December 28 and 29. We then contacted her on mobile and also asked her relatives following which she returned home and got admitted at GMCH on Wednesday.”The number of suspected patients of new coronavirus strain which has now increased to six in the city. All are admitted in GMCH’s special ward.Swab samples of first five were sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genome sequencing. Swab samples of latest patient will be sent on Thursday.NMC had received list of 137 persons who returned from Europe, Middle East and South Africa between November 25 and December 23.Dr Chilkar said, “Detailed inquiry revealed six are from rural parts of the district and so we have informed the collector’s office. 131 are residents of the city. RT-PCR tests of 96 flyers has been done of whom six have tested positive. Reports of 12 persons are likely to come on Thursday. Remaining 23 could not be contacted. Our teams are tracing them.”Two flyers arrived from Middle East on Wednesday increasing the number of new air passengers to 17. Nipane and his team ensured their quarantine. Of earlier 15, one has tested negative and completed one week. He is likely to be discharged soon. Tests of four more were conducted on Wednesday and results will come on Thursday. Tests of remaining flyers will be conducted after five to seven days of arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-uk-returnee-tests-ve-admitted-in-gmch/articleshow/80033442.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirupati: Man projects wife as a call girl on WhatsApp, booked||TIRUPATI: A case was registered against a man on charges of dowry harassment, domestic violence and for attempting to project his wife as a call girl by posting their intimate pictures on WhatsApp. Tirupati Urban police wing have launched a hunt for the man who has absconded. On Wednesday, the victim, along with her parents and relatives, lodged a complaint with Tirupati police and staged a protest at the police station. Recounting her ordeal to the media, she demanded stern action against her husband. “My husband works as a junior assistant at a college in Tirupati. We got married in August. From the third day after our marriage he started to physically assault me. Though I got pregnant shortly after our marriage I got an abortion due to his physical harassment. As days passed he demanded additional dowry and the physical and mental harassment he subjected me to became unbearable. At one point when I couldn’t take the harassment anymore, I left for my parents’ home in Bengaluru. But he levelled allegations against me that I ran away with Rs 10 lakh worth gold and Rs 10 lakh cash,” the victim said. “His harassment didn’t stop with just that. About three days ago I was shocked to learn through my classmates that my husband had posted our intimate pictures and my nude pictures on my college WhatsApp group and projected me as a call girl with rates of Rs 3,000 per hour,” she said. Tirupati SP Avula Ramesh Reddy spoke to the victim over the phone. Speaking to TOI, Ramesh Reddy said, “Along with sections related to dowry harassment and domestic violence, sections of the IT Act will also be invoked against the accused,” Ramesh Reddy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-projects-wife-as-a-call-girl-on-whatsapp-booked/articleshow/80033446.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Pak spy at Halwara airbase arrested||LUDHIANA: Ludhiana rural police arrested a pro-Khalistan element, who allegedly worked for Pakistan’s Inter Service Intelligence (ISI) and shared pictures of Halwara air base with it. Police have booked two more accused in the case under Official’s Secret Act. The arrested accused has been identified as Ram Dass of Tusse village. His accomplices, Sukhkiran Singh Sukha from Tusse and Sabir Ali of Lal Peepal from Nahan in Sirmaur district of Himachal Pradesh are yet to be arrested. DSP Gurbans Singh said ASI Jasvir Singh-led police party was checking vehicles at Rattewal when they got a tip off about Ram, who had returned from Dubai after working there for some years and was working as a diesel mechanic at Halwara air base. He said that according to information available, the accused has been in constant touch with ISI agent Adnan Adi of Pakistan through WhatsApp and other social media platforms for smuggling arms and other materials from Pakistan. All three accused are linked to pro-Khalistan and anti-social organisations and involved in illegal activities to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere of the state, the officer added. The accused have been booked under sections 124 A (sedition), 120 B (criminal conspiracy), 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the IPC and others sections of Official Secrets Act, 1923 and The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967 at Sudhar Police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pak-spy-at-halwara-airbase-arrested/articleshow/80035099.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||Spacewood claims region’s highest ever Rs125 crore loss from insurer||Nagpur: Spacewood Group has put a claim of around Rs125 crore to its insurer — New India Assurance — after the fire at its plant on Tuesday.This is expected to be the biggest ever claim amount put up by any private company in the region to claim losses. One of the group’s units at MIDC Hingna estate had caught fire on Tuesday.Spacewood director Kirit Joshi said the claim has been put up for the loss of physical assets, which include plant and machinery, finished and semi-finished goods and other tangible items.Even as he agreed that it may be one of the highest claims in local circles, Joshi said the intangible losses in terms of business lost would be much more.Joshi said the amount is high because the plant had high-end machinery imported from Europe. The sum assured by the insurance company also is of almost the same amount, he said.The fire incident will however not have any major impact on the production. This is because the company has two more set-ups which are functional. One is at MIDC’s Butibori estate and another at Hingna itself. “We will be able to restart the unit that caught fire in six to eight months,” he said.The unit at plot number T-48 of MIDC Hingna Estate was established in 2003. It holds emotional value for the company because it was the large plot taken over by the group. The unit subsequently expanded on the same land, said Joshi.Over the years, it emerged as one of the biggest manufacturers of furniture and also the country’s first to attract foreign direct investment (FDI) in this sector. In 2015, Japan’s Sumitomo Forestry had picked up a 26% stake in the company for a value of over $13 million.“The incident has left not only us but also the workers heart broken,” Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/spacewood-claims-regions-highest-ever-rs125-crore-loss-from-insurer/articleshow/80033455.cms||Shishir Arya
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Angry mob razes Hindu temple in Pak||Amritsar: A mob demolished a Hindu temple in Karak district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) province of Pakistan on Wednesday. The incident has happened about 10 days after the Pakistan government allowed the construction of a Hindu temple in Islamabad. Intelligence sources here informed TOI on Wednesday that a Muslim cleric of Karak, who reportedly enjoys the support of a militant group also indulged in land grabbing, allegedly instigated the local Muslims against the Hindu community and provoked them with inflamed and hate speeches to demolish the Hindu place of worship. A video of the demolition has gone viral on the internet. Pakistan human right activist Ihtesham Afghan tweeted, “A Hindu temple was demolished by religious extremists in Karak today. It is very shameful moment for us because it reflects the way we treat minorities in our country.” Patron-in-chief of Pakistan Hindu Council Ramesh Kumar Vankwani has called a protest demonstration outside Supreme Court, Karachi on December 31. “This temple was restored as a result of the June 19, 2014 ruling of the Supreme Court of Pakistan,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/angry-mob-razes-hindu-temple-in-pak/articleshow/80035102.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cops to keep strict vigil on resorts||HYDERABAD: Police will keep a close watch on the farmhouses and resorts on the city outskirts to ensure that no mass gatherings take place in view of the pandemic. Further, the traffic cops have made arrangements to conduct drunk driving checks till the early hours and aim at achieving zero deaths on the night of December 31. Cyberabad commissioner VC Sajjanar said, “We all know that we are fighting Covid-19, and during this time, it is important that we first think about our safety. Let’s not organise mass gatherings or musical events to celebrate New Year. Let us celebrate the beginning of New Year with family, near and dear ones. Stay home and stay safe.” Sajjanar also said that Special Operations Team (SOT) sleuths along with law and order police will keep a watch round-the-clock to ensure that no unauthorised New Year events take place on the city outskirts. Cyberabad police also warned the managements of bars and pubs to ensure that customers do not drive under the influence of alcohol. “The managements of bars and pubs should educate clients about the consequences of drunken driving and make alternative arrangements for customers’ travel if required,” Cyberabad police said in an official advisory. Rachakonda commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said that their target is to ensure zero road accident deaths on December 31 night. “Drunken driving checks will be conducted throughout the night,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-to-keep-strict-vigil-on-resorts/articleshow/80035101.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Heroin, 3 pistols seized from Asr border outpost||CHANDIGARH: The Amritsar (rural) police on Wednesday busted a heroin smuggling module with the recovery of 7.31kg heroin and three China-made .30 bore Norinco pistols from near border pillar number 38/3 of Metla border outpost. The police had received inputs on Wednesday morning that a consignment of weapons and narcotics had been pushed across the International Border (IB) in the area in Dera Baba Nanak sector, Gurdaspur. Based on these inputs, an FIR was registered under the NDPS Act and the Arms Act at Gharinda police station in Amritsar (rural) and the BSF authorities were immediately alerted before carrying out a joint search operation. As per initial inputs, which are to be corroborated during investigations, the consignment had been pushed into the Indian territory by Pakistan-based smuggler Jagdish Singh alias Bhura of Jagraon, who is presently settled in Belgium. He has been named in the FIR and is an active terrorist and proclaimed offender in three terrorism-related cases, said a police spokesperson. The police intelligence inputs have established key role of a major drug smuggler namely Ranjit Singh of Modhe village in Amritsar, who is currently lodged in Ludhiana jail. Based on information by the Amritsar (rural) police, the authorities of Ludhiana jail conducted search of Ranjit’s belongings and recovered one mobile phone from his possession. He has also been named in the case and will be brought on production warrant for further questioning, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/heroin-3-pistols-seized-from-asr-border-outpost/articleshow/80035086.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||Day 2: Firemen continue efforts to control furniture unit blaze||Nagpur: Firemen were still battling to douse the flames that engulfed Spacewood furniture manufacturing unit at MIDC Hingna, on the second day on Wednesday, fire officials told TOI. Exact cause of fire is yet to be ascertained, and Hingna police have begun investigations into the case.Chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake said the fire is under control now. “The intensity of the fire has subsided but few pockets are still burning,” he said. The unit owned by Kirit Joshi and Vivek Deshpande has around 600 employees, who were working when the fire broke out from the paint section of the unit, spread over 21 acres. Though the exact cause of fire is yet to be ascertained, prima facie the fire department officials ruled out any chance of conspiracy.Of the 14 fire tenders fighting the fire from Tuesday evening till early Wednesday morning, only a couple of fire tenders were fighting the blaze.Sources from Hingna MIDC said the firefighting system installed on the premises was inadequate. According to them, the work of installing a sprinkler system was underway. Sources said the godown was stocked with wooden material. There was very little space, and no segregation was done. Wood being a combustible material, the fire engulfed the entire unit very fast, sources said.If the stocked goods had been properly segregated, the fire would have been brought under control on Tuesday itself, sources pointed out. However, officials from Spacewood said the unit had firefighting system in place. An official said the company had been strengthening the firefighting system by installing sprinkler system, and work was underway.Sources said no senior fire officials from Hingna MIDC fire station was there during the firefighting operation. It was NMC’s firefighting team along with other firefighting agencies from Ambajhari Ordnance Factory and Mihan that worked hard to control the blaze, said sources.Hingna MIDC fire officer BB Patil said he was not aware of the fire incident as he was out of station, while no other official from the fire station responded to TOI’s calls.Declaring the area unsafe, police have cordoned off the unit, which has affected business of other nearby industrial units for the second day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-2-firemen-continue-efforts-to-control-furniture-unit-blaze/articleshow/80033449.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||State government writes to Centre on Jat reservation||Jaipur: The state social justice and empowerment department wrote to the National Backward Classes Commission on Tuesday, urging it to include the Jats of Dholpur and Bharatpur in the Central OBC list so that they could enjoy reservation in Central government jobs. The letter was written by social justice and empowerment secretary Gayatri Rathore to the member secretary of the commission. In Rajasthan, the Jats of these two districts have been included in the state OBC list. The letter also stated that the state government doesn’t discriminate in providing benefits to Jat community on the basis of geography. Earlier, the Jats of these two districts had threatened to launch an agitation in the state if their demands were not fulfilled. The Jat Aarakshan Samiti, led by Nem Singh Fauzdar, later decided to drop their decision to launch a statewide agitation on the issue pertaining to inclusion of Bharatpur and Dholpur Jats in the Central OBC list, after the state government assured them that a letter would be written to the Centre in this regard. It was also decided by the state government to form a committee to address two of their demands. The two demands include — giving appointments to 94 candidates who were selected between 2013 and 2017, and withdrawal of all police cases registered during Jat agitation in 2016-17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-government-writes-to-centre-on-jat-reservation/articleshow/80035097.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Jaipur||Timber smugglers run truck over forest guards, 2 injured||UDAIPUR: Timber smugglers ran their truck over two forest guards while trying to escape a checkpost at Sultan ki Kherwada village under Jhadol Phalasiya range of Udaipur district on Tuesday night. The guards had a narrow escape as they got caught under the vehicle when the front tyres moved but managed to crawl out as the heavy vehicle could not pick up speed on the uphill path ahead of a curve. The incident has come as a shock for the department since these kind of attacks are unheard of in this area. “Some fifteen years ago, bamboo smugglers in Devla Kotra block tried to run over the forest vehicle but they were caught. These kind of incidents are very rare in this area, we have asked our staff to be careful,” Rajkumar Jain, regional conservator of forests told TOI. The forest department had issued a red alert in the division to prevent timber smuggling and wildlife offences and increased night patrolling in the region. “We were tipped-off about illegal transport of wood from the forest range to Gujarat and hence a checkpost was laid at the outskirts of Sultan ki Kherwada village on Tuesday night. Around 10.30pm, a truck approached and when we tried to stop it, they fled,” range officer Shantilal Parmar said. The forest team chased the truck and two guards Virendra Singh Jhala and Munim Meena, who were on bikes got ahead of the vehicle. They stopped their bikes and signalled the driver to stop but the latter hit the bikes and the guards fell down while the truck ran over them. Since the vehicle could not pick up speed on the uphill road, the driver and his aide left the truck and vanished in the darkness. The guards were taken to hospital where one of them has fractured his hand. DFO Ajay Chittora said the truck was laden with approximately 20 tonnes of mango wood which is worth around Rs1.5 to 2 lakh. Two cases have been registered, one by the police department for attempt to murder and smuggling, while the forest department has charged a case under Sections 41 & 42 of the Forest Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/timber-smugglers-run-truck-over-forest-guards-2-injured/articleshow/80035103.cms||---
December 31, 2020||India||Rs 48L of jewellery found in BARC ex-CEO's locker||MUMBAI: The Crime Intelligence Unit probing the TRP manipulation scam on Tuesday carried a search of the bank locker of arrested former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), Partho Dasgupta, and claimed to have recovered 1.3 kg of gold and silver ornaments collectively valued at Rs 48 lakh. Dasgupta was produced before the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate court on Wednesday, which remanded him to judicial custody. Dasgupta's lawyer Kailash Ghumre has alleged that the search of his locker is illegal. He said, "The bank locker is in his wife's name, and police didn't even wait till his wife arrived. They arranged for a locksmith and opened the locker. This is not any anti-corruption or bank scam." Ghumre also rubbished allegations that Arnab Goswami of Republic TV paid huge sums to Dasgupta for rigging TRPs. "The statement has been taken under duress," Ghumre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rs-48l-of-jewellery-found-in-barc-ex-ceos-locker/articleshow/80037683.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||Beware! Cops to round up New Year revellers violating norms||NAGPUR: The Nagpur police has launched ‘Operation Parinde’ to prevent any untoward incident in the city as people join New Year revelry. This time, the police will target youngsters among the revellers. Youths caught violating Covid-19 guidelines and night curfew will face criminal cases. The city police has formed a special team that will patrol roads and closely monitor youngsters venturing out to ring in the New Year. Besides this, 4,300 police personnel, including 730 traffic police personnel from 10 traffic zones, will be on the roads for the New Year eve bandobast from 6pm itself on Thursday. On Sunday, Commissioner of Police Amitesh Kumar called a meeting of senior police officials to discuss the New Year eve arrangements. Kumar also directed officials to ensure that citizens who welcome the New Year peacefully are not disturbed. Special care is being taken to prevent accidents. Police personnel in civil clothes will keep an eye on various malls and crowded places in the city. Police will be on high alert at Futala Lake, West High Court Road etc. A team from the social security department and staff of the women’s cell of the police station concerned will be deployed to take stern action against the perpetrators. Malls and crowded places will also be inspected by bomb disposal squads. As night curfew will be in place, the top cop clarified that hotels can remain open till 11pm. After that, if the hotels are found to be open, strict action will be taken against the owners. The police will take care that the citizens celebrating New Year on the terrace of their house are not disturbed. But even while celebrating New Year at home, citizens should be aware of the rules, urged the CP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/beware-cops-to-round-up-new-year-revellers-violating-norms/articleshow/80033460.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 31, 2020||Dehradun||Adi Shankara samadhi restoration: HC issues contempt notices to U’khand govt||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday issued show-cause notice to the state government directing it to explain why contempt proceedings should not be initiated after it failed to comply with the court’s order from December 2018 directing them to restore the samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya at Kedarnath. The bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari has now given the state government two weeks’ time to respond. The notice was issued after Delhi-based activist Ajay Gautam filed an application in the court seeking direction to the government to file the action taken report. Even after seven years of the Kedarnath flash floods, the samadhi of the eighth century Hindu saint is in ruins. Gautam had also argued that even after two years of the court’s order, nothing had been done on the issue. Speaking to TOI, Gautam, who was the petitioner in the 2018 PIL as well, said that when the bench asked the government for response, the counsel said that he had no instructions in the matter. “The advocate for the government said that he had no instructions, and therefore, no submission can be made. This is despite the fact that my application was received by the state over a month earlier,” he said. The court observed that there has been a “gross disobedience” of its order and issued the show-cause notice, listing the case for further hearing on January 14. The samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya – who is believed to have attained moksha at Kedarnath at the age of 32 – was devastated in the flash floods of 2013. Born in Kalady village in Kerala, Shankaracharya is also credited with unifying and establishing the main thoughts in Hinduism. Apart from the Kedarnath shrine, Adi Shankaracharya’s samadhi was also a major destination for pilgrims travelling to Kedarnath. In 2018, the court had given the state government a year to restore the samadhi while also directing the Rudraprayag district magistrate to ensure that the traditional hill architecture is taken into consideration for the restoration. The DM was also directed to ensure that the architecture of the samadhi is merged with the surrounding landscape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/adi-shankara-samadhi-restoration-hc-issues-contempt-notices-to-ukhand-govt/articleshow/80032158.cms||Prashant Jha
December 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Decapitated head of idol found in pond||Visakhapatnam: Vizianagaram police with villagers on Wednesday found the decapitated head of a Lord Rama idol in a pond at Ramateertham under Nellimerla police station limits in the district. It may be recalled that unidentified persons sneaked inside the Sri Kodanda Ramaswamy Temple and decapitated the 400-year-old idol of Lord Rama in the early hours of Tuesday. Speaking to TOI, deputy superintendent of police, Vizianagaram, P Anil said after hours of effort, their search ended on Wednesday with the head of the idol found in a pond near Ramateertham. Water from the pond had to be drained to retrieve the head. Taking serious note of the matter, the government has appointed D Bhramaramba, regional joint director, endowments, as inquiry officer in this incident. The police said as the temple is located atop a hill, it has not had power supply for years and only recently got electricity. The authorities of the temple also plan to install CCTV cameras. Preliminary investigation has revealed that some people in and around Ramateertham might have been involved in the incident, police said, adding the accused will soon be arrested as clues shedding light on the incident have been gathered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/decapitated-head-of-idol-found-in-pond/articleshow/80033467.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||SGPC to honour Nankana Sahib martyrs’ kin||Amritsar: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSPGC) will honour the family members of the martyrs of Nankana Sahib massacre during the centenary of one of the ghastly pre-partition incident occurred for the liberation of Gurdwara Nankana Sahib under Gurdwara Reform Movement. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Wednesday said SGPC would honour kin of the martyrs of Nankana Sahib, including Lachman Singh, Amar Singh etc., and bestow ‘siropas’ (robe of honour) upon them for the martyrdom of their elders who liberated the birthplace of Sikh’s first master Guru Nanak Dev from the likes of mahant (high priest) Narayan Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sgpc-to-honour-nankana-sahib-martyrs-kin/articleshow/80035126.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to send 5% Covid positive samples to IGIB, NCDC to check new strain||CHANDIGARH: In a step to check the mutation of a new mutated strain (N501Y) of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the Punjab government has decided to send 5% of positive samples per week to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the Delhi-division of biotechnology, epidemiology and central surveillance unit. Principal secretary medical education and research D K Tiwari said it was part of the master plan conceived by the state government to contain the spread of the new strain in Punjab.  After the emergence of the new strain with high transmissibility, the central government had issued an advisory that the new strain could spresd in India too. The officer said the Punjab health department had sent random positive samples — 80 from Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) of government medical college at Patiala, and 40 each from VRDL of government medical college at Amritsar and VRDL of government medical college at Faridkot — to check the emergence of new mutated virus strain to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. These samples were selected from September to December. He added that all the passengers who came from the UK were screened for Covid-19. Tiwari said that eight patients came positive for Covid-19 at VRDL at government medical college at Amritsar and one at VRDL at government medical college at Patiala. He added that these samples have also been sent to NIV Pune for sequencing to check new mutated virus strain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-to-send-5-covid-ve-samples-to-igib-ncdc-to-check-new-strain/articleshow/80035110.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||1.5 lakh students shifted to government schools in Haryana this year||JIND: As many as 1.46 lakh private school students shifted to government schools this year. According to data procured from the education department, of the 1,46,060 students who shifted to government schools, 90,254 were boys and 55,806 girls. Also, the highest shift in numbers was of 35,598 students from Class X1, followed by 14,658 in Class 1X and 14,248 in Class V1. Compared to last year, there has been an 8% increase in shift of students to government schools this year, which was marked by lockdown due to Covid-19. District-wise, Hisar recorded the most transfers, followed by Faridabad, Bhiwani, Jind and so on. Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, education department assistant director Nand Kishor Verma said, “When the data was compiled this year, it showed the trust (of people) in government schools. Parents shifted their children to government schools from private institutes. The 1.46 lakh figure is an 8% increase, as compared to 2019.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1-5l-students-shifted-to-govt-schools-in-hry-this-yr/articleshow/80035130.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Minorities averse to registering for vaccine in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Minority-dominated areas of the city are turning out to be a serious concern for the municipal corporation. Few persons have enrolled for vaccination in the wards of Sarkhej, Maktampura, Behrampura, Danilimda, Rakhial and Gomtipur. The AMC has so far registered 6.55 lakh people who are above 50 years and another 24,800 who have co-morbidities, but are below 50 years. Also, another 4,000 people above 50 years and 2,500 persons with co-morbidities and below 50 years have registered online. The AMC has also identified 40,000 government health professionals and 15,000 professionals in private hospitals for vaccination. Apart from this, an additional 50,000 frontline workers have also been identified for vaccination. Officials in the AMC said that in the minority dominant areas, especially in the Central and South zone and South West zone, the registration was below expectation. The lowest registration was in South West zone comprising Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Sarkhej and Maktampura. This zone has only 46,700 persons registered. Major parts of this ward are minority-dominated. Officials said there was a lack of trust in the government machinery and hence people were not willing to join the drive and give their data. Imran Khedawala, the MLA from Jamalpur-Khadia assembly said, “The people are not willing to believe the government as unlike the western countries where senior leaders had taken vaccination shots, no leader in Gujarat has taken any shot. Moreover, people are not wanting to believe that the data collected was for vaccination only. Once the drive begins, people themselves will come forward and get themselves registered.” He further said that in the initial times of corona outbreak, people became willing to get tested, when the leaders came forward and got themselves tested. “A similar cooperation with community leaders should have been done for the registration drive,” said Khedawala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/minorities-averse-to-registering-for-vaccine/articleshow/80035132.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||City’s private labs find slashed Covid test rates unviable; against principles of business, they say||Nagpur: ICMR-authorized private labs conducting rapid antigen test (RAT), RT-PCR and TruNAT for Covid-19 have called the state government’s decision to further slash testing charges as unfair and against principles of entrepreneurship.Lab directors said at these rates, it is becoming unviable for them to carry on and may force some of them to shut shop. As per the official data, nearly 50% of the samples are being processed daily by private labs in the city. These labs are catering mainly to the well-off, elderly and those who can’t visit NMC centres and prefer home sampling.Dr Rajkumar Rathi, director of Clinicare Lab, said the chip for TruNAT alone costs Rs1,000 as it is a fully-automated process and results are 99% efficient. “Those who have started recently may find it extremely difficult. We are somehow managing. I don’t think new labs would be able to even pay their EMIs,” he said.Dr Sandhya Saoji, director of Suvishwas Diagnostics Lab, said overheads are the same as they were from the beginning. “It’s difficult to sustain. I’m doing only limited samples for hospitalized and home patients. At times, we need cross checking which is not possible at low cost,” she said.Another lab director said the move is against the principles of promoting entrepreneurship. “Instead, the government should promote healthy competition which may benefit patients in terms of testing cost. I can understand if the price is capped for a referral patient from a public lab. In fact, the government must subsidize the cost of kits and not testing.”The director added that when people directly prefer a private lab over a government facility then charges shouldn’t be touched. “Ultimately, people are the victims of such decisions. No one works to incur losses. Labs would be forced to opt for low quality kits which will impact the results.”Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed, director of Crescent Diagnostics and Molecular Lab, said that instead of going for low quality result, they would prefer shutting down. “Sustaining at this cost is not possible,” he said.He explained that the viral transport media (VTM) costs Rs35, RNA extraction kits Rs75, PCR machine kit Rs180). “These three kits alone cost around Rs300. There are more types of accessories and average quality cost Rs400. After this, manpowers need PPE kits, gloves. There is no capping on these items. Salaries of collection staff and real time data entry staff, fuel cost for home collection are also involved. Government takes a populist decision, while doctors are cornered as they are in minority,” he said.He added that not just testing but lots of jobs are at stake.FACT OF THE MATTER* As per the GR of December 14, labs can now charge between Rs700 to Rs980 under different terms and conditions for the RT-PCR test while a flat Rs1200 has been mandated for TruNAT.* Before government stepped in, private labs used to charge between Rs3000 to Rs5000* Since September 7, this is the third pricing revision* Picking sample up from home is priced at Rs980, Rs850 from hospital and Rs700 from collection site for RT-PCR* Cost of all consumables shall be borne by lab||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-private-labs-find-slashed-covid-test-rates-unviable-against-principles-of-business-they-say/articleshow/80033482.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 recovery rate close to 99% in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 349 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday to take its cumulative caseload to 8,81,948. The toll increased to 7,104 as four more patients succumbed to the virus. As many as 472 patients were declared cured. There are currently 3,256 active cases in the state, with 8,71,588 cumulative recoveries and 7,104 fatalities. About 17 lakh Covid-19 tests were conducted in the state in December to detect 13,884 cases, a case positivity rate of about 0.8%. This is the lowest case positivity rate in the last eight months — November (2.2%), October (5.8%), September (12.4%), August (16.6%), July (6.5%), June (2.1%) and May (1.1%). There has also been improvement in other parameters, including case doubling, fatality rates and hospitalisations in December. The recovery rate is inching towards the 99% mark. December also witnessed the lowest-ever case growth rate (1.6%) for any one-month period since the beginning of the outbreak in the state. However, the health department is anticipating a second wave between January 15 and March 15, 2021. The state expert committee has prepared an advisory on measures to foresee and contain surge in infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-recovery-rate-close-to-99-in-state/articleshow/80033504.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||All need to build on the changes brought about by 2020||While there are many who can’t wait to bid adieu to 2020, there’s no doubt the coronavirus pandemic and the ways businesses had to adjust to ensure their survival changed the trajectory of what 2021 will look like, and what businesses should do to get ready for the upcoming year. In 2021, every business leader needs to reflect on what they’re offering customers and how they operate as a business. There were lots of industries that were completely transformed in 2020, such as the hospitality and events industry. On the contrary, the residential construction sector is among those which witnessed a robust recovery during the unlock phase in 2020. As the year 2020 closes, hopes run high with the arrival of a new year, a new beginning for which the world has already pressed the reboot button. Many sectors have witnessed the emergence of new trends, with many businesses being transformed in the Covid era. There are several drivers for this early turnaround. The pent-up demand being one of the major reasons. Some buyers realized that work from home is here to stay and this prompted them to hasten their purchase. There were other benefits too. The home loan rates are now at an all-time low. The top five banks of India are offering home loans ranging between 6.9% and 8.5%. This coupled with the interest subsidy under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) can bring the effective interest rate below 5%, which is marginally higher than residential rental yield (3%-4%). The unified development control rules (DCR) recently notified by the state government is a welcome development. The grey areas have been removed with explanatory maps. Earlier, it took between six months and one year for a building plan sanction. This DCR is so user friendly that even a layman can now apply. The momentum in the residential sector is likely to flow through the first half of 2021. I strongly believe many states will be extending the incentives at least till first quarter of 2021. A lot, however, will depend on the Union Budget, which is due in the first week of February 2021. It remains to be seen whether this is a temporary phenomenon or a structural shift where a pandemic has redefined the need for a good home. The city has reciprocated immensely well to our prestigious projects Kukreja Embassy, a boutique apartment at Byramji Town, and Kukreja Infinity, one of the tallest buildings of Central India. We are all set to enhance the benchmark of construction industry in city and have the vision to gift an iconic tower of 50 floors of high end living to Nagpurians. (The writer is managing director at Kukreja Infrastructures)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-need-to-build-on-the-changes-brought-about-by-2020/articleshow/80033527.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: In attempt to murder father, man kills mother||VIJAYAWADA: A man murdered his mother while trying to kill his father over a family dispute in Edurumondi village under Avanigadda police station limits in Krishna district on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as Veeralankamma (50). According to Avanigadda circle inspector BB Ravi Kumar, the incident happened at around 10 pm. Cops said the accused Veeraghavulu’s (35) wife left him two years ago citing harassment and domestic violence. After several discussions, she returned three days ago. However, once again, he allegedly began physically harassing his wife. Unable to tolerate this, Veeraghavulu’s father Nageswara Rao sent back his daughter-in-low to her home. Infuriated, Veeraghavulu tried to kill his father using an axe handle. During the scuffle, Veeralankamma tried to intervene and suffered a fatal blow to the head that killled her on the spot. Nageswara Rao too suffered grievous head injuries. Locals rushed Nageswara Rao to a local government hospital. A case has been registered under section 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) against Veeraghavulu, who is absconding. Meanwhile, Veerlankamma’s body has been sent to a local government hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-attempt-to-murder-father-man-kills-mother/articleshow/80033550.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Curtailed winter vacation irks students, teachers||BHOPAL: Curtailing winter vacations has upset students and teachers alike in a year locked indoors by Covid. Both public and private schools have not given winter vacations this year. The department of school education cancelled winter holidays by saying it will help students with their exam preparations. Even private schools also decided to drop winter vacations. In fact, exams are on in many schools right through Christmas and New Year. Students said that their academics are being completed through online classes. “When academics were organised without any problem, there was no reason to to curtail winter vacations. This is an unnecessary decison,” said Vikrant Sirohi, a student . “Online classes have been held even on several holidays. Schools felt that it was important to complete the syllabus. Before exam every year, winter vacations give students a time to rejuvenate. We wanted to go out with family. Curtailing vacation will put pressure on students,” said Aditi Sinha, another student. Even many teachers feel winter vacations woud have been a relief. “We are desperate for break. We have been teaching students without pause. We were hoping that winter vacations would give us a time to refresh ourselves. Winter vacations should be given,” said a teacher, requesting not to be named. A few teachers have applied for leave during this period. “I can't teach without any break. We also have families and we should be given a break,” said another teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/editedcurtailed-winter-vacation-irks-students-teachers/articleshow/80035262.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh’s Bholu Parmar wins ‘best rider’ at Equestrian Champion||BHOPAL: On the final day of the Junior National Equestrian Competition played at the Army Polo Ground in Delhi on Wednesday, Pranay Khare of the Madhya Pradesh State Equestrian Academy won a silver medal for MP at the cross country event.  Academy player Bholu Parmar earned the title of Junior National Champion in group-1 category of the competition. He was awarded the trophy for Best Rider. In the competition, a total 14 medals have been won by the academy players, including 4 gold, 6 silver and 4 bronze. Bholu Parmar became the national champion in his category by winning 3 gold, 1 silver and 1 bronze medals in the competition. He won the Best Rider Award for his great performance in the competition on his horse Rockfiller. Sports minister Yashodhara Raje Scindia congratulated the medal winning players, expressing happiness at their brilliant performance in the competition. Describing the success achieved by the academy players as a major achievement, she said: “We are proud of our players.” Director, Sports, Pawan Jain, appreciated the performance of the academy players in the Junior National Equestrian Competition and said that high-level training and sports facilities are being provided to the players.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mps-bholu-parmar-wins-best-rider-at-equestrian-cship/articleshow/80035301.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Woman ends life over unemployment||VIJAYAWADA: A woman committed suicide by hanging herself at her relative’s residence in Hanumanpeta in Kanchikacherla town, Krishna district on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Dhornala Anusha from Jilugumadu village in Khammam district, Telangana. According to Kanchikacherla police, the incident happened on Tuesday evening. Cops said locals found her hanging from the fan in her room and alerted family members. Cops said they are yet to ascertain the reason behind the step. However, family members informed the police that she was depressed at being unemployed. It was learnt that she had been applying for jobs in banks but was unsuccessful. A case under section 174 of CrPC was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-ends-life-over-unemployment/articleshow/80033577.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||House parties are the flavour of this New Year’s celebrations||Nagpur: As the world gears up to bring down curtains on the challenging year that 2020 was, Nagpurians plan to ring in the New Year tucked in their homes, in the company of their near and dear ones. There won’t be any large parties, or packed restaurants and flamboyant celebrations. In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, especially the newly detected strain in the United Kingdom, people are cautious than ever with night curfew and section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 imposed by the district administration from December 31 till January 1, 2021. City’s prominent urologist Dr Sadashiv Bhole said, “I will be celebrating New Year’s Eve with my family. It will be the time to reflect on 2020 and how we came out of these trying times with a smile. We will step into 2021 by pinning our hopes on having a better year.” Naseema Sayyed, a househelp, will be having a low-key celebration at home surrounded by family. She added, “The lockdown period was tough to get through, so I will cook at home and spend quality time with my family.” Menswear designer Dhruv Hingle plans to revel in New Year celebrations at home with family and friends, but will wrap up the programme before 11pm owing to the night curfew. “We plan to order food at home and play games like Housie to raise the fun quotient,” he said. Head nurse at IGGMCH Aruna Chandekar said, “This is the time to be thankful to God for getting us through this pandemic, with a vaccine around the corner. As nurses, our aim would be to make patients feel at home and care for them until they recuperate completely, since seeing our patients walk out with a smile is the best part about our job.” Durga Nanhe, a cook, and her neighbours plan to contribute Rs50 per family and cook meals for a get-together. She said, “It will be a great bonding time for us to rejoice and welcome the New Year with friends and family.” Karan Kalra, a final year architecture student, said, “I will be heading to a farmhouse with a few close friends for a soirée as large gatherings are prohibited and we can’t go out after 11pm due to the night curfew. It’s important to not go easy on the guidelines just to celebrate the New Year, as the Covid threat is still present.” For migrant worker Manoj Yadav, it will be a subdued celebration away from family. He said, “Due to the pandemic, I don’t want to risk travelling and putting my life at risk along with my parents. I will be celebrating the coming year with my roommates.” Ritika Das, who lives in an apartment complex, will be having a ball with her neighbours, who have organized a potluck party. “Each family will be planning one game as we hope to have leisure time after a run-of-the-mill work from home schedule.” Jayshree Khandwani, a homemaker, said, “Living in a joint family, it has been a tradition to welcome the new beginning surrounded by family members and this year will be no different. We have arranged for an intimate house party on the terrace and we will be reminiscing on old memories while paving the way for new ones to come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/house-parties-are-the-flavour-of-this-new-years-celebrations/articleshow/80033582.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Over 9,000 smartphones given to students, while some others still await getting one||LUDHIANA: Since the distribution of smartphones has started, over 9,000 smartphones have been given so far to students of Class XII in government schools. However, there are a total of 16,682 students studying in Class XII. Those who have received the smartphones are finding it really useful, while others are eagerly waiting for the same. Government Senior Secondary School, Doraha, has received 223 smartphones out of 228 as the five are latecomers got themselves enrolled afterwards. A student of Class XII of medical stream of the school, Vijay Kumar, said, “We have received LAVA Z51 Pro smartphones in the second phase. Its IMEI number was registered by school authorities and I installed the SIM and got it recharged the same day. It has 4G facility and has a dual camera with good battery backup.” “All online classes are conducted over Zoom. These days classes of individual subjects are conducted. I attend physics classes in the morning and biology classes in the afternoon. It is helping me as other information is also shared on WhatsApp groups.” Another student Sahilpreet Kaur from GSSS for Girls, Hargobindpur, who lives at Kaind village said,“I received the mobile phone on December 23 and would get the SIM card activated soon. Though I have created my email ID, there was network issue due to farmers’ protest.” However, there are a lot of students who have not availed this facility, which include GSSS Ambedkar Nagar, GSSS engine shed, GSSS Dakha, GSSS Baddowal Cantt, GSSS Ballowal Chamida, GSSS Bhundri, GSSS Boparai Kalan, GSSS Chhapar, GSSS Gag Kalan, GSSS Gorsian Kadar Baksh, GSSS Gujjarwal, GSSS Haans Kalan, GSSS Hambran , GSSS Hassanpur, GSSS Issewal, GSSS Latala, GSSS for girls, Narangwal, GSSS Pamaal, GSSS Purrain, GSSS Saholi, GSSS Sawadi Kalan, GSSS Sidhwan Bet, GSSS Sohian, GSSS Tahil Sahib, GSSS Talwandi Kalan, SKS GSSS Sarabha, GSSS for girls, Gill village, GSSS Kila Raipur, GSSS Ladowal, GHS Rasulpur, GSSS Akhara, GSSS Barsal, GSSS Chakar, GSSS Daherka, GSSS Dalla, GSSS Galib Kalan, GSSS Gidderwindi, GSSS Hathoor, GSSS Kamalpura, GSSS Kanuke Kalan, GSSS Lakha, GSSS Lamma Jattpura, GSSS Leelan Megh Singh, GSSS Malla Girls, GSSS Malshian Bajan, GSSS Manuke and GSSS Sherpur Kalan. A few of the schools, including GHS Jaspal Banger, GSSS Ayali Khurd, GSSS Bhutta, GSSS Dhelon, GSSS Hargobindpur, GSSS Khanpur,GSSS for girls, Mansooran, GSSS Sangowal and GSSS Threeke, would also be given the smart phones. Meanwhile, there are 64 students studying in GSSS Dhaka and no one has received the smartphones. Mandeep Kaur, mother of Talwinder, who is studying in Class XII arts at GSSS, Dhaka, said, “I have three children, one is studying in Class IX and the other is in Class VII. The three of them keep on fighting among themselves as every class is online. Now, if the government has promised the smartphones, then they should give these to facilitate us.” One of the students, Paramjit Kaur of Class XII, non-medical stream, GSSS Sohian, said, “My father is a labourer and my brother is also studying in the same school. No one in our school has received mobile phones and I don’t have any cellphone at home, so I ask my friend for the same. But now I am expecting that they will give it to us very soon.” Paramjit’s brother Raghubeer Singh, who is studying in Class XI, said, “I am studying from books and go for doubt clearing session to the school. Without a phone, we can’t attend any Zoom classes, but we are hoping to get the phone at the earliest.” Simranjit Kaur, another student of Clasa XII of a government school at Jagraon, said, “I have a smartphone of my sister, but when she leaves I have to face the issue of no phone. I am not able to cope up with my school syllabus, which is being covered online. It is not possible for me to attend the online classes and now it’s been a whole year and we have not received the phone. I don’t think that we will be getting the phones now.” Rajinder Kaur DEO said, “ Smartphones will be distributed in stage three and there was a dry run testing for distribution of smartphones on Wednesday for the remaining students. They will be given smartphones tomorrow. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/over-9k-smartphones-given-to-students-while-some-others-still-await-getting-one/articleshow/80033627.cms||Mehak Jain
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||NMC, other govt staffers to get Covid expenses reimbursed||Nagpur: The employees of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and other government agencies will get reimbursement of expenditure incurred for treatment of Covid-19. The state government has added novel coronavirus in the list of emergency diseases to facilitate the reimbursement. The civic body and other government agencies like collector office, zilla parishad etc have received a copy of notification issued by the state’s public health department on December 17. As per the notification, 27 diseases were in the list of emergency diseases and five in critical diseases. Now, the number of emergency diseases has increased to 28. Though notification was issued on December 17, employees who contracted Covid-19 from September 2 onwards will be eligible for reimbursement. The decision of retrospective effect has been taken as government increased attendance in government departments from September 2. There is condition of availing the facility. The positive patient’s oxygen saturation level should be below 95 at the time of admission in hospital. Over 500 employees of NMC had contracted the disease, of which 20 died. Apart from health care workers, large number of employees from collector office, zilla parishad, PWD etc also contracted the disease while working on the field and in offices. Many reimbursement cases of Covid-19 are pending in NMC. An employee of NMC health department undertook treatment from September 13 to 23 in a private hospital. He incurred expenditure of Rs1.4 lakh. His application for reimbursement is pending till date. Senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari told TOI, “Government should have taken the decision at the beginning of pandemic in March. Better late than never, the decision will give justice to employees and boost them to continue working in pandemic.” NMC union leader Surendra Tingne expressed gratitude towards the government for taking the decision. “We met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other ministers and raised the issue. Employees of NMC and other government agencies are not financially sound. They worked fearlessly in pandemic. Employees incurred expenditure up to Rs4 lakh for treatment of Covid-19. They had to face serious problems in managing money by means of borrowing from others. Now, they can also get an advance for treatment,” he said. Tingne said, “The government’s decision is not applicable to over 4,000 daily wage sanitary workers. For sweeping roads, clearing chocked sewage lines etc, these workers are working on fields since outbreak of the disease. They should also get the facility.” Tingne added, “Government should give compensation of Rs50 lakh to 20 NMC employees who contracted the disease during work and died. Kin of employees of many government agencies had received the compensation. But not a single case was approved in NMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-other-govt-staffers-to-get-covid-expenses-reimbursed/articleshow/80033637.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 31, 2020||Ludhiana||PAU students oppose ICAR site claim in favour of farm laws||LUDHIANA: Agricultural scientists, students and researchers and research institutes support the new agricultural laws for the benefit of agriculture and farmers as claimed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) website. However, PAU students claim that the ICAR is giving a wrong impression among the people that the students of agriculture favour new farm laws. No suggestions were taken from the students and this was totally baseless. Students and research fellows of the PAU have written to the DG, ICAR, on the same to remove the a post on its website, flashing that students favour the new farm laws. A research scholar in the department of agronomy, PAU, Lovepreet Singh has written a mail to the director general of ICAR. He said, “It is sad and worrisome to see that the ICAR website has been misused by the ICAR authorities to give the wrong impression among the common man of the country that the students of agriculture favour the new farm laws.” A senior research fellow at the department of plant breeding and genetics, PAU, Harmeet, said, “Being a postgraduate researcher at the PAU as well as an aware citizen of India, I strongly oppose these new farm laws. I, along with my colleagues, believe that these laws are death warrants for our farmers and blessing for corporates. This exaggerated statement should be removed with immediate effect from the webpage of this reputed platform, which is currently letting the wrong perception to be developed among the people of the country.” Davinder Singh, another student from the university, said, “It is sad and worrisome to see that the ICAR website has been misused by the ICAR authorities to give the wrong impression among the people of the country that the students of agriculture favour the new farm laws. No one has inquired about my views on the new farm laws. Kindly, remove the post as I strongly oppose these. These laws will benefit corporates only. These are bad for farmers as well as consumers. I hope that my request will be given due consideration and the post will be removed.” Bikramjit Singh, who has completed his postgraduation from PAU in agriculture economic said, “I am in discord with farmers laws, however, the ICAR website is flashing wrong information that agriculture scientists and students are supporting it. This is merely wrong because there is no survey conducted by any authority or council about these laws. Hence, we will like to reach out to the government and ask it that strict action should be taken against the officials who have represented us in the wrong manner.” He further said, “Being a research scholar in agriculture, I strongly oppose these new farm laws. No one has inquired about our views on the same. The post should be removed as we strongly oppose the new farm bills. These laws will benefit corporates only. These are bad for farmers as well as consumers. I hope that our request will be given due consideration and the post will be removed.” Jagwinder Singh Chahal, who is pursuing MSc, extension education, said, “Firstly, no one had come to inquire about the reactions of students and researchers at various agricultural universities on the new farm laws and no survey had been conducted on it. However, in which context the ICAR is flashing the same on its official website. It is sad to see that the ICAR is flashing that students and researchers favour the new farm laws on its official website. This flashing headline should be removed.” Another PhD research scholar of the department of extension education, PAU, said, “As an agricultural student, I strongly oppose the new farm laws and support the farmers’ protest. Misuse of the ICAR website by the ICAR authorities is very sad and worrisome and also a non-democratic approach because till date, no survey has been conducted to enquire the students' view.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pau-students-oppose-icar-site-claim-in-favour-of-farm-laws/articleshow/80033689.cms||Mehak Jain
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||Over 28,000 seats vacant even as Std XI admissions in Nagpur reach final stages||NAGPUR: Even as Std XI admissions in city enter the final lap, vacant seats are still holding steady above the 28,000 figure. While some of this deficit may get covered after the entire admission process wraps up, it’s still unlikely that it will be anywhere near the average annual 18,000 vacancy. In Nagpur city, all junior college admissions are done through Centralized Admission Process (CAP). So what has caused this vacancy gap to increase? Mahesh Karajgaonkar, a retired senior education official who had started CAP in Nagpur over a decade and half ago, says this year the gap has increased because of Covid-19 pandemic. “In Nagpur city, students come from even outside the district and state. The reason so many outstation students were drawn to our city colleges is also because of a vibrant coaching class culture. They would stay in hostels and enrol in local classes and colleges. But this year that major chunk of thousands of students is missing,” said Karajgaonkar. Ravindra Fadnavis, sarkaryavah, Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal, said it's the rampant expansion of colleges which has led to this gap increasing. “There was a craze among colleges about increasing science seats and it went on for years. Education department was granting permissions to increase science sections in existing colleges without giving a thought to whether or not they had the requisite infrastructure,” said Fadnavis. He believes it’s this increasing gap which has become more glaring in the last couple of years. “We currently have a case going on at the high court regarding Std XI admissions, and in our petition we have cited numbers which show this demand-supply disparity,” said Fadnavis. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) said the vacant seats reflect ‘rural migration’. “Coaching institutes are herding students towards colleges with which they have a tie up. Most of these colleges are just outside city limits. Since rural colleges are not under CAP, admissions can be done there at one go for all students,” said Gavhankar. Fadnavis said it is surprising that parents send their children to private unaided college even though ‘free’ education is available. “I fail to understand why parents don’t enrol in our colleges where education is free or fee is ridiculously low due to grant-in-aid status. Instead they will send them to colleges that charge a hefty sum and are even outside city limits,” said Fadnavis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-28000-seats-vacant-even-as-std-xi-admissions-in-city-reach-final-stages/articleshow/80033729.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||No coercive action on BVM over fee issue: HC||NAGPUR: In yet another setback to the school education department, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has directed that no coercive action can be taken against Bhavans Vidya Mandir (BVM) school over a pending show cause notice, till the notice returnable date. The education department had issued notice to Bhagwandas Purohit BVM, which has six branches in Nagpur district, over alleged excess fee being charged. Last month GM BVM (Hinganghat) had been issued a notice for recovery of alleged excess fee. HC had said that no coercive action can be taken till the matter is heard further. Latest development was on December 17 when over 40 CBSE schools approached HC against alleged harassment by education department, and the court categorically stated that no coercive action can be taken against petitioners against recovery of fee till the matter is being heard. Justice Anil Kilor in his order dated December 28 noted that senior advocate MG Bhangade, who appeared for the petitioners, pointed out that “that the powers of the management to fix fees has not been conferred upon executive committee of the Parent Teachers Association (PTA) which is not workable”. Advocate SS Sarda assisted Bhangade, whereas AGP Ketki Joshi appeared for the respondents. Joshi sought time to file reply in the case. Next hearing scheduled for January 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-coercive-action-on-bvm-over-fee-issue-hc/articleshow/80033670.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana shares third spot with cured percentage of 95%||LUDHIANA: Witnessing a fall after touching the highest figure of 95% in October end, the cured rate has once again touched the same mark, suggesting significant improvement in Covid-19 scenario in Ludhiana. As per the recent state media bulletin on Covid-19, the cured percentage for Ludhiana district was 95% on December 28 and 29. After reaching the highest value of 95% on October 24 and remaining there for six more days, the cured percentage had fallen and then dropped to 92% by November 16. After remaining at the same percentage for 23 days, the cured rate had increased to 93% on December 9 and remained at the same for eight days before rising to the current percentage. Meanwhile, the state health department data since July 9 indicates that cured percentage witnessed increase from 49% on July 9 to 66% on August 15 and then increased to 74% till August 31 even as it did witness a rise and fall intermittently. The cured percentage further increased to 85% by September 15, before rising to 90% till October 1 and then reached 94% by October 15. The rate had reached the highest value of 95% on October 24. As per the latest media bulletin, with the present cured percentage Ludhiana district shares the third spot with Moga, Muktsar, Gurdaspur, Patiala, Barnala, Sangrur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Jalandhar districts. Fazilka and Faridkot shared the top spot with 97% cured percentage, while Mansa, Ferozepur, Bathinda and Pathankot are at number two spot with 96% cured percentage. SAS Nagar and Ropar have the lowest cured percentage rate at 92%. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that it was good that there was improvement in the cured percentage and more patients were getting cured. However, he advised caution and advised people to follow the norms related to Covid-19, including wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene and avoiding crowded places in the fight against the pandemic. Meanwhile, many residents say that people should heed to the requests of the departments concerned. “Though there were times when a majority of people used to wear masks and maintain social distancing, but now fatigue seems to be there among them as they had been seen not following norms related to Covid-19. They should know that it would help them to protect themselves from the disease,” said Amandeep Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-shares-third-spot-with-cured-percentage-of-95/articleshow/80033757.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 31, 2020||Delhi||UK strain: Four under strict surveillance in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Four people who have tested positive for the mutant strain of SARS-CoV-2—the virus that causes Covid-19—in Delhi have been put under strict surveillance and separate from other Covid-19 patients. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, told TOI one of the patients is a seven-year-old girl. “Her mother has tested negative for the virus but the girl is positive. She doesn’t have any symptoms,” he said. The other three patients are aged between 27 and 45 years. “The results of genome sequencing of eight UK returnees and their contacts admitted to our hospital have come. Four of them have been found negative for the mutated strain while four others have tested positive,” the hospital director said. There are a total of 38 people who have returned from abroad recently, mostly the UK, and are admitted to Lok Nayak on testing positive for Covid-19. They have been put under strict surveillance. Their family members and close contacts have also been asked to quarantine at home. The district health authorities are monitoring those under quarantine through regular telephone calls and they have been asked to contact the authorities immediately if they feel any health issues. “All of them are currently well and no one has any problem,” said an official. The contacts and family members have also been tested for Covid-19 with RT-PCR tests and most of them have tested negative. “Those who have tested positive have been shifted to Lok Nayak Hospital,” the official added. On Wednesday, the union health ministry confirmed that the samples of 20 UK returnees had been found positive for the new UK variant genome across the country. According to Dr NK Mehra, honorary emeritus scientist at Indian Council of Medical Research and former dean of AIIMS, said the new variant of SARS-CoV2 could have higher transmissibility but evidence available so far suggests it doesn’t cause severe symptoms. “It is possible that the UK variant has been in circulation for three to four months and, therefore, it may have spread to many countries, including India,” he said. The mutated UK variant of SARS-CoV2 was first detected in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/uk-strain-4-under-strict-surveillance/articleshow/80035450.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana seeks Maha help to tame man-eating tiger in Asifabad district||Hyderabad: Telangana has sought the help of neighbour Maharashtra to tranquilise the suspected man-eater tiger in Asifabad, which was responsible for two human kills in November. The cages set up to trap the big cat in the forest ranges have not yielded any result so far. Principal chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden R Sobha wrote a letter to Maharashtra forest department seeking the assistance of its rapid response teams (RRTs). She also issued orders to tranquilise the big cat and capture it. Forest divisional officer of Kagaznagar Vijay Kumar said the rapid team is yet to arrive. “Our local teams will take the lead in search, identification and tracking of the tiger. RRT will assist us,” he said. He said cattle kills are still taking place every week. “There are several tigers in the tiger corridor area. We cannot pinpoint at one big cat for the kills,” he explained. Currently, focus is on to capture ‘A2’ tiger that forayed into Asifabad from Maharashtra. A forest official of the wildlife wing said: “Experts have told us that cages set up to trap the tiger will be of no use. In Maharashtra, the experiment didn’t work out much. That is why we have chosen to tranquilise the tiger.” Forest officials have also decided to improve the prey base in the tiger corridor area. Experts said since the area has low prey base for the tiger to hunt, the big cats are targeting cattle and humans. Apart from using tiger trackers to follow the pugmarks, the forest department has collected saliva samples from the human and cattle kill and sent them to Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology for DNA fingerprinting testing. In November alone, two incidents of human kills were reported. Sidam Vignesh, a tribal youth of Digida village of Dahegaon mandal that falls in the corridor of Kawal Tiger Reserve, was mauled to death on November 11. On November 29, a suspected man-eater mauled Pasula Nirmala to death in the cotton field in Kondapally in Penchikalpet mandal. Vijay Kumar said they have asked the villagers to take all precuations while going into cotton fields. “The villagers are supposed to move in groups and beat drums to keep away the tiger,” he said. For the last two months, compensation for the cattle kill has been stopped. With the compensation not being extended, villagers are getting restless. In Kagaznagar, 12 cases where compensation has to be given for cattle kill are pending. Sources said the government has stopped issuing aid under CAMPA funds. “Any fund that has to be released has to come from Hyderabad,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-seeks-maha-help-to-tame-man-eating-tiger-in-asifabad-district/articleshow/80035442.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 31, 2020||Nashik||Conman dupes Nashik woman of about Rs 2 lakh||NASHIK: A city-based woman lost nearly Rs 2 lakh after her registered e-mail address with her bank was changed by an unidentified suspect. A complaint in this regard has been registered at Mhasrool police station under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with other sections of the Information Technology Act. Senior police inspector Pandharinath Dhokane of Mhasrool police station said as per the complainant, the cheating took place on December 20. “The complainant is a resident of Meri in Panchavati and when she was out of town someone approached her bank and put in a request to change her registered e-mail address,” he said. “After making the false request which was accepted by the bank, the unidentified person did online shopping through net banking and withdrew cash from various automated teller machines (ATM). We are investigating the case. We would first try to find out how the request by the fraudster was granted by the bank in the first place. Such loopholes in the banking system should be plugged so that such methods are not applied by fraudsters again,” the officer added. A large number of frauds get registered with the city police every year. This year, the cybercrime police registered various online cheating offences wherein the complainants were cheated of over Rs 2.1 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/conman-dupes-nashik-woman-of-about-rs-2-lakh/articleshow/80032298.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Agra||Shock after Pakistani woman becomes village head in UP||AGRA: A 65-year-old Pakistani woman was found running the affairs of a village panchayat as its interim head in UP’s Etah district, a revelation that shocked local police and the administration. A probe has been ordered to know how she got the Aadhaar, voter ID and other documents while staying on a long-term visa. An FIR has also been filed against her. Bano Begum, a resident of Karachi, Pakistan came to India 35 years ago at her relative's home in Etah. Later, she got married to a local, Akhtar Ali. Since then, she had been staying in Etah on a long-term visa, and had applied for Indian citizenship several times. During 2015 local body elections, Bano managed to get elected as a member of Guadau gram panchayat. Five years later, on January 9 this year, the pradhan, Shehnaz Begum, passed away. And after a few days, Bano took over as interim pradhan on the recommendation of the village committee. According to sources, the matter came to the fore after a villager, Quwaidan Khan, filed a complaint saying that Bano is a Pakistani national. Though Bano resigned from the post, the district panchayati raj officer (DPRO) Alok Priyadarshi raised the matter with Etah’s district magistrate (DM) Sukhlal Bharti, who ordered an FIR and a probe. DPRO Priyadarshi said, “Investigation on the basis of a complaint received against Bano Begum found that she is a Pakistan national. She got an Aadhaar card and voter ID made on her name by fraudulent means.” He said that the recommendation to appoint Bano as head of the village committee and designating her as interim pradhan was made by village secretary Dhyanpal Singh. He has been removed from the post. DM Bharti said, “Orders have been issued to investigate how she managed to get an Aadhaar card and other documents for contesting election to become gram panchayat member. Strict action will be taken against those found guilty of helping her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pakistani-woman-becomes-interim-pradhan-in-etah-shocked-admin-orders-probe-fir/articleshow/80032288.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad rated most affordable housing market||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad has been rated India’s most affordable housing market on real estate consultant Knight Frank’s Affordability Index 2020. For determining affordability, the index considers the EMI (equated monthly instalment) to income ratio for an average household. With an affordability ratio of 24%, Ahmedabad is the most affordable of the top eight cities in India. It is followed by Pune and Chennai, both of which have an affordability ratio of 26%. Mumbai is the most expensive market, with an affordability ratio of 61%, which is followed by the National Capital Region (NCR) 38% and Hyderabad (31%). “Even in the pandemic year of 2020, housing affordability improved. A decline in house prices and multi-decade low in home loan interest rates have helped improve housing affordability in 2020,” said Knight Frank India. The affordability ratio has seen significant improvement in the last decade. In the case of Ahmedabad, the ratio was 46% in 2010, which has now come down to 24%, the consultant added. The affordability index of the realty consultant captures movement in key constituents like property prices, home loan interest rates and household income, which determine a buyer’s ability to purchase a house. A ratio of over 50 per cent makes it difficult to secure home loans from banks and housing finance companies, making it unaffordable to purchase a house, added Knight Frank. “The affordability ratio across the top eight cities improved tremendously over this decade due to an increase in income levels, lower interest rates and subsequently lower property prices,” said Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director, Knight Frank India. “The government interventions around improved credit flow, lower interest rates and the cut in stamp duty rate in some markets has brought confidence among home buyers in 2020,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-most-affordable-housing-mkt/articleshow/80033796.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Madurai||Sand deposited on roadsides in Madurai poses threat to motorists||Madurai: Commuters and motorists in Madurai’s West Veli Street have complained that sand and dust accumulated at the side of the road is dangerous as it could lead to accidents due to skidding.“My son sustained injuries on his knees when my two-wheeler skidded on the sand and both of us fell down on December 12 on this road ,” said S Kavitha of K K Nagar.“Though it is not sunny, the dust from these sand dumps starts flying into the air and when vehicle movement is heavy on the road; it can cause a major health hazard,” said T Shalini, a student. CPM member P Jeeva said that there is a huge sand dump behind the fourth zone office. “This sand is so fine that even people walking on it slip and fall down,” he said. The Madurai Corporation has two sand sweeping machines that they purchased at a cost of about Rs 90 lakh about two years ago, but they are never seen in action in any of the city streets in recent times. They should at least employ manual labourers for this purpose,” he said.Sand and dust from works at the Periyar bus stand and Byepass road bridge are also deposited on the roadside from oncoming vehicles and is being cleaned regularly would be a solution, said traders in Meenakshi bazaar, who said that the menace had become worse after the lockdown was relaxed.City Engineer S Arasu said that a lot of UGD, pipelines works and road works in the city was resulting in accumulation of sand on the roadside. “We will take action to clean it but also would like to request the public to be cautious on the roads for the next two to three weeks till the works are completed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sand-deposited-on-roadsides-in-madurai-poses-threat-to-motorists/articleshow/80036392.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 8,000 govt employees set to retire next year||Hyderabad: As many as 8,273 employees are scheduled to retire in the 2021 calendar year with over 1,400 of them retiring in the first quarter. Thousands of government employees have been eagerly waiting for chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to implement his 2018 poll promise of enhancing the retirement age. As the process to complete the formalities will take two months, the joint action cmmittee of various employees’ unions has decided to urge the government to implement the enhancement of retirement age policy with retrospective effect from January 1, 2021. Enhancing the retirement age is one of the election promises being fulfilled by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao after a gap of two years. . “In the last two calendar years, about 16,000 employees have retired from service. A majority of these 16,000 employees had high hopes on the CM implementing the retirement age enhancement promise so that they can continue in service for three more years. But, it did not happen,” said an employee. To increase the age limit, the government needs to pass an ordinance to make amendments in the Telangana Public Employment Act. Telangana non-gazetted officers’ association president M Rajender told TOI that they had urged the government to implement the enhancement of retirement age with retrospective effect. “The JAC will decide the date before meeting chief secretary Somesh Kumar-led high-level committee in January first week. The immediate thought is to ensure that the retirement enhancement policy is made applicable to those retiring in the first few months of 2021 as the CM has announced its implementation in December 2020,” Rajender said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-8000-govt-employees-set-to-retire-next-year/articleshow/80035447.cms||Roushan Ali
December 31, 2020||Madurai||AIADMK man, DMK MLA argue over Amma Mini clinics||Kanyakumari:Tense moments prevailed at the inauguration of the Amma Mini Clinic at Anjugramam here on Wednesday as there was a war of words between the DMK MLA and AIADMK functionaries over taking credit for launching the scheme. The one inaugurated at Anjugramam is among the 2,000 clinics to be opened by the state government across the state over the last two weeks. The mini clinic was dedicated in the presence of district collector M Arvind and the special representative to the state government at New Delhi, N Thalavai Sundaram. As the collector left the place, a war of words began on stage at the event organised by the AIADMK. It began with Kanyakumari MLA S Austin (DMK) claiming that the mini clinic scheme was an initiative by the DMK.Strongly countering it, AIADMK district secretary S A Ashokan questioned the MLA for attending the event for which he was not invited and stirring up a controversy. This resulted in DMK and AIADMK cadres engaging in an altercation. Police pacified both sides. The situation was brought under control by Thalavai Sundaram. As Austin remained on stage till the end of the event, Thalavai Sundaram who spoke after Ashokan, countered every allegation leveled by the MLA.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-man-dmk-mla-argue-over-amma-mini-clinics/articleshow/80036396.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Madurai||Kaarankaadu mangroves to reopen for tourists on Jan 1||Ramanathapuram: Eco-tourist activities will resume at Kaarankaadu mangroves in Ramanathapuram district on January 1 as part of the unlock measures announced by the Tamil Nadu government. Tourism activities would also resume at Kurusadai Island and Keelakarai on January 1, wildlife warden for Ramanathapuram division A S Marimuthu said.Forest range officer for Ramanathapuram range S Sathish said the number of tourists to Kaarankaadu would be restricted at 200 a day. “We used to have around 100 tourists during weekdays and more than 200 on weekends and holidays. The flow could be at the higher end due to the holidays. We have restricted the number at 200 in view of Covid-19,” he said.Tourists will be allowed only after they are screened for temperature and if they wear masks. Boating charge has been doubled to Rs 200 per person to meet the salaries of those employed at the spot. Though a boat can carry 13 people, only eight or ten tourists will be allowed to ensure social distancing.Tourists can also enjoy kayaking and snorkelling. Advance booking can be made over the phone at 7598711620 for the above said services and for meals with fish, crab soup, squid cutlet and refreshment. Forest department officials are awaiting approval from senior officers to introduce scuba diving at Kaarankaadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kaarankaadu-mangroves-to-reopen-for-tourists-on-jan-1/articleshow/80036405.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kozhikode||Samastha prez visits house of Abdurehman Aouf||KOZHIKODE: Samastha Kerala Yam-Iyyathul Ulema state president Syed Muhammad Jiffri Muthukoya Thangal has visited the house of Abdurehman Aouf, the DYFI worker who was murdered by a group of Muslim Youth League (MYL) workers on December 24. Thangal reached the house at Kalluravi in Kanhangad in Kasaragod district on Wednesday and talked to the friends and relatives of the victim. Aouf was an active worker of Sunni Students Federation (SSF), the feeder organisation of Kanthapuram faction of Sunnis, and the main accused Irshad was a worker of the Samastha Kerala Sunni Students Federation (SKSSF), the student outfit of the rival faction of the Sunnis. Thangal, who is also the Khasi of the Kanhangad Samyuktha Jamaat, said the culprits should be punished at any cost. “Those who are involved in the conspiracy should also be brought to light. No political party should encourage violence and the parties should inculcate moral values among the cadres,” he said. Thangal added that it is imperative to control one’s anger and should not let things end in murders. He said he is not inclined to make any political statements. Thangal interacted with Aouf’s uncles Hussein Moulavi, Abdurehman Saqafi and Abdul Khader. MYL state president Panakkad Syed Munvvar Ali Shihab Thangal also visited the house of Aouf. Three MYL workers have been arrested in the case and the Crime Branch team is investigating the case. Koottampara Abdurehman Darimi, leader of the Kanthapuram faction of Sunnis, alleged that the IUML always targeted the religious leaders among the Sunnis. Speaking at the laying of the foundation stone ceremony for the house to be built for Aouf’s family in Kanhangad, he said the Kanthapuram faction surmounted all the attacks with courage. “We should understand that there was no such attack against any of our religious leaders in the past four-and-a-half months of the LDF rule in Kerala,” he said. Syed Ibrahim Khaleel Bukhari Thangal, general secretary of the Kerala Muslim Jamaat, inaugurated the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/samastha-president-jifri-thangal-visits-kin-of-abdurehman-aouf-who-was-killed-by-myl-workers-in-kanhangad/articleshow/80033832.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||DGP ducks question on TRS ‘bias’||Hyderabad: The overall number of criminal cases registered in Telangana decreased by 6 percent in 2020, as compared to last year. Speaking about the loan apps case, DGP M Mahendar Reddy said that Telangana police acted swiftly and so far 50 cases had been registered and 27 persons have been arrested. Speaking at the annual press conference, the DGP said that 1,50,922 criminal cases were registered in in Telangana in 2020, as against the 1,60,571 cases registered last year. There has been a 103% increase in number of cyber crime cases this year. In 2019, police registered 2,240 cases against 4,544 cases registered this year. The DGP said that due to the wide presence of CCTVs, Telangana police could solve 4,490 cases based on the footage. Responding to questions regarding the BJP’s allegations of bias towwards TRS, Mahendar Reddy said, “We take action as per the law. As far as those specific allegations are concerned, I will leave it to their wisdom.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dgp-ducks-question-on-trs-bias/articleshow/80035454.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Madurai||Ex-min seeks new district unit of party in Tuticorin||Tuticorin: Former minister and former AIADMK district secretary S T Chellapandian said that he and his supporters will meet chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami during his election campaign in the district on January 3 and 4 to urge him to carve a new district unit out of the two existing district party units and to appoint him as its secretary. Chellapandian was appointed the district secretary of the Tuticorin district in 2016. In March 2019, the party announced the dividing district unit into two -Tuticorin North and South-with three assembly segments each.Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju holds the post of secretary of the north unit while MLA S P Shanmuganathan is the secretary of the south unit. Chellapandian was appointed the organising secretary. Chellapandian has proposed that the new district unit could comprise Ottapidaram and Tuticorin assembly segments, leaving two assembly segments each with the two existing district units. He claimed the move was for better party administration. Talking to TOI, he said that the recent replacement of more than 75 local functionaries has caused dissatisfaction among the cadres. “This will affect the party’s prospects in the assembly elections and we will make a representation about the issue to the CM,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ex-min-seeks-new-district-unit-of-party-in-tuticorin/articleshow/80036413.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Madurai||Cancellation of Tejas, Shatabdi citing patronage unacceptable: MP to rly min||Madurai:Expressing shock over cancelling Tejas Express special trains (Train No 02613/02614) between Chennai Egmore and Madurai from January 4 and other trains, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has written to Union minister for railway, commerce and industry Piyush Goyal urging him not to cancel the trains citing poor patronage. “I understand that one of the reasons to run regular trains as specials is to cancel when there is no profit. It is a great departure from the earlier policies of running regular trains even during lean season. Profit motive of private players is understandable and that is why we oppose private players,” he said. Shatabdi trains to Bangalore and Coimbatore from Chennai Central and the much trumpeted Delhi-Lucknow and Mumbai-Ahmedabad Tejas trains have also been cancelled due to poor patronage. “What we foresee for private passenger trains has been happening now for trains run by Railways,” he said. The MP said that cancelling trains for the alleged poor patronage and depriving the needy people cannot be accepted. According to him poor patronage is primarily due to the pandemic as it is desirable that there is no crowding to avoid the spread of Covid-19 and the unaffordable high fares compared to other trains on the same route. The government itself is asking people to desist from travel if it is not necessary, he said. Venkatesan said the fare of Tejas between Madurai and Chennai is 35% higher than Vaigai express in AC chair cars. During the pandemic, earnings of people have been badly affected, leading to unaffordability, he said. Stating that there was at least more than 30% occupancy in all these trains, he said the Indian Railways should operate its services for the needy during the pandemic without eying profit. He suggested reasonable reduction of fares to attract more passengers. He also demanded the minister to desist from privatisation of passenger trains and to withdraw the decision to cancel the Madurai–Chennai Egmore Tejas Express and the Shatabdi trains from Bengaluru and Coimbatore to Chennai during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cancellation-of-tejas-shatabdi-citing-patronage-unacceptable-mp-to-rly-min/articleshow/80036416.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Nashik||Private English-medium schools yet to get parental consent||NASHIK: The 37 private English-medium schools in Nashik city are yet to receive the consent letters from a majority of parents. The consent forms take the parents' permission for the students' return to schools from January 4. According to the chairperson of the Association of Nashik Schools, the schools have already sent a format of the consent letters that are to be signed and submitted by parents before the children can return to the schools. “The letters were sent on their social media numbers/accounts. However, more than 70% of the parents have not responded,” said Himgauri Adke, the president of the organisation. The district administration has taken the note of the drop in the number of Covid-19 cases and has, therefore, decided to reopen the schools in rural areas from January 4. The commissioner of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) would be taking a final call on schools in the city. “Our schools are ready, but this will happen only with parents’ consent — as per the norm set by the state government. The feedback from school authorities is that the parents are worried about the new strain of the virus that has come from the United Kingdom,” Adke noted. Nashik has a good number of people who have returned from the UK. Most schools have been taking the online classes and have already completed the syllabus. As far as Class X students are concerned, the prelims and finals are left. “The syllabus is over. But the exams and practise tests are left. The same can be carried out online with the cooperation of the parents. If the parents are not ready to send their children to schools, the online process will continue,” Adke, representing the views of the members of schools association, said. Rural schools to reopen on January 4 Collector Suraj Mandhare has said the schools in the rural areas will open by January 4. “People have been very cooperative and, hence, the spread of the disease seems to be under control. The schools will reopen as decided,” he said. He pointed out that schools in 22 districts have reopened without any adverse effect. The tests of the teachers are being conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pvt-english-medium-schools-yet-to-get-parental-consent/articleshow/80032336.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||DGP: Ganja making its way into state from Andhra-Odisha border||Hyderabad: Director general of police M Mahendar Reddy said that 99 percent of the ganja which has been coming into Telangana is from naxal-dominated Andhra Odisha Border (AOB). In connection with this, both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh police have also held coordination meetings in the past. During the annual press meet, the DGP said that as there were several incidents of exchange of fire and gunning down of members of Communist Party of India (Maoists) this year, Telangana police negated the attempts of Maoists to enter into the state from Chhattisgarh. “The hectic efforts of CPI (Maoists) to revive the movement in Telangana were effectively thwarted by Telangana Police,” the DGP said. Security has been tightened further at inter-state borders since the threat from Maoists mounts in spite of police efforts to clamp down. When asked whether there has been any fresh recruitment of Telangana residents into CPI Maoist, Mahendar Reddy said that under Cherla police station limits, there are 23 persons from Chhattisgarh who migrated into Telangana and they became underground cadre of Maoists. Some of these have been were arrested. In 2020, there were 11 incidents of exchange of fire between Maoists and Telangana police, leading to the death of 11 Maoist cadres. According to to the DGP, 30 of 33 districts in Telangana are free of naxalism. Speaking about the frequent seizure of ganja in the state, DGP Mahendar Reddy said, “Almost 99% of the ganja being smuggled into Telangana is coming from naxal-affected AOB area, where it is being grown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dgp-ganja-making-its-way-into-state-from-andhra-odisha-border/articleshow/80035453.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Agra||UP farmer in Rs 90,000 debt dies of heartattack after stray cattle destroy his crops||AGRA: A marginal farmer, who had reportedly borrowed Rs 90,000, died of a heart attack after seeing his wheat crop on his six bigha land completely destroyed by stray cattle in Badhora village under Fatehabad sub-division of Agra district. Narayan Singh, 51, left behind three young children, including two unmarried daughters. Like several other farmers in Uttar Pradesh, Singh used to often spend most of his time at the field to protect the crop from stray cattle. On Monday evening, he took a brief dinner break and after returning to his field found all the crops completely damaged by around 50 cows. With the huge debt at the back of his mind and the responsibilities at home, Singh couldn't stand the shock and suffered a heart attack. He reportedly passed away on his way home. Later, doctors at a multispecialty hospital pronounced him "brought dead". “Narayan Singh had severe financial difficulties. He was in debt of around Rs 90,000. The family of five, including wife and three children, were all dependent on the farmland," Bhuri Singh, cousin of the deceased farmer, said. "He was unable to bear the crop loss caused by stray cattle and died following a cardiac arrest. His two daughters - 16 and 18 - are unmarried, and the son is 10 years old," the cousin added. Local resident, Shyam Sundar Sharma, said that Singh was even planning to get his elder daughter married. His sudden demise has created major difficulties for the poor family. "District administration should help the family under government schemes for farmers and make required arrangements for preventing crop loss by stray cattle on such a large scale," the local resident added. On Wednesday, sub-divisional magistrate (Fatehabad) Amit Kale said, “We have received information regarding the death of a farmer by heart attack following crop loss caused by stray animals. A tehsil staff was sent to meet the family. Suitable action will be taken on the basis of their report." Meanwhile, Shyam Singh Chahar, a farmer leader, said, “Farmers have been suffering financial crises as they are unable to get a suitable price for their crops. And now, to add to their woes, and mainly due to the negligence of authorities, they are frequently facing the menace of stray cattle." "Local administration and the animal husbandry department should make suitable arrangements for stray animals. But so far, nothing much has been done. We want the state government to act on this." The farmer's poor family should be provided suitable monetary assistance, Chahar added. Notably, earlier in January, a 32-year-old farmer killed himself after stray animals caused largescale damage to his mustard crop on a rented plot at Nagla Vishnu village under Kheragarh sub-division. The father of two minors had taken a bank loan of around Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-farmer-in-rs-90000-debt-dies-of-heartattack-after-stray-cattle-destroy-his-crops/articleshow/80032333.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 31, 2020||Nashik||New Year’s eve set to be low-key affair||Nashik: The city is set to witness a low-key celebration on the New Year’s Eve as the state government has imposed restrictions due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Citizens will not be allowed to move out of their houses after 11 pm due to the night curfew. The big hotels, which usually organised various programmes on December 31, will not be allowed to host any event. “There are restrictions for the New Year celebrations this year and it will be a low-key affair. We will be losing some business. Due to the timing restrictions, hotels will only provide dinner. The government guidelines will be followed,” said Amit Khot, the secretary of Nashik Hotels’ Association. Some hotels will serve dinner only after online booking but not beyond the time limit. Collector Suraj Mandhare has appealed to the citizens to ensure safety during the New Year’s Eve celebrations and to refrain from gathering. He said, “People have been behaving responsibly and hence we have been able to contain the spread of the disease. Naturally, everybody wants to celebrate New Year’s but this year it should not be done.” He suggested celebrating online. Sangramsinh Nishand, the deputy commissioner of police (crime), said, “The city police will be out in full force on the night of December 31 to ensure no one violates the night curfew from 11 pm to 6 am. Action will also be taken against people who are found driving under the influence of alcohol.” Police have also warned of action if people are found drinking in the open or gathering at terraces. The citizens, however, have expressed disappointment due to restrictions but at the same time are taking the same in the right spirit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/new-years-eve-set-to-be-low-key-affair/articleshow/80032392.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Madurai||127 fresh Covid cases in south TN, 105 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state on Wednesday reported 127 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death, taking the tally to 1,33,432, which include 983 active cases. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 105 new cases taking the tally to 73,805, which include 814 active cases. The region recorded no death maintaining the toll at 922. According to the health bulletin, the 20 Covid-positive people who returned to Tamil Nadu from the UK till date included four from the southern districts, three from Madurai and one from Theni. Two contacts of the person from Theni have also tested positive. Tuticorin district collector K Senthil Raj said that they have tracked 33 people who have returned from the UK, and all of them tested negative. Their contacts too have been tested. He said that there is no reason for people in the district to be scared of the UK returnees. Madurai recorded 22 fresh cases, the highest in the south, followed by Dindigul (20) and Tirunelveli (20). Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi recorded the lowest with two cases each. While active cases continued to climb for the third day in a row to 983 on Wednesday, it was on the decline in Madurai (177). The lone Covid-19 death in the region is a 62-year-old man from Theni. Thanjavur reported 27 cases, the highest in the eight central districts, pushing the tally to 17,141. Tiruvarur recorded 22 cases, Trichy-20 and Karur-16. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Nagapattinam (15), Pudukottai (3), Ariyalur, (1), and Perambalur (1). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/127-fresh-covid-cases-in-south-tn-105-in-central-districts/articleshow/80036427.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Madurai||Kamal shouldn’t try what he can’t do: Min||Madurai: Co-operatives minister Sellur K Raju has welcomed actor Rajinikanth’s decision not to enter politics. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating the boating facility at Mariamman Teppakulam on Wednesday, he said Rajini “has contemplated deeply and made a beautiful decision, which is a good move”. He said Kamal Haasan may be good at making a difference in cinema, but not in politics, adding he should not attempt to do what he cannot do. ``All people who sat on MGR’s lap cannot claim to be his heirs,’’ he said. Boating is organised in Teppakulam whenever there is sufficient water in the tank. At present, it holds water to a depth of 12 feet which is enough for boating. The facility which included steam boats was inaugurated by the minister. This year the tank has held water for eleven months. Last year two check dams were constructed across the Vaigai and the one built near A V Bridge helped water to flow through the Pannaiyur channel and enter the tank after it was cleaned. The Teppakulam, which is among the largest temple tanks in the state, was dug when sand was taken for construction of Thirumalai Naicker mahal in 1645 AD. As the natural water supply channels to the tank were disconnected, it was filled with silt due to which water supply to it was stopped over the years. This resulted in the tank becoming dry throughout the year and money went into pumping water into the tank for the float festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kamal-shouldnt-try-what-he-cant-do-min/articleshow/80036421.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Madurai||CWC: Check credentials of children’s homes before donating||Madurai: The child welfare committee and Madurai district police have urged people to check the credentials of children’s homes before donating money and materials to them. This follows the unearthing of an unregistered children home at Kadachanendal, which was functioning with three children. It had come to light that the woman who ran the home did it for monetary gains.She circulated messages for help in social media for this purpose. Though she was arrested in 2017 for running an unregistered home, people continued to provide support to her. B Pandiaraja, a member of CWC, said there are many deserving children homes waiting for support. One can approach CWC or the district child protection unit to get details of registered homes.A police officer from Madurai rural police unit urged people to pass on information on such unregistered homes to the police so that they can act early. “People should not support unregistered homes as it may lead to their mushrooming. There are agencies to ensure registered homes provide facilities but such checking cannot be done in unregistered ones,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cwc-check-credentials-of-childrens-homes-before-donating/articleshow/80036423.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Collector warns of action against nylon manja traders||NASHIK: District collector Suraj Mandhare, taking serious note of a woman’s death due to nylon manja, has warned of strict action against those found storing or selling the banned product under various sections of the Forest Conservation Act, 1986. Talking to reporters on Wednesday, Mandhare said, “The possession of nylon manja is already banned by the state government. We will take stringent action under the sections of Environment Conservation Act, 1986, against those found manufacturing, stocking, trading or using the nylon manja.” The kite festival is to promote sun bathing and bring joy to the people engaged in the game. However, it has taken an ugly turn with the use of nylon manjas. “People cannot be careless towards the well being of birds, animals and humans. Every year, the offices concerned take steps to seize the banned product but still the menace continues and recently, a woman died after her throat got slit by nylon manja. We have now decided to invoke the strict provisions that will not allow stocking of the product any time of the year,” Mandhare said. Similarly, the city police on Wednesday began checking the outlets in the old city area to check if the nylon manja was up for sale. Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey said, “Instructions have been given to all police stations to ensure that they conduct surprise checking of stalls selling manjas in the city and book the violators under relevant sections.” ACP Deepali Khanna said, “On Tuesday, various stalls were checked in the Bhadrakali area of the city to check if they were selling nylon manjas. We did not come across any such seller. The checking would be intensified as the nylon thread would be in demand as the festival of Makar Sankranti nears.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/collector-warns-of-action-against-nylon-manja-traders/articleshow/80032456.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Agra||Martyred CRPF jawan cremated in Aligarh village||AGRA: The final rites of Netrapal Singh, a CRPF jawan of 162 battalion, was performed with full state honour at his native village Pisawa Gadakhera in Aligarh on Wednesday. The jawan passed away after being injured in a terrorist attack in Srinagar last week. Singh, 49, was injured in a grenade attack in Ganderbal on December 23, and died at a hospital in Srinagar on Tuesday. He had joined CRPF in 1993. The jawan’s body was brought to his native village by CRPF men. His elder son Jatin lit the pyre. Talking to TOI, Singh’s brother-in-law Subhash Kumar said that he had joined his work back in July after a vacation. “He was admitted to the hospital and succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday,” he said. The CRPF jawan is survived by his wife Suman, two daughters — Sapna, 24 and Shivani, 20 — and two sons — Jatin, 18, and Harsh, 14. The state government has announced Rs 50 lakh financial assistance along with a government job to a dependant and a road in the district will be named after him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/martyred-crpf-jawan-cremated-in-aligarh-village/articleshow/80032406.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Jagan Mohan Reddy’s letter to CJI has emboldened officers: AP HC||VIJAYAWADA: Bureaucrats in Andhra Pradesh have been emboldened after the apparent success of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who wrote a letter to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) making allegations against senior judges of the Supreme Court and the high court. This was observed by Justice Rakesh Kumar of the AP high court in his judgment on a petition seeking his recusal from hearing of a batch of petitions challenging the sale of government land. Justice Kumar, who will retire on Thursday, said he was not aware if the CJI had started contempt proceedings against Jagan for writing the letter. “But it is a fact that recommendation has been made by the collegium of the Supreme Court to transfer the chief justices of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana,” he said. Stating that he was not raising any question on transfer of the chief justices, Justice Rakesh Kumar said he was constrained to observe that transfer of high court judges or chief justices “may reflect some transparency”. After all they are also holding constitutional posts, like member of Supreme Court Collegium, he added. A division bench, comprising Justice Kumar and Justice D Ramesh, rejected the recusal plea moved by the state government and passed an order initiating criminal prosecution against Mission Build AP director and senior IAS officer Pravin Kumar. The bench said that the officer had submitted a false affidavit which amounted to perjury. The court issued notices to Pravin Kumar asking why action should not be taken against him for contempt of court for trying to interfere in the discharge of judicial functions of high court with false allegations. Justice Kumar also wrote a separate judgment in his defence against the allegations made in the recusal petition. “With heavy heart I may not refrain from recording that protection of fundamental rights of citizens of Andhra Pradesh has become very difficult,” he stated. He also mentioned how the police filed closure reports in more than seven cases pending against the chief minister a day after the Supreme Court passed a judgment to fast-track cases against legislators. He said the present chief minister is accused in more than 30 cases, of which 10 are registered by CBI in which chargesheets have been filed long ago. Justice Kumar said he did not know if the chief minister would get final relief in the cases by sending the letter to the CJI. “But the fact remains that he succeeded in getting undue advantage at present moment. People may draw an inference that as if the Chief Justices were transferred after the so-called letter,” he added. With the transfer of the judges, the cases against Jagan will get delayed and the Andhra Pradesh government is bound to get undue benefit as it is a known fact that three capitals is the brain child of the chief minister, he said. He also said Andhra Pradesh is the only state where the legislative assembly recommended abolition of legislative council after the latter had not agreed to establish three capitals in one state. He even attached various articles published about Jagan Mohan Reddy and the case numbers pending against him. He suggested the retiring judges to restrain from taking new posts at least for one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/officers-emboldened-after-jagans-letter-to-cji-against-judges-ap-high-court/articleshow/80035481.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 31, 2020||Dehradun||Two years after ‘love jihad’ law, Uttarakhand books four||DEHRADUN: For the first time since the anti-conversion law was brought into force in Uttarakhand two years ago, four persons in Dehradun have been booked for violating its norms — a Muslim man, the Hindu woman he had married, his uncle and the qazi who solemnised their wedding. The man, Sameer Ali, 22, had met the 20-year-old woman from Rudraprayag at a coaching class in Dehradun. “After a year of courtship, they got married on September 28 this year. She converted and took on a new name. The same day, the qazi performed their nikah in the presence of Sameer’s uncle, Shaukeen,” a police official said. The Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018 stipulates that a month’s notice must be served when a person decides to convert — both from the applicant and the religious priest who conducts the conversion. Sameer had approached the Uttarakhand high court a month before their wedding, August 28, seeking protection for himself and his wife. The high court ordered an investigation by the Dehradun district magistrate (DM) and that report reached the police, through the DM, in November. Police conducted their own preliminary investigation and said they found two violations — the DM had not been given a month’s notice and the woman’s parents were not informed. “Prima facie, it was found that they violated provisions under the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018. Following that, an FIR was registered at Patel Nagar police station on Tuesday and a detailed investigation has begun,” Dehradun circle officer Anuj Kumar told TOI. The four have been booked under sections 3 (conversion by misrepresentation, force, fraud, undue influence, coercion, allurement or marriage), 8 (one month’s declaration of intent to convert) and 12 (parties to the offence) of the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018. They are all in Dehradun now, police said. They had not been arrested till the time of filing this report. The accused face up to seven years in prison and if convicted, their marriage would be annulled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/4-booked-in-first-case-under-ukhand-anti-conversion-law/articleshow/80032397.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR invites employees’ leaders for lunch today||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has invited about 200 leaders of TNGOs, TGOs and other employees’ associations for a lunch at Pragathi Bhavan on Thursday. He would be releasing the New Year diaries of TNGOs, TGOs and other associations. It is likely that the employees’ leaders may place before the demands of the JAC of various employees asociations before the CM on the pay revision commission, salary hike and fitment, among other issues. The luncheon meeting was fixed after TNGOs’ president M Rajender sought time from KCR for release of the TNGOs diary-2021. The CM invited him for lunch stating they have not met since he was elected as TNGOs president on August 31 this year. When Rajender told the CM that he would be accompanied by other associations’ leaders, KCR invited them also to Pragathi Bhavan. Prior to the meeting with employees’ leaders, the chief minister will hold a review meeting with the district collectors of Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Nalgonda, Siddipet and Sangareddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-invites-employees-leaders-for-lunch-today/articleshow/80035457.cms||Roushan Ali
December 31, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: No public partying, cracker bursting tonight||MADURAI/TRICHY: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, police have banned public parties, dance programmes, and gatherings among other midnight celebrations during New Year. Hotels and recreation centres have also geared up accordingly to close by 10pm on the eve of the New Year. If anybody is found functioning beyond the permitted time, police will initiate action against them. Madurai police city commissioner Prem Anand Sinha has urged the public to follow the guidelines. Public gathering is not allowed besides dance and music programmes at hotels and resorts. Meanwhile, Trichy city police have banned all celebrations on the roads on the eve of the New Year and on January 1. Any public celebrations will not be allowed on Thursday and Friday, said the commissioner of police, Trichy city, J Loganathan in a statement. Jolly rides in two wheelers and drunken driving is not permitted. The offences will attract legal action and vehicles would be seized, Sinha said. The nuisance caused to the public by indulging in bike races and riding bikes under the influence of alcohol will lead to severe legal action and their vehicles will be seized. Dr G Vasudevan, owner Fortune Pandiyan Hotel and former president of the Madurai Travel club, said that this was something that they had anticipated. They too were not ready to spend much on organising big New Year celebrations. “We will not be able to monitor and ensure social distancing among the celebrating crowd,” he said. Many hotels, including Poppy’s Hotel Madurai are organising elaborate buffets and the dinner would end at 10pm, said general manager K Sundaramoorthy. “Work from home has become a little stressful and I was looking forward to celebrating the New Year in a hotel. But, what is more disappointing is that they have also said no to bursting firecrackers, for reasons I do not know,” said K Jennifer, a software engineer from Athikulam. D Anbu, of Visaka Media, an event management organization, said that last year they had a New Year bash, which had seen good response. This year they had many enquiries but to avoid celebrations because of the Covid restrictions. Exhaustive patrolling has been made by the Madurai city police for the public to visit places of worship and to attend to their day-to-day activities. Wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing is compulsory. As many as 50 teams of police will be deployed across Trichy city to check any untoward incidents. Police also mentioned that bursting of crackers and drinking causing inconvenience to people will lead to legal action. Police officials will be posted at important junctions for the safety of the general public. Vehicle check will be intensified at all the check-posts on the city borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-public-partying-cracker-bursting-tonight/articleshow/80036431.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Madurai||DMK’s poll manifesto panel meets in Madurai||MADURAI: The consultative meeting for the preparation of DMK’s election manifesto was held in Madurai on Wednesday. DMK treasurer and former union minister T R Baalu presided over the meeting in which Trichy Siva and T K Elangovan, members of the manifesto preparing committee, also participated. DMK’s Madurai urban north district organiser, Pon Muthuramalingam, Madurai south district organiser, K Thalapathy, Madurai north district secretary, P Moorthy, south district secretary, M Manimaran, among others made their representations with regard to the requirements of Madurai. The public also submitted their petitions. Representatives of Sathaiyaru farmers association, members of industrial organisations, Alanganallur sugar mill association, Transport union representatives, retail flower and fruit vendors, Maruthuvar Makkal Munetra Kazhagam among others met the DMK members and made their representations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmks-poll-manifesto-panel-meets-in-madurai/articleshow/80036429.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Take up works in Mudhole, CM KCR tells officials||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday instructed the officials to complete the developmental works in Mudhole assembly constituency at the earliest. Local MLA G Vittal Reddy met KCR here and urged him to direct the officials to speed up works for completion of projects in the constituency. Responding positively to his request, the CM directed the officials to take up works on Pipri lift irrigation to supply water for irrigation to 6,000 acres and complete remaining works on 10-km CC canal under the Gaddanna Vagu project. t||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/take-up-works-in-mudhole-cm-kcr-tells-officials/articleshow/80035472.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||PMMY loan NPAs balloon||Ahmedabad: With rampant economic challenges faced by small businesses, particularly micro-enterprises, the non-performing assets (NPAs) for Mudra Loans increased by 33% in a year. Mudra loans NPAs increased from Rs 442.63 crore from April-November of 2019 to Rs 587.26 crore in the same period of 2020, according to the latest report by State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC). Industry experts also said that micro-enterprises that typically avail Mudra Yojana were the worst-affected due to the lockdown imposed to curb the Covid-19 pandemic. Most businesses were shut down for two months. “Small businesses were the most adversely affected. They make a key component of borrowers under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY). Post pandemic, demand dried up in a big way because most micro-enterprises survive on orders outsourced from big companies. However, as orders dried up, companies were left without work and in turn without revenues across all sectors except FMCG, pharma and chemicals. The turnaround for these sectors was relatively better. However, the rest were under stress, which could have added to their working capital woes and bad loan burden,” said Piyush Tamboli, chairman, CII – Gujarat. Industry sources also revealed that even before the pandemic, early signs of the economic slowdown were visible on micro-enterprises due to which they were already grappling with working capital woes. During the said period, fresh disbursals have also declined by 21% from Rs 5,651.09 crore to Rs 4,435.4 crore this year, according to the SLBC report. Bankers said that due to the lockdown there was a deceleration in the banking services due to which fresh disbursals were halted, as essential services were operating. “Small businesses faced issues in income generation and most part of it went towards meeting business expenditures than repayment of loans, causing bad loan burden to go up,” said M M Bansal, convener, SLBC – Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pmmy-loan-npas-balloon/articleshow/80033840.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 31, 2020||Nashik||Collector seeks report on ‘auction’ of sarpanch post||Nashik: A video purportedly showing the auctioning of the Umrane village sarpanch post has raised many an eyebrow and prompted Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare to seek a report.Election to the post is due and the alleged bidding is being seen as ‘fixing’ by many, but a villager justified the so-called auction by claiming that the proceeds will be used to build a temple.Umrane village in Deola taluka, near Malegaon, is a well-known onion market.The video, when was posted on social media on Monday, shows two prominent people from the village vying for the post of sarpanch and participating in the auction in the presence of people. One of them is seen bidding for the post for Rs 2.01 crore while the other offering Rs 2.05 crore. “We have gone through the video and want to ascertain facts. Legally, there is nothing like auctioning of the post of sarpanch because elections are conducted for the purpose. A detailed report from the sub-divisional officer (SDO) is awaited,” said Mandhare.The district collector said the video will be verified to check if it is authentic and it will be confirmed if it was made in Umane village during such an auction. “If the incident turns out to be true, it is a violation of the election norms. Hence, a detailed report has been sought from the SDO, who is a returning officer for the conduct of elections to gram panchayats.” he said. The villagers, however, do not find the ‘auction’ objectionable as they claimed that it is for a ‘noble cause’. “During elections, contestants spend a lot of money on campaigning. In this case, the campaign expenses were cut down and the money will be used to build a temple — a long-pending demand of villagers,” Sanjay Devre, who lives in Umane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/collector-seeks-report-on-auction-of-sarpanch-post/articleshow/80032463.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 31, 2020||Nashik||Agriculture minister Dada Bhuse tests Covid +ve||NASHIK: State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse has tested positive for Covid-19. The minister posted the information on his social media account late on Tuesday night and appealed to the people who had come in contact with him to take care. According to C M Thorat, the minister’s personal assistant, “Minister Bhuse was undergoing treatment for backache when he was asked to undergo the Covid-19 check, and he then tested positive.” The minister is admitted to a private hospital in Mumbai and his condition is stable. He is asymptomatic and has been admitted to the hospital for treatment of his back pain. The doctors are monitoring his health parameters with respect to Covid-19 infection as well. Bhuse has asked people, specifically those who came in contact with him, to take all precautionary measures. The Maharashtra cabinet minister, who represents the Malegaon Outer assembly constituency, was at the forefront in the fight against Covid-19 when the city was a major hub of the patients and when the fight against the infection was still in the early stages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/agriculture-minister-bhuse-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/80032470.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: CWG Village Covid facility shut||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s largest makeshift hospital for Covid-19 patients at the Commonwealth Games Village has been closed. The last person from the facility was discharged on October 29, and with the sharp decline in daily cases, there were not enough patients to utilise the temporary hospital. The state government now plans to use the infrastructure at the hospital for Covid-19 vaccination purpose. Over 1,800 patients had been admitted at the facility in CWG Village, with all being cured, including pregnant women, elderly and kids. The hospital had started accepting patients from July, after being inaugurated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Located in East district, the facility was run by NGO Doctors For You, under the supervision of the district administration. It offered free treatment to all Covid-positive patients and due to the quality of infrastructure and medical facility available, it soon became a popular facility among asymptomatic Covid patients or those with mild-to-moderate symptoms. Many patients, who were not eligible for home isolation but could not afford private hospitals, were taken to the CWG Village Covid Hospital, which had a capacity of 500 inpatient beds. “A total of 1,828 patients have been admitted to the facility till now, of which 1,663 recovered. Only 165 patients needed to be shifted to other hospitals for better treatment and all of them recovered from Covid-19,” said Dr Rajat Jain of Doctors For You. A district official said a large number of patients from east Delhi had been shifted to the CWG facility. “The district administration closely monitored the functioning of the hospital. We ensured that the admission process was smooth, which led to early start of treatment,” the official added. The current death rate in East Delhi — one of the most densely populated districts — is 0.62%. When the temporary hospital was opened in July, the death rate hovered around 3%. The East district is currently reporting 30-40 Covid cases daily, while it was reporting 300-400 cases daily in July. “Apart from the treatment of patients, special focus was given on food quality. Patients were given golden milk and counselling sessions were organised to ensure they did not stress or feel uncomfortable. These proved important in ensuring a high recovery rate,” the official added. Birthdays of the patients were also celebrated and extracurricular activities, including yoga sessions, were regularly organised, which assisted in the recovery of the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cwg-village-covid-facility-shut/articleshow/80035508.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 31, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Kamal Haasan seeks votes in his hometown||MADURAI: Vote for us and we will make towns such as Paramakudi on a par with the developed cities as we have the schemes and plans to do it, said Makkal Neethi Maiyam founder Kamal Haasan. Speaking in his hometown Paramakudi in Ramanathapuram district as part of his election campaign on Wednesday, Kamal Haasan said that he had walked and played in the streets of Paramakudi and learnt horse riding on the river bed. The town is a part of a rich riverside civilization, which has now been reduced to the state of a sewage side civilization. “Give us a chance and we will show you what we can do. I am not seeking your votes because I am a son of the soil, but asking you to consider the capabilities of the candidates of my party and vote,” he said. The looms that have fallen silent in the region would soon start spinning again and trades that are lost will be revived, he said. MNM has a hoard of schemes for women. Women turning out in large numbers for MNM’s campaigns are encouraging, he said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kamal-seeks-votes-in-his-hometown/articleshow/80036434.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoist couple surrenders to cops in Warangal||WARANGAL: The communication in charge of the CPI (Maoists) party, his wife—who is also a member of the state communication wing—have surrendered before Warangal commissioner of police P Pramod Kumar, on Wednesday, reports Shiva Kumar Pinna. Speaking to the media, CP Pramod Kumar said the Maoist party communication in-charge Yalam Narender alias Sampath went underground in 2005. In 2019, he married Podiyam Devi, who also worked in communication wing and was a dalam member. Devi was daily wage labour in the Mulugu district. Vexed by the recent incidents, the couple decided to to surrender. Narender was given a reward of Rs 4 lakh and Devi was given Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoist-couple-surrenders-to-cops-in-warangal/articleshow/80035507.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
December 31, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Teachers, parents hope schools will reopen in January||MADURAI: As schools continue to remain closed in Tamil Nadu due to the Covid-19 pandemic, more than half the academic year has passed without even one day of physical learning. Teachers and parents are hoping that the schools will reopen at least for higher classes in 2021. “Schools must be reopened in a phased manner. Online classes and video lessons are not reaching all students. So far, the school education department has said that board exams will happen even if it is delayed. Considering this, we are hoping for schools to be reopened in January so that at least 3-4 months of regular schooling happens,” said the headmaster of a government school. Government school teachers are also worried that many students may not return to school even after it reopens as many are now accompanying their parents to work. In private schools as well, where regular online classes are happening, teachers are hoping for reopening soon as students are experiencing fatigue from digital learning. “Some students are complaining of eye pain or headache from continuous use of gadgets. Students are also lacking social interaction. Reopening schools at least on a shift basis for even few days a week would greatly help students,” said the principal of a private matriculation school. R Ramesh, a Maths teacher for higher secondary classes, further noted that it has also been difficult to assess how much students have learnt from home. School teachers also reported that many parents have complained that their children are not listening to them and are not taking learning from home as seriously. Working parents are struggling to engage and help their children study from home. “My son has online classes for few hours but mostly the burden falls on us to ensure he studies properly,” said K Geetha, parent of a Class VII student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teachers-parents-hope-schools-will-reopen-in-january/articleshow/80036452.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||54 health workers test Covid positive in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A total of 6,268 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the total caseload in the state to 7,55,718. Among the new cases, 5,652 were cases of local transmission and the contact source of infection was not traceable for 460. There are 54 medical or paramedical staff among those infected and 102 people have arrived from outside the state. At the same time, 5,707 patients have recovered from the disease. Meanwhile, 28 deaths occurred over the last few days were confirmed as due to Covid-19, taking the related death toll in the state to 3,043. In the last 24 hours till Wednesday evening, 63,887 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 9.81%. A total of 78,53,651 samples have been sent for testing till now. So far 6,87,104 people have recovered from coronavirus infection in the state even as 65,394 patients are still undergoing treatment for the same. Ernakulam reported the highest number of cases (1,006) followed by Pathanamthitta (714), Kozhikode (638), Kollam (602), Kottayam (542), Alappuzha (463), Thrissur (450), Malappuram (407), Palakkad (338), Thiruvananthapuram (320), Wayanad (267), Kannur (242), Idukki (204) and Kasaragod (75). The number of people who have been infected through local transmission in each district are Ernakulam 919, Pathanamthitta 612, Kozhikode 611, Kollam 593, Kottayam 502, Alappuzha 454, Thrissur 433, Malappuram 394, Palakkad 222, Thiruvananthapuram 207, Wayanad 253, Kannur 195, Idukki 190 and Kasaragod 67. The patients who tested negative are Thiruvananthapuram 392, Kollam 389, Pathanamthitta 243, Alappuzha 479, Kottayam 517, Idukki 222, Ernakulam 780, Thrissur 451, Palakkad 333, Malappuram 609, Kozhikode 718, Wayanad 217, Kannur 201and Kasaragod 156. There are a total of 2,47,725 people under observation in the state, of which 2,35,609 are at their homes or institutional quarantine centres and 12,116 are in isolation at hospitals. As many as 1,426 people were admitted to hospitals on Wednesday. Four places were declared as new hotspots while seven areas were excluded. There are currently 460 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/54-health-workers-test-positive/articleshow/80033899.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Another 27 UK-returnees tested negative for Covid||NASHIK: Another 27 people, who had returned to the city from the UK, have tested negative for coronavirus. Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had received the list of 96 people who had returned between November 25 and December 23. Of the 96 people, throat swab samples of 56 were sent. The NMC had received reports of 29 people, of them, two had tested positive. The remaining 27 people now have tested negative. Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintendent of the NMC, “We had received the list of the 96 people who returned via Mumbai and have traced all the returnees.” “Their RT-PCR test was already conducted when they arrived at the Mumbai airport and had tested negative. Hence, those with symptoms or those who wanted to get themselves tested, were needed to undergo RT-PCR tests,” said Nagargoje “We have already sent the swab samples of those two, who had tested positive, to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) to check if they have been infected by the new strain of Covid,” he said. A 25-year-old tested positive on Saturday while the 20-year-old tested positive on Sunday.  According to the NMC, it will take around 15 days to get the reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/another-27-uk-returnees-tested-negative-for-covid/articleshow/80032477.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 31, 2020||Madurai||Call to make cops tourist-friendly in Kodaikanal||KODAIKANALl: The stakeholders of Kodaikanal tourism industry have urged the top officials from police department to sensitize the police personnel and officers towards the tourists and be friendly. They said that harsh behaviour by the police personnel in the hill station does not go down well with the tourists. They said that Kodaikanal’s economy revolves around tourism activities. While various measures are being taken to improve the tourist flow and thereby improve the livelihood of thousands of people in Kodaikanal, the cold behavior by the police department is thwarting the efforts. Activists said that tourists from other states, especially those from Kerala, are being treated badly. The hill station is a favorite among Keralites and the way they are being treated has its impact on the tourists flow as there has been considerable decrease in the number of tourists visiting from Kerala, they added. M Michael, president of Kodaikanal hills tourism development council said that tourists are being harassed citing flimsy reasons at various points in Kodaikanal and on the way to Kodaikanal including the starting point of Ghat Road, Silver Falls and Vattakanal. Higher officials should step in to rein in the police force , he said. Deputy inspector general of police, Dindigul Range, M S Muthusamy said that he has already insisted the police to be friendly with tourists. Signage has also been put up with the contact information of special branch police in case of harassment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/call-to-make-cops-tourist-friendly-in-kodai/articleshow/80036436.cms||V Devanathan
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: TRS, BJP workers clash in Jagtial||HYDERABAD: Tension prevailed in Jagitial as TRS and BJP workers clashed during the visit of welfare minister Koppula Eshwar on Wednesday. Police took BJP workers into preventive custody and lodged them in Gollapally police station. As BJP workers tried to force themselves out of the police station to prevent the tour of Eshwar, a tense situation prevailed. Earlier, the BJP workers alleged that police and the municipal authorities were removing their flex banners while allowing the TRS to put them up. Objecting to this, they took to the roads and shouted slogans against the TRS. Local TRS workers, who also reached the spot, got into an altercation with BJP workers. The situation took a turn for the worse when workers of both the parties started to trade blows. Some suffered injuries. Police brought the situation under control and shifted the warring workers to the police station. Angry BJP workers later burnt an effigy of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on the police station premises. BJP MLC C Ramchander Rao condemned the arrests and lathicharge of BJP workers in Jagtial. Meanwhile, tension prevailed even in Palem in Nagarkurnool when BJP workers demanded that PM Narendra Modi’s photograph be kept in the Rythu Vedika that agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy had come to inaugurate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-workers-clash-in-jagtial/articleshow/80035536.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana cops nab another Chinese national from Delhi airport||HYDERABAD: The Telangana police on Wednesday arrested yet another Chinese national from Delhi in the illegal instant loan app case. Zhu Wei alias Lambo, 27, was picked up in dramatic fashion from the Delhi airport minutes before he was to board a flight to Frankfurt on his way to Shanghai. His Indian colleague, K Nagaraju, was arrested from Delhi. The officials have so far arrested four Chinese nationals. Three of them, Yi Bai, Liang TianTian and Lambo, have been have been arrested in the past month and booked in the instant loan app case. The fourth, Yah Hao, was arrested in August in connection with running an online gambling racket in which a large number of Indians have lost crores of rupees. Lambo was on the Hyderabad police’s radar for the past few days and had been missing ever since his colleagues had been picked up. When investigating officers caught up with him at the airport, he initially refused to have any links with the loan app companies, but his association became apparent when his laptop was opened and important documents were accessed. Senior Hyderabad police officials say Lambo is the overall head of four different companies running seven call centres – two each in Gurugram and Bangalore and three in Hyderabad. The tele-callers were trained to harass people who were unable to repay the loans they had taken at extremely high interest rates. So far, three people from Telangana have died by suicide after they were harassed by the collection agents of these companies. The victims included a software engineer and a government employee. Nagaraju’s questioning has revealed that Lambo was reporting to another Chinese national, Yuan Yuan alias Sissi alias Jennifer, who set up the operations in India. She is believed to be in China. Investigations have also revealed that companies such as Aglow Technologies Pvt Ltd, Liufang Technologies Pvt Ltd, Nabloom Technologies Pvt Ltd and Pinprint Technologies Pvt Ltd, were used to make transactions in crores, many of them in bitcoins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cops-nab-another-chinese-national-from-delhi-airport/articleshow/80035595.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||After meeting CM, Vasava withdraws resignation||GANDHINAGAR: A day after announcing his resignation from the party, six-time BJP Member of Parliament (MP) from Bharuch, Mansukh Vasava, withdrew his resignation after a meeting with chief minister Vijay Rupani in Gandhinagar. Vasava had claimed on Tuesday that he would also resign as an MP in the budget session of Parliament. Vasava had a 45-minute talk with Rupani, after which he announced his decision to withdraw his resignation. Vasava reiterated that he had offered his resignation on Tuesday only on health grounds.He said, “I have spoken with our central leadership also. They said if I remain as MP, I will continue to get free treatment otherwise I will need to spend from my funds. They advised me to take rest and party workers will take care of my work, arrangements for which will be made by the party.” Vasava also met minister of state (MOS), home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-meeting-cm-vasava-withdraws-resignation/articleshow/80033924.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Central funds for highways in two Telangana districts||HYDERABAD: Congress MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy on Wednesday met Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi and urged him to sanction funds for development of highways in Nalgonda and Yadadri Bhuvanagiri districts. Met Hon'ble @MORTHIndia Minister Shri @nitin_gadkari ji and thanked him for sanctioning L.B Nagar to Malkapur NH wo… https://t.co/ulT2UW5JLf— Komatireddy Venkat Reddy (@KomatireddyKVR) 1609324579000He thanked the minister for sanction of Rs 600 crore for development of national highway from LB Nagar to Malkapur, and urged him to take up widening of the national highway from Ali Nagar to Miryalaguda as the vehicular traffic in Miryalaguda town was increasing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/central-funds-for-highways-in-2-dists/articleshow/80035549.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Asaduddin Owaisi: Modi govt an uncle-aunty sarkar||HYDERABAD: Stepping up his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said the Modi government has become “uncle-aunty ki sarkar (government)”. He lashed out at defence minister Rajnath Singh, taking objections to his comments on Indian citizenship. भारत के संविधान में हर किसी को अपना मज़हब तब्दील करने की इजाज़त है, अगर कोई अपना मज़हब तब्दील करता है, तो वो भारत… https://t.co/SDWR8CPubG— AIMIM (@aimim_national) 1609335020000“Each individual has a right to change his religion. Rajnath Singh has made highly objectionable comments. We condemn his remarks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-modi-govt-an-uncle-aunty-sarkar/articleshow/80035550.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||LDF to helm most panchayats & municipalities in Kerala||to the post of president and vice president of various panchayats and municipalities were held across districts on Wednesday. While the process was peaceful in most places, sporadic incidents of violence were reported in a few places due to infighting. In Alappuzha, in the wake of strong protest from a section of party workers over the municipality chairperson post, CPM decided to divide the tenure of chairperson. According to sources, Eravukadu councilor Soumya Raj and CPM area committee member K K Jayamma will share the chairperson post for two and half years each. In Pathanamthitta district, LDF had a clear domination as it came into power in 32 of 53 grama panchayats. In Ranni grama panchayat, LDF won the president election with the help of BJP members and KC (M) Jose group’s Shobha Charly became the president. However, a section of party workers were against the decision. Meanwhile, Reshma Mariam Roy, 21, of CPM became the youngest head of a local body in the country as she took charge as president of Aruvappulam grama panchayat. In Kottayam, LDF put up a good show by assuming power in the district panchayat, 10 block panchayats and 50 grama panchayats. Nirmala Jimmy of KC (M) Jose group would be the president for the first two years. In Uzhavoor panchayat in Kottayam, Johnys P Stephen of One India One Pension movement took charge as the president. UDF decided to support him for the first half of the five-year period. Meanwhile, in Idukki district panchayat, CPI district council member Gigi K Philip was elected the president. Election to Idukki block was postponed to Thursday due to unfilled quorum. The Left front wrested its power in 29 of 52 grama panchayats in the district. In Thrissur, dramatic scenes were witnessed during the election of president and vice president in Avinissery panchayat. LDF nominees, A R Raju and Indira Jayakumar, who were elected president and vice president of the panchayat with the support of UDF, announced their resignation soon after swearing-in irking UDF members. In Malappuram, UDF wrested power in the Left citadel of Elamkulam panchayat, the birthplace of veteran Communist leader and first elected CM of the state, late EMS Namboodiripad ending four decades of Left rule through draw of lots in the president election held on Wednesday. UDFs C Sukumaran was elected as panchayat president. In Wayanad, UDF won the district panchayat in the draw of lots. Baby Balakrishnan of the CPM was elected the president of Kasaragod district panchayat. P P Divya of CPM was elected the president of Kannur district panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldf-to-helm-most-panchayats-municipalities-in-state/articleshow/80033949.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Sought alternate land from state: DLF||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Wednesday directed the State of Telangana, DLF realty firm, My Home Constructions, RMZ infotech company, and others to file their counters within four weeks, duly responding to the allegations made by Congress MP A Revanth Reddy raising several doubts about how and why the 31-acre land worth Rs 580 crore bought by DLF in a state auction came into the possession of a subsidiary of My Home company. The land, situated inside Knowledge City at Raidurg, was originally bought by DLF which later handed it over to DLF Raidurg developers firm. Revanth in his plea said that it finally came to Aqua Space developers company which has close links with MyHome. MyHome group founder J Rameshwar Rao’s son J Shyam Rao filed this affidavit saying that DLF Raidurg Developers firm was floated as special purpose vehicle (SPV) to carry out the construction work in the allotted area. The same SPV was rechristened as Aqua Space developers, he said. “It was later found that most of these 31 acres were filled with heritage precincts and hence cannot be put to commercial or residential use, we sought alternative land,” Shyam Rao said. The state gave us an equal extent of land which also falls under the same survey number, he said adding that this is no special favour as was alleged by the petitioner. Petitioner’s counsel Tera Rajnikanth Reddy told a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy that except for Aqua Space firm, other companies and officials did not file their counters. The bench gave time to them till Jan 28 for filing their counters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sought-alternate-land-from-state-dlf/articleshow/80035563.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Mystery over TRS NRI leader’s death in US continues||Hyderabad: Even as the suspense over what caused the fire in the car of TRS leader in the US, Devender Reddy Nallamada, resulting in his death continues, family and friends are waiting for an official statement from police. TRS NRI coordinator Mahesh Bigala said it was not clear as to how the fire erupted in the car. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Wednesday expressed his condolences to the family of Devender. Meanwhile, friends of Devender have raised more than $1 lakh against the target of $3.5 lakh to support the family of the deceased, who was a software engineer. Devender is survived by wife Arundhati Vupputuri and a six-year-old daughter. Pradeep Katta, who started a fund-raiser for Devender’s family, said: “Devender was actively involved in community service by assisting anyone who asked for help.” He said the fund was created to assist his family with the funeral expenses while also creating a future aid for his daughter’s education and family support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mystery-over-trs-nri-leaders-death-in-the-us-continues/articleshow/80035570.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||No Covid casualty in 7 dists of Vidarbha, recoveries up||NAGPUR: Covid fatalities and detection of new cases continued to dip on Wednesday, while more recoveries were reported across the 11 districts of Vidarbha. No Covid death took place in seven districts of the region, while eight of the day’s total 11 fatalities happened in Nagpur alone. One each casualty was reported from Chandrapur, Yavatmal and Buldhana taking the region’s Covid toll to 6,542. No Covid death was reported from Bhandara, Wardha, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Amravati, Akola and Washim districts on Wednesday. Total 751 new cases were detected in the day and they are Nagpur 368, Bhandara 57, Wardha 50, Gondia 25, Chandrapur 25, Gadchiroli 45, Akola 13, Amravati 70, Yavatmal 38, Buldhana 45 and Washim 15. Now, the region’s caseload has touched 2,51,441. Of the day’s 918 recoveries, Nagpur contributed with 366, Bhandara 56, Wardha 37, Gondia 21, Chandrapur 41, Gadchiroli 10, Akola 109, Amravati 138, Yavatmal 34, Buldhana 40 and Washim 66. The region’s Covid recoveries have reached 2,38,021, while 6,887 are under treatment. Chandrapur: The district witnessed 25 new Covid cases on Wednesday, while 41 patients were discharged in the day. A lone death was recorded during the day taking the Covid toll to 364. The total caseload has now reached 22,271, while the recoveries have jumped to 21,447. There are 460 patients under treatment in the district. Wardha: The district crossed 9,000 total Covid cases after 50 new Coronavirus patients were detected on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 9,022. Also, 37 persons were discharged that took the total recoveries to 8,442. As on date, 310 patients are undergoing treatment in the district. No Covid death was reported on Wednesday and the toll stands at 270. Yavatmal: The district recorded death of a 65-year-old patient from Pusad, which took the Covid toll to 403 on Wednesday. The day also saw 38 persons testing Covid positive and 34 recoveries. There are 335 patients under treatment in the district. Till date, 12,638 Covid patients were reported in the district of whom 11,903 have recovered. Amravati: The district did not report a single Covid death for the third consecutive day on Wednesday while it posted 138 recoveries in the day to take the recovery percentage to 96.08. While total recoveries reached 18,827, 70 new cases took the caseload to 19,596. As on Wednesday, there are 373 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: No Covid death was reported on Wednesday. New case count increased by 45, while 10 recoveries were reported. The district now has 186 patients under treatment, while total cases stand at 9,001. So far, 101 persons succumbed to the infection, while 8,714 have defeated Covid. Washim: The district didn’t report Covid death on Wednesday. The district also reported lowest number of day’s cases in Vidarbha — 15 — along while 66 recoveries. The district’s Covid toll is remained 148. The new cases took the total tally to 6,655, the number of discharged patients rose to 6,287, while 219 were under treatment as on date. Buldhana: One Covid death took place while 45 new cases and 40 recoveries were reported on Wednesday. According to official data, the district now has 12,486 total cases, 12,109 recoveries, 151 deaths and 226 under treatment. Bhandara: The district also didn’t report any Covid death, but saw 57 new cases, and 56 recoveries on Wednesday. The district now has 354 patients under treatment. Total caseload is at 12,319, and 11,674 discharged patients. Covid toll remained at 291. Gondia: The district witnessed 21 recoveries and 25 new cases on Wednesday. Number of patients under treatment is 297. As on Wednesday, the number of total patients was 13,642. So far, 178 have succumbed to Covid in the district, while 13,167 have recovered. Akola: The district reported 13 new cases, 109 recoveries and no Covid death on Wednesday. The case tally climbed to 10,445. So far, 319 people have died here of Covid. With new recoveries, the tally touched 9,731. Still 395 are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-covid-casualty-in-7-dists-of-vid-recoveries-up/articleshow/80034035.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mahbubnagar police arrest three burglars||HYDERABAD: Mahbubnagar police arrested three members of a burglary gang and recovered 61 tolas gold from their possession. The accused—A Suresh, D Murali Krishna and B Peeraiah of Hayathnagar—committed burglaries at two locked houses in Boinpally village in Mahbubnagar district in the wee hours of December 19. The accused stole Rs 18,000 cash from one house and 65 tolas gold and Rs 2.8 lakh cash from another. They also stole two bikes at Midjil and Talakondapally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-burglars-arrested/articleshow/80035589.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Delhi||Teacher on footpath: Loans to repay, kids to feed||NEW DELHI: Vivek Bhatia sits near the Sultanpuri railway crossing and sells clothes to make a living. Bhatia is a teacher in a North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run primary school, but with the civic body unable to pay the salaries of teachers for several months now, the desperate 37-year-old had to set up a roadside stall to put some money in his wallet. Bhatia has loans to repay and the school fees of his children to pay. Worried to the extreme, and finding no other way, Bhatia took to his new avocation 52 days back. “I am selling clothes just a kilometre from my school, but I had to overcome my hesitation and embarrassment in order to survive. At least, it’s better than begging,” murmured Bhatia, who teaches in the G Block primary school at Sultanpuri. “Despite serving the city in the ration distribution centres and in carrying out door-to-door surveys to identify Covid-infected people, we teachers are treated in this manner.” More than 9,000 primary teachers of the north corporation, all of whom have been on special duty during the pandemic, some at ration centres, others as Covid surveyors, yet others as emergency workers, received their last salaries in July. Bhatia joined the teaching department of the corporation in 2006. “The trouble began in 2014, with our salary delayed for 10 days,” explained the teacher. “The delays then stretched to a month, two month and now we haven’t been paid for five months. Why can’t we be paid for our hard work? It’s not as if we are demanding someone else’s money.” Bhatia, who has a mother, wife and three children to look after, had taken a loan of Rs 15 lakh to renovate this house when it got damaged. “At that time, the municipal corporation’s financial condition was okay and we were being paid on time. But now, when I am getting even my family’s rations on credit, how can I pay the loan instalments and the school fees of my kids?” Bhatia despaired. The teachers got the salaries for July only in November, just before Diwali. The June salaries had been paid in August. Bhatia claims 80% of his salary now goes into repaying loans and interests. “You can imagine my plight at being forced to indirectly pay interest to people from whom I have had to take loans when I am eligible for a monthly salary from my employer organisation,” he said. With 9,000 others of Bhatia’s ilk also in dire straits, New Year doesn’t seem worth celebrating. Not surprising then, one of the primary teachers’ unions has decided that the first day of 2021 will be observed as a ‘black day’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teacher-on-footpath-loans-to-repay-kids-to-feed/articleshow/80035615.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Aurangabad||HC converts two TOI reports on nylon manja into suo motu PIL||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has converted two news reports published on Wednesday in the Times of India regarding the death of a woman due to nylon manja (string) in Nashik and a ban sought on nylon, sharp manja ahead of the `Sankrant’ festival, into a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL).“We are treating these two news items as suo motu PIL,” a division bench of Justice Ravindra V Ghuge and Justice Vibha Kankanwadi said on Wednesday and asked lawyer Satyajeet Bora, appointed as amicus curiae, to “file a proper petition and tender the same across the bar on Thursday (Dec 31)”.The bench said, “We had an occasion to read two news items in ‘The Times of India’, Aurangabad edition, dated December 30, 2020…. We find from the news items that the Maharashtra government had invoked Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 to introduce the ban. The National Green Tribunal had declared a country-wide ban on the sale of manjas in July 2017.”“The ornithologist Shri Deelip Bhagat has spoken to the Times News Network stating that manja, which is nearly invisible to the naked eye, poses a perennial threat to birds during the festival. We find that a precious life of a woman in Nashik was snatched away on account of such nylon manja having slit her throat. So also, innumerable birds suffer debilitating injuries because of such nylon manja,” the bench added.“We deem it appropriate to appoint Shri Satyajeet Bora as an Amicus Curiae. Shri Yadav Lonikar, learned AGP, has graciously assisted us today and assures us that he would appear for the Divisional Commissioner, Aurangabad, the District Collector, Aurangabad, the Commissioner of Police, Aurangabad and the Superintendent of Police, Rural Aurangabad,” the bench said.The HC further asked Bora to add the state as respondent no 1 and the above mentioned parties thereafter and also array the administrator of municipal corporation of Aurangabad as respondents.(The TOI reports)# The first report was about a 35-year-old woman who died after a nylon manja (string) of a kite slit her throat while she was crossing the Dwarka flyover in Nashik on Monday (Dec 28) evening. The woman, Bharati Jadhav, a resident of Siddhi Vinayak Township at Hirawadi in the Panchvati area of the city at around 6 pm was returning home after work from the Ambad industrial area when the incident took place. She was found lying on the roadside by some motorists.# The second report was about bird lovers from Aurangabad, ahead of `Makar Sankranti’ festival, sought effective check on the sale of nylon and glass-coated manja. Despite the state government putting a ban on the sale of such threads in June 2015, it continues to be openly sold in the open market. It is alleged that this manja is sourced from China. Citing that traditionally only the police department initiates action against sale and use of manja, the activists had demanded that the police as well as the forest department should independently crack down on the sale of manjas. While, deputy conservator of forest (territorial) Arun Patil had pitched on the need for public awareness on the ill-effects of manja. He even assured of asking lower-rung staffers in the department to crackdown on the use and sale of manja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-converts-two-toi-reports-on-nylon-manja-into-suo-motu-pil/articleshow/80032536.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 31, 2020||Pune||10 special labs join massive hunt for mutant coronavirus||PUNE: The country has now been split into six regions for a huge molecular hunt for the new UK variant of the coronavirus. The search includes 10 labs located across the country — all capable of genome sequencing. The hunt has also been expanded to include everyone — not just returnees from foreign countries. The 10 labs will sequence positive samples that have had a cycle threshold (CT) value of 30 or less. The CT value is the number of cycles an RT-PCR device has had to run to amplify viral RNA — for it to reach detectable levels. A CT value of 30 or less indicates high viral load in the infected person’s throat/nasal swab samples. The central surveillance unit has been asked to ensure adequate representation of such samples — particularly from large cities. “If the UK variant, or any other serious mutation, is detected in a sample, it will be sent to either one of the two notified Covid Virus Repositories (CVR) at RCB Faridabad or NIV Pune for further culturing,” said a senior official from the Indian Council of Medical Research. But data from the labs will also be used to track Covid trends. “This data will help us understand super-spreader events and outbreaks,” said another official. Raman Gangakhedkar, former head of ICMR’s epidemiology and communicable diseases division, explained why the focus is on high viral loads. He said, “Samples will need a high viral load because they will be analysed again during genome sequencing. Some portion (viral particles) will get used up during the first test with the RT-PCR machines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10-special-labs-join-massive-hunt-for-mutant-coronavirus/articleshow/80035638.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 31, 2020||Pune||Variant did not cause more severe illness, deaths: Study||PUNE: Findings from a new matched cohort study in the UK, on the impact of the new virus strain on human health, should come as a major relief for the world. The study, by Public Health England, found “no statistically significant difference in hospitalisation, case fatality” between cases with the new strain and those with other variants. A matched cohort study compares sets of individuals. From 2,693 variant cases, 1,769 cases (from September 20 to December 15) were matched to another 1,769 wild-type comparator cases. Fewer new variant cases (16) were admitted to hospital compared to the wild-type comparator cases (26). The 28-day case fatality was also assessed for variant cases and comparator cases. Among the variant cases, 12 of 1,340 (0.89%) died within 28 days of their specimen date, compared to 10 of 1,360 (0.73%) wild-type comparator cases. A spokesperson for Public Health England told TOI, “There is no current evidence that this variant causes more severe disease or higher mortality. They have also not found evidence that symptoms caused by this variant differ in nature, onset or severity.” Dr Vaibhav Anand Deshpande, an emergency medicine doctor in the UK, said communities reported an increase in Covid-19 cases, including an uptick in asymptomatic patients. He said, “The rise in cases – overall – led to retrospective analysis to identify a cause. That led to the detection of the mutation. The treatment policy has been the same. Only, the government has asked people to stay home. There’s a community-level watch on the spread of the disease.” A senior scientist involved in genome sequencing in India said there were similar concerns with an earlier variant too — identified as D614G. This strain was detected in India in June and July, but the country has been seeing a steady drop in cases. “A virus will mutate. But that does not mean that it will become more severe. The only way to curb a virus is to not give it the opportunity to spread,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/variant-did-not-cause-more-severe-illness-deaths-study/articleshow/80035658.cms||Swatee Kher
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||Mahagenco dumps Koradi fly-ash cluster project||NAGPUR: After spending a few crores, Mahagenco has dumped former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule’s pet project — Koradi fly-ash cluster. The cluster’s bhoomipuja had been done with much fanfare by Bawankule in August 2017. He had set a target of making the project operational by December 2017, but Mahagenco’s subsidiary Mahagenco Ash Management Services (Mahagams) couldn’t meet the deadline. Mahagams had planned to invite all brick kiln owners around the city to the cluster. In addition to these kilns, new fly-ash based industries were to come up in the cluster. The first hurdle Mahagams hit was due to a goof up by Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA). The authority reserved the cluster area as green zone. Bawankule had to take up the issue with the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to get the reservation changed. Mahagams then spent a few crores on removing bushes from the land and providing basic infrastructure. However, not a single industry has started in the cluster. Mahagenco spokesperson admitted that there was no progress on the project. “NMRDA had issued notices to brick kiln owners who were operating in the area within 500 metre of municipal limits, which is illegal as per central government rules. The brick kiln applied to Mahagenco for a plot in the cluster. However, the plot size was too small for the owners and they refused to shift. NMRDA too did not bother to evict the brick kilns,” said a Mahagenco official. Bawankule’s successor Nitin Raut has not shown any interest in the cluster. Mahagenco officials say the incumbent minister is not much interested in Mahagams either. This in spite of the fact that fly-ash utilization of Koradi and Khaparkheda power plants is very poor. The fly-ash utilization of Koradi power plant in 2017-18 was only 13.14%, 29.12% in 2018-19 and 22.89% during the first half of 2019-20. The corresponding figures for Khaparkheda plant are: 2017-18 (35.56%), 2018-19 (14.24%) and first half of 2019-20 (20.81%). On August 6, fly-ash from Waregaon ash bund of Khaparkheda plant got discharged into Kanhan river forcing Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to stop pumping for four hours. In the coming weeks, activists Pratap Goswami and Anil Wadpalliwar had clicked photographs of fly-ash being discharged into the river from this bund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahagenco-dumps-koradi-fly-ash-cluster-project/articleshow/80034098.cms||Ashish Roy
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad-based IVRCL booked by CBI for Rs 4,800 crore fraud||HYDERABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday booked a case against Hyderabad-based infra major IVRCL Limited for alleged bank loan fraud of Rs 4,837 crore. CBI sleuths said searches on the offices and residences of promoters of IVRCL at various places led to recovery of several incriminating documents. The investigation agency booked E Sudhir Reddy, managing director of Iragavarapu Venkata Reddy Construction Limited (IVRCL), R Balarami Reddy, joint MD, and unidentified public servants in the case. In the FIR, the CBI alleged that the accused in connivance with bank officials defrauded the consortium of public sector banks, consisting of State Bank of India, IDBI Bank, Canara Bank, Andhra Bank, Corporation Bank, EXIM Bank, Punjab & Sind Bank and Union Bank of India, and caused a loss of Rs 4,837 crore. “The company availed credit limits from the consortium of banks led by SBI and cheated the banks without repaying the loans. As per the forensic audit report, the company made payments to related parties through letters of credit without recording any purchase transactions in the books and routed the funds to the accounts of the company and thereby misappropriated the bank funds,” said the CBI in the FIR. The company, which undertakes major infra and irrigation projects, is already undergoing a liquidation process in National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). In March this year, IVRCL received a bid for Rs 1,655 crore through e-auction for the sale of the company as a going concern as part of the liquidation process. In June, the NCLT upheld the liquidation process. The NCLT had earlier (in March 2018) admitted insolvency proceedings against IVRCL. First Global Finance Private Ltd filed an appeal in the case and made IVRCL and SBI as respondents. SBI, the lead banker, filed an insolvency petition under the insolvency and bankruptcy code seeking a resolution plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-ivrcl-for-rs-4800-cr-loan-fraud/articleshow/80035639.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 31, 2020||Pune||Civic body pulls the plug on fresh patient intake at CoEP jumbo unit||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has stopped admitting new Covid-19 patients in the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) jumbo unit from Tuesday, said the civic body’s additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal. She added that the decision to stop new admission was taken considering the additional expenditure and reduction in the number of positive patients. Agarwal added that at present, there were 144 patients at the jumbo unit and it would operate till their treatment was completed. New admissions would be diverted to Sassoon General Hospital and dedicated Covid-19 hospital facility in Baner. The CoEP jumbo unit has been removed from the Pune divisional commissioner office’s dashboard listing bed availability, as on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Annasaheb Magar Stadium jumbo unit in Pimpri Chinchwad is also expected to stop taking new admissions. Acting health chief of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), Pavan Salve, said they received verbal orders regarding the same. Pune divisional commissioner, Saurabh Rao, said, “As the patient load is already low in both jumbo units and both the civic bodies have ample medical infrastructure to look after the new cases, we have decided to stop the new admissions. Based on the situation between January 10 and 15, we will take a review. If the current trend continues, we will suspend the units.” But, if the situation changes and the medical facility is required again, it would be reactivated within seven days, Rao said. “The infrastructure will be there, including the equipment and security. But, we will stop using it temporarily because the overhead charges for the medicos, paramedics are high,” he said. Sangram Kapale, the dean of Annasaheb Magar stadium jumbo unit from MedBros agency, said, “We were told to stop admissions at Magar stadium from January 1. The news is going to be particularly harsh on the staff members, who have come here from different states.” Subhash Salunkhe, state task force committee member, said, “Expenditure per bed in this facility is Rs3,000 to4,000, which is not at all necessary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-pulls-the-plug-on-fresh-patient-intake-at-coep-jumbo-unit/articleshow/80035681.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 31, 2020||Nagpur||Umred NGO notice to forest dept for felling in sanctuary||NAGPUR: A former honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur district has issued notice to wildlife and territorial forest department officials and Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (Maharail) under the Wildlife (Protection) Act (WPA), 1972, and Environment Protection Act (EPA), 1996, for felling of trees in Umred-Karhandla-Paoni wildlife sanctuary. According to former warden Roheet Karoo, who is also secretary of NGO Wildlife Conservation & Development Center, Umred, over 300 trees were felled in the sanctuary’s compartment number 1439. Umred-Karhandla-Paoni sanctuary was notified on June 29, 2012. “Proper procedure like gram panchayat no objection certificate, Maharashtra Right to Public Service Act, 2015 (Seva Hami Kayda), verification of documents if the land or trees belonged to the Railways etc was not followed while granting felling permission by the territorial officials,” claimed Karoo. Karoo said South Umred RFO and tree officer Vaishnavi Jhare granted permission to cut the trees in a tearing hurry without consulting wildlife officials. The area where trees were felled is also an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ). Earlier in February, Jhare had granted permission to fell over 350 trees in the tiger corridor between Titur and Shivni for the same project without following the requisite procedure of transit pass (TP) and applying hammers on the felled timber. “It is a linear project falling in the notified tiger corridor of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve-Bramhapuri and Umred-Karhandla. Areas linking one tiger reserve or protected area with another tiger reserve or protected area are not diverted for ecologically unsustainable uses, except in public interest, and without approval of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) and on the advice of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) as per Section 38 O (1) (g) of the WPA, 1972,” says Karoo. Maharail is upgrading a narrow gauge into a broad gauge and has already started construction of bridges in corridor patches without any mitigation steps. Maharail spokesperson Vinod Toke said, “We have approached Wildlife Institute of India for mitigation structures at the disputed site. We did not fell trees in the sanctuary area, but only removed bushes.” Contrary to Maharail claim, evidence shows large-scale felling of trees on both sides of the railway line. Although the felling was done after taking permission, commercial extraction of timber from national parks and wildlife sanctuaries has been banned by the Supreme Court. The SC order restrains all states and Union Territories from removing dead, diseased, dying, or windfallen trees as well as driftwood and grass from any protected area or forest. It further clarifies that if any authority has already passed such an order, its execution stands stayed immediately. In 2010, when FDCM had resorted to large-scale felling in Mansinghdeo sanctuary under the garb of not getting the sanctuary notification, the SC’s central empowered committee (CEC) had reprimanded FDCM and had asked it to plough back the money collected from sold timber for wildlife management. The notice by Karoo has been served on December 22, under Section 55 (c) of WPA, 1972 and under Section 19 (b) of EPA for intention to prosecute officials responsible for the mess. Under the said notice, the complainant can directly approach the court after 60 days. Chief conservator of forest (CCF) P Kalyan Kumar, Nagpur circle, says, “People are jumping the gun before even confirming whether felling has been done. We have set up a committee of both wildlife and territorial officials, which will submit a report soon. It will also include whether felling has been done in the sanctuary compartment or not and other issues.” “If the Maharail has started work, it will have to dismantle or modify the structures if these do not comply with the suggested mitigation steps by WII,” said Kumar. Wildlife wing officials said they had pointed out that it was a tiger corridor and any felling or work in the said patches would require permission from the state board for wildlife (SBWL). Sources said, “The committee was set up on December 7, and was to submit report in seven days, but it has not been put up even after 24 days due to differences.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/umred-ngo-notice-to-forest-dept-for-felling-in-sanctuary/articleshow/80034184.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 31, 2020||Delhi||Afghan Sikhs find saviours in their attempt to start lives afresh here||NEW DELHI: Jaspal Singh was present in the Guru Nanak Durbar Gurdwara in Kabul, Afghanistan, when it was attacked in 2018. Jaspal, whose shop was located close to the gurdwara believes that he lived due to sheer luck. But that attack in March this year urged the 36-year-old not to rely on luck for survival. Jaspal, his wife, four daughters and son left their country and arrived in Delhi on November 26. With no money in hand after they were unable to sell off their herbal medicine shop in Kabul in hurry to cross over to India, Jaspal family has had to depend on assistance as they try to make a fresh start while residing in a gurdwara in Ganesh Nagar, east Delhi. Life in a new country for the Singhs would have been a non-starter had it not been for the help provided by international group United Sikhs. The organisation, which is involved in assisting the farmers sitting on protests against the new farm laws on the borders of Delhi, has, for years, worked to bring Sikhs from Afghanistan to India safely. United Sikhs has provided 10 immigrant families the essentials to start life afresh, among them mattresses, kitchen utensils, refrigerator, washing machine, water purifier, etc. Parvinder Singh, director in India of United Sikhs, said, “Since the refugees don’t have any Indian identity documents, the local MLA has helped the families to apply for the papers.” Tilak Nagar MLA Jarnail Singh, who was present when the household items were presented to the refugee families, said, “This is the land of Guru Nanak and I hope that the families from Afghanistan feel at home in Delhi and join the mainstream quickly and start contributing to our country.” Jaspal’s brother, Pal Singh, is worried, but optimistic, about finding livelihood in India. “We faced a lot of trouble living there,” Pal said. “Even though the Afghan government supported us and tried to protect us, Taliban and Daesh regularly approached us and threatened us.” He said following the Kabul gurdwara attack, United Sikhs assured them of a safe passage to India. Many other Sikhs, like 57-year-old Tejinder Singh, who lived in Ghazni and had a cloth business, left during the pandemic four months ago. “We left behind our shop as it is. We only about managed to collect some money to bring our eight-member family here,” said the elderly Sikh. Tejinder’s nephew Rakbir Singh, 30, ran a grocery store in Ghazni. “With the assistance we have received, we are less tense and feel encouraged to search for employment,” said Rakbir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/afghan-sikhs-find-saviours-in-their-attempt-to-start-lives-afresh-here/articleshow/80035691.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 31, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Man paraded on donkey for ‘harassing’ woman, goes missing||BAREILLY: Around 7.30pm on Tuesday, a group of men barged into a Muslim man’s house. They accused him of harassing a woman, dragged him out, smeared his face with black paint, hoisted him on a donkey and paraded him through the streets of Bisauli in UP’s Budaun. To make an “example” of him, they shot videos and posted them on social media as a cautionary tale. “Two of the men seen in the videos have been arrested,” Budaun SSP Sankalp Sharma told TOI. “They said they had been told the man had been caught harassing a woman. But we have not received any such complaint from the woman or her family.” In the videos, the 56-year-old Muslim man can be seen riding a donkey, his face blackened, his hands tied, not uttering a word as a man needles him: “Say something. Deny it if you want.” Later that night, his son filed a complaint at the Bisauli police station. “My father had an altercation with a woman. On December 29 … Vipin, Suresh, Vijendra, Madanlal and others I didn’t know came into our house, dragged my father outside, beat him up, abused him and threatened to kill him,” he said in his complaint, on the basis of which an FIR was lodged a little past midnight. The four were booked under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke), 506 (criminal intimidation), 452 (criminal trespass) and 501 (defamation) of the IPC. Vijendra and Madanlal were arrested. The man’s son, meanwhile, denied the group’s allegation and said it was actually because of a minor altercation. “My father is a shepherd. Some of his goats entered a farmer’s field. A heated argument began between my father and the farmer’s wife,” he said, attributing the attack to this exchange. “My father is old. He has not come home since he was humiliated in public.” The man has six children, all of whom are married. The family depends on cattle rearing and a clothes shop to run the house. Police teams were sent out looking for the man. A cop said he had been traced, but is waiting it out at a relative’s place. “The man has been located. He is safe. We will record his statement on Wednesday. The number of those accused may go up. So far, we only have those who could be identified in the videos. We have spoken to the locals to make sure peace is not disrupted,” SSP Sharma said. The man’s son, however, said he can’t breathe easy until his father is home. “I have not even been able to speak with him over the phone since this happened. I am extremely worried.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-paraded-on-donkey-for-harassing-woman-goes-missing/articleshow/80031609.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 31, 2020||Dehradun||Cheetah police force in U’khand to be upgraded on lines of City Patrol Unit||Dehradun: The state police headquarters have decided to upgrade the existing Cheetah police force — which primarily responds to the 112 police helpline and keeps a check on street crimes — on the lines of the City Patrol Unit (CPU). Ashok Kumar, director general of police (DGP), told TOI that motorcycle-borne Cheetah police units will be provided with better gears and equipment. In order to increase their work capacity and efficiency, the Cheetah police personnel will be given body-worn cameras, multiple belts, and short range weapons. “In the first phase, 120 men constables and 30 women constables deployed in Cheetah police unit will be given the modern gears and equipment. They will undergo one-month training on how to effectively use the modern equipment,” said Ashok Kumar. After the completion of the training, the police personnel will be deployed on the basis of three-month duty chart roaster. Besides, the rotation system, similar to the one in the City Patrol Unit, will be implemented in the Cheetah police unit as well, according to a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cheetah-police-force-in-ukhand-to-be-upgraded-on-lines-of-city-patrol-unit/articleshow/80032571.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 31, 2020||Goa||‘Who benefits from growing cannabis?’||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) chief Vijai Sardesai has demanded replies from chief minister Pramod Sawant on several unanswered questions over the cannabis cultivation proposal. “People ought to know who suggested the idea to legalise cannabis cultivation. Who in Goa stands to benefit from the legalisation? And whether any thought was given to setting up a regulatory mechanism before according approval from a legal point of view,” he said. With such proposals, Goa will only be recognised as a “sin city and vice hub”, Sardesai further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/who-benefits-from-growing-cannabis/articleshow/80035730.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Pune||Covid cases rise to 11-day high in Pune metropolitan region, but stay below recoveries||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 case tally increased to 11-day high of 623 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday. It, however, remained below the day’s recovery, which stood at 743. Of the new cases, the PMC limits added 282, followed by the rural areas (174) and the PCMC limits (167). As for the day’s recoveries, the PMC limits recorded 349 discharges, followed by the PCMC limits (198) and the rural areas (196). With the Wednesday’s additions, the PMR’s caseload rose above 3.62 lakh, while its recoveries rose above 3.47 lakh. The region’s death count due to Covid-19 increased to 8,808 with 11 more patients succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits reported three deaths each, while five deaths were recorded from the rural areas of the PMR. The region’s daily testing increased to 8,117 on Wednesday, taking the total tests above 18.62 lakh. Meanwhile, the tally of active patients in PMR dropped further to 6,297 on Wednesday. Of these, as many as 4,414 patients were in home isolation, while 1,883 were admitted in various hospitals for treatment. A report released by the PMC health department stated that 654 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cases-rise-to-11-day-high-but-stay-below-recoveries/articleshow/80035701.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 31, 2020||Goa||Firemen on toes at Mapusa, Bicholim||Bicholim/Saligao: Two fire incidents were reported in North Goa, and one in South Goa, on Wednesday. In the first incident, trees caught fire in Bicholim, while, in the other, unknown persons set alight firewood stored in a Hindu crematorium. Many trees at the dumping site of one mining company at Pale Kata in Bicholim were burnt after dry grass in the area caught fire on Tuesday. However, efforts by a team from Bicholim fire brigade managed to douse the blaze and prevent further loss of trees. Officials said that dry grass in the dumping area of the mining company suddenly caught fire, due to which trees planted by the company also caught fire. Locals attempted to douse the fire, but in vain. Meanwhile, unknown persons attempted to break the lock on a gate, room and store room of Shantivan Smashanbhoomi (crematorium) at Khorlim, Mapusa. The miscreants set fire to the firewood which was in the storeroom of the crematorium. Some locals residing near the crematoriumimmediately informed the fire station at Mapusa. The total loss suffered by the crematorium has been pegged at around Rs 4 lakh. President of Shantivan Samashanbhumi Narayan Karekar has filed a complaint with Mapusa police. “I have requested the Mapusa police station to investigate the matter and take necessary action,” said Karekar. Also, in Benaulim, three fishing boats were burnt on late Tuesday night at Holy Trinity beach||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/firemen-on-toes-at-mapusa-bicholim/articleshow/80035729.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Test results of new strain to be available in a week||PUNE: The results of the Covid-19 tests for the new strain of coronavirus on four travellers who arrived in Pune from the UK would be available in the first week of January. A sperate facility has been started at the Naidu hospital for isolation of patients who may test positive for the new strain. “The PMC has reached out to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) for the genome sequence. The samples are given to the institute for tests. The results are expected in the first week of January,” said Ashish Bharati, head of the PMC’s health department. According to the PMC data, as many as 544 patients arrived in Pune from the UK. The civic administration has asked them to follow the protocol of testing for foreign travellers. Based on guidelines of the state and union government, all passengers arriving from the Middle East and European countries are subjected to mandatory institutional quarantine at their own cost in nearby hotels for seven days. The move is aimed at preventing the spread of the new mutant strain of corona virus in Pune. According to the directives, if a passenger is found symptomatic on arrival, then s/he will be shifted directly to Naidu Hospital, Pune, for future evaluation and treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/test-results-of-new-strain-to-be-available-in-a-week/articleshow/80035731.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Pune||AIIMS director hopeful of first vaccination drive next month||PUNE: National Covid-19 task force member and director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Dr Randeep Guleria said on Wednesday he was hopeful of a vaccine getting emergency use authorisation within the first fortnight of January — with the actual rollout starting the same month. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine — also a frontrunner shot in India — was granted approval by UK authorities on Wednesday. The vaccine, which will be distributed in the country by the Serum Institute of India, is widely considered ideal for the country as it can be stored in 2°C to 8°C temperature, which a regular fridge can reach. “The SII has added advantage as they have global data from Brazil, UK, South Africa. So the regulator should give the EUA (emergency use approval) soon, which can then be followed with the implementation of the vaccine rollout for the priority group of health staff and frontline workers,” said Dr Guleria. Three companies have applied for EUA for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates with the national drugs regulator. The companies are Pfizer, SII and Bharat Biotech. While Pfizer did not show up for the presentation on an earlier date, an expert panel reviewed the data of the other two companies and asked for more details. The replies are expected later in 2021. Dr Guleria said while vaccination of healthcare staff, frontline workers and comorbid patients above 50 should be completed by June, citizens in the low-risk group can expect shots once more vaccine candidates are given emergency approvals. “If Serum does get the EUA, they have assured shots for the country. But they have commitments globally,” he said. While states are collating data of health workers, the task force member said that the country would roll out the programme in an election mode model depending on the availability of the vaccine shots and states would get the requisite doses to give. "If Serum does get EUA, they have assured shots for the country although they have commitments globally. He further added that there is good data available and safety and efficacy of vaccines are not compromised at all. He reiterated that the UK variant and other mutations that are being studied will have no impact on the vaccines being manufactured. Much of the vaccines that are the front-runners are targeting the 'S' protein and also the mRNA and they will continue to be effective from the available data. He said that the country's consortium formed to carry out testing and genome sequencing of samples from not just select countries or international travellers but also from across the country and those in certain clusters where there is a rise in cases may help trace some Indian mutations too. "The consortium will be able to correlate the genome sequencing data with the clinical and epidemiological data and it's impact on public health at large,''he said, However, there can be no complacency in tracing and tracking despite the decline in the number of cases. While mutation studies will continue, the member of the task force cautioned that not every mutation will lead to some public health crisis. "We have to understand that mutations in viruses are an ongoing process and some mutations may be only as a scientific observation and may have no impact epidemiologically or on clinical outcome ''he added. If mutation with strains has some clinical impact and we come to know this it will help to develop better strategies in management, containment and change in vaccination if needed. "As of now there is little or no impact and we need to be worried" added. On the vaccine for the priority group being funded by the central government, the member of the task force said that with a huge number announced under the programme, the government is likely to make budgetary allocations for the vaccine distribution for the priority group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/aiims-director-hopeful-of-first-vaccination-drive-next-month/articleshow/80035728.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 31, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 toll crosses 1,500-mark in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 449 fresh Covid-19 infections and nine more virus-related deaths on Wednesday. With this, the total tally of positive cases reached 90,616 and the death toll shot up to 1,504 in the state. Among those found Covid-19 positive on Wednesday was a returnee from the United Kingdom. His sample has been sent to Pune for further examination to check whether it is a new strain of the virus detected in the UK. Till date, seven UK returnees have been tested Covid-19 positive in Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, as many as 724 patients recovered from Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the recovery rate to 91.56% in the state. So far, a total of 82,967 people have recovered from the infection in the state. Till Wednesday, the state had 4,963 active Covid-19 cases. According to official data, Dehradun continues to be the worst-affected district. The maximum of 157 new Covid-19 positive cases were again recorded in Dehradun, followed by Nainital where 108 new cases were found. Pithoragarh and Haridwar districts reported 38 new cases each, according to the health bulletin. Besides, Dehradun has so far registered 843 deaths, almost 56% of the total deaths reported in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic. Nainital district is the second most-affected district with 204 casualties (so far) due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-toll-crosses-1500-mark-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/80032602.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 31, 2020||World||Pakistan: Destruction of Hindu temple condemned||AMRITSAR: Reacting to an incident of demolition of Terri Hindu temple and Samadhi in Karak district of Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK), patron-in-chief of Pakistan Hindu Council Ramesh Kumar Vankwani has called a protest demonstration on December 31. Ramesh told TOI on late Wednesday evening that Terri temple was demolished by Malauna Sharif-led mob, associated with Maulana Sami ul Haq group. He said that affected Terri Temple was one of four largest holy sites for Hindu community in Pakistan. "This temple was restored as a result of 19th June 2014 judgement by the Chief Justice Supreme Court of Pakistan, Tassadaq Hussain Jillani," he said adding that the restoration work was done during the tenure of Chief Justice Jawad S Khawaja. He said he had demanded the arrest Maulana Sharif and all culprits, and book them under the Blasphemy laws (295C). He said provincial KPK government had once again failed to control the situation despite receiving intelligence report on time. He said he was of the view that on international level, Pakistan was already facing pressure in terms of religious freedom and minorities' rights, therefore such acts of extremism must be curbed at any cost. Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz’s Hindu Member National Assembly Kheal Das Kohistani said that historical Hindu temple was destroyed by miscreants in presence of police and civil administration of Karak. While stating that constitution of Pakistan provides equal rights to all citizens, he questioned "who will protect our places of worship"? Watch Angry mob demolishes Hindu temple in Pakistan, several arrested||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-destruction-of-hindu-temple-condemned/articleshow/80037713.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 31, 2020||Pune||Onus on airlines to ensure passengers fill in correct information on forms: PMC||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said on Wednesday that airlines are responsible for ensuring that flyers coming to Pune from international destinations fill correct information on self-declaration forms.Civic officials said that they have not been able to trace 107 flyers who had come to Pune from the UK since early December because they had filled in incorrect details on self-declaration forms. “It is the responsibility of the airlines to ensure that the flyers fill in correct details. The self-declaration forms are given to the flyers by airlines when the aircraft is about to land,” a PMC said. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The police as well as the Pune airport authorities have been contacted. The responsibility lies with the Pune airport authorities and airlines in ensuring that the information is correct,” he said.The airport director did not respond to questions sent to him by TOI. “We have received a list of 107 flyers from the PMC. The police are trying to trace them as early as possible,” Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said. — Joy Sengupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/onus-on-airlines-to-ensure-passengers-fill-in-correct-information-on-forms-pmc/articleshow/80035747.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 31, 2020||Delhi||Cleanest in 3 yrs: Delhi had 192 ‘good air’ days due to lockdown||NEW DELHI: All attention was focused only on the insidious coronavirus during the passing year, so not many realised that in 2020, Delhi enjoyed the most good-air days of the past three years. There were 192 days when the PM2.5 level was below the National Ambient Air Quality Standard of 60 micrograms per cubic metre. In contrast, there were just 120 such days in 2018 and 145 in 2019, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences. Track the pollution level in your cityThe year was also better than the past in terms of PM10 levels, with 116 days in 2020 recording levels below the NAAQS of 100 micrograms per cubic metre against 55 days in 2018. Experts also pointed out that while 2020 was less polluted than 2019 and 2018 mainly due to the Covid lockdown, the long-term trend showed a gradual improvement in air quality each year. However, while Delhi’s air was cleaner this year, the pollution level was still higher than permissible. SAFAR’s analysis noted that the annual average PM2.5 level in 2020 was 83 micrograms per cubic metre, more than double the acceptable norm of 40 micrograms per cubic metre. In 2019 and 2018, the annual averages were 95 and 99, respectively. The winter months of November and December too logged better PM2.5 levels than in 2019 and 2018. The combined average PM2.5 this year was 176 micrograms per cubic metre against 197 in 2018 and 184 in 2019. “The period from March to July was primarily affected by the lockdown, but there was drop in air pollution in January, February and August. The air quality deteriorated from October to December, with the winter months recording high levels of PM2.5 and PM10,” said a SAFAR official. “Farm stubble burning, local pollutants and firecrackers during Diwali were compounded by meteorological factors in causing the deterioration in air quality.” Centre for Science and Environment’s assessment of winter pollution until November showed overall PM2.5 average lower than in the previous year largely due to the disruption in economic activities during the lockdown. But with the reopening of the economy coinciding with the onset of the winter, PM2.5 levels spiralled in October-November. The CSE analysis found the cyclical ups and down of pollution this winter more volatile, showing a quicker rise and fall than in the previous winters. This could also be a reflection of changes in local pollution patterns and overall downward trend when aided by meteorological factors. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), CSE, said, “Though the long-term pollution levels are seeing a downward trend, we need to take more steps to ensure the pollution is below the standard limit throughout the year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/clearing-the-air-heres-why-2020-was-not-all-bad/articleshow/80034161.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 31, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar rape-murder: Accused brought to crime scene, questioned||Haridwar: The main accused in the case involving the rape and murder of an 11-year-old girl in Haridwar was brought to the crime scene in Rishikul and questioned by the investigation team on Wednesday. During the exercise, a heavy police force was deployed in the Rishikul area to control the law and order situation. The development comes days after a co-accused in the case was arrested by the police from Sultanpur district in Uttar Pradesh. SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “We secured police remand of the main accused from the court on Wednesday and thereafter, questioned him. Further investigation is underway. We will submit the chargesheet in the case soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-rape-murder-accused-brought-to-crime-scene-questioned/articleshow/80032614.cms||MS Nawaz
December 31, 2020||Goa||Colva traffic cell draws plan for New Year’s Eve||MARGAO: In view of the anticipated surge in traffic along the road leading to Colva beach for the New Year celebrations on December 31, Colva traffic cell has drawn up an elaborate plan for movement of vehicular traffic. As per the traffic movement plan, vehicles proceeding from Colva beach towards Margao shall turn left at Hotel Sagar Kinara junction and proceed towards Bollywood Sea Queen hotel to Betalbatim road. Besides, additional magistrate, South Goa, Surendra Naik, has temporarily notified the road from Colva four-road junction to near Sand Castle building, 4th ward, Gaundalim, Colva via HDFC bank, Hotel Sagar Kinara, Linda hotel, fisheries department office, Gaundalim, towards Betalbatim/Colva main road, for movement of one-way traffic from 2pm on December 31 to 6am on January 1. Also, there will be ‘no parking’ on either sides of the road from Colva four-road junction to Hotel Sagar Kinara, PI Vijaynath Kavlekar of the Colva traffic cell said. He has urged residents, office-goers and other commuters not to park their vehicles along the road from Colva four-road junction to Hotel Sagar Kinara during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colva-traffic-cell-draws-plan-for-new-years-eve/articleshow/80035769.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Centre questions containment area data lapses||PUNE: The Centre has raised concerns over the state government’s slackening approach towards updating containment zone data on the national or state web portals. In a letter dated December 24, Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, department of health and family welfare, stated that the Mumbai and its suburban areas had failed to update the data on the Union government’s Covid India portal as well as the state/ district website. As per the letter, many districts in the state have failed to update the data on the district website. These include Nagpur, Aurangabad, Nanded, Sangli, Latur, Solapur and Kolhapur, among others. The letter stated, “It has come to our notice that Maharashtra has not been updating its recent data on the Ministry of Health’s Covid India portal on the current situation of the containment zones. It is equally distressing to note that there is no website reporting collated information for all districts together, with a few districts not reporting any data on any portal.” It said, “As per the Ministry of Home Affairs order, effective December 1, states and Union Territories have been mandated to strictly enforce containment measures on various activities and Covid-appropriate behaviour while exercising caution and regulating crowds.” The letter said access to accurate data on containment zones of the states will not only help in targeted testing, but also real-time tracking of important key performance indicators, such as active cases being reported from the containment zone. “This will facilitate evidence-based decisions related to regulating the spread of infection in each containment zone and understanding their efficacy in breaking the chain of transmission. This data will be a key element in the vaccination strategy,” it added. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao told TOI that they had received instructions from the UTs as well as state government about updating of the data and the authorities concerned had been advised to complete it at the earliest. “Our updated data will be available within next 3-4 days,” Rao said. State task force committee member Subhash Salunkhe said the administrations across the state must look after and comply with the necessary data updation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/centre-questions-containment-area-data-lapses/articleshow/80035751.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 31, 2020||Delhi||Chandni Chowk revamp in the slow lane, deadline ends today||NEW DELHI: December 31 is the deadline for the redevelopment of the 1.3-km stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid in Chandni Chowk — but on TOI’s visit to the place on Tuesday, there appeared much work pending, especially in the section from Town Hall onward. The road opposite the masjid hadn’t been levelled after the completion of the digging work. Public Works Department, which is executing the project, claimed the sealing of the borders with Haryana because of the farmers’ stir was among the main reasons for the delay in completing the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project. The closure apparently impacted the supply of materials from the neighbouring state. TOI noted a lot of work yet to be finished. Near Shri Digambar Jain Lal Mandir, tiling work was still incomplete, while manholes and drains were missing their covers at a number of places. Workers were still installing metallic frames around the manholes and laying tiles around electricity poles on Tuesday. Some of them were also planting saplings on the central verge and demarcated green spaces. Work has been slow on the five toilets on the stretch. At one, workers were laying tiles and electric wires. The one near Bhagirath Palace market wasn’t even plastered, while work at the third is yet to begin, according to traders. The segment beyond Town Hall appeared to defy the deadline because major construction work was under way. The space opposite Town Hall was yet to be tiled, and there were huge pipes and waste material lying all over. The central verge was also dug up. A PWD official admitted the chances of work getting completed by Thursday look dim. He, however, claimed a portion of the redevelopment — from Red Fort to Town Hall — will finish in the next two days. “We were installing custom-made granite slabs brought from Rajasthan. But with the Delhi-Haryana borders sealed, supply was interrupted. We told Delhi High Court that we expected the material to be in by December 15, but even transportation via UP faced restrictions. The supply of electricity poles might get delayed too for the same reason,” the official said. Another official added that granite manholes covers would be installed till Town Hall by Wednesday. Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation MD Garima Gupta visited the area on Monday and took note of the lingering problems. The local residents expect all the agencies concerned to also resolve issues of encroachment, cleanliness and presence of illegal vendors. “Despite frequent correspondence with PWD, Delhi Police and the municipal corporation, the key problem of encroachment remains unaddressed,” complained Sanjay Bhargava, president, Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal. “Also, the central verge has become a refuge for beggars. And then, haphazard parking of rickshaws at both the entrances causes impediments to smooth movement of pedestrians. You can also see wires hanging dangerously overhead in some places.” A PWD official agreed that support of other civic agencies was crucial for the completion of the redevelopment. “We are forced to lift the garbage when the municipal corporation doesn’t do so for long periods,” alleged the official. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash insisted the civic body had cleared most of the encroachments. As for the shrine that hasn’t yet been removed, the mayor said, “We are handling the situation carefully and looking for a relocation site.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chandni-chowk-revamp-in-the-slow-lane-deadline-ends-today/articleshow/80034173.cms||Vibha Sharma
December 31, 2020||Erode||Plastic worth Rs 50K seized in Erode dist||Erode: Gobichettipalayam municipality officials conducted raids at the shops in the town and seized banned plastic materials worth Rs 50,000 on Wednesday. The municipality commissioner, Dhanu Murthy, said a team comprising health and sanitary officials had conducted surprise checks at more than 100 shops on Yakoop Street in the town on the day. “Banned plastic items were seized from two shops, which had stocked plastic carry bags, spoons, plates and other materials. We have imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 each on them,” the officer said. He has directed the health and sanitary officials to carry out similar drives against banned plastic items in the town in the coming days. “We have warned shopkeepers not to use banned plastic items. If they continue to sell them, their shops will be sealed and closed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/plastic-worth-rs-50k-seized-in-erode-dist/articleshow/80035784.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Goa||Tax disputes settlement date extended to January 31||PANAJI: The government has given commercial tax payers time till January 31, 2021, to settle tax disputes under the erstwhile sales tax, luxury tax, central sales tax and entry tax regime. Taxpayers whose commercial tax claims are under dispute or in appeal can use the one-time settlement scheme to resolve the cases as per the Goa (Recovery of Arrears of Tax through Settlement) Act) 2009. Under the one-time settlement scheme, commercial tax payers can pay the arrears while the penalty will be waived off. “In exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Goa (Recovery of Arrears of Tax through Settlement) Act) 2009, the government of Goa extends the last date for making an application under the said scheme to January 31,” said finance under-secretary Pranab Bhat in a notification. In 2009, the state government had brought in the one-time settlement scheme for settlement of arrears under sales tax, luxury tax, central sales tax and entry tax. Even though all these taxes were subsumed under the Goods and Services Tax regime, which was rolled out on July 1, 2017, many of the disputes continue. If the tax arrears are in appeal or review, the applicant can settle such cases by giving a written notice and submitting an application before the commissioner of commercial taxes (State GST commissioner). Meanwhile, in a bid to facilitate ease of business for industrial units, the state government has made a provision for auto-renewal of licence to work a factory for a period of one year upon submission of declaration and the payment of required fees. “The Inspectorate of Factories and Boilers has informed that the government of Goa, has made a provision for auto-renewal of licence to work a factory, issued under the provisions of The Factories Act, 1948 and the Goa Factories Rules, 1985, as amended from time to time. Such auto-renewal will be given for a period of one year upon submission of declaration and payment of required fees,” the notice read. The inspectorate may make factories eligible for such auto-renewal based on conditions such as closure of findings of the central inspection system based inspection conducted during the previous period, and after evaluation of other risk factors. The notice further states that for factories not meeting the criteria laid down, the application shall be dealt with in accordance with the prevailing rules in force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tax-disputes-settlement-date-extended-to-january-31/articleshow/80035756.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Delhi||New policy: Transplant 80% of trees affected by project in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A minimum of 80% of the trees affected by a development or construction project will have to be transplanted while 80% of the transplanted trees must survive, states Delhi government’s Tree Transplantation Policy 2020, notified on Wednesday. A compensatory plantation of 10 saplings for each tree will also continue. The policy states trees should be properly preserved and no tree should be unnecessarily removed in a development project. If on-site preservation is not possible, scientific transplantation of all affected trees should be the norm instead of felling trees. “To ensure maximum chances of survival of saplings/trees planted through the compensatory plantation, it will be mandatory for all saplings/trees planted to be a minimum of 6 feet in height and area as well as individual seedlings/trees to be geo-tagged,” said an official. According to the notification, a dedicated tree transplantation cell will be set up in the forest department to facilitate the process. Tree Authority of Delhi will be the apex body responsible for regular monitoring of the implementation of the prescribed procedure for tree transplantation. Besides, the department will maintain a updated record on its website of every application approved for tree felling under Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994. “A tree survey will be conducted at the time of any project feasibility assessment and a site identification will be undertaken to obtain the required information for developing site planning and tree preservation proposals,” said an official. The applicant can select one of the empanelled technical agencies for the tree transplantation work. Tree committees will regularly monitor all projects involving compensatory plantation or tree transplantation of 100 or more trees/saplings and certify their survival rate at the end of one year, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-policy-transplant-80-of-trees-affected-by-project/articleshow/80034165.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Record statements on cam, says former MSCW chief||AURANGABAD: As the first draft bill of Shakti Act, 2020 has been made public by the state government, former chairperson of Maharashtra State Commission for Women (MSCW) Vijaya Rahatkar has suggested that the statement of the complainant should be recorded on camera by the police. Rahatkar, in a written submission to the state government, has also sought police protection for the victim and witnesses. “In the wake of rise in crime against women and minors, the state government has proposed the Shakti Act, 2020. It is a welcome move to introduce the Bill to this effect which needs further modification to serve the purpose,” she said. Rahatakar said the Bill concerned must also incorporate a provision that will consider DNA sampling as proof in sexual offences. “Such proofs must be considered as prime in nature. It will ensure logical end to the cases in court and justice for the victim,” she said. The former MSCW chief said the existing time limit of 15-day proposed in the bill must be revised to 30 days in order to give sufficient time to the investigating agencies. “There is also a need for setting a time limit of 45 days for judicial process to get over. In case of lapse of the limit, a report explaining the reasons behind the delay must be submitted before the high court. It will ensure speedy justice and accountability,” she said. In her set of recommendations for improving the draft of the Bill, Rahatkar has also suggested the use of information technology in justice deliverance system. “ All matters related to Shakti Act must be heard in e-courts. The charge-sheet along with all evidence and proof must be produced digitally. The e-courts can work from 6 am to 9 pm in two shifts for speedy redressal of related cases,” said Rahatkar, who is one of the national secretaries of the BJP. The Bill, which has proposed strict punishment including death penalty for crime against women and children, is currently pending with the joint legislature panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/record-statements-on-cam-says-former-mscw-chief/articleshow/80036594.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar gets Digital India Award from President||PATNA: President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday presented the Digital India Award, 2020 to Bihar government through videoconferencing for promptly transferring money to the bank accounts of more than 21 lakh beneficiaries, mostly migrant workers, who were stranded outside the state during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown. Chief minister’s secretariat, disaster management department (DMD) and National Informatics Centre (NIC) were declared winners by the Centre under the ‘innovation in pandemic’ category in the Digital India Awards. Union minister Ravishankar Prasad was also present through the virtual mode. Silver award was given to the ‘Aapda Sampoorti’ web portal of the state government for ‘exemplary innovation to facilitate citizens in the challenging times of pandemics’. This portal has been developed under the technical supervision of NIC. Chanchal Kumar, principal secretary to the CM, Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary, DMD, and M Ramchandrudu, additional secretary, DMD, received the award on behalf of the state government. NIC officers Shailesh Kumar Shrivastava and Niraj Kumar Tiwary also accompanied them. “After nationwide lockdown in March, a large chunk of people from Bihar were stranded outside the state. Acting on instructions from CM Nitish Kumar, dedicated call centres were established at the CM secretariat, DMD, New Delhi-based Bihar Bhawan and Bihar Foundation, Mumbai, for providing the required assistance to the stranded people, mostly migrant workers of state across the country. Around 50 teams of officials from different departments were formed to provide the required assistance to the stranded people,” Chanchal told TOI. He said more than 21 lakh migrants received money through direct benefit transfer (DBT) via ‘Bihar Corona Tatkal Sahayta’ mobile application launched in the first week of April. “Bihar was, in fact, the first state to provide financial assistance to migrant workers through DBT. More than 1.64 crore of ration card holder families received ration for three months in advance besides financial assistance of Rs1000 to each of them. We coordinated with other state governments to carry out this work,” Chanchal said. Also, more than 15 lakh labourers, who returned to Bihar, were quarantined in more than 10,000 centres. Food, shelter and medical facilities were provided to them during the quarantine period. “After the quarantine period, the state government also conducted skill-mapping survey for those who wished to get employment in Bihar and gave them assistance. Arrangements were made for employment to the returnee workers in different departments, including making necessary amendments in the industrial policies for inviting private companies to set up their units here. Besides, Rs50 lakh was provided as ‘innovation fund’ to each district magistrate for the purpose,” Chanchal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-gets-digital-india-award-from-president/articleshow/80033072.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 31, 2020||Salem||People make suicide threat in front of Edappadi K Palaniswami’s house||SALEM: Tension prevailed for a while in front of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s house at Suramangalam here on Wednesday morning after a section of Periya Soragai villagers threatened to immolate themselves for denying them basic amenities. Police, however, thwarted their self-immolation bid and pacified them. During his election campaign at Periya Soragai village in the Edappadi assembly segment on December 19, Palaniswami had said he had fulfilled all his election assurances in the past five years and provided all basic amenities to the people of his assembly segment. Refuting the chief minister’s tall claims, residents of Boomireddipatty Colony at Periya Soragai gathered in front of his house with kerosene cans, which police grabbed, on Wednesday and said their area lacked basic amenities. “There are 300 families in the colony, which is yet to get proper drainage and drinking water facilities,” said C Chitra, one of the residents. Talking to TOI, she said they also didn’t have land of their own and were residing in the government’s free houses, which were in dilapidated condition. “The house I live was constructed in 1984 and it may collapse any time.” The villagers urged the government to allot them poramboke land to build houses. Palaniswami had, however, left for Trichy to continue his election campaign before the villagers reached his house. Police told the protesters that the CM was not home and pacified them. The villagers threatened to immolate themselves, if the CM failed to fulfil their demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/people-make-suicide-threat-in-front-of-cms-house/articleshow/80035788.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Delhi||Cold wave sweeps Delhi, rain likely in first week of January||NEW DELHI: A cold wave continued to sweep the capital as it recorded the season’s second lowest maximum and minimum temperatures on Wednesday. The minimum temperature dropped to 3.5° Celsius, three notches below the normal, while the maximum stood at 16.4° Celsius, four notches below normal, at Safdarjung observatory — the city’s base station. The season’s lowest minimum temperature — 3.4° Celsius — was recorded on December 20. India Meteorological Department has issued an “orange” alert for Thursday. Dense fog was recorded for two hours in isolated pockets of the capital on Wednesday. Delhi has recorded seven cold wave days in December, which is the second highest since 1992. The city saw the highest number of cold wave days (eight) in the month in 2018. A cold wave day is declared when the minimum temperature is 4 degrees or more notches below the normal or when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, said: “The maximum and minimum temperatures continue to fall due to icy cold winds blowing from western Himalayan region, which has received fresh snowfall. The minimum temperature may dip to 3 degrees Celsius on Thursday. Cold wave and moderate to dense fog are also predicted.” The minimum temperature may hover around 7° C on January 2 and 3 but likely to rise to 8° C on January 4. Very light rains are predicted from January 3 to 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cold-wave-sweeps-delhi-rain-likely-in-first-week-of-january/articleshow/80034183.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Garbage heap near Jubilee metro station cleared after TOI reader’s report||HYDERABAD: The garbage menace near Jubilee Hills metro station and overflowing sewage haunting commuters using the Nampally main road, brought to light by citizen reporters has been resolved. Soon after the report was published on December 28, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) officials swung into action. The person who reported the issue said that TOI citizen reporter app is empowering citizens and is becoming an effective tool for Hyderabadis to solve civic issues. “I would like to thank TOI for empowering citizens with the citizen reporter app. Several metro stations have become a place of dumping garbage. The trash was lying near the Jubilee Hills metro station for almost 15-20 days,” said Robin Zaccheus, the citizen reporter. “I can firmly say that the TOI citizen reporter app is an effective tool for Hyderabadis compared to other social media handles as raising a grievance on other platforms goes unnoticed for months,” he added, thanking GHMC for attending the issue. Responding to the sewage issue on the Nampally road, HMWSSB officials said that they resolved the issue on the day it was published. “The issue has been resolved. We have fixed the overflowing sewage. I saw the issue in the newspaper and also noticed it during inspection,” said T Srinivas, HMWSSB deputy general manager of that area. A local living near Nampally hospital said that building a box drain will solve the issue permanently. “After water board fixed the issue, the manhole was no longer overflowing. But building a box drain is a permanent solution. It will ensure that manholes are not choked even during downpour,” said Abdul Wahab, who owns a commercial establishment near Nampally hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/garbage-heap-near-jubilee-metro-station-cleared-after-toi-readers-report/articleshow/80035787.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ranchi||Random Cov testing on cards at picnic spots in Ranchi dist||Ranchi: With the state capital witnessing the lion’s share of Covid-19 cases over the past few days, the district administration will deploy mobile Covid testing vans for random testing across all the popular tourist spots in and around Ranchi in view of the surge in footfall on January 1. Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said, “I have already asked the officials concerned to make arrangements for Covid tests at key places like Jonha, Hundru falls etc., which are expected to attract a large number of New Year revellers. Those seen without masks or found violating other safety norms, will be tested on the spot and if required, we will also slap cases on them under relevant provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act.” He added, “Considering the spike in cases in the district, it is important to go for such strict measures.” At a time when the virus is on a downward trend across Jharkhand, Ranchi on Tuesday, for instance, recorded 107 new cases and of the five deaths in Jharkhand, it reported three. While amusement parks and picnic spots across state have remained shut since the lockdown in March, the roads leading up to the dams and waterfalls are expected to be crowded during New Year. Sources in the tourism department said they have put up posters and hoardings across major tourist spots highlighting the dos and don’ts for preventing the virus spread. The Jharkhand Paryatan Suraksha Samiti (JPSS), which is an outfit of paryatak mitras appointed by the tourism department for maintenance of the tourist spots, have decided to ban the consumption of liquor and tobacco across all spots. JPSS president Raj Kishore Bedia said, “We held a meeting at Hundru falls on December 18 with the local police where we decided to prohibit drinking in view of the pandemic and also to prevent mishaps. We appeal to the visitors not to indulge in drinking and anyone caught doing so, will be handed to the police.” Ranchi Police, on the other hand, has already kicked off a vehicle checking drive across some key locations to check instances of speeding and drunk driving. A few days ago, city SP Saurabh had said that special teams will be deployed on December 31 to prevent drunk driving, speeding and violation of Covid norms. “On January 1, our vigil will be stepped up at the picnic spots to ensure compliance of the safety norms,” he added. Meanwhile, Ranjan further said that all the eateries, hotels, pubs and clubs organising New Year parties on December 31 and on January 1 have been asked to keep the addresses and phone numbers of all their guests. While some hotels, like Radisson Blu and Capitol Hill, and Ranchi Club are not going to host any new year parties/programmes this year in view of the pandemic, some have decided to go ahead with their plans. “Those hosting parties will have to face the music in case there is violation of norms. The establishments need to make sure that the guests are wearing masks and maintaining other norms,” Ranjan said. As per the last Unlock guidelines issued by the state government, a maximum 200 people at a time are allowed for indoor establishments and 300 for outdoor ones, subject to the availability of space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/random-cov-testing-on-cards-at-picnic-spots-in-ranchi-dist/articleshow/80033574.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 31, 2020||Ranchi||No cash transactions at J’khand toll plazas from midnight, FASTags must||Ranchi: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) decided to do away with cash transactions at the toll plazas from Thursday midnight. The decision was taken to comply with the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 which made FASTags mandatory for vehicles from January 1, 2021 across the country. Regional officer, NHAI Jharkhand, S K Mishra said elaborate arrangements have been made across all the eight toll plazas in the state for seamless transition of the system. “We had allowed one track for cash transactions while making all other lanes equipped with FASTag readers but from January 1, zero hours it would be mandatory for every vehicle to use FASTags,” he said. Around 20-30 officials from the department have been deployed along with policeman and marshals at the toll plazas to ensure vehicles are provided with FASTags when they approach the toll. “We are not going to refuse passage to vehicles, instead the agencies providing FASTag services would be available to do the formalities,” Mishra said. Seeking cooperation from the people, NHAI appealed to the officials and policemen at the toll plazas to be polite, but firm. “We don’t want any altercation and compliance with the law of the land is must. We would also try to extend maximum support in the process,” Mishra said. FASTag was supposed to be functional almost six months ago, but due to Covid, it got delayed. NHAI has also requested the departments concerned that enjoy exemption to send relevant papers to the NHAI office as exemption category FASTags would also be compulsory. “Soon we are going to provide with exemption category FASTag stickers for relevant vehicles too,” Mishra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-cash-transactions-at-jkhand-toll-plazas-from-midnight-fastags-must/articleshow/80033518.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Ranchi||IMD predicts foggy start to New Year||Ranchi: For the residents of Ranchi, it will be a misty start to 2021 while many parts of Jharkhand will wake up to a foggy morning on January 1, according to the weather forecast released by India Meteorological Department (IMD), Ranchi on Wednesday evening. “There will be mist on the morning of January 1 in Ranchi but skies will clear out as the day progresses. In other parts of Jharkhand, shallow to moderate fog will be experienced in the morning hours followed by clear skies later,” the weather office said. It also predicted that morning temperature during the first few days of the new year is going to be low owing to a likely cloud cover during that period. On New Year’s Eve, the night time temperature in Ranchi will hover around 9-11 degree Celsius while other parts of Jharkhand will record night time temperatures between 8 and 12 degree Celsius. “Minimum temperatures in Jharkhand will not record any major change between December 31 and January 3. There will be mist and fog in the early morning hours between December 31 and January 1, followed by cloudy skies on January 2 and January 3,” Abhishek Anand, who is a scientist at IMD, Ranchi, said. He added that there are no cold wave-like conditions persisting at the moment in Jharkhand. “Overall, the weather will be pleasant as we go into a new year,” he said. As per IMD Ranchi records, the coldest January 1 morning in Ranchi in the last decade was recorded last year, with daytime mercury dipping to 15.2 degree Celsius. The coldest New Year’s Eve was recorded in Ranchi in 2018 as mercury levels dropped to 6.8 degree Celsius at night. Meanwhile on Wednesday, Ranchi recorded daytime temperature of 24.6 degree Celsius while the minimum temperature was 10.3 degree Celsius. Jamshedpur recorded 27 degree Celsius during daytime while night time mercury was recorded at 11.2 degree Celsius. Daltonganj recorded 24 degree Celsius while its minimum temperature was recorded at 10.5 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/imd-predicts-foggy-start-to-new-year/articleshow/80035953.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Ranchi||More infections than recoveries in state for 2nd day in a row||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded increase in active cases for the second day in succession with fewer recoveries than the number of fresh infections. On Wednesday, out of the 15,534 samples tested, 223 were found to be positive for Covid, indicating a positivity rate of 1.43% while 185 patients were declared recovered. Maximum number of cases were once again reported from Ranchi with 87 new cases and 90 recoveries. Two deaths were reported in the state, both from Ranchi. East Singhbhum with 40, Bokaro with 20, Dhanbad with 18 and Hazaribag with 13 cases remained in the top of the list of districts with high rate of infection. Five districts — Godda, Jamtara, Koderma, Pakur and Sahibganj — did not report any fresh infections while the remaining 14 districts reported new cases in single digits. The total number of cases reported in the state till now reached 1,14,873 while recoveries stood at 1,12,206, indicating a recovery rate of 97.67%. The seven-day growth rate declined slightly to 0.13% as against 0.14% reported on Tuesday while the seven-day doubling rate deteriorated slightly to 510.32 days as against 531.94 days recorded on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/more-infections-than-recoveries-in-state-for-2nd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/80036007.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro admin steps up vigil at picnic spots||Bokaro: Security across all the popular tourist spots in Bokaro has been beefed up ahead of January 1 to ensure that Covid-control measures are maintained properly as the district administration is anticipating a rush of picnickers on that day. Following a meeting in this regard on Wednesday, Chas SDO Shashi Prakash Singh said, “Magistrates and police personnel, including women cops, have been deployed across all the tourist spots to make sure that the revellers do not violate safety norms.” Every year Tenughat Dam, Garga Dam, Konar Dam, Gawai Dam, City Park, Jawaharlal Nehru Biological Park and others attract thousands of people during New Year who go there for picnics and day-long excursions. This year with hotels and clubs here deciding against hosting New Year parties in view of Covid-19, the crowd is expected to surge in the aforementioned spots. The administration has already intensified night patrolling across all the spots. Meanwhile, West Inn Hotel is not hosting any New Year bash this year. Its owner Amit Johar said, “We usually organise parties on New Year’s Eve every year but this time there will be no gathering and no celebrations in view of the outbreak and we are not taking any bookings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-admin-steps-up-vigil-at-picnic-spots/articleshow/80033580.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Ranchi||Centre’s coal linkage policy blamed ‘for pushing hard coke industry in Dhanbad towards closure’||Sindri: The Union government’s faulty coal linkage policy along with the failure of the coal companies to provide quality coal in adequate quantity has pushed the hard coke industry to the brink of closure, president of the Industries and Commerce Association (ICA) B N Singh said while addressing the 87th annual general meeting of the organisation. Moreover, the ICA president said rising incidents of extortion at coal loading points of collieries was also a concern for the industry. Singh said: “Dhanbad-based hard coke industries require about 36,13,027 MT of coal every year but the coal companies were providing only 20 % of the requirement, forcing the local units to import coal through Haldia and Vishakhapatnam ports.” The high cost of imported coal was affecting the fiscal health of the local companies, he added. Singh said the hard coke industry needed specified grade of coking coal but the coal provided by the BCCL and other Coal India subsidiaries was either non-coking coal or of inferior quality. “The coal companies determine the coal quality solely on the basis of ash percentage, but other aspects like coking properties, volatile materials and moisture analysis should also be taken into consideration while determining the grade,” he said. Earlier, the coal controller used to determine the quality of coal, but after coal was removed from the list of essential commodities, the government did not establish a coal regulatory authority for equitable determination of coal quality, Singh added. Singh also alleged that persons with a criminal track record were purchasing coal through e-auction at higher prices in the name of bogus industries and were openly black-marketing the purchase. He demanded that the old coal linkage policy be restored and a fuel supply agreement with the hard coke industries be inked to save the units from closure. “We have taken up the issue with all authorities concerned, including the prime minister, but to no avail,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/centres-coal-linkage-policy-blamed-for-pushing-hard-coke-industry-in-dhanbad-towards-closure/articleshow/80036025.cms||Anil Ashutosh
December 31, 2020||Ranchi||Singh slams govt for ‘ignoring’ urban areas||Ranchi: A day after releasing a report card on the performance of the grand alliance government in the last one year, BJP began highlighting the department-wise ‘failures’ of the ruling dispensation on Wednesday. On Tuesday, when the Hemant Soren-led government celebrated its first anniversary, BJP had rated the mahagathbandhan government’s performance a zero on a scale of 10. Upping the attack, BJP Ranchi MLA and former urban development minister C P Singh said that urban planning and development remained neglected in the last one year. He said, “While going through media reports on the big announcements made by the government on its anniversary, I couldn’t find any important news related to the development of urban infrastructure. The government inaugurated a few schemes under the Smart City project and laid the foundation for the second phase of the water supply scheme. Both these projects were conceputalised and initiated by us during our stint.” Criticising the government, Singh said: “The government has been busy blaming the Centre for lack of funds. But, in reality, it lacked fiscal prudence and deliberately blocked funds meant for cities. For the past year, Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra has been demanding funds from the state government for waste disposal but to no avail.” Singh added that during their tenure, funds for urban development were more than doubled. In 2013-14, the overall budget for the urban development department stood at Rs 900 crores, which was increased to Rs 2,829 crores during BJP’s tenure, Singh added. “In the last five years, LED-based street lights were introduced in the state and we put up 40,000 such street lamps in Ranchi alone. We also set up urban toilets to improve sanitation and hygiene and rolled out piped-water schemes for all urban local bodies. We initiated work on three flyovers in Ranchi to streamline traffic but all those projects are staring at uncertainty today due to policy paralysis of the current government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/singh-slams-govt-for-ignoring-urban-areas/articleshow/80035989.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 31, 2020||Vijayawada||How history made way for development in Vijayawada||While drastic development in infrastructure defined the decade for Vijayawada, many of the city’s historical landmarks had to make way. Flyovers, road-widening projects, riverfront development led to many of the city’s historical markers shift locale. At the end of the decade, Venu Lanka takes a look at the myriad ways in which the city transformed. Ashok PillarA 60-foot pillar at Durga Ghat junction in Vijayawada was removed to facilitate Kanaka Durga Flyover works in 2015. Many opposed the decision to demolish the pillar, which had existed since the 1950s. However, officials managed to carefully remove the Lion Capital on top of the pillar and demolished the pillar. Many people, since then, have requested the government to reconstruct the pillar after the flyover was completed. Potti Sriramulu StatuePotti Sriramulu, who fought for the separation of Andhra Pradesh from Madras, is worshipped by many in Vijayawada. His statue at Prakasam Barrage was removed in 2015 amid huge protests to facilitate the Kanaka Durga Flyover. The statue itself was unveiled in 1994 by erstwhile Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao in the presence of then chief minister Kotla Vijaya Bhaskar Reddy. The VMC is looking to reinstall the statue at the same location. Boddu Bomma (Dwara Palaka)Centuries-old ‘Dwarapalaka’, famous as Boddu Bomma was located right adjacent to the point where Krishna locks on the canal road. Historians believe that the architectural style of the smiling Boddu Bomma sculpture belongs to Vengi Chalukyas. The sculpture was removed in 2015 to facilitate Kanaka Durga Flyover works. VMC is currently looking for a location to reinstall the Boddu Bomma. Temples on Krishna river bankAround 30 temples on the Krishna river bank were demolished as part of riverfront development activity for Krishna Pushkarams in 2016. The historic Seethammavari Paadalu and Ganesh temple were demolished. During the 2019 elections, YSRC promised to reconstruct the temples. The endowments department has now started identifying land to reconstruct the temples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/how-history-made-way-for-development-in-vijayawada/articleshow/80016060.cms||Venu Lanka
December 31, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Man out on parole held for raping, killing 2-year-old girl||NAVI MUMBAI: A criminal out on parole was arrested for the rape and murder of a two-year-old tribal girl in Pen on Wednesday. Aadesh Patil (35) was arrested in a manhunt after the child's great-grandmother reported seeing him dump the body near the family's house in the wee hours. Times ViewWhile parole is a provision that humanises an otherwise rigid penal system and is rightfully granted in several instances, in cases of repeat offenders, especially those accused of causing bodily harm, the parameters should be stringent enough to protect the purported survivors as well as those who could be harmed in the future. If authorities are inclined to grant parole, then relevant conditions must be imposed to ensure this. In this case, the police and prosecution must ensure that a water tight case is built and that the case is fast tracked. Justice must be ensured for the bereaved family.Pen councillor Shomer Penkar said a bandh was called in the town in Raigad district in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region on Thursday. Patil was freed on parole about 10 days ago. Raigad SP Ashok Dudhe said Patil already had four cases against him for rape, theft and housebreaking and was externed once. Patil was accused of picking up the sleeping tribal girl from her house in Maleghar Wadi at night and taking her to a secluded part of a nearby forest, behind a high school, and raping and killing her. The girl's parents were asleep when she was picked up. "The family has a half-broken metal sheet as the house front door," councillor Penkar said. "The girl was found missing around 2 am." Penkar said the parents checked with the child's great-grandmother before launching a search. "Dogs had started barking and howling nearby around 4 am," Penkar said. "The great-grandmother followed the howls of the local dogs and saw the accused returning with the child. Aadesh Patil fled the spot after dumping the girl 25 feet away." The woman brought the lifeless child home. "The girl was declared brought dead at the sub-district hospital," Penkar said. "Excessive bleeding was noticed from her private parts. The accused had gone to his house nearby and slept." (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-man-out-on-parole-held-for-raping-killing-2-year-old-girl/articleshow/80037733.cms||Umesh K Parida
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra police chief opts for Central duty, to head CISF||MUMBAI: Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal will now lead the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). An IPS officer of the 1985 batch, Jaiswal will hold the post till he retires on September 30, 2022. TOI had reported earlier this month that Jaiswal would be sent on Central deputation. According to reports, Jaiswal has been at loggerheads with both CM Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Anil Deshmukh over the reshuffle in the IPS, following which he opted for Central deputation. When he sought permission to take up the Central assignment, his application was accepted with immediate effect and the Union Ministry of Home Affairs informed. If a senior bureaucrat is to be believed, Jaiswal was prepared to take up any assignment. In March 2019, the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had been instrumental in Jaiswal's repatriation to the state police as Mumbai police commissioner. Jaiswal had been on Central deputation for long, and his last assignment was with the Research and Analysis Wing. In view of his clean image, Fadnavis had knocked at the doors of PM Modi for his early release from Central deputation. Jaiswal later took over the reins of the state police on July 1, 2019, following the retirement of Datta Padsalgikar. While Jaiswal will take up his new assignment in a day or two, it may take at least a week to appoint his successor. As per the procedure laid down by the apex court, the state government has to submit a panel of IPS officers as per their seniority levels to the Union ministry of home affairs. According to the state IPS list, Jaiswal is followed by Sanjay Pandey of the 1986 batch who is currently, DG (home guards), Bipin Bihari (1987 batch and DG, Police Housing Corporation), Surendra Pandey, (1987 batch and DG, Prisons), Hemant Nagrale (1987 batch and DG, legal and technical) and Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh of the 1988 batch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-police-chief-opts-for-central-duty-to-head-cisf/articleshow/80037751.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Three men, guard drill hole in wall, take away Rs 8 crore gold||MUMBAI: A 25-year-old jewellery showroom in Boisar was robbed of around Rs 8 crore worth gold ornaments and Rs60,000 by four men, including the security guard, early on Wednesday. The theft was captured on the showroom's CCTV cameras. The theft at Mangalam Jewellers, at Chitralaya, came to light when the owner went to the shop and noticed a hole drilled into the common wall of a computer shop on the first floor. The showroom is on the ground and first floors. CCTV images showed the guard and three men carrying out the theft. The guard, from Nepal, was employed on December 5. Boisar MIDC police said the owners had not carried out the mandatory police verification for him. He stayed on the second floor, which housed the showroom and other shops. A gas-cutter was used to drill the hole into the wall of the computer shop on the second floor around 2.30am. The men gained entry into the showroom's second floor through the hole and took gold ornaments weighing around 14kg, police said. Around Rs60,000, through sales on Tuesday, was kept in the showroom, to be deposited in the bank on Wednesday, said senior inspector Pradip Kasbe. A team has been formed to track down the guard who could flee to Nepal. Some guards hailing from Nepal are being questioned. The main accused is believed to have worked at an industrial unit in Boisar before joining the showroom. A case under Indian Penal Code sections 457 (house trespass) and 380 (theft) has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-men-guard-drill-hole-in-wall-take-away-rs-8-crore-gold-in-maharashtra/articleshow/80037755.cms||Sandhya Nair
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||Body in sack: Father-in-law nabbed for 'honour killing' in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Six days after a young woman's body was found in a sack at Aksa beach, police arrested her father-in-law and two autorickshaw drivers, in what appears to be a case of honour killing. Nandini Thakur (22) had tied the knot with Pankaj Rai about three years back against the families' wishes as they belonged to different castes. Pankaj's father, Kamal (55), was reportedly humiliated by people at his hometown in Bihar for this. Kamal also told police he suspected Nandini's fidelity and had been plotting the killing for some months. He had paid one of the auto drivers a 'supari' of nearly Rs 1 lakh for help. The accused with the policeThe Malwani police found the body of a woman inside a sack on Aksa beach on December 24 with a tatoo 'NP' on her hand and a red beads necklace and mangalsutra in her neck. "We checked with other police stations and learnt that a woman had been reported missing from Kandivli (E). Her photograph in Samta Nagar police records showed her wearing the same necklace and mangalsutra," said inspector Arjun Rajane. Nandini had last been seen on December 8 and her father made a missing complaint on December 11. Police found it strange that Kamal had left for Bihar after Nandini's disappearance, so he was summoned to Mumbai for questioning. Meanwhile, investigators learnt that Pankaj and his mother had left for Bihar during Chhat Puja, before Nandini's disappearance, which meant that Kamal was the only one from the family staying with her in Mumbai. Kamal did not give police any straight answers. "We made inquiries in Kamal's neighbourhood. We learnt that on December 9 Kamal had stayed overnight with auto driver, Pradeep Gupta. Gupta left for UP soon after that," said assistant inspector Vijay Raskar. A police team got Gupta back here and he spilled the beans. Early on December 9, Gupta and another driver, Krishnakant Singh, had visited Kamal's residence. Two of the men held Nandini's arms and legs down, while the third smothered her with a pillow, police said. They wrapped the body in a bedsheet, supported it with pillows and placed it in a sack. The three then went to Borivli (W), where they dumped the sack in a nullah. The tide carried it to Aksa beach weeks later. Police said Kamal roped in Gupta, convincing him that the 'supari' money could be used to marry off his daughters. Kamal, Gupta and Singh were arrested on Wednesday. "When Nandini and Pankaj eloped from Bihar three years back, Nandini's parents registered a police complaint against Pankaj's family. This had infuriated Kamal. But the couple lived separately at Nalasopara and moved in with him only during lockdown," said a police officer. Investigators learnt that Kamal had given another 'supari' on Nandini's life few months back but things did not work out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/body-in-sack-father-in-law-nabbed-for-honour-killing-in-mumbai/articleshow/80037757.cms||Nitasha Natu
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Kanjurmarg land ‘sold’ to Shapoorji for Rs 521 crore||MUMBAI: The Garodia family, which claimed ownership of the Kanjurmarg plot where the state proposed the metro car shed, has already been paid Rs 471 crore by Shapoorji Pallonji & Company Ltd as part of a development agreement. Documents accessed by TOI show the deal for the 500-acre sprawl in Kanjurmarg and Bhandup—which the Garodias say they control—is worth Rs 521 crore. The salt commissionerate, that comes under the central government, has, however, challenged the family’s claim.  The Kanjurmarg property, which the state hoped to use for a metro car shed, is not only leased land in the possession of a private individual, there are development rights over it held by a prominent business group. Of the 500 acres here, the state has staked claim to 102 for the metro lines 3 and 6. But the Bombay high court has rejected the bid and described the collector's attempt to pass it off as state government property as a "fraud". The lease-holders to the land, the Garodias, did not respond to a message sent by this correspondent for a comment. According to an income tax appellate tribunal order of November 2017, the Garodias were paid Rs 471 crore by Shapoorji Pallonji. The remaining Rs 50 crore was held back because a portion of the land falls under the stringent Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ), where construction is either limited or not permitted at all. "...the assessee (Garodia) has sold development rights on 500 acres of salt pan land at Village Kanjur and Bhandup to Shapoorji Pallonji And Company Ltd for a total consideration of Rs 521 crore vide agreement dated 13th August 2009... the lease rights over the major part of land was acquired by the assessee prior to 1981 and a part of it was acquired by virtue of decree of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court on 20th November 1986,'' said the tribunal's order. Garodia had approached it, challenging the addition of an amount of Rs 50 crore while computing long-term capital gain on the land sale, stating he had not yet received the remaining amount. "When the assessing officer called upon the assessee (Garodia) to explain the reason for reducing the amount of Rs 50 crore, it was submitted by the assessee, as per the terms of agreement the amount of Rs 50 crore was receivable only after a part of land under CRZ regulation is permitted to be utilised for development purposes. It was submitted, since the Late Shri Gordhandas S Garodia land in question is still under CRZ regulation, assessee has neither received the amount of Rs 50 crore nor was entitled to receive it," it said. According to the agreement, the "sale consideration shall be payable by the developer (Shapoorji Pallonji) to Garodia as under: i) Rs 175 crore paid before execution of sale deed; ii) Rs 200 crore paid in favour of the lessee in proportion to and as per the lessee's direction;...iii) Rs 96 crore to be paid to the lessees within 90 days of execution of the sale deed; and iv) balance sum of Rs 50 crore is payable to lessees towards the areas which are covered by the CRZ notification... and shall be payable upon the said area being permitted to be developed and/or utilised for the development purpose." Early this month, the Bombay high court criticised the Mumbai suburban collector's order declaring the Kanjurmarg plot as belonging to the state. The court said the Centre and its lessee Mahesh Garodia had made out a "very strong case" to stay his order to transfer the 102 acres of Kanjurmarg land to MMRDA for a metro car shed. In a separate petition Mahesh Garodia, claiming to be the Centre's lessee on the land for over a century, argued that the MMRDA and state had "all along known it was central land" and yet without hearing him had transferred the land for a metro car shed. Despite there being an interim order in a suit of 2005 between the lessee and Centre as argued by him, the HC said the collector had made an attempt to hand it over to MMRDA, which bordered on "fraud". In 2013, the salt department claimed ownership of the plot and warned the public not to enter into any sale or lease agreement when it learnt about the development agreement between Garodia and Pallonji. The 500-acre Arthur and Jenkins Salt Works is located on both sides of the Eastern Express Highway. The developer later submitted a proposal to the state, seeking to use the land to construct one lakh affordable homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-salt-department-claimed-kanjur-land-in-2013-warned-against-deals/articleshow/80037763.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
December 31, 2020||Ghaziabad||Shaheen Bagh shooter joins BJP, expelled hours later||GHAZIABAD: BJP was left red-faced on Wednesday when it had to cancel the primary membership of Kapil Gujjar, alias Kapil Baisla, hours after inducting him into the party. Gujjar (29) had shot to infamy on February 1 after firing shots in the air during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act at Shaheen Bagh. District BJP functionaries said they were not aware of Gujjar’s identity and he had come with a group of people desirous of joining the party. Speaking to TOI later, Gujjar said, “I don’t know why I was expelled, but that doesn’t matter because my Hindutva ideology aligns with that of BJP. I will keep on working for the party from outside. I want to work for Hindus.” Unaware of Gujjar’s identity, says BJPOn Wednesday, about 30 people, including Kapil Gujjar, claiming to have affiliation with SP and BSP had come to BJP’s district office to join the party. After speaking with them, we granted them the party’s membership,” said Sanjeev Sharma, BJP Ghaziabad Mahanagar president. "Hours later, we got a call from state functionaries asking us to cancel Gujjar’s membership. We were informed that he was the same man who was arrested for firing in the air in February during the Shaheen Bagh protest. We were not aware of his identity. We have cancelled his membership with immediate effect and conveyed the same to him," added Sharma. In a video circulated on social media, Gujjar was seen clad in a kurta-pyjama being offered sweets by BJP functionaries as they posed for the camera. Asked if his credentials were checked before he was inducted, Gujjar said, "They spoke to us for a few minutes in which we expressed our desire to join BJP. After that, we were handed the customary BJP shawl and offered sweets." Gujjar, a small-time real estate agent, has been out on bail since March. After his arrest, police had identified the man who had supplied him the pistol seven years ago. Gujjar was booked for attempt to murder and under sections of the Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/shaheen-bagh-shooter-joins-bjp-expelled-hours-later/articleshow/80037770.cms||---
December 31, 2020||India||Covid-19: 10 more test +ve for UK variant||Ten more returnees from Britain tested positive on Wednesday for the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus found in the UK, taking the tally of such patients in India to 17. With four cases each, Karnataka and Delhi accounted for 80% of the load of the new variant on Wednesday. One infection each was reported from Uttar Pradesh and Bengal. With four members of a Shivamogga family testing positive on Wednesday, the number of people infected by the UK strain in Karnataka went up to seven - 40% of the country's caseload. CM B S Yediyurappa urged all returnees from the UK and other countries to get tested for their own safety. "Instead of disappearing, they should get tested. The UK variant spreads very easily," he said. Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said that of the 26 UK returnees who had tested positive for Covid-19 upon their arrival in Karnataka, seven were found to be infected with the UK variant after genome sequencing. Three of them are from Bengaluru. The three Bengalureans - including a mother and her six-year-old daughter - are being treated in a separate room in Victoria hospital, a government facility. The same protocol is being followed for the Shivamogga family - a couple, and their two children aged 4 and 13. The Shivamogga family had landed from UK in Bengaluru on December 21. Before leaving for Shivamogga, they met friends and relatives in Bengaluru's Whitefield area, said Shivamogga district deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar. They also met people in Chikkamagaluru district. In Delhi, total 38 UK returnees and their contacts have tested positive. Of them, four were found to be infected with the new strain. The patient in Bengal who tested positive for the new strain is from Kolkata and had returned on December 20 from the UK, where he was working. He is in the Medical College Hospital isolation ward since then and is asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-10-more-test-ve-for-uk-variant/articleshow/80037771.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Vadodara||Fellow prisoner dupes inmate’s family of cash, car||Vadodara: Man living in Manjalpur duped a fellow prisoner’s family by promising them to bail him out and also service their car. In a complaint of cheating filed by prisoner Pankaj Patel’s wife Usha with Karjan police on Tuesday, the woman alleged that Ashwin Patel came to meet them at their home in Karjan on May 23 and said that he was Pankaj’s friend in jail and had been released on bail. He told Usha and Pankaj’s father Gordhan Patel that he had been asked by Pankaj to service the car and change its tyre as he owns a garage in Vadodara. Along with the car, he also took the registration book. Pankaj has been in Vadodara Central Jail since 2018 in an abetment to suicide case registered with Panigate police. On June 2, accused took Rs 50,000 on the pretext to pay an advocate to secure bail for Patel. On June 10, Ashwin took Pankaj’s case file and cash and later told Usha that the bail application has been filed. In August, Gordhan went to meet Gill who said that he has received the file but not the amount and so, he did not file the bail plea. Thereafter, Pankaj’s wife approached police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fellow-prisoner-dupes-inmates-family-of-cash-car/articleshow/80032950.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Beating bribery: 28 of 62 ACB traps against revenue officials||Vijayawada: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) successfully laid 62 traps this year, out of which 28 happened to be against officials of the revenue department. According to data released by ACB, the largest sum collected as bribe this year was Rs 7 lakh by D Koteswar Rao, a town planning surveyor in Anantapur district to issue a survey report to the complainant. That was followed D Prasanthi, a tehsildar in Krishna district, who took Rs 3 lakh as bribe to process a file for non-issuance of notice under land ceiling and settling the issue in favour of the complainant and his family members. Overall, the 62 traps laid involved a total bribe amount of Rs 28.39 lakh. ACB officials also registered 14 disproportionate assets cases this year, a significant drop from the last three years. However, it is also pertinent to note that the ACB dealt with one of the biggest scams, the ESI scam, this year which involved former labour ministers and directors. Some significant disproportionate assets cases include the arrest of MV Siva Satyanarayana, deputy director of the drugs control administration in Guntur; Kandra Vijay Kumar, superintendent engineer in Nellore; Panthula Sarkar, DSP in APSP Battalions in Kakinada. The ACB also registered 15 criminal misconduct cases and conducted 102 regular inquiries. ACB sleuths also conducted 97 surprise checks this year and seized large amounts of unaccounted money from government offices. 52 out of 97 surprise checks were conducted on the revenue department, which includes 32 tehsildar offices and 18 sub-registrar offices. Apart from these, ACB also conducted 17 surprise checks on the municipal administration and urban development department. 14 checks were conducted against the department of health, medical and family welfare, seven against the transport department, two each on backward classes and welfare, labour, panchayati raj and rural development. During this year, the bureau conducted 11 surprise checks at offices of various public servants who paid huge amounts in bribes to private persons posing as ACB officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/beating-bribery-28-of-62-acb-traps-against-revenue-officials/articleshow/80033576.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Conviction rate shoots up in Chittoor, crime rate dips||TIRUPATI: Chittoor SP S Senthil Kumar noted that crime rate in the district has come down by 13% while the conviction rate has gone up 85.24% in 2020 compared to last year. Speaking to reporters after announcing the district’s annual crime report at the Chittoor DPO on Wednesday, the SP said the number of major crimes registered this year was 1,238, lower than 1,424 in 2019. “The rate of conviction in the previous year was 46.09% but it went up to 85.24% this year”, he added. The annual crime report shows that in 2020, property lost was pegged at Rs 12.75 crore, while the recovery was to the tune of Rs 9.89 crore, accounting for 77.59% of total property lost. As many as 416 non-bailable warrants (NBW) were pending up to January 2020, and this year 201 were taken and 295 were executed, leaving 322 pending. The SP said police have succeeded in reducing offences, such as murders by 38.80%, murder for gain by 80%, attempt to murder by 12.28%, dacoities/robberies by 65.21%, theft by 12.71% and rioting by 12.03%. However, cases related to cheating have gone up by 8% this year. Though there was an overall decrease of 11% in crimes against women, the number of dowry murder cases remains unchanged with two cases reported this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/conviction-rate-shoots-up-in-chittoor-crime-rate-dips/articleshow/80033578.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Overall crime rate in Vizag drops by 14%||VISAKHAPATNAM: Overall rate of crime in greater Visakhapatnam came down by 14% from last year in 2020. Speaking at the end of the year, city police commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that the number of cases registered this year has dropped to 3,022 from 3,458 last year. The number of murders has gone up from 17 in 2019 to 27 in 2020. Property offences have come down this year. The detection rate in case of property offences was 58% while recovery rate was 53%. Crimes against women decreased by 24%, with 945 cases registered this year against 1,251 cases last year. The city police have focussed significantly on safety of women by setting up a special platform to address grievances through the Disha police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/overall-crime-rate-in-vizag-drops-by-14/articleshow/80033606.cms||Siva G
December 31, 2020||Delhi||Two killed in Delhi's Narela as gunmen open fire||NEW DELHI: Two people were killed in outer Delhi’s Narela after some unidentified gunmen opened fire at them late on Wednesday evening. Prima facie, it appeared to be a case of neighborhood rivalry, a senior cop said, adding that they were investigating all angles. Police received a PCR call about the incident around 9pm and a team was rushed to the spot. The assailants, locals told the cops, were in a car and fired indiscriminately using pistols. The cops are scanning footage from CCTV cameras to identify them. One of the deceased was the target, while the other, cops suspect, was a passerby who came in the line of fire. The target is a local resident of Kuraini in Narela and worked as a driver. An FIR under IPC Section 302 pertaining to murder has been registered and a team formed to investigate the matter. The bodies have been sent to the mortuary for postmortem, which will be conducted on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-killed-in-delhis-narela-as-gunmen-open-fire/articleshow/80037804.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Celebrate New Year at home: Vizag cops||VISAKHAPATNAM: Police have prohibited New Year celebrations across Vizag city limits on the intervening night of Dec 31 and Jan 1 in view of Covid-19 precautions. Police chief Manish Kumar Sinha on Wednesday said all establishments such as hotels and restaurants should be closed by 10 pm on Dec 31. He also appealed to public to stay indoors and celebrate New Year at home. All events at hotels, cake cutting and gathering of people on the roads, bursting of crackers etc are prohibited. Police have asked all liquor outlets to close by 8 pm. People have been told to follow Covid-19 norms during prayers at all places of worship on Dec 31 night. The RK beach stretch would be closed on Dec 31 night to prevent gathering of people. Vehicles wouldn’t be allowed to ply on the stretch. The police have formed special teams to check drinking at public places, bike racing and other incidents on Dec 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/celebrate-new-year-at-home-cops/articleshow/80033645.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||It was an eventful decade for the Eastern Naval Command||Visakhapatnam: It was an eventful decade for Indian Navy’s Eastern Naval Command (ENC). From the commissioning of India’s two nuclear submarines — INS Chakra (2012) and INS Arihant (2016) — induction of advanced jet trainer aircraft Hawk-132 (in 2013), new warships and naval vessels such as INS Astradharini, INS Kamorta, Kiltan and Kadmatt, to hosting the International Fleet Review (IFR) in 2016 which saw participation from around 50 navies from across the world, it remained a busy decade for the ENC. Among other events, the Vizag Navy Marathon commenced in 2014. Navy’s patrol aircraft TU-142 was decommissioned in 2017 and turned into a museum on beach road opposite Kursura submarine museum. However, the Milan multilateral naval exercise was postponed from March 2020 to 2022 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. After 15 years, India hosted the prestigious IFR from February 4 to 8, 2016, which was attended by the President and Prime Minister besides military chiefs of several countries. Around 70 ships participated in the event, with a flypast by 50 fighter jets being the highlight of the 5-day event. President Ram Nath Kovind awarded the prestigious President’s Colour (highest honour for any military unit) to the submarine arm of the Indian Navy on Dec 8, 2017 at the ENC, which was also its golden jubilee year. Nuclear submarines INS Arihant was commissioned in August 2016, while INS Chakra was taken on a 10-year lease from Russia in 2012, with Visakhapatnam being their home port. Several adventure activities and expeditions were also undertaken during the decade in which naval personnel from the ENC left their mark. Some of the notable ones include the second Everest expedition (Sagartal Se Sagarmatha) after 13 years in May 2017. Of the nine members who planted the naval ensign on top of Mount Everest, five were from the ENC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/it-was-an-eventful-decade-for-the-eastern-naval-command/articleshow/80033719.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||It’s adieu to a year people would not forget in a hurry||Visakhapatnam: As the year draws to a close, what marked 2020 will be the unprecedented change wrought by the novel coronavirus. What started off as panic purchases in the initial weeks of the outbreak soon developed into images of the exodus of migrants on foot, relatives abandoning the dead, discrimination faced by Covid-19 patients, hospitals often fleecing patients and mounting unemployment. In some instances, courts sentenced people for violating lockdown norms. In the early days of the outbreak in March and April, fear fuelled by rumours on social media and the increase in suspected cases triggered panic buying, leading to a shortage of sanitizers, masks and other personal protective equipment. Soon after the Union government imposed the nationwide lockdown in March to mitigate the spread of the virus, a vulnerable workforce from other states, engaged in construction work, brick kilns, small-scale industries, agricultural and other menial labour, was suddenly left stranded in Andhra Pradesh. Rendered jobless and out of money to feed their families, migrant workers began a mass exodus on foot. Workers walking for miles on national highways to reach home became a common sight in Andhra Pradesh. The plight of the migrant worker, often without food and aid, continued till restrictions were eased towards the end of May. Misconceptions surrounding Covid-19 also robbed the dead of dignity. Locals residing near graveyards often resisted the final rites of Covid-19 victims or relatives would abandon the dead. There were also several instances of discrimination against patients or their families and health workers treating Covid-19 cases. The year also sounded a death knell for the entrepreneurial dreams of many with the pandemic affecting businesses and transactions, leading to the closure of thousands of establishments that could no longer bear the cost of rent and other incidental expenses. Educational institutions and several public buildings were converted into quarantine centres and migrant relief centres. The Pileru Second Class Magistrate Court in Chittoor district convicted and sentenced a group of 13 people to two days of imprisonment and a penalty of Rs 1,000 for violating Covid-19 lockdown norms in March. This was the first lockdown violation conviction and sentencing in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/its-adieu-to-a-year-people-would-not-forget-in-a-hurry/articleshow/80033787.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra's daily Covid cases go past 3,500 after gap of 5 days||MUMBAI: After five days of registering fewer than 3,500 Covid-19 cases daily, the state public health department detected 3,537 cases on Wednesday. The cases in Mumbai, too, correspondingly rose - from 537 on Tuesday to 714 -- but health officials said such fluctuations are not significant enough to worry. The state tally rose to 19.28 lakh, including 2.92 lakh cases in Mumbai. The number of daily deaths in the state was 70, including 13 in Mumbai. A state official said the state's progressive death tally had increased by 20 due to reconciliation of data. The overall toll in Maharashtra and Mumbai is 49,463 and 11,107 respectively. Health officials said the only worry as far as Covid is concerned is the impact, if at all, of the UK mutation that is highly contagious. "It is known to spread rapidly and could cause a second surge and hence we need the stringent containment measures that are currently in place," said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid-19. India has banned flights from the UK till January 7, and passengers from other European nations, South Africa and the Middle East have to complete 14-day quarantine, including seven days in an institutional facility or a hotel. However, statistics from the city underline the decline of Covid. "Almost 60-70% of the beds earmarked for Covid care in the city are available," said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of the BMC-run Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central. While Nair was designated as the city's Covid-only hospital with 1,000-plus beds that were full in the May-June period, at the moment there are less than 150 Covid patients here. The city's overall bed data too presents a similar picture. Only 26% of the 13,988 Covid care beds and 44% of the 1,886 ICU beds are occupied right now, showed BMC's data dashboard on Wednesday. State public health minister Rajesh Tope said although there is no positive case with the new strain in Maharashtra at the moment, the government is taking serious measures and will increase testing across the state. He appealed to citizens to be self-disciplined as far as new year's eve parties are concerned. Decisions on opening up trains for everyone and physical attendance in schools would be taken after a review in the new year. Thane city recorded 108 fresh cases and two deaths. In Kalyan-Dombivli, 101 cases were reported. In Navi Mumbai, 84 cases and two deaths were reported. PCMC reported 36 cases and two deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtras-daily-covid-cases-go-past-3500-after-gap-of-5-days/articleshow/80037836.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||IT giants powered from remote villages of Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: When the Covid-19 pandemic struck and IT companies decided on work from home (WFH), many thought the techies would continue to live in big cities like Bengaluru and Hyderabad. They would simply set up their workstation at home. Instead, many of them decided to return to what they really considered home — their native places — even if it meant a village in Andhra Pradesh. This has created a situation where many of India’s tech giants are now being run by professionals living in distant villages. For instance, about 40 IT professionals have left their rented apartments in the cities and are working out of KJ Puram, a small village in Viskhapatnam. They work for IT giants in Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai. Some 15 kilometres away in Turuvolu village, another batch of 10 young techies are equally toiling hard and performing various tasks of software development process. KJ Puram, which has not been badly affected by Covid-19, has a population of about 5,700. People here are in diverse fields, especially in IT sector, medicine and film industry. “It is altogether a different experience working from the village, but I am enjoying every bit of it,” Ravi Pothula, a young IT professional, said. Anil Kumar Barla and Prasanna Kumar, who hail from Turuvolu, said internet reach in the villages and no power outages have made it easy for them to work. Bantu Hari Babu, who hails from Mallepalli village near Rajahmundry, said life has come full circle for him due to the pandemic. “I am back in my native village where I grew up and studied for almost 25 years. Almost all my friends and colleagues have moved out of metros soon after the announcement of the lockdown and doing WFH. I cannot imagine that I am sitting and working from my village home,” said Hari, who works for a top IT firm in Bengaluru. Not just Hari, Ravi and Anil, thousands of professionals have taken to WFH in gram panchayats, small towns and emerging cities of AP. IT companies are also allowing virtual onboarding and working for freshers apart from experienced professionals due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/it-giants-powered-from-remote-villages-of-ap/articleshow/80033816.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||14 flyers from UK test +ve in Maharashtra, 8 of them in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Eight new cases of Covid-19 have been detected among passengers who have returned to Mumbai from the United Kingdom since November 25, said state health officials on Wednesday. The tally of flyers from the UK who have tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai has risen to 23 so far. Health officials said no Covid-19 patient with the UK variant has been found in Maharashtra so far, but 57 returnees across the state have tested positive for the coronavirus infection. Fourteen of the 57 cases were added to the tally on Wednesday. Samples of 52 of these flyers have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) to check for the new mutant strain that has caused a massive surge in Covid cases in the UK (RT-PCR test cannot identify the mutation). "Other five samples are in the process of being sent," said Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state public health department. Apart from the 23 positive patients in Mumbai, Pune has 11, Thane has seven and Nagpur has six. There are two passengers each from Nashik, Aurangabad, Raigad and Buldhana and one each from Nanded and Washim. The state has so far traced 4,474 passengers and tested 2,917 of them. As for a 25-year-old Covid-positive woman from Dombivli who had returned from the UK, NIV reports show she is not infected with the UK strain of the virus. The reports of another Dombivli woman, a 33-year-old who had also returned from the UK and was tested Covid-positive, are awaited. Both women are asymptomatic and admitted to a local Covid centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/14-flyers-from-uk-test-ve-in-maharashtra-8-of-them-in-mumbai/articleshow/80037842.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fine collection by traffic cops surged 25% to Rs 235 crore||NEW DELHI: Delhi Traffic Police collected Rs 235 crore through on-the-spot challans and notices issued for violation of traffic rules as against Rs 188 crore in 2019, a 25% increase. The amount has increased despite traffic restrictions being in place for several months during the lockdown due to Covid-19. Though there was a dip in certain categories of violations this year, the total collection saw an increase because of implementation of the new Motor Vehicle Act from April 2020 in Delhi. The Act has hiked the penalties for all violations significantly to make them effective deterrents. Violations like improper parking and riding without a helmet saw a decline this year. However, speeding remained a nuisance with over 80 lakh challans being issued for this violation through automated cameras. Steeper fines under MV Act a factor in higher mop-upRed light violations and other violations recorded by the cameras were around 17 lakhs and 16 lakhs, respectively. “Due to Covid, we made sure that there was minimum physical interaction and the challans were issued through the automated cameras, red light violation cameras and over speeding cameras as well,” said Manish Agrawal, joint commissioner of police, traffic. “Sending notices home along with proof of the violation also lets the offender know where and how the violation was done and makes sure that they don’t repeat it, at least on the same stretch. Some people had written to us during the lockdown that they were wrongly challaned but we have a set system of validation and we re-check and accordingly issue the challan again.” According to data released by the traffic police, April saw only 31 challans being issued on the spot for riding without a helmet. The lockdown months of May and June saw zero prosecutions for improper parking, riding without a helmet, crossing the stop line, driving in the wrong direction in a one-way lane and driving without a pollution certificate. In July, the total number of challans in these categories had risen to 14,769. And, by October, the figure had risen to 81,625. On the other hand, on-the spot speeding challans issued during the period from March to October this year were 3407 as against 82,768 in 2019 but notices for overspeeding issued this year during the same period were around 49 lakhs compared to nine lakhs last year, primarily because of deployment of more and more cameras. Agrawal added that the emphasis throughout was on regulation and less on prosecution. “Traffic rules have to be followed and hence prosecution becomes mandatory. Currently, automated cameras are installed at several locations and we will gradually install them all across Delhi. It is not humanly possible to challan every person on the road and hence the automated system has been deployed to work as a force multiplier,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-fine-collection-by-traffic-cops-surged-25-to-rs-235-crore/articleshow/80037841.cms||Sakshi Chand
December 31, 2020||India||To boost defence sector, govt OKs indigenous missile exports||NEW DELHI: In a move to boost domestic defence manufacturing, the government on Wednesday approved the export of indigenously-developed surface-to-air Akash missile system and set up a panel to ensure faster approvals for acquisition proposals by various countries. The Akash missile systems have over 96% indigenous components and the weapon can hit targets at a range of 25km. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said the export version of Akash missiles would be different from the system currently deployed with Indian armed forces. The decision to export the missile systems was taken at a Cabinet meeting presided by PM Modi. "Under the #AtmaNirbharBharat, India is growing in its capabilities of manufacturing a wide variety of Defence platforms & missiles. The Cabinet chaired by PM @narendramodi ji today approved the export of Akash Missile System and a Committee for faster approvals has been created," Singh tweeted. He said Indian defence exports so far included parts and components. "The export of big platforms was minimal. This decision by the Cabinet would help the country improve its defence products and make them globally competitive," the minister said. Singh said the government intends to focus on exporting high-value defence platforms with an aim to achieve a target of $5 billion in defence exports and improve strategic ties with friendly countries. The government has been majorly focusing on boosting domestic defence production and set a target of over Rs 1.7 lakh crore turnover in defence manufacturing by 2025.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/to-boost-defence-sector-govt-oks-indigenous-missile-exports/articleshow/80037858.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ranchi||Cops across police stns in state to soon get weekly-offs||Ranchi: All personnel posted at police stations will soon get a one-day weekly off, said Jharkhand director general of police (DGP) M V Rao in a presser on Wednesday. “In January, the move, a first-of-its-kind in Jharkhand, will be rolled out at a few police stations on an experimental basis to evaluate implementation glitches and after corrective measures, from February we hope to extend it across all police stations,” Rao said. Rao said the initiative was taken to allow a proper work-life balance to the thousands of personnel working across the state. “An plan has been readied and sent to all SPs,” he said. According to a study titled ‘Status of Policing in India 2019’ conducted by Common Cause and Lokniti – Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, a non-profit organisation and a think-tank, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh are the only states to give all its police personnel at least one weekly off day. Jharkhand has 530 police stations and Rao said, “Like every individual, even cops require time to unwind, spend time with their family members or just utilise the time away from duty for some constructive work and maintain a healthy mental balance.” In the backdrop of heightened criticism from the opposition, the DGP, flanked by other senior officials also released a report card of the works done by police in the last one year. On several occasions, the state unit of BJP criticised the state police for failing to curb the “rising crime graph”, especially cases of crimes against women. In 2020, the state saw at least 1,500 cases of crimes against women. Rao said, “We had conducted a study on rapes and found that in majority of the cases, the accused were matriculates or less than that and a major cause was the influence of liquor. Hence, we began a special drive against liquor since November to curb its illegal trade and availability to arrest the problem.” According to the figures of drive against illegal liquor, between November 1 and December 25, at least 2.4 lakh kilograms of mahua was seized across the state. During the same period, 72,250 litre country-made liquor was confiscated, 17,045 litre English wine, 59.46 kg brown sugar among others were also seized. “As many as 429 people engaged in illegal trade or smuggling of these items were arrested during the drive,” he said. As far as naxal activities are concerned, a total of 121 incidents were reported so far this year. Police have gunned down 14 rebels, while 28 civilian casualties were reported in extremist incidents, the report added. As many as 50 encounters were held between police and naxal and one cop lost his life. “Of the total naxal violence (121), 27 were murders, 20 assaults, 38 mischiefs, and 17 arsons,” said Rao, adding that they also recovered several arms and ammunition through sustained drives. “Some of the seizures include Rs 21.13 lakh levy amount, 3,666 detonators, 6,838 ammunitions, 44 police weapons etc,” he said. A total of 1,240 cases of cybercrimes were lodged across the state in which 1022 were arrested for various natures of crimes. Rao added that despite Covid-19, police worked overtime this year by undertaking community activities like feeding migrants during the lockdown to tackling criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-across-police-stns-in-state-to-soon-get-weekly-offs/articleshow/80033993.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||PM invited to Netaji birth anniv celebrations||Kolkata: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been invited to Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations as Bengal BJP has lined up a series of political and apolitical programmes on the occasion in the state. Union home minister Amit Shah too has been invited to take part in some of these programmes. Sources confirmed that plans for the PM’s travel on the occasion are under consideration and a decision will be taken soon. These developments came even as BJP has been left out of the all-party initiative to commemorate Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. “We have heard Amitji might be present here to attend any official programme in connection with Netaji’s 125th birth celebrations,” a Bengal BJP leader said. The committee, which is planning state-wide celebrations, includes Left Front chairman Biman Bose, Forward Bloc state secretary Naren Chattopadhyay and former Bengal finance minister Asim Dasgupta. On Tuesday, the committee met at Mahabodhi Society hall, attended by Trinamool secretary general Partha Chattopadhyay, Congress’ Abdul Mannan and CPM’s Sujan Chakraborty. “We have ideological differences with BJP. The ideals Netaji propagated have no connection to what BJP believes in. They never thought of naming the Kolkata Port after Netaji. There is no reason why they should be invited to the 125th birth celebrations,” said Forward Bloc’s central committee secretary Hafiz Alam Sairani. The committee has on January 23 organized a rally from Mahajati Sadan here that will be attended by representatives of all political parties except BJP. “It will be followed by commemorative lecture across the state,” Sairani said. The BJP’s youth wing, on the other hand, is organizing programmes from January 12-23. It will hold public programmes and bike rallies in the districts and Kolkata. Union minister Anurag Thakur is likely to visit Bengal on January 4 and preside over a meeting to discuss programmes to be undertaken. “Bengal is about two leaders — Netaji and Swamiji. We cannot mix them with politics. We will spread their message across the state,” said Soumitra Khan, president of BJP Yuva Morcha’s Bengal unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pm-invited-to-netaji-birth-anniv-celebrations/articleshow/80036773.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool office in Nandigram ransacked||Nandigram: Fresh violence was reported at Nandigram in East Midnapore on Tuesday night as a Trinamool office at Mohammadpur was ransacked. A TV set, almirah and furniture were vandalised after the lock of the party office was broken open; no one was inside. Every item was broken to pieces, said local Trinamool leaders, who blamed the attack on BJP workers. It may be recalled that on Tuesday morning, Trinamool-turned-BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari had warned of action after his supporters were attacked while coming to Nandigram on a bus. As many as 15 BJP supporters were injured. Some are undergoing treatment at hospitals in Nandigram and Tamluk. On Wednesday, two persons were arrested for the attack on the bus and injuring BJP supporters. The two were produced in a Haldia court and remanded in jail custody till January 8. Suvendu visited the hospitals to meet the injured supporters. He said he had fought against the Left Front government and its police since 2007 in Nandigram and had uprooted them; so those behind the bus attack would not be spared. BJP MP Jyotirmoy Mahato visited the Tamluk hospital to meet the injured and later met Trinamool MP Sisir Adhikari, who is Trinamool’s East Midnapore district president. After Sisir’s son Soumendu, who was chairman of board of administrators of Contai Municipality, was removed from the post on Tuesday, his brother and Trinamool MP Dibyendu Adhikari wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee airing his grievance on the issue. He mentioned their family had been associated with Contai Municipality for about half a century.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-office-in-nandigram-ransacked/articleshow/80036726.cms||Suman Mondal
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||On way back from Birbhum, Mamata Banerjee takes time out for tribal village||By: Someshwar Boral SANTINIKETAN: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, on her way back to Kolkata, made a surprise visit to a tribal village, Ballavpurdanga, and listened to people’s problems on Wednesday. In her 30-minute stay, Banerjee not only cooked and shared personal impressions with villagers but also asked officials accompanying her to address their problems immediately. The CM, who was on a two-day visit to Birbhum, was supposed to return to Kolkata at noon on Wednesday. She started from the Rangabitan resort around noon for the Sarpukur helipad, a 10-minute drive away. On the way, she stopped in Sonajhuri area and entered the tribal village that is home to around 100 families. Banerjee stepped out of her convoy and sat at Dada Boudir Hotel, a local eatery at the village entrance, and exchanged pleasantries with owner Babu Bagdi and his wife Menoka. “She asked what we were cooking,” Babu said later. “She also told us she loved to cook, and gave us some cooking tips. She had a cup of tea and gave me Rs 500. When I refused, she requested me to buy sweets for my children.” Menoka said: “I said we don’t have electricity and it hinders our children’s studies. She took note of it and assured it would be sorted out soon. I’m surprised at her humility.” Banerjee toured the village on foot and entered several houses and at many, sat with residents and asked whether they were getting all government benefits. The villagers’ complaints covered poor roads, waterlogging and not getting 100 days’ work. She met Churki Soren, Lakshmi Soren and Moni Tudu, among others, and heard them out to know whether ‘Duare Sarkar’ had really reached doorsteps of the underprivileged. “I told the CM we don’t have toilet and we have to go outside. She immediately asked the officials to construct toilets for us. She is very simple and listened to all our problems patiently,” Churki said. West Bengal has 84 reserved seats, of which 68 are for SCs and the rest for STs. The state has a cumulative SC/ST population of around 3.5 core, of which 2.7 crore are from SC category and 80 lakh from ST category. During her stay, Banerjee was assisted by Birbhum’s district magistrate Vijaya Bharati, police superintendent Shyam Singh and district Trinamool Congress president Anubrata Mondal. “She left Rangabitan resort around noon, spent around 30 minutes in the village and left for the helipad,” Bharati said after the CM had left for Nabanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-way-back-from-birbhum-didi-takes-time-out-for-tribal-village/articleshow/80036366.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Teen’s letter a balm for Kargil hero’s kin||Kolkata: Colonel Virender Thapar (retd) calls it a pilgrimage. Every year, on June 29, he treks up to the Knoll in Kargil to visit the spot where his son and Vir Chakra recipient Captain Vijyant Thapar (Robin) was martyred in 1999. The young officer was then barely 22. Over the past several years, the name Robin is one that all defence force aspirants look up to, thanks to the untiring efforts of the retired colonel to inspire them. The grief nevertheless remained and was felt most on special days — like Robin’s birthday on December 26. Something changed this year though. On the braveheart’s 44th birthday on Saturday, Colonel Thapar received several letters, including one with a painting from a Class XI girl from Surat. Vaidehi wrote she aspires to be in the defence forces because of Robin, her inspiration. She claims to read the young officer’s last letter to his family — in which he foresaw his passing and spoke of how he would again want to be born a soldier in the Indian Army — every day. The letter from Vaidehi seems to have eased some of the pain that the elderly Thapar couple continue to feel. The colonel shared the letter and painting on Twitter and wrote: “Robin was born 44 years ago & and did his duty admirably in the Kargil War. His spirit has inspired youth in the country. Among the large number of messages, one from a young girl from Surat. The purpose of his life was fully served. He lives. Therefore, today we celebrate shedding our grief.” Captain Thapar was part of the Battles of Tololing, Three Pimples and Knoll and fought at least two fierce encounters. Officers who served with him still claim that Robin deserved a higher gallantry award, but his family never held any grudge. In fact, his father penned a biography, detailing the young officer’s life and his aim to become a soldier. Vaidehi, who was born years after the Kargil War, says she was inspired by this book. “I recently read the book ‘Vijyant at Kargil’ and was wonderstruck. Sir, it was splendiferous,” the teenager wrote in her letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/teens-letter-a-balm-for-kargil-heros-kin/articleshow/80036433.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||TMC writes to Prez Kovind, seeks ‘recall’ of guv Dhankhar||Kolkata: The Trinamool Congress on Wednesday appealed to President Ram Nath Kovind to “recall” Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, alleging that several of his moves had violated the Indian Constitution. Five Trinamool Congress MPs cited 34 instances where Dhankhar’s action had violated Supreme Court constitutional bench judgments and appealed to Kovind to act against him for his acts of “omission and commission”. The Trinamool government in Bengal and Dhankhar have had a rocky relationship since the latter’s appointment last July but this is the first time the party has written to the President seeking Dhankhar’s “recall”. Dhankhar did not res-pond to the Trinamool move till late evening but the BJP defended him. “The letter proves that the governor is taking up the right issues. The Trinamool Congress is defying constitutional ethics and norms. Democracy is being murdered in Bengal,” BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said. The letter — written by MPs Sudip Bandyopadhyay, Derek O’Brien, Kalyan Banerjee, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray and Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar — accuses Dhankhar of having “engineered ... (to) destabilise the state government machinery” by publicly naming and defaming senior civil and police service officers, “denigrating their official position”. “Interminable critical tweets and statements directed against the state government, the CM, the Trinamool Congress — with political bias — are likely to cause a law-and-order problem. Such tendencies and inclinations of the state’s constitutional head to openly support a political party strikes at the very root of federalism that the Supreme Court has held to be a basic structure of the Indian Constitution,” the letter says. Political killings in Bengal — as recorded by the National Crime Records Bureau — dropped from 663 in the last decade to 113 between 2011 and 2019, the letter says. The state government has also controlled the Maoist violence in south Bengal and political violence in north Bengal but Dhankhar chooses to amplify the “canards” being spread by politicians during their visits to Bengal, the letter adds. Raj Bhavan’s “brazen defence” of people being investigated for criminal offences — with one of them being in police custody — is a violation of the “oath of office”, the letter says, accusing Dhankhar of describing a suicide as a “political murder.” Dhankhar has a “propensity to transgress upon the jurisdiction of other constitutional authorities”, the letter says, alleging that Dhankhar often takes up the Election Commission’s role by making “curious comments” on “free and fair elections in Bengal”. The MPs claimed Dhankhar often sought information on industrial meets, which was under the purview of the Comptroller and Auditor-General, and cited Dhankhar’s demand for an “apology” from Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee after an “unfortunate incident on the BJP president’s (J P Nadda’s) convoy” as another “transgression”. Constitutional experts felt the letter was more of a political stratagem than anything else. Former Bombay High Court Chief Justice Chittatosh Mookerjee said there was “no constitutional importance of writing to the president”. “It is like any other political representation and a way of showing displeasure with the governor. But there is a recent instance of a ruling party informing the president of its displeasure with the governor and the latter being shifted to another state,” he added. Former Presidency College principal and political science professor Amal Mukhopadhyay said the Trinamool move was more of a “political strategy”. “The Indian Constitution says a governor shall hold office ‘during the pleasure of the president’ but it is highly unlikely that the president will remove a governor based on a representation,” he added. Former state Lokayukta and Calcutta High Court judge Justice Samaresh Chandra Banerjee said it was “difficult to say whether a governor was violating the Indian Constitution”. “One must follow a Lakhsman Rekha so that the executive, the legislature and the governor can work properly. The president can take steps or simply reject the memorandum. But a governor is the head of a state and appoints the council of ministers and so can summon ministers for clarifications,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-writes-to-prez-kovind-seeks-recall-of-guv-dhankhar/articleshow/80036618.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Vadodara||Private bank’s defamation suit against shareholder junked||VADODARA: The allegations levelled by ICICI Bank against one of its shareholders from Ahmedabad fell flat in a local court recently. The court of additional civil judge H J Gadhvi junked the case on the grounds that it had failed to prove their allegations against Vaghela. The private bank had alleged that Babu Vaghela, who lives in Vejalpur area, had disrupted the bank’s AGM in 2012 by raising personal issues not connected to the bank and videotaped the meeting. Vaghela was also accused of uploading the video on YouTube, tweeting defamatory statements against then chairman K V Kamath and then CEO Chanda Kochhar and sending emails against them to government officials. The bank had sought a compensation of Rs 1 lakh from Vaghela, unconditional apology and restraining him from defaming them both. During the hearing, Vaghela had denied the allegations and had stated that the legal case had been filed against him to harass and torture him. “My client’s allegations were never against the bank nor did he have any ill motive. It is true that he used to raise issues in every AGM but those were purely against then chairman and CEO and not against the bank,” said Sandip Purani, the lawyer who argued for Vaghela. “Even at the AGM when he spoke, he did it out of the Constitutional right,” Purani said, adding that Vaghela and Kochhar were colleagues in the past before she joined ICICI Bank and had disputes over some issues. Purani also argued that since the ‘defamatory’ statements against Kamath and Kochhar in their personal capacity, they did not come forward as complainants in the case and the bank had no legal stand. The bank’s officials who had filed the suit also admitted before the court that they were not authorized by either Kamath or Kochhar to file the suit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pvt-banks-defamation-suit-against-shareholder-junked/articleshow/80032998.cms||Jay Pachchigar
December 31, 2020||Ranchi||Dogs nibble at dead infant’s body parts at Daltonganj hosp||Daltonganj: Locals on Sunday spotted stray dogs nibbling at the body parts of a dead infant at Medinirai Medical College and Hospital here. The incident created a flutter in the area, following which civil surgeon John F Kennedy said the dogs must have brought the parts from outside. Deputy superintendent of the hospital K N Singh said, “There was one intrauterine death of an infant in the labour room on Sunday and the parents took the body for burial. Barring this, there was no other death of infant either in the labour room or in the child ward on Sunday.” Kennedy said the dogs were seen nibbling parts of a dead infant’s body, which means they must have got it from some nursing home in the vicinity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dogs-nibble-at-dead-infants-body-parts-at-daltonganj-hosp/articleshow/80034101.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Amit Shah may address Matuas on Bengal visit||Kolkata: Union home minister Amit Shah, scheduled to visit West Bengal in January third week, is likely to address the Matua community at a programme in Thakurnagar. “The BJP government is committed to implement the Citizenship Amendment Act. People of Matua community had been deceived time and again by both Left Front and TMC governments. But we are committed to stand by them and ensure a respectful life of community members through CAA,” said BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy. “The process got delayed due to pandemic. But we will ensure the Matua community members get permanent citizenship,” Roy added as he addressed a press conference along with Matua leader and Bongaon MP Shantanu Thakur. Thakurm, who had started skipping party programmes, said: “There was no distance with the party. But I had to attend some community meetings,” he said. On Wednesday, BJP announced a separate Bongaon organizational district to focus more on issues pertaining to Matuas. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh appointed Manaspati Dev as a president of the Bongaon organizational district. Trinamool MP Saugata Roy, however, felt both Roy and Thakur were trying to misinform people about CAA. “We don’t need a separate law for citizenship of Matuas. They are already Indian citizens,” Roy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amit-shah-may-address-matuas-on-bengal-visit/articleshow/80036782.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata flyer from London tests positive for mutated virus||KOLKATA: A city-based UK professional, who flew back home from London on an Air India flight on December 20 and tested Covid-positive on arrival, has the mutated UK strain of the virus, the Kalyani-based National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBG) informed the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Bengal government late on Tuesday. “The results have been shared with NCDC and West Bengal government. One RNA sample showed 17 mutations specific to the UK Covid strains,” NIBG director Saumitra Das told TOI. The professional, in his late 30s, is completely asymptomatic. “He does not need any specialised treatment,” said an official at Medical College Hospital, Kolkata. Bengal health department officials on Wednesday held a meeting with experts and decided to immediately conduct fresh RT-PCR tests on all 225 other passengers who had flown into Kolkata on the same flight, which had taken off from Heathrow on December 19 and touched down in Kolkata on December 20. All passengers are in home quarantine. The reports will be sent to NCDC. The airline has already got the cabin and cockpit crew of flight AI 1150 tested for Cov-id. All of them have tested negative. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, sources said, has stressed that the matter should be dealt with in due seriousness. Chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, too, issued a reminder about the need to celebrate the New Year in a guarded way. “Let us be careful and help navigate the year-end festivals safely,” he said. Das, the NIBG director, said: “At this point, while we must be very cautious, I would like to reiterate that there is no experimental evidence other than epidemiological and mathematical research models on the implications of these mutations. This is also the issue with disease severity. Further research with the mutated strain is needed to understand the functional implications better. So, it is too early to conclusively say anything.” A official at Medical College Hospital, Kolkata, spelt out the measures that have been taken. “The patient has been kept in isolation in a single cabin right from day one. He does not have any symptoms, and therefore, needs no specialised treatment. However, doctors will continue to keep him under close monitoring. For now, he will remain in hospital isolation. He would undergo an RT-PCR test in about a week’s time. If he is found negative, we will inform Swasthya Bhawan. We will then take a decision on his discharge according to the SOPs issued by Swasthya Bhawan officials.” The state government had sent seven RNA samples to NIBG for genome analysis early last week. The state then informed the NIBG that six of the seven samples had tested Covid negative in back-to-back RT-PCR tests. The NIBG scientists then analysed the seventh positive sample and results were communicated late on Tuesday. “While it is good that Covid cases in Bengal are dropping, given the emergence of this UK strain, we need to address the issue with due seriousness and promptness,” the CM told the health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-flyer-from-london-tests-positive-for-mutated-virus/articleshow/80036819.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: No vehicle on FC Road, JM Road & MG Road for 11 hours from 6pm today||PUNE: FC Road, JM Road and MG Road would be “novehicle zones” from 6pm on Thursday to 5am on Friday to avoid traffic congestion on New Year’s Eve, said Rahul Shrirame, the deputy commissioner of police of the traffic branch. In a statement issued late in the night on Wednesday, Shrirame said the three arterial roads had been declared as no-vehicle zone because revellers usually converged at these places with vehicles on the New Year’s Eve. “We shall ensure that there is no traffic congestion on these roads,” the statement said. The officer said in the statement that emergency vehicles such as fire tenders, ambulances and police vehicles, among others, would be allowed to ply on the three roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-no-vehicle-on-fc-road-jm-road-mg-road-for-11-hours-from-6pm-today/articleshow/80037869.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends lockdown restrictions till January 31||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government on Wednesday extended the lockdown restrictions in the state till January 31. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said that hotels, pubs, bars and restaurants will remain open till 11pm, and not more than five people will be allowed to gather in public places for New Year Eve celebrations before 11pm. Deshmukh, talking to the media, said that the Covid-19 threat still persists, and people should avoid crowding while ushering in the new year. "All hotels, restaurants, pubs and bars will be permitted to remain open only till 11pm. People should follow the Covid guidelines issued by the state," he said. "Though there is a ban on gathering of more than five people, there is no restriction on stepping out to buy medicines or go to a friend's place for dinner after 11pm." The order issued by the state chief secretary on Wednesday stated that activities which have been allowed as part of the 'Mission Begin Again' shall remain in force. Strict restrictions will, however, remain in place in containment zones. In view of the new strain of coronavirus, Maharashtra has imposed night curfew again for seven hours from 11pm to 6am, till January 5. The state has been easing lockdown restrictions like reopening of worship places, gyms, theatres, and sporting activities with limited capacity. Schools, in some parts of the state, have started offline classes for classes IX to XII. -Sujit Mahamulkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-extends-lockdown-restrictions-till-january-31/articleshow/80037891.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro: No exit allowed from Rajiv Chowk after 9pm today||NEW DELHI: If you are planning to take Delhi Metro to visit Connaught Place on New Year’s Eve, do so before 9pm on Thursday. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has said that the exit gates at Rajiv Chowk Metro station will be closed from 9pm onwards on December 31, 2020, “to ease overcrowding” on New Year’s Eve. “However, entry of passengers will be allowed till the departure of the last train from the station. Commuters are requested to plan their journey accordingly,” a DMRC spokesperson said. Traffic advisory for #newyear at #IndiaGate https://t.co/Da4HKWcD4D— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1609402377000Meanwhile, Delhi Transport Corporation has also stated that from 7pm onwards, buses that stop CP on their route will take a detour to avoid the area as per instructions from the DCP (New Delhi).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-no-exit-allowed-from-rajiv-chowk-after-9pm-today/articleshow/80037894.cms||---
December 31, 2020||India||MP saffron rally pelted: 23 held, parts of houses razed||INDORE: Indore police have arrested 23 people for pelting stones at saffron workers in Chandankhedi village of Indore's Gautampura area on Tuesday when they were on their way to collect donations for construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya. A dozen people were injured in the violence, including one, as it turned out, with a bullet injury. Four FIRs have been lodged against 39 people - for rioting, attempted murder, shooting and committing offence in a religious place. The police station in-charge of Gautampura has been suspended for failing to provide security, so has the SDOP of Depalpur for failing to control the situation. Times ViewIn 21st century India, there should be zero tolerance for acts of communal violence. Perpetrators must be dealt with firmly and evenhandedly by the authorities to send out this message loud and clear.The administration on Wednesday started removing portions of around 80 houses alongside a road from where stones were pelted on saffron activists. Locals alleged the demolition was in retaliation for the previous day's violence, but officials denied it. "We have started removing 10 feet of around 80 structures situated on either side of the lane in Chandankhedi village to widen the road. Locals are also helping us and removing the hurdles on their own as to pave way for development," Depalpur SDM Pratul Sinha told TOI. According to police, over 100 people had taken out a Ramnidhi Sangrahan rally in Gautampura on Tuesday to collect donations. While passing through Chandankhedi, some of them stopped in front of an idgah and began chanting the Hanuman Chalisa. This led to an exchange of words, which turned to blows. One of the FIR is against some men who opened fire, injuring one person in the leg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-saffron-rally-pelted-23-held-parts-of-houses-razed/articleshow/80037893.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chennai||Will seek ‘close friend’ Rajinikanth’s support: Kamal Haasan||CHENNAI: A day after Rajinikanth called off his political plunge, MNM chief Kamal Haasan said he would seek the support of his ‘close friend’ in the assembly poll.“It is obvious to seek support from all sections. How could I leave out my close friend,” asked Kamal in Pudukottai. Kamal said he would meet Rajinikanth in Chennai soon, and that he welcomed Rajini’s decision considering his well-being. “I call him ‘My Rajini’. I had this privilege even before he had fan following,” Kamal Haasan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/will-seek-close-friend-rajinikanths-support-kamal-haasan/articleshow/80037915.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||Court: In-laws’ daily taunts part of married life||MUMBAI: Observing that “talking sarcastically and taunting by in-laws is part of the wear and tear of married life” that every family witnesses, a sessions court recently granted anticipatory bail to a Malabar Hill couple, aged 80 and 75, who were accused of ill treatment by their estranged daughter-in-law, reports Rebecca Samervel . The court also refuted the woman’s arguments that their plea should be rejected on the grounds that her in-laws were on the list put together by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists of people who had offshore entities. The court said, “There may be a probe pending under ICIJ, which has no concern while deciding the application.” Woman’s allegations against her in-laws ‘general in nature’: CourtObserving that that this was an independent crime, the court said, “It is not shown if any crime is registered against the applicants for alleged involvement. So at this juncture, there is no need to get impressed by the proceedings.” The 30-year-old woman got married to her now Dubai-based school friend in 2018. She claimed that it was only a few days before the wedding, while she was preparing documents to get the marriage registered, that her family realised that her husband was actually the biological child of the domestic help and was adopted and raised by her purported in-laws. The woman alleged, among other things, that while her inlaws did not gift her anything at the wedding, her parents gave her diamond and gold jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore. She claimed that she was not allowed to touch the fridge, was given stale food and made to sleep in the living room. She added she was not allowed to go to her mother’s home. The woman said that every time she complained to her husband, he would sarcastically ask her to obey his parents. According to her, while returning from Dubai, her husband gave her dry fruits weighing 15 kg. The woman said that when she returned to her in-laws’ home to deliver the dry fruits, her mother-in-law weighed the package before accepting it. The prosecution added that the woman’s in-laws and husband were in custody of her jewellery. However, the advocate for the in-laws submitted that the woman was aware of her husband’s adoption and that she had lived with her in-laws for only about 10 days after the wedding. The defence also said both families had borne the wedding expenses equally. The advocate also claimed that the accused were unaware of the FIR and only got to know of it after their accounts were frozen. They denied having the jewellery. The court called the woman’s allegations “general in nature.” Special judge Madhuri A Baraliya said, “Talking sarcastically and taunting to the first informant (daughter-inlaw) by the in-laws is the wear and tear of the married life, which every family witnesses. For those allegations the custody of the applicants who are old aged 80 years and 75 years respectively, is not required with the police.” While granting the plea for pre-arrest bail, the court directed them to submit passports with police as the woman apprehended they would flee to Dubai. The court said as far as recovery of her ornaments went, the probe agency had already frozen their accounts. Talking sarcastically to... and taunting the daughter-in-law by the in-laws is the wear and tear of married life, which every family witnesses – Spl judge Madhuri A Baraliya||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-in-laws-daily-taunts-part-of-married-life/articleshow/80037918.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 31, 2020||Vadodara||Fake notes of Rs 1 lakh face value seized in Anand||VADODARA/ ANAND: Anand police seized fake currency notes with face value of Rs 1.28 lakh from a man on Wednesday. Based on a tip-off, cops arrested Jignesh Patel when he was travelling to Anand Gunj Bazaar and recovered 228 notes of Rs 50, Rs 100, Rs 200, Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 denomination from him. Patel,46, is a resident of Sardar Chowk area of Ode village. After nabbing Patel, cops also searched his house from where they recovered a colour printer and A-4 size papers which the accused used for printing the counterfeit notes. Patel has also confessed to the police of printing and circulating the fake notes, especially to senior citizens who run small-time grocery and other shops in the market. He also has revealed to have circulated notes with the face value of Rs 60,000 to Rs 70,000 in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fake-notes-of-rs-1l-face-value-seized-in-anand/articleshow/80033213.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: For some revellers, New Year comes a day or two late due to Covid curbs||CHENNAI: The pandemic has not broken Deepak Krishnan's party spirits. Since there are restrictions on gatherings on New Year’s Eve, he has booked a banquet hall in a five-star hotel in the city on January 2 to host a dinner for 25 guests. “The day does not matter. It is the season to get together with my dearest folks and I can celebrate a few days later,” says the 32-year-old entrepreneur from Vandalur. With fear of Covid-19 still hanging in the air and restrictions in place, hotels are not hosting any loud parties to ring in the New Year. Thus, some people are opting for close-knit gatherings that extend into sleepovers or parties that will go on into the first week of January. While some have themed parties and hearty dinners at home, a few are also booking hotel rooms for the night. According to a staff member at Leela Palace, Chennai, there has been quite a number of bookings in the first week of January for staycations or banquet dinners. “Due to restrictions, this New Year’s Eve, we have no parties, just a quiet buffet until 10pm,” he says. Deepa Balendran from Anna Nagar plans to celebrate New Year's Eve with her husband, children, and 10 of her closest friends. Being away from relatives and staying at home also gave time for her family to bond with their neighbours, who are now their closest friends and guests for the party. “I am excited to begin 2021 with those who stood by my side amid the hardships caused by Covid-19,” says the 39-year-old assistant professor at DG Vaishnav College, Arumbakkam. The theme for her house party is ‘Bling’, where every person is expected to wear something shiny that evokes positivity. “We also have a delicious Malayali dinner with mutton and chicken curry, appam, idiyappam, and ghee rice,” she says. For 22-year-old Praveen Raj, who usually spends December 31 clubbing and visiting beaches, partying will now be confined to a hotel room with friends this year. “We split into two groups of about 10 in each one and booked rooms in two top hotels in the city,” he says, adding the two groups may not be able to meet due to restrictions. Raj, who believes this year’s celebrations will be boring, says, “I will miss going to the beach and screaming ‘Happy New Year’ as we drive along the seashore.” However, Sneha Ramkumar and her husband Brahadeesswaran Kannan are looking forward to hosting their friends for the December 31st night barbeque party, which would be one of the first celebrations since their wedding this February. The couple, who usually attend parties in hotels with friends and family, restrict their celebrations to their terrace with about eight friends. “Some of them will sleep over due to the curfew,” says Ramkumar, a lawyer from Saidapet. “We really needed this break after the stressful months of lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-for-some-revellers-new-year-comes-a-day-or-two-late-due-to-covid-curbs/articleshow/80037926.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
December 31, 2020||Chennai||Two die as SUV rams bike in Tamil Nadu's Sriperumbudur||CHENNAI: Two people including a PMK worker on a bike were killed in a road accident after an SUV rammed the two-wheeler at Sriperumbudur on Tuesday, police said. The deceased were identified as Logidoss, the PMK worker who was also president of the West Sriperumbudur autorickshaw drivers welfare association, and his friend Selvam, 50. Police said Logidoss and Selvam were on their way to Sriperumbudur on the bike when the SUV heading to Chennai from Bengaluru knocked them down near NGO Colony. Logidoss and Selvam were thrown off the bike in the impact. Witnesses told police that the car driver lost control over the vehicle and drove into the centre median before the vehicle came to a grinding halt. Police said Logidoss died at the Sriperumbudur Government Hospital of injuries sustained in the accident, while Selvam was admitted to the Chengalpet Government Hospital where he later died. The four occupants of the car escaped with minor injuries and were treated as outpatients. The investigation officer said Logidoss and Selvam weren’t wearing helmets. Police said the accident had occured after the bike made a sudden swerve and came on to the car’s path. The Sriperumbudur police have registered a case under Section 304(A) (death caused due to negligent driving) against the SUV driver. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-die-as-suv-rams-bike-at-tns-sriperumbudur/articleshow/80037957.cms||---
December 31, 2020||India||Karnataka panchayat polls: BJP-backed candidates lead race||BENGALURU: Candidates backed by the ruling BJP are leading in a majority of gram panchayat seats in Karnataka followed closely by Congress-supported candidates as the counting of votes was still underway on Wednesday. Gram panchayat elections were held on December 22 and 27, and the counting of votes is expected to be completed on Thursday. Since voting was held with paper ballots the results have been delayed, said the State Election Commission (SEC). Of the 91,339 seats in 5,728 gram panchayats, counting of votes was completed in 54,041 seats by 8pm on Wednesday. SEC also rapped political parties for claiming victory of candidates supported by them. "We've won more seats than what Congress, JD(S) and independents have collectively won," said minister KS Eshwarappa. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah blamed BJP for trying to woo victorious candidates backed by Congress by using money and muscle power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-panchayat-polls-bjp-backed-candidates-lead-race/articleshow/80037968.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Last-mile demolition to acquire land for MRTS extension begins||CHENNAI: The Velachery-St Thomas Mount MRTS extension line has come a little closer to realisation. The state government on Wednesday began demolishing the last few buildings in Adambakkam to complete land acquisition. The line has been constructed from Velachery to Adambakkam but is held up because of a snag in land acquisition for the last mile link of 500metres from Adambakkam to St Thomas Mount after residents opposed proper disbursement of compensation by the state government. After the Madras high court cleared the acquisition, the government moved the Supreme Court over the rate of land value. The court ordered that compensation should be issued and land acquired by January 8 and file a report. “We have started to pull down the last few buildings from where residents have moved out. The work began today and will be completed in a few days. The buildings will be pulled down and the land will be readied for hand over to the railways," said a government official. The last of the residents in one of the flats moved out a couple of days ago. He also said 15 land parcels need to be acquired. “We have started work to take over six today. The rest will be completed in the coming weeks as per the deadline fixed by the apex court,” he added. Railways officials have been pushing for land as construction of the line was getting delayed because of the hassle in land acquisition in the last ten years. The work was supposed to get completed much before the metro rail line was to be completed. Metro rail has commissioned its line and has left space for the MRTS line to enter its station at St Thomas Mount. "But we are not able to construct because of the fight between residents and the government over compensation for the land. We will float a tender for construction as soon as the land is handed over," said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-last-mile-demolition-to-acquire-land-for-mrts-extension-begins/articleshow/80037972.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||Experts advise caution as air quality worsens in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The celebration of New Year's Eve in an open area could be a bad idea because of the sharp decline in the city's ambient air quality. Track the pollution level in your cityThe air quality of the outdoor party zones such as Park Street-Theatre Road-AJC Bose Road, Ballygunge, Jadavpur are particularly closing the gap between very poor and severe, which is the worst possible scenario in the air quality index. Health experts said long exposure to such air quality can trigger many severe respiratory ailments at a time when Covid-19 is still wrecking havoc. The air quality of the city has remained very poor (310-400) for the last few days. Thermal inversion has lowered the vertical wind movement due to lower radiative temperature at the ground. "Typically, around this time, the soil is cool and there is no or very less transfer of heat from the soil. So, there is a complete calm condition in the lower atmosphere, refusing the dispersal of particulate pollutants up in the atmosphere," said a WBPCB scientist. There will be no major change in the trend on the 31st night. AQI of places known to be year-end celebration hotspots has, in fact, closed the gap between the very poor and severe category of air. Four automatic air quality monitoring stations at Fort William (which is closed to Park Street), Victoria Memorial Hall (which represents the air quality of Theatre Road-AJC Bose Road), Ballygunge station (which highlights the air of Ballygunge-Kasba area) and Javapur station (which shows the air quality of Jadavpur-South city area) showed the air quality deteriorating fast at night. Sometimes it hovers around the severe category. "This is quite dangerous as inhaling such air can trigger a lot of health issues even for a healthy person. For elderly or people with a history of respiratory distress, it will be quite disastrous," said senior pulmonologist Arup Haldar. "The inhalation of finer particulate matter, like PM2.5, which straight travels to our lung and blood stream, can play havoc with our lives. People are advised to stay indoors. If a new-year celebration is unavoidable, it should be held in an airy, spacious zone. The infection rate is low now. But that does not mean, Covid is over," he added. There has been a significant growth of patients with respiratory distress at clinics of different hospitals in the city with the declining air quality of the city. "For the last few days, AQI refuses to drop below 301. Long exposure in such air can aggravate the existing lung ailment. People should take utmost care in getting them exposed to such foul air. Citizens have shown remarkable restraint during Diwali by not indulging in fireworks. We expect similar restraint during new year night," said Dr Susmita Roy Chowdury, a senior pulmonologist. Since the city's AQI is driven by finer particulate matter PM2.5. Ultrafine PM2.5 is considered much more lethal compared with the relatively coarser PM10. The PM2.5 particle is about 3% the diameter of a human hair, and can travel straight into the bloodstream. The noxious chemicals riding piggyback on these particles. "Wearing N-95 masks has now become mandatory for outdoor activities. We have to protect the respiratory system from the onslaught of the particulate pollution," said Dr Debasis Basu, a preventive medicine expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/experts-advise-caution-as-air-quality-worsens-in-kolkata/articleshow/80037977.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: PCB warns of action against air, noise polluters||KOLKATA: West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) will maintain the same stance against bursting firecrackers and using loudspeakers without noise-limiter during the New Year celebration as it did during the Diwali and Kali Puja. "The citizens had shown exemplary restraint during Diwali. Our appeal is to show the same restraint during New Year celebration as the spectre of Covid is looming large in the backdrop," said WBPCB chairman Kayan Rudra. Track the pollution level in your cityThe DGP on Wednesday issued an order to all SPs and commissioners of police citing a recent high court order by justice Kaushik Chanda and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya on measures against congestion and overcrowding at public places and mandatory use of masks, sanitizers and other medical aids at public places WBPCB will take a slew of legal measures against offenders causing air and noise pollution, including environmental compensation under the 'Polluter-Pay' principle on the offenders. The NGT has clearly said in its landmark order in 122 cities, including 7 cities in Bengal, no fireworks can be burst during the celebration. Kolkata Police, on its part, has yet again asked the citizens to dial 100 and let them know of the aberrations - whether it's DJ playing blaring music or fireworks on display around midnight. All local police stations, said sources in Lalbazar, have been sent instructions on controlling the noise demons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengal-pcb-warns-of-action-against-air-noise-polluters/articleshow/80037983.cms||Debasish Konar
December 31, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Posing as buyers, cops arrest bike thief, recover 26 vehicles||CHENNAI: A special police team members posed as prospective buyers looking for second-hand bikes and arrested a bike thief at Madhavaram on Tuesday night. Police said Navaneethakrishnan, 42, of Tamilpiriyan Street, went on a spree of stealing bikes during the lockdown period since April. During the lockdown, complaints of bike thefts from Madhavaram bus terminus and areas like Puzhal and Red Hills poured in. Police formed a special team and collected CCTV camera footage. Meanwhile, they received a tip that used bikes were being sold cheap in Lakshmipuram, Red Hills. Posing as customers, the team members approached a man who directed them to the accused saying he had different bikes. Police caught the accused and found that he sold bikes to people in villages as they rarely asked for RC books. They readily agree if rates are anywhere between Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000. He had so far stolen 26 bikes from crowded market areas and sold most of them through his contacts. Police seized all the bikes from the accused. He has been remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-posing-as-buyers-cops-arrest-bike-thief-recover-26-vehicles/articleshow/80037996.cms||---
December 31, 2020||World||Yemen airport blasts kill 26 as government plane arrives||ADEN: At least 26 people were killed when explosions rocked Yemen's Aden airport moments after a new unity government flew in, in what some officials charged was a "cowardly" attack by Iran-backed Huthi rebels. Although all government ministers were reported to be unharmed in Wednesday's attack, more than 50 people were wounded, medical and government sources told AFP in the southern city, with the casualty toll feared likely to rise. The International Committee of the Red Cross said one of its employees was among those confirmed dead, with another three wounded. "The Yemeni people have endured a terrible amount of suffering over the last five years. A day like this adds even more grief," said ICRC operations director Dominik Stillhart. As smoke billowed out of the airport terminal from an initial blast, with debris strewn across the area and people rushing to tend to the wounded, a second explosion took place. Video footage shot by AFP shows what appears to be a missile striking the airport apron, which moments before had been packed with crowds, and exploding into a ball of intense flames. The Saudi-led coalition said: "A Huthi drone which attempted to target Al-Masheeq Palace was... shot down." Tens of thousands, mostly civilians, have been killed and millions displaced in Yemen's grinding five-year war, which has triggered what the United Nations has called the world's worst humanitarian disaster. Yemen's internationally recognised government and southern separatists formed a power-sharing cabinet on December 18, forging a joint front against the Huthi rebels who have seized Sanaa and much of the country's north. Information Minister Moammar al-Eryani said all members of the new government had escaped unharmed from the blast, which he blamed on the Huthi rebels. "We assure you that the cowardly terrorist attack by the Iran-supported Huthi militia will not deter us from carrying out our patriotic duty," Eryani tweeted. Foreign Minister Ahmed bin Mubarak also blamed the rebels but President Abedrabbo Mansour Hadi was more circumspect. "The terrorist acts perpetrated by the Iranian-backed Huthi militia and extremist terrorist groups will not discourage the legitimate government from exercising their duties," Hadi said, without specifying which he held responsible for the airport attack. Government spokesman Rajih Badi called for an international investigation. "It is too soon to accuse any party before an investigation reveals who executed the attack," he told AFP, adding that among the casualties were civilians, security guards and local officials. The United Nations denounced the attack. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres "condemns the deplorable attack", a spokesman said, adding that the world body was committed to finding a negotiated settlement to the Yemen conflict. Martin Griffiths, the UN's Yemen envoy, said the attack was "unacceptable" and underscored the need to push for peace while in Brussels, an EU spokesman described it as "an unacceptable act of violence". The cabinet members arrived in Aden days after being sworn in by Hadi in Saudi Arabia, which leads a military coalition against the insurgents. Hadi fled to Riyadh after Sanaa fell to the Huthis in 2014. The new government includes ministers loyal to Hadi and supporters of the secessionist Southern Transitional Council, as well as other parties. While all oppose the Huthi rebels, deep divisions have grown among them. Saudi Arabia has been encouraging the unity government to quell the "war within a civil war" and to bolster the coalition against the Huthis, who are poised to seize the key town of Marib, the last government stronghold in the north. The Saudi ambassador to Yemen, Mohammed Al Jaber, said "targeting the Yemeni government upon its arrival at Aden airport is a cowardly terrorist act". The United Arab Emirates, which has backed the southern secessionists, said the airport attack was "nothing but a sinister project that seeks to undermine the chances of security and stability". Yemen still hosts a significant jihadist presence, including both Al-Qaeda and militants loyal to the Islamic State group, despite two decades of US air and drone strikes. Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, which the US considers the terror group's most dangerous branch, has thrived in the chaos of Yemen's civil war.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/yemen-airport-blasts-kill-26-as-government-plane-arrives/articleshow/80038014.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bhopal||Get approval before probing any official: Madhya Pradesh govt to agencies||BHOPAL: A circular issued by the Madhya Pradesh general administration department (GAD), reminding state controlled anti-corruption agencies like Lokayukta and EOW upfront that they cannot initiate probe against public servants, has made work tougher for investigators. Any probe into the thousands of complaints pending at various levels now needs the state government’s nod. It has come as a breather for officials under the scanner. Lokayukta and EOW officials are now consulting legal experts on this, say sources. Many officials call the GAD’s circular, dated December 26, ‘unprecedented’. It cites Section 17A of Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act 2018 that mandates all agencies to follow the new guidelines set by the government. Lokayukta, EOW or any other probe agency will now have to send a proposal for investigation/inquiry/enquiry to GAD, which after ‘examination’ can forward it to the coordination committee for approval, it says. “When the Act already exists and we all know about it, what led GAD to issue such a circular, ‘reminding’ of the new rules? The amendment should not be misinterpreted to hide corruption. The wings of Lokayukta and EOW have been clipped. All complaints, inquiry, enquiry and investigations will now be on hold for want of sanction,” said a senior officer, requesting not to be named. Officials see move in the backdrop of a Lokayukta FIROf course, this will prevent undue harassment of honest officers, but those that are corrupt will also get the cover,” he pointed out. A section of officials sees this in the backdrop of a Lokayukta FIR into an alleged scam in maintenance of the Ujjain airstrip in which nearly a dozen IAS officers are under the scanner. This case was once closed, but has since been reopened. “The reason why this airstrip maintenance ‘scam’ complaint has been reopened is a different story altogether,” said an officer. In October, Jabalpur bench of high court had dismissed a petition filed by a senior IAS officer for quashing of an FIR registered against him by Lokayukta police in the same case. The IAS officer says he is not connected with the issue in any way and cited Section 17(A) in his plea. The court asked Lokayukta to complete investigation at the earliest, and said the petitioner was not entitled to benefit of Section 17(A) because the inquiry was pending when the section was inserted in the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/get-approval-before-probing-any-official-madhya-pradesh-govt-to-agencies/articleshow/80038061.cms||P Naveen
December 31, 2020||World||US ready to try Pearl killers if Pakistan courts can't: Acting AG||ISLAMABAD: The US warned on Wednesday it won't allow a Pakistani man who was convicted and later acquitted in the 2002 murder of US journalist Daniel Pearl to evade justice after a provincial court in Pakistan ordered his release. The warning from acting US attorney general Jeffrey Rosen comes days after the Sindh high court in Pakistan overturned a government detention order that Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, the key suspect in Pearl's slaying, should remain in custody. Pearl had been investigating the link between Pakistani militants and Richard C Reid, dubbed the "Shoe Bomber" after trying to blow up a flight from Paris to Miami with explosives hidden in his shoes. "We understand that Pakistani authorities are taking steps to ensure that Omar Sheikh remains in custody while the Supreme Court appeal seeking to reinstate his conviction continues," Rosen said in a statement by the US department of justice. "The separate judicial rulings reversing his conviction and ordering his release are an affront to terrorism victims everywhere."  Rosen praised Pakistan for appealing the rulings to ensure that Sheikh and his co-defendants are held accountable. "If, however, those efforts do not succeed, the US stands ready to take custody of Omar Sheikh to stand trial here," he said. Rosen said the US "cannot allow (Sheikh) to evade justice for his role in Pearl's abduction and murder."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/us-ready-to-try-pearl-killers-if-pakistan-courts-cant-acting-ag/articleshow/80038058.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Two from Gurugram positive for UK variant, three contacts traced||GURUGRAM: Two residents who returned from the UK on December 23 on Wednesday tested positive for the new UK variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The persons — a 58-year-old man and a six-year-old boy — are currently in an isolation centre at Delhi’s LNJP hospital. Their three contacts have also been isolated. The health department said it has conducted RT-PCR tests of 369 people who arrived in the city from the UK from December 8 till December 22. A total of 32 passengers are untraceable due to incorrect addresses or mobile numbers. “We have shared a list of the untraceable passengers with the Gurgaon police commissioner. So far we have received 354 reports, out of which one is positive and 15 are pending. The person who tested positive was isolated on Tuesday and the sample was sent to Delhi for genome sequencing,” said Gurgaon chief medical officer Virender Yadav. Meanwhile, the city again reported less than 100 cases for the sixth day in a row. A total of 96 people tested positive on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 56,730. The health department said 96 patients also recovered on the day, bringing the total number of recoveries to 55,412. No one succumbed to the infection. So far, 343 people in the city have died of Covid, of whom 266 had comorbidities. The city has a total of 975 active cases, and 883 of the patients are in home isolation. The recovery rate stands at 97.5%. On Wednesday, eight people were sent to institutional quarantine facilities. So far, 6,64,241 people have been put under surveillance in Gurgaon. In the past 24 hours, the health authorities collected 4,246 samples for antigen and RT-PCR tests. So far, 6,60,655 samples have been sent for testing so far, out of which 5,99,679 returned negative while the results of 1,652 are awaited. Meanwhile, Haryana recorded 382 new cases and seven deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, while 476 patients recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-from-gurgaon-positive-for-uk-variant-3-contacts-traced/articleshow/80035939.cms||Ipsita Pati
December 31, 2020||Indore||Indore: 23 arrested for pelting stones on saffron rallyists||INDORE: Indore police have arrested 23 people for pelting stones at saffron workers in Chandankhedi village of Indore’s Gautampura area on Tuesday when they were on their way to collect donations for construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya. A dozen people were injured in the violence, including one, as it turned out, with a bullet injury. Four FIRs have been lodged against 39 people — for rioting, attempted murder, shooting and committing offence in a religious place. The police station in-charge of Gautampura has been suspended for failing to provide security, so has the SDOP of Depalpur for failing to control the situation. Video showed shot being firedAccording to police, over 100 people had taken out a Ramnidhi Sangrahan rally in Gautampura on Tuesday to collect donations for Ram Mandir. While passing through Chandankhedi, some of them stopped in front of an idgah and began chanting the Hanuman Chalisa. This led to an exchange of words, which quickly turned to blows. A group of locals started pelting stones at the rallyists. SP-West Mahendra Jain said: “The first FIR is for rioting, possessing illegal weapons and causing hurt, in which four persons have been arrested.” “The second one is under IPC 153-A for committing offence in a religious place, promoting enmity between two groups against unidentified accused for climbing on the dome of an idgah. We are trying to identify the accused from videos,” SP Jain added. The third FIR, based on a video, is against some men who torched a motorcycle and opened fire, injuring one person in the leg, when they were running away from police, said SP Jain. The shootng hadn’t been apparent on Tuesday. Investigators noticed it while going through videos of the violence on Wednesday. This FIR carries the charges of attempted murder, voluntarily causing grievous hurt, mischief by fire or explosive substance. Asked if any part of the incident was planned, he said, “It was unplanned, and reactionary from both sides because the rally was to go to several other villages. Cops reportedly had to fire tear gas shells to break up the clash on Tuesday. Police deployment continues in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-23-arrested-for-pelting-stones-on-saffron-rallyists/articleshow/80038081.cms||---
December 31, 2020||India||India sees 22,000 fresh infections; active caseload drops by 6,000||India recorded nearly 22,000 fresh Covid-19 infections and 300 fatalities from the virus on Wednesday, marginally higher than the numbers on Tuesday. However, continuing with the downward trend of the pandemic, the number of fresh infections was significantly lower than that recorded on last Wednesday. While daily new cases drop on Sundays and Mondays due to lower testing during the weekends, the numbers tend to peak on Wednesdays. While 25,144 patients tested positive for the virus last Wednesday (December 23), the infections dropped by more than 3,000 to 22,004 on December 30, according to data collated from various states. This is the seventh consecutive day when fresh cases have been below 24,000. However, after a gap of five days, fatalities once again touched 300 on Wednesday. Active cases continue to drop in all states, barring Kerala and Punjab, where the numbers rose marginally. At 6,268 new cases, Kerala continued to top the states in daily infections, followed by Maharashtra (3,537 cases), Bengal (1,178), Chhattisgarh (1,069) and UP (1,043). However, Maharashtra continued to record maximum fatalities with 90 new deaths, followed by Bengal and Kerala (28 each). India's Covid caseload reached 10,267,384 while cumulative toll now is 1,48,721. Active cases dropped by nearly 6,000 to 2,58,262. The number of recovered cases inched closer to the one-crore mark at 98,60,401.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sees-22000-fresh-infections-active-caseload-drops-by-6000/articleshow/80038100.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana health minister Anil Vij tests negative for Covid-19, discharged||GURUGRAM: Haryana health minister Anil Vij was discharged from Medanta on Wednesday after finally testing negative for Covid-19. Vij, who had tested positive on December 5, had first been admitted to Civil Hospital in Ambala and later shifted to PGIMS Rohtak. After showing little improvement, he was moved to Medanta on December 15, where he was kept in the Covid ICU. During treatment, his sleep and vital parameters were monitored and chest physiotherapy and relaxation techniques were used. According to Dr AK Dubey, medical superintendent, Medanta, there was a gradual improvement in his general condition with reduction in oxygen requirement. His blood tests and chest CT scan were normal. He was shifted to the Covid ward on December 23. After the minister’s discharge from Medanta, a team of two doctors, a physiotherapist and a technician at Ambala’s Civil Hospital have been briefed on his health, including medication, tests, monitoring and follow-up, Dr Dubey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/health-minister-anil-vij-tests-negative-for-covid-19-discharged/articleshow/80036065.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bhopal||Man axed to death in MP's Satna||BHOPAL: A 45-year-old man was axed to death in Satna as the accused suspected him making amorous advances towards with his wife on Tuesday. The accused, identified as Sajju Kol was arrested on Wednesday. The incident took place at Bamhnadi village under Ram Nagar police station of the district. The incident sparked panic in the village and senior police officials, including SP Satna Dharmveer Singh, also reached the spot in the night. Sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP), Ram Nagar, Himali Soni said: “In past too, Sajju Kol had asked deceased Mahesh Patel not to come to his house. Sajju suspected that Mahesh was making amorous advances towards his wife. Despite that Mahesh went to Sajju’s house on Tuesday evening. A verbal duel ensued and in a fit of rage, Sajju picked up an axe and hacked Mahesh to death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-axed-to-death-in-mps-satna/articleshow/80038115.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Gurgaon||21 MCG officials to work for Manesar civic body for now||GURUGRAM: The urban local bodies department on Wednesday directed 21 officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to take up various responsibilities at the new corporation that is being set up in Manesar. The officials have been given the additional charge until the government sanctions regular posts for the new civic body. Vinay Pratap Singh, the MCG commissioner, had made it clear earlier that the current responsibilities of the officials could not be compromised because of the additional charge. These officials will continue to draw salary from the MCG and no extra remuneration would be given to them for the work in Manesar. “This is purely a time gap arrangement till the regular postings are made by the government and this arrangement will ensure smooth functioning of the newly created Municipal Corporation, Manesar,” read the letter sent by the urban local bodies department to Singh. Singh said the 21 officials would initiate work in setting up the Manesar corporation. “We will assign specific duties to these officials so that they can start work on the 100-day target we have set for ourselves to get the new civic body ready. Now that we have a team to start work, we will set up an office as early as possible. We plan to start a survey of the existing infrastructure so that detailed project reports can be prepared,” the commissioner told TOI. Sources said that apart from these 21 officials, Singh is also likely to make certain appointments since he is authorised to give additional charges to his team members. Rohtash Bishnoi, additional municipal commissioner; Hariom Attri, district revenue officer (land branch); R K Singh, chief town planner; Rajesh Garg, chief accounts officer; Dr Ashish Singla, senior medical officer, and Vishal Garg, executive engineer, are among the 21 MCG officials who have been given additional responsibilities. The new corporation at Manesar will have 29 villages under it and an area of 124.3 sqkm to develop. It is expected to garner an annual revenue of Rs 74 crore, much higher than the Rs 25.8 crore that the authorities are likely to spend on setting up the corporation. According to records, the 29 villages that have now come under Manesar have fixed deposits of Rs 338 crore. A total of Rs 63.5 crore was collected in stamp duty from these villages in 2018-19 and Rs 43.8 crore in the subsequent year. According to Census 2011, the villages have a population of 2.01 lakh in total. Officials said the commissioner would now start meeting sarpanches, residents and RWAs of the new sectors and areas that now fall under the Manesar corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/21-mcg-officials-to-work-for-manesar-civic-body-for-now/articleshow/80036120.cms||Vishakha Chaman
December 31, 2020||India||Brazilian sat meant to monitor Amazon forests airlifted to India, to be part of Isro’s 1st launch in '21||NEW DELHI: A mega satellite that took eight years to be developed by Brazil has been successfully transported via a cargo flight from Sao Jose dos Campos to Chennai. Amazonia-1, which will help monitor the ecosystem of the Amazon rainforest, the world’s largest tropical rainforest, will be launched into space in February next year from the Sriharikota launch centre and will become part of Indian Space Research Organisation’s first satellite launch of 2021. Isro’s PSLV-C51 will not only launch Amazonia-1 satellite but also three private satellites built by Indian startups as secondary payloads. Highlighting the significance of the upcoming first full commercial launch of 2021 involving satellites of desi startups, Isro chairman K Sivan told TOI that the "launch is part of the space reforms", announced by the Union Cabinet a few months ago, that give impetus to roping in the private sector in space exploration. He said therefore the “PSLV-C51 mission is one of its kind and is special for us and the entire country”. The other three privately built desi satellites are ‘ANAND’ from startup Pixel India, ‘SATISH SAT’ from Space Kids India and ‘UNIT-SAT’ by a consortium of universities. Amazonia-1, which is the first earth observation satellite of Brazil developed indigenously by the National Institute for Space Research (INPE), the south American country's apex body for space research and exploration, was successfully airlifted to Chennai from Brazil by Emirates SkyCargo, the freight division of Emirates airline. Though Emirates SkyCargo has expertise in transporting satellites and other cargo developed for space technology, it said that “this was the first time that it has transported a satellite from South America” to the Indian subcontinent. In 2018, the carrier transported Khalifasat, the first satellite developed by Emirati engineers at the Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Centre, from Dubai to Seoul. Though Amazonia-1 satellite just weighed 700 kg, the satellite cargo was quite heavy weighing 22 tonnes. This was because the satellite was dismantled into multiple components to facilitate easy loading and unloading from the aircraft. The satellite components were packed in large containers to avoid any damage during the transport. Four members of the INPE team also travelled with the satellite to continuously monitor the status of the cargo during the flight from Sao Jose dos Campos to Dubai and then onwards to Chennai, a statement from Emirates SkyCargo. On the three satellites built by Indian startups, Sivan, who on Wednesday got one-year extension as secretary of the Department of Space and Space Commission chairman till January 14, 2022, had earlier said, “PSLV-C51 (mission) is going to initiate a new era of space reforms in India and I am sure that these private people will take this activity further and provide services for the entire country.” The move to allow private players in space exploration follows the Modi Cabinet’s decision in June 2020, allowing participation of the private sector in the entire range of space activities, including interplanetary missions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/brazilian-sat-meant-to-monitor-amazon-forests-airlifted-to-india-to-be-part-of-isros-1st-launch-in-21/articleshow/80038125.cms||Surendra Singh
December 31, 2020||Gurgaon||FASTag trial: Tailbacks force toll management to keep cash lanes open||GURUGRAM: Tailbacks due to the ongoing FASTag trial at the Kherki Daula toll plaza are frequently forcing the toll management to increase lanes for cash users to clear the congestion. On Wednesday, the ministry extended the deadline for implementation of electronic payment via FASTag to February 15. Complying with the directives of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the toll concessionaire — MCEPL — and operator — South Asian Tollways Pvt Ltd — are conducting three-hour-long trial runs at the plaza. As 20% to 30% vehicles are still out of the FASTag ambit, these trials are frequently leading to pileup. Unlike the previous trial runs, these exercises are carried out during the peak hours to not only attune the toll attendants and marshalls under the new regime but also accustom the motorists in accessing the plaza from the midnight of December 31. According to the toll management, these trial runs are being conducted in two shifts — 8am to 11am and 4pm to 7pm. While the management has claimed that it tries to conduct a complete three-hour-long trial cycle, tailbacks and chaos at the plaza often force them to suspend the trials midway and increase the cash lanes to ease out the congestion. “We have chosen the peak hours to attune our staff of operating the lanes with 100% electronic payment via FASTag and other guidelines released by NHAI. We’ve made good progress to run things smoothly and make sure that trials are completed successfully. But, when the pile-up builds up and congestion is beyond control, we keep a couple of lanes for cash users and those with FASTags but without balance,” said an official of the toll operator. The toll management has further claimed that in spite of their concerted efforts to generate awareness around the FASTag compliance, over 25% of 85,000 vehicles that access the plaza daily are still outside the ambit of the system. Furthermore, over 35% FASTag users do not keep their accounts updated and when asked for instant recharge, they get into heated altercations. All this, the toll management claims, leads to unnecessary delay in traffic movement at the plaza and leads to jams. As the vehicular pressure is extremely high during the peak office hours, these jams become chronic and motorists run out patience. On several occasions, the toll management is forced to let vehicles pass even without paying only to clear the pile-up. “These trial runs are not only causing headache but also leading to our losses. Many motorists are not ready to comply with the guidelines at all. They have this preconceived notion that the government isn’t serious about 100% FASTag implementation and that they’ll be able to use pressure tactics to continue accessing toll plaza like before,” said a toll official, requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/fastag-trial-tailbacks-force-toll-mgmt-to-keep-cash-lanes-open/articleshow/80036124.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to restructure 10 departments to generate 50,000 new posts||CHANDIGARH: Setting the ball rolling for recruitment to 50,000 government posts during the current fiscal, the Punjab cabinet on Wednesday approved restructuring of 10 departments, thus paving the way to boost their functional efficacy through fresh recruitments and technical upgrade. The cabinet in a meeting held through video conferencing decided to create new and more relevant posts where required in place of the existing non-essential or antiquated ones, many of which had been lying vacant for prolonged periods. The move also marks a major shift towards modernisation of government departments to equip them to meet the contemporary operational challenges. Chief minister Amarinder Singh said the present-day challenges necessitated cutting the tail where necessary, with recruitment of more staff as needed, keeping in mind the service delivery of various departments. The cabinet authorised him to amend rules as and where needed to carry out the proposed recruitment after completion of the restructuring process. The 10 departments to be restructured are labour, technical education and industrial training, PWD (B&R), animal husbandry, fisheries & dairy development, tourism & cultural affairs, local government, printing & stationery, sports & youth service welfare, defence services welfare and cooperation department. A total of 2,375 posts will be abolished or surrendered in these departments, with another 785 to be created in the first go, as part of the restructuring exercise, an official spokesperson said, adding that moving forward, more posts will be created as required. In case of the PWD (B&R), the design cell will be now headed by a chief engineer, supported by superintending engineer (DRD), 4 XENs and 12 SDEs. The design cell would be responsible for designing of buildings, bridges and roads, to be constructed with the latest techniques and technologies. Also, the existing system of quality control will be upgraded by increasing the three regional labs under the deputy director research lab Patiala. To handle establishment cases efficiently amid more workload, in place of one chief engineer there will now be chief engineers duly supported by two deputy directors (administration). Further, 35 posts of IT professionals have also been approved, each with a defined role and objective to support and run the IT applications in PWD (B&R).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-restructure-10-depts-to-generate-50000-new-posts/articleshow/80036129.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bhopal||Shirdi, Trimbakeshwar on Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s New Year itinerary||BHOPAL: A day after approving more than five ordinances in the state cabinet, including the most talked about ‘Love Jihad', chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took a break to mark the New Year in Shirdi with his family. However, the visits will be restricted to darshan and prayers. Chouhan left for Hyderabad on Tuesday night and visited the ashram of religious guru Tridandi Srimannarayana Ramanuja Chinna Jeeyar Swamy in Rangareddy District of Telangana and sought his blessings, said officials at the CMO. Chouhan had visited the ashram in March this year after taking oath as chief minister and later on June 25 to seek blessings during Covid-19 crisis and India-China standoff in Ladakh. The chief minister is scheduled to visit Shirdi on December 31 to take blessings of Sai Baba. Visiting Shirdi on January 1 every year to get a glimpse of the presiding deity at Sai Baba temple is an annual ritual for the four-time chief minister. Every year, he plans a visit to Shirdi as part of a winter vacation with his family. However, the chief minister’s presence at the holy town this year goes under strict Covid protocol. The CM is also likely to visit Trimbakeshwar temple in Nasik and Shani Dham in Shingnapur during his two day sojourn. Sources said that Chouhan is also likely to visit Tirupati temple on January 2. However, the programme has not been officially confirmed. The chief minister is scheduled to return on January 2 where he has planned to review the road map of various departments and regions. The chief minister has also planned a video conference with commissioners and collectors on January 4 to review the status of investigation in chit fund scams and action taken against those involved, said the officials. BJP state chief VD Sharma said that he would remain in the state capital or visit his constituency Khajuraho, while Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia will be stationed at his New Delhi residence. “Scindia celebrates his birthday on January 1. His followers in Gwalior have planned a series of programmes to provide help to the poor and serve the public,” said a BJP state functionary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shirdi-trimbakeshwar-on-shivraj-singh-chouhans-new-year-itinerary/articleshow/80038131.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Don’t lease out green belt for projects, say activists||GURUGRAM: A group of environmentalists on Wednesday wrote to CM Manohar Lal Khattar against the proposal of leasing out greenbelts in the city for commercial purposes. They said that this decision in any circumstances is going to be a death knell for the health of the residents. Air quality and health of citizens should be given priority over revenue generation, they stressed. “Gurgaon is facing severe air pollution for the last 6 to 7 years and has been recognised as one of the most polluted cities in the world. The Air Quality Index (AQI) always remains above standard levels. If the remaining greenbelts are diverted for petrol pumps, liquor vends, nurseries, etc, it will only worsen the air quality of the city and will affect the health of the residents. I am sure it is no rocket science to comprehend this,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, environment activist. They also cited a joint survey report, which was released by ICMR and Public Health Foundation of India, which stated that due to air pollution, premature deaths are rising. “How can the state government choose to divert whatever precious little green cover the citizens of Gurgaon have for commercial use and revenue generation,” said Col SS Oberoi, another environmental expert. Also, it is important to note that the city is struggling with an exiguous green cover of only 9% while our neighbouring Delhi boasts of a green cover of 21%. “Gurgaon continues to be in the top five most polluted cities in the world yet, the government is authorising the green cover we are left with to be directed for liquor vends, and petrol stations,” said Vivek Kamboj, an environment activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dont-lease-out-green-belt-for-projects-say-activists/articleshow/80036133.cms||Ipsita Pati
December 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Pandemic hits NCR realty sector, housing sales fall by 51%: Survey||GURUGRAM: With NCR witnessing a 51% slump in housing sales and 47% decrease in new supplies in 2020 due to the “unstable” realty market, developers across the region’s cities say the sector has been going through challenging times and immediate government intervention is needed for its revival. The builders demand more development-friendly policies such as reduction in stamp duty rates, reschedulement of project loans, reduction of interest on home loans and more tax benefits to homebuyers for the quick revival of the realty sector. As per the latest report by real estate consultants Anarock, the NCR cities witnessed housing sales of 23,210 units in 2020 over 46,920 a year ago and the new supplies were restricted to 18,530 units this year against 35,280 in 2019. Of the seven cities in NCR, Gurgaon topped the list, with maximum housing sales (7,240) in 2020. The city was followed by Greater Noida (6,950), Ghaziabad (3,780) and Noida (3,240). In Delhi, only 350 units were sold this year, with no new launches. And Gurgaon saw the maximum launches at 11,180 new units, followed by Faridabad (3,050), Greater Noida (1,820) and Bhiwadi (1010), says the report. President of NAREDCO-UP and chairman of Supertech Group, RK Arora said the year started with the breakout of Covid-19, and the national lockdown halted construction activities, led to exodus of migrant workers, restricted movement of materials and compelled banks to withhold funds. “We have, however, fought against all odds, brought back workers and slowly carried out construction activities. With demand improving, new infrastructure projects coming up, and developer-friendly policies being announced by the government, we are hopeful that the government realises the need for launching a special fund for the developers to complete all stalled projects,” he said. Speaking of the real estate sector, Sudeep Singh, founder and CEO of MPowered, said, “Many NRIs have made investments in affordable housing projects this year due to property prices dropping significantly. Also, close to 8 million sq ft of commercial properties have been leased out at a pan-India level. This is in fact the best time for people with good cash flows to invest in property and maximise returns.” Rajat Goel, joint managing director of MRG World, lauded the state government for taking a positive decision in the affordable housing segment before 2020 came to end. “Though affordable housing has the maximum demand, many buyers were not going for the units due to the lack of car parking space. Now, mandatory parking will encourage more buyers to invest in affordable housing.” “The affordable housing segment saw the maximum sales and new launches in 2020. Some 70% of all the launches this year took place in this segment,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/pandemic-hits-ncr-realty-sector-housing-sales-fall-by-51-survey/articleshow/80036158.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
December 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Cold wave still severe, rain likely on Monday||GURUGRAM: Residents of the city woke up to a foggy morning on Wednesday. Dense fog led to low visibility in several parts of the city. The minimum temperature was recorded at 3°C on Wednesday, around three notches below normal, while the maximum temperature was 16.5°C. Severe cold conditions are likely to continue for the next 48 hours, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). “Gurgaon is likely to get rain on January 4. The city will continue to face cold wave for the next two days. The region will get some relief after January 2. Also, the city will be engulfed by fog for a few days,” said an IMD official. Although the city is witnessing severe cold wave conditions, the pollution levels have come down. The air quality index (AQI) of Gurgaon was recorded at 227 on Wednesday. Meanwhile, doctors said people above 60 years, infants and children below five years should not venture out during early mornings and late evenings as the cases of respiratory infection, asthma and COPD are on the rise. “People with respiratory infection should avoid going out for morning and evening walks. People should ensure that children are inside home. Also, variation in blood pressure, owing to the present weather conditions, may lead to severe angina and cardiovascular diseases or brain haemorrhage. The weather conditions to get severe in the coming days. In case people are venturing out, they should cover themselves well as they may suffer from chill bins. It is also not advisable to use blowers and direct heaters at home as these devices use up oxygen in the room, and may cause headache and sinus,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurgaon. Meanwhile, Delhi recorded season’s second lowest maximum and minimum temperatures on Wednesday. The minimum temperature dropped to 3.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, while the maximum temperature stood at 16.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees below normal, at Safdarjung observatory, city’s base station. The season’s lowest minimum temperature was recorded on December 20 at 3.4 degrees C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cold-wave-still-severe-rain-likely-on-monday/articleshow/80036187.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Business||Amid spat over target, stage set for big bang divestment||NEW DELHI: The massive shortfall in the Rs 2.1-lakh-crore disinvestment target has triggered unease within the government. The department for investment and public asset management (Dipam) is blaming the department of financial services for imposing an additional Rs 90,000-crore target through the sale of the Centre's stakes in LIC and IDBI Bank, which may not realise this year. Dipam, the government's disinvestment manager, believes that it was responsible only to achieve a target of Rs 1.2 lakh crore and blames Covid for the shortfall. This is not the first time that Dipam is accusing the finance ministry of using it to show higher receipts and consequently a lower fiscal deficit. But it will be the sixth year in a row when the Narendra Modi government may not have much to write about when it comes to strategic sales, barring the transfer of shares in PSUs such as HPCL and Tehri Hydro Development Corporation (THDCL) to other state-run entities. Dipam officials, however, said that things will change in 2021 with the stage set for the government's strategic sales in the new year. They are hoping that amendments to the LIC Act, paving the way for an IPO, will come through in the Budget session. The groundwork has been done to at least ensure that big ticket sales like those of state-run oil marketing firm BPCL, cash-guzzling Air India, logistics firm Concor, Shipping Corporation and BEML go through smoothly in 2021. This will ensure much-needed cash for the government at a time when it wants to step up spending to get growth back on track. The Modi administration has been unsuccessful in pushing the privatisation agenda due to political obstacles and lacklustre response to some of its earlier sale plans. But officials say now the signal from the political leadership is amply clear and Dipam has been asked to go ahead full steam. The Centre has reiterated its resolve to stand by civil servants who are reluctant to take decisions that may be questioned many years after they have retired. Legislative changes and government assurances will help accelerate decision-making, particularly those linked to strategic disinvestments. Most experts expect the proceeds from disinvestment to be robust as the economy recovers from the impact of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amid-spat-over-target-stage-set-for-big-bang-divestment/articleshow/80038155.cms||Surojit Gupta
December 31, 2020||Kochi||Fort Kochi’s New Year to be low-key||KOCHI: The celebrations in Fort Kochi and Mattancherry, to which thousands annually flock to welcome the New Year, will be low-key this year as the police have imposed strict restrictions as a precautionary measure to check the spread of Covid-19. The Kochi City and Ernakulam Rural police have issued strict guidelines in Ernakulam restricting the celebrations. The district administration has suspended the New Year celebrations, including the popular Cochin carnival. The City police have also warned strict action on protocol violators in Fort Kochi and Mattancherry region on New Year’s eve. CCTV surveillance will be done at all major spots and plain-clothes policemen will be deployed. The police have said that action will be taken on parents who bring their children below 10 years and those above 60 to beaches and crowded places. Access to Fort Kochi beach will be restricted to a specific time and only to a fixed number of visitors. Mattancherry Assistant Commissioner issued a press release stating that celebrations beyond midnight will not be permitted and all those found loitering in the Fort Kochi region without valid reasons will be booked. In Ernakulam Rural, about 1,500 cops will be deployed round-the-clock. K Karthick, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), said that use of loudspeakers in public places and the bursting of crackers without prior police permission will not be allowed. Steps will be taken to suspend the driving licenses of motorists held for drunken driving. Also, liquor outlets will not be allowed to function beyond permissible hours. Policewomen will be deployed to ensure the safety of women and children in public places. Even though DJ parties will not be stopped, police have requested people to prevent crowding and keep children and senior citizens away from celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fort-kochis-new-year-to-be-low-key/articleshow/80038160.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab brings pay scales for fresh recruits at par with 7th pay commission||CHANDIGARH: Punjab cabinet on Wednesday approved amendments to the Punjab Civil Services Rules for granting new pay scales (matrix) on the pattern of the 7th Central Pay Commission for all fresh recruitments to state government and its entities. The decision to bring the pay scales for all prospective recruitments/appointments – direct recruitments/compassionate appointments – at par with the central government scales was taken during a virtual cabinet meeting. On July 17, 2020, the finance department had issued instructions that these pay scales in any cadre of administrative department of the Punjab government or its entities shall not be higher than for the same cadre in the Centre, as notified as per the recommendations of the 7th Central Pay Commission. According to a letter by the finance department, dated January 15, 2015, letters issued in continuation thereof, grant of basic pay (minimum of the pay band) and allowances during the probation period are also applicable as per the same rule. According to a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office, the amendment stipulates that the expression “fixed monthly emoluments” for employees, appointed to the service before July 17, 2020, means the amount drawn monthly by a government employee equal to the minimum of the pay band of the service or post to which he is appointed. The said amount shall not include grade pay, special pay, annual increment or any other allowance, except travelling allowance drawn with reference to the grade pay of the relevant service or post. Further, the amended rule states that the expression “fixed monthly emoluments” for employees, appointed to the service against direct quota posts, on or after the July 17, 2020, means the amount drawn monthly by the government employee equal to the amount of relevant level of pay matrix of service or post as notified by the administrative department concerned to which he is appointed. will not include special pay, annual increment, or any other allowance, except travelling allowance drawn with reference to the relevant service or post. The amended rule willl also not include any other emoluments which may be specifically classed as part of pay by the competent authority, as provided in rule 2.44 (b), said the spokesperson. According to the spokesperson, the administrative departments are now being advised by the finance department about the pay matrix for new appointments to be made under the state employment plan. The departments are also in the process of direct recruitment by recruiting agencies like Punjab Public Service Commission, Subordinate Service Selection Board and the departmental committees, as the case may be.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-brings-pay-scales-for-fresh-recruits-at-par-with-7th-pay-commission/articleshow/80036206.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Old banyan tree set on fire in Aravalis||Gurgaon:A banyan tree believed to be more than 100 years old was found to have been set on fire by unknown miscreants in the Aravali forest area of Anangpur. The tree, which used to be the nesting ground for several species of birds, is in an area where any “non-forest activity” is banned under sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act. It was sometime last week that a group of environmental activists found that the tree had been set on fire. They claimed that though they had informed the forest department about it, no action had been taken. Forest officials, however, said they had started a preliminary investigation and lodged an FIR. Activists pointed out that the land mafia often chopped trees or set them on fire to clear a plot and start illegal construction. Illegal chopping of trees has been reported on multiple occasions from this area, they said. “There is a lack of patrolling in the forest areas, which is why the land mafia is destroying trees to clear up land and start illegal construction. Rampant felling of trees not just creates an environmental imbalance but birds, too, lose their habitat,” said Jitender Bhadana, a resident of Faridabad and an environmental activist. The activists asserted that the forest department needed to immediately take action in the case. “It was a huge and a very old tree. We had visited the area in October and taken pictures of the banyan tree. When we returned in December, there was no sign of the tree. We immediately informed the forest department, but they are yet to take any action. Such is the state of affairs here,” said Sanjay Rao, a member of Save Aravali, an NGO that has been working in the region for the past 10 years now. Sources said the tree would have been set on fire last week only. Forest officials said they had initiated an investigation into the matter. “We came to know about it three days ago. I conducted a survey of the area and filed a complaint against unknown people. We have also increased patrolling to protect trees in the Aravalis,” said Raj Kumar, divisional forest officer of Faridabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/old-banyan-tree-set-on-fire-in-aravalis/articleshow/80036218.cms||Ipsita Pati
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Cabinet nod to rules for cash transportation by private security agencies||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has decided to strengthen the security mechanism for all cash transportation activities in the state by regulating all private security agencies engaged in such activities under the umbrella of the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, (PSARA) 2005. The state cabinet, in a virtual meeting chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh, gave the go-ahead to notify the Punjab Private Security Agencies (Private Security to Cash Transportation Activities) Rules, 2020, in pursuance of PSAR Act, 2005, which did not specifically cover the activities of the cash transportation agencies. With the notification of the new rules, all cash transportation agencies operating in Punjab would be governed by the PSAR Act, 2005. Resultantly, the cash transportation agencies would be now required to obtain licence from the state controlling authority and the persons entrusted with the task for security of the cash in transit would be needed to be suitably recruited, verified and trained as per the rules/guidelines laid down under the PSAR Act 2005, and the Cash Transportation Rules, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cabinet-nod-to-rules-for-cash-transportation-by-private-security-agencies/articleshow/80036213.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bhopal||Day temperature dips in Bhopal, no respite for few days||BHOPAL: There was marginal relief in the night temperature of Bhopal, but the day temperature dipped several notches below the normal mark. Respite from cold is unlikely for the next few days. Minimum temperature at a majority of places in the state remained below the 10 degrees mark. Officials of the meteorological department, Bhopal circle, said the dip in day temperature was due to clouding and change in wind direction. There was fog and haze in the city. The temperatures would continue to remain less than normal in the state. Day temperature in Bhopal on Wednesday was recorded at 18 degrees celsius, seven degrees less than normal mark, while night temperature in the city was 10.1 degrees Celsius, a degree less than normal mark. Wind direction in the city was north-easterly while average wind speed was 15 km per hour. A day earlier, maximum and minimum temperature in Bhopal were respectively 19.3 degrees and 7.8 degrees. Lowest minimum temperature in the state on Wednesday was recorded at 3 degrees Celsius in Datia. At least 25 places in the state recorded minimum temperature between 3 degrees Celsius and 10 degrees Celsius. Hill station Pachmarhi recorded the minimum temperature at 5 degrees Celsius. There was a cold wave in Datia, Dhar and Gwalior and a cold day at several places in the state. In the forecast for Bhopal on Thursday, the meteorological officials said there would be clear sky and dry weather will prevail in the city. Day and night temperature would be respectively at 19 degrees Celsius and 10 degrees Celsius while average wind speed will be 14 kmph. In the forecast for the state, Met officials issued a warning of cold day for places, including Gwalior and Chambal divisions and for Indore, Khargone, Ratlam, Shajapur, Ujjain, Raisen and Rajgarh districts. Lowest minimum temperature in the state on Tuesday was recorded at 3 degrees Celsius in Datia. It was colder than hill station Pachmarhi that recorded minimum temperature of 5 degrees Celsius. Warning of cold wave was issued for Gwalior and Chambal divisions and for Chhatarpur district. A warning of ground frost was issued for Datia, Bhind and Morena districts, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/day-temperature-dips-in-bhopal-no-respite-for-few-days/articleshow/80038169.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ghaziabad||Fire bullets, won’t budge: Naresh Tikait to govt||GHAZIABAD: Refusing to give an inch, BKU (Tikait) president Naresh Tikait on Wednesday said that farmers at UP Gate would continue their agitation till their demands are met. If the government wants to remove them, it would have to ‘fire bullets at them’, he added. Tikait said that the government had taken a ‘dictatorial stance’ and warned they will march to Delhi on January 26 if there’s no headway in talks. “Inki neeti mein khot hai (their policy is flawed). They still have a stubborn attitude that borders on being dictatorial. But farmers will not return empty-handed and will intensify their struggle in the days to come. If they want to stop us, they can fire bullets at us,” he said, adding that he hoped that ‘good sense will prevail’. “The government adopted all kinds of rhetoric to break the unity of farmers and propped up unions in support of the bill. They have exhausted all their tricks now,” Tikait told TOI. Earlier, his younger brother and outfit spokesperson Rakesh Tikait again said his remarks that have upset Brahmin groups. “My statement was twisted and given political colour. It was not directed against any community but was about temple trusts,” he said. Shortly afterwards, he left for Delhi to attend talks with the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/tikait-to-govt-fire-bullets-wont-budge/articleshow/80036821.cms||Abhijay Jha
December 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to set up SPV to augment tech capacity against cross-border terror||CHANDIGARH: Amid increasing cases of smuggling of weapons and drugs via drones in border areasof the state, Punjab has decided to enhance counter terrorism capacity of its police force and establish a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to augment its technological capacity to counter cross-border terrorism. The proposal was approved in a virtual meeting of the state cabinet that was held on Wednesday. The decision comes amid growing attempts by Pakistan-based forces to revive terrorism in the state, as evident from the number of arrests and seizures made this year. The SPV will be set up on the lines of uropean Technology and Travel Services Association (ETTSA) established by the Punjab excise department. The chief minister will be chairman of the SPV as minister in-charge and has been authorized to take further necessary steps to establish the SPV at the earliest possible. It has been decided to give the SPV flexibility to hire experts and consultants in various front-line areas of police technology, as per the evolving needs of the police. According to DGP Dinkar Gupta, the SPV would work on establishing a unified communication network of senior police/civil officers, besides undertaking the development and deployment of an online intelligence sharing platform in the state. It will also work on setting up a state grid as a network of databases about arms, arms license holders, arms dealers, vehicles, suspects and passports. In addition, the SPV has been envisaged as a vehicle for the creation of a real time crime centre, involving mining of data analytic applications, integrated with current databases to allow for more proactive responses and achieve operational objectives of the state police. It will be further tasked with finding an efficacious and powerful solution for enabling proper information storage, collation, analysis, sharing and retrieval of data. Geographic information system (GIS) mapping of the state is another key agenda for the SPV. The cabinet also sanctioned augmentation of the police department’s counter terrorism capacity by reducing the age profile of 01 Commando Battalion by filling up vacant posts with newly recruited constables and re-deployment of existing manpower within the armed cadre. Young and directly recruited constables with remarkably high physical standards would be given specialized training and inducted in these battalions. GO AHEAD TO MATA TRIPTA MAHILA YOJNA To empower the Women-headed households in the state, the cabinet also gave a go ahead to implement Mata Tripta Mahila Yojna. Punjab has 54, 86,851 households, (Census 2011) out of which 7, 96,030 households are headed by women. The objective of this new policy is to empower women-headed households (WHH) in Punjab, who is an adult female and the sole or main income earner and decision-maker. Under this scheme, the head of the household must be a widow/deserted woman/separated woman/divorced woman/unmarried woman and she must be the sole earning member in the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-set-up-spv-to-augment-tech-capacity-against-cross-border-terror/articleshow/80036255.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: On YouTube & Facebook, team of eight dispels rumours||REWARI: In a bid to counter ‘misinformation’ against the ongoing protest at Jaisinghpur Khera on the Haryana-Rajasthan border, a group of eight tech-savvy youth belonging to farmer families have come together to start a YouTube channel, where they try to clear misconceptions and reply to any doubts and queries that people have. To this end, several farmer leaders have appealed to protesters on the ground to call from home youngsters who are well-versed in information technology and social media and can respond to ‘fake news’ through Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp. The protest at Jaisinghpur Khera, which started on December 13 and is spearheaded by Swaraj India president Yogender Yadav, has swelled in the last few weeks with several thousand farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab joining in to demand repealing of the three agriculture laws. They have faced questions over funding and at other times been accused of having pro-Khalistani or Maoist links. The digital push is to clear the air on this, say farmers. “Fake news is spreading faster than ever. Recently, images of Khalistani posters from a foreign country were edited to make it appear as though they were being used in our protests. Immediately, we put out a clarification on it,” Yadav tells TOI. “I also clarify and share a video every day on social media. It’s time we counter the misinformation and negative perception,” he adds. Apart from the YouTube channel, called Kisan Ekta, the tech team also uploads videos, photos and comments from farmers daily on social media. “Volunteers record speeches of senior farmer leaders and post them on YouTube, WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter. They also handle the tech required behind streaming events online,” says Amra Ram, a farmer leader. Among the team of eight are two MSc second-year students of a Delhi college who hail from Bikaner and Jaipur. Another, a 24-year-old BTech student in Delhi, is a native from Sri Ganganagar. Most of the others are from Punjab, with their families having farming backgrounds. The youths say that because the elders in the family are not tech-savvy and are often unaware of slander, they have taken it upon themselves to engage with all those who doubt the campaign’s motive. “We don’t have a big set-up but we are fighting with whatever resources we have to counter the malicious campaign on social media, where farmers have been called anti-national and their leaders often targeted,” one of the volunteers, a 32-year-old digital marketeer who lives in Mohali, says. “To educate people about our protest, we hold a live session on social media every day in the evening where we field questions. We are getting a lot of support,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/on-youtube-facebook-team-of-8-dispels-rumours/articleshow/80036834.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
December 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala assembly poll likely in two phases||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The final voter’s list for assembly election will be published on Jan 20 and it will be based on applications received till Dec 31. The last date for deletion and correction in the voters’ list will not be extended after Thursday said chief electoral officer Teeka Ram Meena on Wednesday. Since there will be more polling booths which would necessitate more manpower, some district collectors suggested that the assembly election could be conducted in two phases. The popular demand is to have the election in two phases and political parties also support this view. The announcement of election dates is expected in March. Election Commission of India (ECI) will take the final decision, he said. Meena added that new applications for including names in the voters’ list can be submitted 10 days before the withdrawal of nominations and the names will be included in the supplementary list. The CEO said there will be more polling booths in upcoming assembly elections since there will only be 1,000 voters per polling booth. In the previous election, it was one polling booth for 1,400 voters and the total polling booths was 25,041. As per current estimate, there will be 15,000 additional polling booths. If the manpower mobilised during the previous polls was 2,31,000, the upcoming one would require 10,000 more officials. There will also be a corresponding increase in the requirements of electronic voting machines. The state will need 51,500 ballot units, 51,100 control units and 55,300 VVPAT machines. ECI has dispatched these machines to state from Maharashtra and Telangana. At present, the first-level checking of these machines are progressing in all districts. A team of six senior officials from ECI will be reaching Kerala on Thursday to monitor the checking in different districts. The machines that fail during testing will be rejected and checking is being done in a transparent way in the presence of representatives from political parties. "Unfortunately many parties aren’t showing interest in checking," said Meena. Postal BallotThis time, a decision has been taken to provide postal ballots for those aged over 80 and physically-disabled persons. While preparing the voters’ list, a separate list of such people will be prepared. A form will be sent to them, asking if they want a postal ballot for voting. If they agree, then necessary arrangements will be made, he said. However, for Covid-19 patients, a final decision has not been taken yet. It will be decided after having discussions with concerned authorities. For the enrolment of new names, after Nov 16, 5,38,000 applications were received by the commission. From the existing list, 98,840 duplicate names were deleted after verifying demographically similar entries, said the CEO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-assembly-poll-likely-in-two-phases/articleshow/80038218.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Hemant Nimbalkar offers to withdraw from Safe City Project’s tender authority||BENGALURU: In a fresh twist to the Safe City Project that envisages making Bengaluru safe for women and children through the installation of 7,500 surveillance cameras across the city, additional commissioner of city police (administration) Hemant Nimbalkar has volunteered to recuse himself as chairman of the project’s tender inviting authority in the interest of effective and speedy implementation of the project, TOI has learnt. When contacted, Nimbalkar declined to comment. The project that seeks to increase CCTV coverage of the city by 10 times has been mired in controversies from its inception. While the first two calls of the tender for the implementation of the project could not attain logical conclusion, the third call in November this year has sparked off unseemly scenes with top bureaucrats and IPS officers trading charges and countercharges. The first request for proposal (RFP) for the tender issued last year fell flat as the bidders lacked technical qualifications. The second RFP issued early this year was about to be concluded with the acceptance of three bids. But a Karnataka government order banning participation of Chinese make/Chinese origin products in any procurement process citing national interests, resulted in the tender being scrapped. The third RFP was issued in November this year and January 8 was the last date for placing bids. But the tendering process has since been overshadowed by top IPS officers and bureaucrats making claims and counterclaims. The city police describe the Safe City Project as one of their most ambitious and foolproof plans to ensure women’s security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-hemant-nimbalkar-offers-to-withdraw-from-safe-city-projects-tender-authority/articleshow/80038252.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu CM pick: BJP, PMK needle AIADMK||CHENNAI: After BJP general secretary C T Ravi said NDA’s CM pick will be decided by a panel and PMK’s G K Mani said chief S Ramadoss would announce the CM candidate, AIADMK said it “will keep out parties that do not accept EPS as CM candidate”. Addressing the @BJP4TamilNadu Prashikshan Varga at Chennai.Speaking to the Assembly Convenors, Co-convenors and C… https://t.co/5SAvV7axfy— C T Ravi 🇮🇳 ಸಿ ಟಿ ರವಿ (@CTRavi_BJP) 1609314192000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-cm-pick-bjp-pmk-needle-aiadmk/articleshow/80038244.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka gram panchayat election: Candidates backed by BJP & Congress take lead||BENGALURU: Candidates backed by the ruling BJP are leading in a majority of gram panchayat seats in Karnataka followed closely by Congress-supported candidates as the counting of votes was still underway on Wednesday. Gram panchayat elections were held on December 22 and 27, and the counting of votes is expected to be completed on Thursday morning. Since the voting was held with paper ballots barring Bidar district, the results have been delayed, said the State Election Commission. Of 91,339 seats in 5,728 gram panchayats, counting of votes was completed in 54,041 seats by 8pm Wednesday. The results in the remaining seats will be known by Thursday. After major political parties started putting out numbers on social media three hours into the counting of votes claiming candidates supported by them have won in a majority of seats, the State Election Commission rapped them through a press release and said attribution of victories of candidates to political parties is “incorrect” and “misleading” since gram panchayat elections are not fought on party lines. However, party leaders continued to make claims. While BJP claimed it won in 60% of seats for which results have been declared, the Congress made a similar claim. ‘BJP wooing Cong-backed winners’We’ve won more seats than what Congress, JD(S) and independents have collectively won. The results demonstrated the BJP is a favourite of not just urban populace but also of rural people,” said minister KS Eshwarappa. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah blamed BJP for trying to woo victorious candidates backed by the Congress by money and muscle power out of frustration as it could not win the hearts of rural India. “Reports suggest that Congress-supported candidates are winning in a majority of seats. Rural India has always supported the Congress in panchayat elections. Rural India is also frustrated by the policies implemented by the BJP and they found GP elections as a perfect opportunity to teach BJP a lesson,” he tweeted. CM BS Yediyurappa, who had predicted win for party-backed candidates in most seats, will address the media on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-gram-panchayat-election-candidates-backed-by-bjp-congress-take-lead/articleshow/80038281.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: CS, additional CS got me involved in Safe City Project, says D Roopa||BENGALURU: IPS officer D Roopa has said it is wrong to say that she was in no way linked to the implementation of the Safe City Project, which envisages making urban spaces safe for women and children through installation of 7,500 surveillance cameras across Bengaluru. “I was given the file (pertaining to the Safe City Project) by the additional chief secretary in the home department on August 26. I studied the file that was with me for a week. After that I reported to the chief secretary about the complaints of BEL, a Navratna PSU and other complaints (about the project), after which the CS instructed his PS to invite me for the next meeting on the subject,” Roopa, who is secretary to the government in the home department, told TOI in an email statement. “Accordingly, I received a notice to attend the meeting at 4.30pm on October 5 and I did so through a video conference,” Roopa, who is secretary (prisons, crime and auxiliary services) in the home department, said. Roopa was responding to a report, ‘Cop poses as home secy to get tender info,’ published in these columns on December 25, 2020. “There is only one post of ‘secretary’ in the home department which is held by me, the other one being the ‘additional chief secretary’. Both posts report to the home minister and are under the home department,” she said. Mails sent by TOI to chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar and additional chief secretary in the home department Rajneesh Goel, went unanswered until the time of going to the press. Confirming that she did speak to the firm that had prepared the tender for the project in her official capacity as the home secretary from her office landline, Roopa said: “I asked them various questions as to why they had prepared the tender document in the first place in a manner that it paved the way for complaints. BEL had complained to the Prime Minister’s Office. There were complaints by others too. I spoke to the firm in bona fide discharge of my duties as a public servant. If there are irregularities found, any officer, any citizen, in fact, can blow the whistle. I just did the same.” Roopa said she had complained to the chief secretary to look into the issue as to how the whole incident was twisted to make it look like a case of impersonation. “I have urged the chief secretary to remove Hemant Nimbalkar, IPS as the chairman of the project’s tender inviting committee and tender scrutiny committee because the CBI has chargesheeted him in the Rs 4,500-crore IMA scam and also recommended disciplinary action against him. In all fairness, such a person should not be holding the post of chairman of the tender committee till he is absolved of these charges in the court,” she said. When contacted on Wednesday, Nimbalkar declined to comment stating that the matter of impersonation is in front of the commissioner of police for inquiry ordered by the government. Nimbalkar on December 27 had held a press conference to clarify on the controversy where he said BEL never participated in the first tender. BEL participated during Call-2 and the bid was accepted along with two others. He admitted that he had written to the chief secretary, asking for an inquiry into the attempt to procure the details of RFP in preparation by unauthorised persons. “As the project consultant is bound by a non-disclosure clause with respect to preparation of RFP, they raised an alarm through a mail dated November 7, 2020 to the commissioner of police asking whether to share the details asked by the person claiming to be home secretary,” he had said at the press meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-cs-additional-cs-got-me-involved-in-safe-city-project-says-d-roopa/articleshow/80038306.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Raised complaints against first 2 tenders: Bharat Electronics Limited||BENGALURU: Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) has said that it could not participate in the first Request For Proposal (RFP) floated in November 2019 for selection of service provider for design, implementation and maintenance of Bangalore Safe City Project under the Nirbhaya Scheme due to its “unrealistic and restrictive pre-qualification/technical qualification criteria”. The PSU apprised the tendering authority for necessary amendment in the criteria, a BEL spokesperson said. Stating that the tender was cancelled, and a second RFP was floated on February10, 2020, BEL said that it was among the four firms that participated in the tender. The spokesperson said that the bids were opened on May 20, 2020 and BEL representatives present at the opening noticed that one of the bidders had not submitted a mandatory document and made a representation to the tendering authorities on the noncompliance. The spokesperson said that BEL subsequently highlighted the issue of common directors of two of the bidders, including the one accused of noncompliance. Acting on BEL’s representation, “the tendering authority disqualified the proposal from the non-compliant firm on the ground of nonsubmission of mandatory documents; but allowed the other firm to be part of the bid evaluation process against the noncompliance,” the PSU said. BEL later raised the issue of the use of Huawei products in the offer from the bidder which had escaped disqualification over the common director issue. Huawei is banned by the US government and using its products was a violation of RFP terms and conditions, the spokesperson explained. “The tender was later cancelled by the tendering authority and a fresh RFP was issued on November 11, 2020 with the inclusion of use of non-Chinese products,” the PSU said. The spokesperson said BEL was not aware of any formal inquiry launched into the second RFP by the authorities concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/raised-complaints-against-first-2-tenders-bharat-electronics-limited/articleshow/80038326.cms||---
December 31, 2020||India||Govt extends deadline for use of FASTag till February 15||NEW DELHI: The road transport ministry has extended the deadline for 100% collection of toll charges on the National Highway (NH) network through FASTag till February 15. Earlier, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had announced to completely do away with cash transactions for paying toll charges from January 1. Currently, the share of transactions by FASTag is hovering around 75-80%. In a communication to NHAI, the ministry has said the highways authority can obtain the needed regulatory requirement from it for ensuring 100% cashless fee collection from February 15. In order to discourage cash transactions at toll plazas, all lanes barring one on each side have been made dedicated "FASTag lanes" and any vehicle entering these lanes without FASTag are liable to pay double the normal toll fee. “Cash is a legal mode of transaction and none can be denied from paying in cash. Hence, the best option would be strict enforcement of the Motor Vehicle Rule, which has made valid FASTag mandatory,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-extends-deadline-for-use-of-fastag-till-february-15/articleshow/80038337.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru Safe City Project: PIL seeks CBI probe, HC sees no urgency||BENGALURU: A public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed in the high court has sought for directions to consider its representation to the state government seeking a CBI probe into the tendering for Bengaluru Safe City Project. When the petition filed by city advocate Geetha Misra came up before the court on Wednesday, a division bench comprising Justices R Devdas and M Nagaprasanna observed that there is no urgency to hear the petition during the vacation and adjourned it. In his brief submissions, advocate-general Prabhuling K Navadgi drew the court’s notice to the petitioner rushing to the court within two days of submitting a representation to the government. The petitioner has claimed the chairman of Tender Inviting and Scrutiny Committee has been chargesheeted by the CBI in the IMA scam and even the BEL had addressed a letter to the PM’s s office on June 20, 2020 citing conflict of interest as well as irregularities in the RFP released for the project. She has also sought stay on the tendering process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-safe-city-project-pil-seeks-cbi-probe-hc-sees-no-urgency/articleshow/80038357.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: New Year revellers to stay indoors tonight, head for brunch tomorrow||MUMBAI: Mumbaikars' New Year Eve plans for Thursday night span two ends of the spectrum-either organise house parties or leave town altogether. After the state government extended the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions by a month on Wednesday, no more than five persons can head out as a group. Mumbai police spokesperson S Chaitanya said the pandemic prohibitory Section 188 remains in force, so big parties and terrace parties are prohibited as there are chances of violation of social distancing. He added that neither is burning the effigy of 'Old Man 2020' permitted nor are fireworks. Mumbaikars seem content to stay indoors rather than risk being out in the streets during night curfew. In Powai, bakeries ran out of pizza base Wednesday, hinting at the menu for the house party. Liquor sold briskly citywide. Some groups will travel out of town. Pawan Sharma, a lawyer from Mulund, said, "We have a farmhouse in Karjat with good Wi-Fi so we friends will head out and party there till the weekend." Leading hotels like Taj Mahal Palace in Colaba, ITC Grand Central in Parel and The Leela in Andheri East, have organised festive buffet meals and a la carte menus although large-scale entertainment is missing. "If we have to be in business in 2021 it is better to pare down festivities this New Year. Who wants the state to lock us down for another six months," said one manager. Interestingly, hotels expect business to increase on January 1 even as it drops on New Year Eve. "More people will prefer a leisurely brunch on January 1 than a hurried December 31 dinner," said another hotel manager. Some are offering rebates on New Year 'daycations' that include room access, meals and spa discounts. The organisers of the Goa Sunburn music festival have gone digital. One hotel has organised a Sufi techno festival, another will stream music on Facebook and "convert homes into party zones". Meanwhile, churches have advanced their New Year 'midnight' mass. Gloria Church in Byculla and Victoria Church in Mahim will host vigil mass early around 7pm. Fr Frazer Mascarenhas of St Peter's Church in Bandra, said, "Our New Year Vigil service is for a limited number of people who have been given passes. It will be livestreamed for the rest. It will end early so people can reach home before curfew."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-new-year-revellers-to-stay-indoors-tonight-head-for-brunch-tomorrow/articleshow/80038366.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||No food delivery after 11pm: BMC||MUMBAI: Food takeaway or parcels and home delivery won't be allowed after 11pm in view of the night curfew in place in the state, said BMC additional municipal commissioner (health) Suresh Kakani. His statement came after restaurants and hotels in the city urged the municipal corporation to allow them to keep their kitchen open till 1.30am so that they can deliver food to people bringing in the new year at home. "With no relaxation in the night curfew guidelines, we have no choice but to abide by it," said AHAR president Shivanand Shetty, "We had requested the government to allow restaurants and bars to have their kitchens open till 1.30am for takeaways," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-food-delivery-after-11pm-bmc/articleshow/80038372.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Mumbai||Today, BMC to station more 'Covid' marshals at Gateway, Mumbai beaches||MUMBAI: The BMC will deploy additional marshal teams at the Gateway of India and beaches on Thursday to ensure that New Year revellers wear masks, maintain social distancing and clear the areas before 11pm. Officials said this year, no arrangements, like setting up barricades and watch towers, have been made at these spots. Instead, the BMC has urged Mumbaikars not to congregate at the Gateway and beaches to usher in the new year. "People are allowed to enjoy a stroll at Girgaum Chowpatty, but after 10.45pm, we will ask them to leave due to the night curfew," assistant municipal commissioner of D ward Prashant Gaikwad said. He added that there have not been many enquiries about organising gatherings on society premises due to the pandemic. Civic officials said that people can host house parties, but ensure that the Covid norms are followed and neighbours are not disturbed. Juhu Chowpatty, another spot that sees New Year crowds every year, will also be cleared of people before 11pm. Assistant municipal commissioner, K-West ward, Vishwas Mote said, "We request people not to come to the beach...Since no crowds are expected, we are not making any additional arrangements like barricading. But we will deploy more marshal teams to maximise our action against those not wearing masks and crowding the beach." Assistant municipal commissioner of A ward, which covers Colaba, Cuffe Parade, Churchgate and Fort areas, Chanda Jadhav said they too don't expect people to crowd at the Gateway. "But, our routine action will continue."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/today-bmc-to-station-more-covid-marshals-at-gateway-mumbai-beaches/articleshow/80038413.cms||Vijay V Singh
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Son kills retired banker over property, affair||BENGALURU: A 61-year-old retired Reserve Bank of India (RBI) officer was hacked to death by his son allegedly over the former’s relationship with another woman and property issues. The incident took place in Bharathi Nagar police station limits on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as Amarnath and accused as Manank, 27, a BTech graduate. Amarnath, who was separated from his wife and spent most of his life in Mumbai, wanted to settle down in Bengaluru. Police said he had been here a few days ago as he was constructing a house in RBI staff quarters. He stayed in a rented house in Bharathi Nagar. Manank, who also lived in Mumbai with his father, arrived in Bengaluru three days ago. Around 10pm on Tuesday, the father and son picked up a fight over property and other domestic issues. Manank allegedly stabbed his father and poured hot water on him. Amarnath, who suffered 40% burns, succumbed. According to police, Manank was a drug addict and was undergoing de-addiction. Amarnath was said to be having an affair with another woman, which had enraged his son. Father had been warned; counsellor discovered body On Tuesday afternoon, Amarnath had taken Manank to a counselling session where the latter said that he would inherit property if he killed his father and mother. The counsellor had asked Amarnath to be careful. Amarnath had invited the counsellor for dinner that night. The murder came to light when the counsellor arrived at Amarnath’s house for dinner only to see Manank sitting in front of his father’s dead body. He immediately informed Bharathi Nagar police, who arrested Manank on murder charges and are questioning him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-son-kills-retired-banker-over-property-affair/articleshow/80038401.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Couple shot dead in Rohtak, woman’s uncle, relative held||ROHTAK: A young couple who wanted to marry against the wishes of their families was allegedly shot dead by the girl's kin near the Delhi bypass around 5pm on Wednesday after they called them there on the pretext of getting their marriage registered in a local court. The girl’s uncle and another relative were subsequently arrested. The woman, identified as Pooja, 24, was from Kanheli village while the man Rohit, 23, belonged to Baketa village of the district. Both were declared brought dead at PGIMS Rohtak. Another person who was accompanying the couple, identified as Mohit, was hospitalized with bullet injuries. It is learnt that Pooja and Rohit wanted to tie the nuptial knot, but their families were against the alliance. After much persuasion, the boy's parents had agreed to their relationship, but the girl's uncle, who was taking care of her after her parents died, was adamant. The girl was a divorcee. Police probing property angle tooSantosh, mother of Rohit, told the media that Pooja's parents had seemingly agreed and asked the couple to come to Rohtak on Wednesday to get their marriage registered. "When Pooja and Rohit arrived in a Swift car, her father came there with her mother and brother and several others, and along with his accomplices shot dead my son Rohit and Pooja, firing many rounds of bullets," Santosh added. The crime was also captured in nearby CCTV cameras. Deputy superintendent of police Sajjan Kumar said that prima facie it appeared to be a case of a couple wanting to marry against their parents’ wishes. The police have arrested Pooja's uncle Kuldeep and relative Vikas after registering a case of murder. "We are probing all angles and even a property issue can't be ruled out," police said. PGIMS Rohtak medical superintendent Dr Pushpa said that the couple was brought dead while one other person Mohit brought to the hospital is under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/couple-shot-dead-in-rohtak-womans-uncle-relative-held/articleshow/80038417.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad district magistrate inspects night shelters as mercury drops||GHAZIABAD: As the mercury level plummeted, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey on Tuesday night made a surprise inspection of night shelters and spent time with the inmates till the early morning hours of Wednesday. Pandey’s night out was necessitated after he received a complaint from an NGO that the night shelters in the district were in poor shape. “I decided to check the situation myself because I was informed by the officials that there is no problem in all the 30 night shelters,” the DM said. “On Tuesday night around 11 pm I visited a night shelter in Arthala, my visit was kept secret and I found things to be satisfactory there. After that I visited another night shelter in Raj Nagar Extension area where I stayed for a couple of hours, barring a few minor complaints there were no major problems. The beds were clean and so were the mattresses and quilts. There was also enough stock of fire-woods,” Pandey added. Ratan Singh, an inmate said, “I was surprised when officials walked in the shelter in the middle of the night. Later I realized that it was the district magistrate. He even offered jackets to a few of us and sat down on a nearby bed where he checked files and talked to us.” Aas Mohamad, a labourer from Bijnor, who sought refuge in a night shelter near New Ghaziabad Railway Station for about a fortnight said the shelter home conditions are better this time. “Compared to last year the night shelters are better equipped. We are getting clean mattresses and quilts and there is a mobile toilet nearby. I stay here on weekdays and leave for my home in Bijnor on weekends.” Shyamveer from Khurja has only one issue “there is no place to keep my money, after all I cannot carry it with me all the time.” Sohan Pal, a rickshaw puller, however, said, “Few days ago the quilts were stinking but when we apprised the keeper and the next day it was replaced. We also got food and quilts from people who often visit us.” In Ghaziabad there are 30 night shelters both temporary and permanent, which can accommodate over 900 inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gzb-dm-inspects-night-shelters-as-mercury-drops/articleshow/80036609.cms||Abhijay Jha
December 31, 2020||Business||Government extends deadline to file I-T returns by 10 days||NEW DELHI: After intense lobbying by chartered accountants and tax professionals, the government has granted a fresh extension to those who have not filed their returns, citing Covid-19 as the reason. A majority of individual taxpayers, who were earlier required to file their returns by December 31, have been given another 10 days till January 10 to comply with the statutory requirement, for which the original deadline was July 31. The deadline for making declarations under the ‘Vivad se Vishwas’ scheme has also been extended up to January 31. Further, I-T returns for tax audit assessees can be filed up to February 15. In view of the continued challenges faced by taxpayers in meeting statutory compliances due to outbreak of COVID-19… https://t.co/sabAefM1qe— Income Tax India (@IncomeTaxIndia) 1609331632000There is a relaxation for GST too with an extension given for filing the returns for FY20 to February 28. But the deadline for FY19 ends on Thursday, added CA Vinod Jain. Government sources sought to portray the extension as an example of the Centre being responsive to the requirements and pointed out that the additional time given was much more than what was offered in other countries. Although the US had offered a six-month extension, other countries such as Singapore and Canada were less liberal. On Wednesday, close to 16.7 lakh returns had been filed, according to the data released by the I-T department as individuals rushed to meet the Thursday deadline. Up to Wednesday evening, over 4.5 crore returns had been filed, which was 5% lower than the comparable number for 2019. The government announced the relaxation on Wednesday evening, with just around a day left for the returns to be filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-extends-deadline-to-file-i-t-returns-by-10-days/articleshow/80038498.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Another U-turn, Telangana to adopt Ayushman Bharat scheme||HYDERABAD: Days after making a climbdown on the farm laws, the TRS government has made another U-turn by accepting the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme and seeking to link it with the state’s Aarogyasri health scheme. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has taken a decision to dovetail Aarogyasri with Ayushman Bharat at a video-conference held by the PM with chief secretaries of all the states on Wednesday. This sudden change in the state’s stance is in total contrast with its earlier stand. Telangana was among the few states in the country which refused to join the Ayushman Bharat scheme of Modi government. The CM had praised Aarogyasri on the floor of the assembly while drawing comparisons to Ayushman Bharat and had, on several occasions, projected the central scheme in poor light. His cabinet colleagues — Eatala Rajender and KT Rama Rao — had also tried to dub Ayushman Bharat as a poor cousin of Aarogyasri. During a high-level meeting at Raj Bhavan a year ago, health officials of the state and central governments discussed about the possibility of dovetailing Ayushman Bharat and Aarogyasri for the benefit of Telangana people. The latest decision comes close on the heels of KCR government deciding to do away with regulated farming and winding up purchase centres in villages. Opposition parties even said the decision indirectly supports the three farm laws brought by the Centre against which farmers have been protesting at the national level for over a month now. Health officials had earlier said that Aarogyasri provides coverage to 949 different treatment modalities for patients. The scheme provides insurance coverage to each family from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 13 lakh and in some specialised therapies, there is no capping on the cost of treatment. In contrast, Ayushman Bharat envisages extending coverage to families with insurance coverage limit of Rs 5 lakh. Ayushman Bharat has based its beneficiary selection on socio-economic caste census data in both urban and rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-u-turn-telangana-to-adopt-ayushman-bharat-scheme/articleshow/80038467.cms||Roushan Ali
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Four held in Bengaluru for trying to swap Rs 2,000 notes worth Rs 3 crore with those of Rs 500||BENGALURU: A gang of four members who were allegedly trying to exchange Rs 2,000 denomination notes worth Rs 3 crore with those of Rs 500 has been arrested. Their explanation stumped Marathahalli police: They claimed the Centre will ban the Rs 2,000 note shortly and hence they were trying to exchange the huge amount of money. The arrested accused are Ravi Kumar of Uttarahalli, Sudarshan of Chikkaballapura, Shivashankar of Vasanthapura and Aravind of Kanakapura. Three more suspects identified as Lohith, Akshay and Kamalesh managed to escape. Police, however, are yet to seize the money from both the parties. According to cops, a pub customer had approached Suresh Gouda, a pub manager, informing him that some people known to him were trying to exchange Rs 3 crore in Rs 2,000 denomination notes with Rs 500 notes. The informant said those wanting lower denomination notes were ready to give Rs 80 lakh as commission. Gouda alerted police and a team was formed under the leadership of sub-inspector Ashok Madyala. Police accompanied Gouda and found main accused Lohith and Ravi Kumar on Monday. The team followed the duo till Yelahanka, where they met another suspect, Shivashankar. Three of them were detained. The suspects told police another person in Chickpet was ready to give them Rs 500 notes. As per the deal, they had torn a Rs 10 note into two pieces with both sides keeping one each. Whoever went to the Chickpet individual for exchanging of notes had to show the piece and the latter would match it with the other half and hand over the money in Rs 500 denomination notes. Police in plainclothes accompanied the suspects to Chickpet to find the said person. “Cops found a few people in a building. They started discussing the deal after checking whether the suspects’ torn Rs 10 note matched with theirs. They demanded they be shown Rs 3 crore. While Aravind and three others were nabbed, some suspects, fled,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/four-held-in-bengaluru-for-trying-to-swap-rs-2000-notes-worth-rs-3-crore-with-those-of-rs-500/articleshow/80038534.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Noida||Probe how duo got in touch: Kin of teen held under new law||GREATER NOIDA: The family of the 17-year-old boy, who has been accused of forcing a 17-year-old former classmate to convert to Islam, has denied the allegations and demanded that the police verify how the duo got in touch. The family has said the girl had suggested that the boy created a fake ID so that they could talk to each other without raising any suspicion. While the girl’s family has complained that she was unaware that the boy was Muslim and started chatting with him through the profile that had a Hindu name, the boy’s family has claimed this was not the case. The boy’s family met the apprehended teenager on Wednesday. His mother said: “He never forced her to convert or ask her to get married to him. They both knew each other and the allegations are exaggerated,” she said. The boy’s brother said he told them his phone, which has been seized by the police, has all proof of his innocence. The police said the girl had created a fake ID that has now been deleted. “It is true that the girl had a fake ID through which she was chatting with the boy. But since she is a minor, her consent cannot be considered. After their break up, the girl created another ID and started talking to the boy using that,” DCP (Greater Noida) Rajesh Kumar Singh said. When contacted, the girl’s father said he would not like to talk. The teen’s uncle will speak about the incident on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/probe-how-duo-got-in-touch-kin-of-teen-held-under-new-law/articleshow/80036624.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 31, 2020||India||50 NRIs reach Singhu, offer help to farmers||BATHINDA: As many as 50 non-resident Indians (NRIs) from Canada, the US, UK and Australia reached Delhi's Singhu border on Wednesday to back the farm groups protesting against the three new agri laws brought in by the Centre. The NRIs, who offered material and monetary support for the protesters, said they were awed by the resilience of the farmers. Toronto-based IT engineer Surinder Mavi, who had posted a video clip on December 19 urging NRIs to reach Singhu border on December 30, said: "Though we had been holding protests in the countries where we are settled, we wanted to participate in the sustained struggle against the 'black laws' on Delhi's borders too. Accordingly, groups of NRIs from different countries arrived at the protest site and were overwhelmed to see the determination of farmers to not settle for anything less than repealing of the laws. We have offered all support to them." The NRIs met with the protesters and listened to their stories. Kirti Kisan Union vice-president Rajinder Singh said, "The protest is getting immense support from people living in various countries."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/50-nris-reach-singhu-offer-help-to-farmers/articleshow/80038538.cms||Neel Kamal
December 31, 2020||Noida||Cabinet nod for logistics hub in Greater Noida||NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the construction of a multi-modal logistics and transport hub at Greater Noida with an estimated cost of about Rs 3,884 crore. The project will be developed as a world-class facility that will provide efficient storage and transitioning of goods to and from the dedicated freight corridors (DFC) and offer a one-stop destination to freight companies and customers, a statement said. The decision was taken during a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The hub will not only provide standard container handling activities, but also have value-added services to reduce logistics cost, along with improved efficiency of operations, the statement added. The area near Boraki railway station will act as a transport hub with provision for rail, road and MRTS accessibility. It will also have space for inter-state and local bus terminals and metro lines. “The project will provide world-class passenger movement facilities for the growing population of the catchment zone catering to upcoming developments in Uttar Pradesh, sub-region of the NCR and thus decongest Delhi,” the statement said. On Tuesday, the Noida administration notified Section 11 of the Land Acquisition Act in an attempt to hand over the remaining land needed for the National Industrial Corridor Development Corporation. Under the Dadri-Noida-Ghaziabad Investment Region, the corporation will develop three projects for which it needs more than 600 hectares. Apart from Boraki, it will develop an integrated industrial township and a multi-modal logistics hub (freight village) in Dadri. The corporation had demanded 303 hectares for the township. It has asked for 294 hectares for the freight village and 167 hectares for the Boraki transport hub. The freight village will be used for storing, aggregating and transporting industrial freight. As the junction of eastern and western freight corridors, Dadri will become the import and export centre in NCR. Tools, machinery and vehicles required for handling containers, trucks and lorries will be provided in the area. A railway flyover between Dadri station and the freight village will also be constructed. A techno-feasibility report has been finalised for the project. The integrated township will be 11km away from Pari Chowk and GNIDA has handed over 303 hectares to the corporation. GNIDA also has 50% stake in the project and is helping the corporation with the space. The area is being developed to attract a skilled workforce that will shift in the Dadri-Boraki region. It will also act as the passenger and logistics gateway for people visiting the freight village or transport hub. Construction company Shapoorji Pallonji has been given the task for developing the township. While most of the land needed is under GNIDA, some of it is under the UP State Industrial Authority, railways and panchayats. Some private properties are also in the impact area. (With PTI inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/cabinet-nod-for-logistics-hub-in-gr-noida/articleshow/80036630.cms||Shalabh
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Azim Premji organisation’s name misused to cheat two of Rs 59,000||BENGALURU: Whitefield CEN crime police have booked a criminal case against a person for allegedly misusing the name of Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives (APPI) organisation. Police said the accused had cheated two persons, one from Rajasthan and another from West Bengal by taking Rs 29,500 each from them on the pretext of helping government schools. The accused allegedly called the victims using the identity of an APPI employee. They also opened a bank account in the name of AAPI. Velu Chandrasekhar, manager with APPI, Doddakannelli, had filed a complaint on Tuesday with CEN crime police, who have registered a case under various sections of Information Technology Act and sections 420 (cheating) and 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) of IPC. Chandrasekhar said the accused lured Panckaj Garg from Jayoti Vidyapeeth Women’s University, Jaipur, and Rafiullah from Kolorob Educational and Cultural Society and collected Rs 29,500 as registration fee to join the APPI. The incident came to light recently after Garg and Rafiullah contacted APPI through emails. Garg had reportedly transferred Rs 29,500 to the bank account of the accused on December 14 and Rafiullah on December 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/azim-premji-organisations-name-misused-to-cheat-two-of-rs-59000/articleshow/80038550.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ghaziabad||Two months after her marriage, woman found hanging in Masuri||GHAZIABAD: A 21-year-old woman was found hanging from a ceiling fan at her house in Masuri on Tuesday, less than a month after she got married. Police said the deceased, Kajal, had married 25-year-old Aniket on December 9 and soon came to know about his illicit relationship. On December 27, the couple argued over the issue which escalated, following which Kajal went to live with her parents. Police said Kajal had a video chat with her husband and asked him to end his relationship with the other woman, but he refused, following which she disconnected the call and hung herself to death. According to a complaint filed by Kajal’s father, Aniket was also harassing his daughter for a motorcycle. Based on the complaint, Ankit and his parents have been booked under IPC sections 304 B (Dowry death), 498 A (Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and sections of Dowry Act at Masuri police station. “Investigation is underway. Arresting will be made soon,” said Raghavendra Singh, the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/2-months-after-her-marriage-woman-found-hanging/articleshow/80036645.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 31, 2020||Noida||Noida: Streetcrime dipped in lockdown, but cybercrime saw a 30% rise||NOIDA: With increased dependence on the virtual world amid Covid, the city saw a nearly 30% rise in cyber crimes this year. While as many as 3,050 cases of cyber crime were lodged at different police stations across Gautam Budh Nagar in 2019, the figure went up to 3,956 in 2020, according to police data. On the other hand, there has been a drastic fall in street crimes this year. However, there has not been much reduction in crimes like sexual offences against children, murders and abduction, despite lockdown keeping criminals under control for a good two months (April-May), as per this year’s data. While as many as 84 cases of Pocso (sexual offenses against children) related offences were reported this year, as compared to 121 in 2019, 35 rapes were reported in 2020 as compared to 89 last year. Abduction cases in 2020 stand at 248 against 258 in 2019. As compared to 88 murders reported in 2019, 72 were recorded at police stations in 2020. But street crimes like thefts, loot and vehicle thefts went down from 2019. While 1,160 cases of vehicle theft were reported in 2020, the number was 2,215 in 2019. Also, 2020 saw 723 cases being lodged for other thefts as compared to 1,598 last year. Police lodged as many as 64 cases of loot in 2020 as against 161 in 2020. Major difference in Dial 112 call data and actual cases lodged If police data are to be believed, all kinds of crimes except for cyber offences and dowry deaths went down. However, the figures of Dial 112 for crimes like robberies and thefts reflect that the number of calls flowing in to police are far more than the number of actual cases lodged. Consider this: While a total of 1,883 cases of theft (vehicle theft and others) have been lodged in 2020 till December, the total number of calls received by the Dial 112 service in connection with similar kinds of crime stand at 9,918 (from January to November). Similarly, while only 64 cases of robbery have been lodged across police stations in GBNagar, the number of Dial 112 calls received for the same stand at 2,841 (Jan-Nov). Likewise, while 78 calls for murder have been received by Dial 112 service (Jan-Nov), the number of actual cases lodged stands 72. Officials say that not all calls received at Dial 112 service get converted into FIRs since a case is lodged only after the veracity of the call is determined. Future course: Separate unit for cyber crime Asked about whether Covid was a factor in crime reduction, commissioner of Noida police Alok Singh said that while lockdown did lead to an increase in crimes like domestic violence in certain districts, since there was a reduction in data in GB Nagar, and the commissionerate system also had role in crime reduction. On a question about cyber crime, DCP (headquarters) Nitin Tiwari said while cyber crimes have gone up during the current pandemic, the police are deliberating on creating a separate cyber crime unit at each of the police stations in the future. Asked about the number of thefts, loots and vehicle theft, the police commissioner said that the safe city project is expected to be implemented soon. “Safe city is a government of India project that envisages a centralised command system and response mechanism from Dial 112 decentralised to DCPs. The UP government too has to provide Rs 40 crore for the same. That is expected soon,” he said. 11 more police stations Apart from six new police stations that are proposed in Phase I, Okhla barrage, sectors 63, 106, 115 and 142 as reported by TOI earlier, five new police stations have been proposed to be set up in the Jewar airport area. A post for the DCP (airports) has been proposed too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/streetcrime-dipped-in-lockdown-but-cybercrime-saw-a-30-rise/articleshow/80036710.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 31, 2020||India||Get govt nod to probe officials: MP to agencies||BHOPAL: A circular by the Madhya Pradesh general administration department (GAD), reminding state-controlled anti-corruption agencies like Lokayukta and EOW upfront that they cannot initiate probe against public servants, has made work tougher for investigators. Any probe into the thousands of complaints pending at various levels now needs the state government's nod. It has come as a breather for officials under probe. Lokayukta and EOW officials are now consulting legal experts on this, say sources. Many officials call the circular, dated December 26, 'unprecedented'. It cites Section 17A of Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act 2018 that mandates all agencies to follow the new government guidelines. Any agency will now have to send a proposal for investigation to GAD, which after subsequent 'examination' can forward it to the coordination committee for approval, it says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/get-govt-nod-to-probe-officials-mp-to-agencies/articleshow/80038572.cms||P Naveen
December 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Peddler nabbed; 10kg ganja seized in Anantapur district||BENGALURU: Acting on a tipoff, Kumarswamy Layout police have arrested a 41-year-old man from Andhra Pradesh and recovered 10kg of ganja from him. The accused, D Chinnamallikarjun, resident of Reddyvaripalli village in Anantapur district, told cops that it was his first visit to Bengaluru and he wanted to make a quick buck by selling ganja to New Year revellers. “Our informants had told us that a drug peddler will come near Banashankari temple. Accordingly, plainclothesmen were deployed near the temple and we caught him redhanded. Chinnamallikarjun looks like a professional peddler and we have contacted Andhra Pradesh police to learn more about him,” police said “He claims it is his first visit to the city. But we have our doubts. In his phone book, he has at least 20 contacts of city-based professionals and students,” an officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/peddler-nabbed-10kg-ganja-seized-in-anantapur-district/articleshow/80038575.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Authorities mulling reduction in business reorganisation charges||GREATER NOIDA: In a major development, a common policy is being evolved to evaluate whether charges for allowing reorganisation of business and company structure can be brought down for allottees of industrial, institutional and commercial plots across the three industrial development authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar. The decision was taken at the Greater Noida Authority’s board meeting on Wednesday. The Noida Authority, Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) have been asking applicants to pay up 10% of the prevailing land premium for permitting changes in the constitution of business. But a lot of companies had sought exemption from paying up the charges since their businesses took a hit due to the pandemic this fiscal. Senior officials of the industrial development department went through the proposal of GNIDA to offer relaxations to allottees who seek changes in partnership firms, limited liability partnership firms, private limited companies and the ones looking to change proprietorship company to partnership and the ones intending to change the shareholding pattern of promoters in public listed companies. “Those looking to reorganise their companies and the organisation structure will be given relaxations. A committee will be constituted to come up with new guidelines that will be implemented by the three authorities,” said GNIDA’s CEO Narendra Bhooshan. GNIDA also asked for Rs 10,000 from the applicants looking to reconstitute the company structure as processing charges. Among other key decisions, GNIDA will extend benefits of the one-time settlement scheme to all kinds of allottees. Applicable for group housing plots, the scheme will be rolled out for residential, commercial, institutional, ITes, commercial and institutional categories of allotment as well. An online grievance redressal platform will also be developed for the residents of Greater Noida to offer paperless services to them. Land pooling policy will be introduced for acquisition of land. Meanwhile, authority officials on Wednesday said they have fast-tracked leaseback allotment and will hand over 6% developed plots to original farmers within six months. Out of 18,000 leaseback developed plots, the authority has disposed of applications and chose the allottees of 90,00 plots. Authority officials have also sought permission from senior officials to increase the amount they can keep in their custody under the escrow account. GNIDA had initiated a mechanism to set up escrow accounts with private builders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/authorities-mulling-reduction-in-biz-reorganisation-charges/articleshow/80036729.cms||Shalabh
December 31, 2020||Amritsar||Navjot Singh Sidhu tweets apology, says ‘wore shawl unintentionally’||AMRITSAR: A day after the Akal Takht jathedar asked cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu to tender an apology for donning a shawl adorned with Sikh religious symbols "Ek Omkar" and "Khanda", the Congress MLA expressed his regret over the incident on Twitter, saying that he had inadvertently worn the shawl. Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday tweeted: "Shri Akal Takht Sahib is Supreme, if I have unknowingly hurt the sentiments of even One Sikh, I apologize!! Millions wear the revered Symbols of Sikhism on their Turbans, Clothes and even carve Tattoos with Pride, I too as a humble Sikh wore the Shawl unintentionally". Akal Takht hasn’t got Sidhu apologyAfter receiving a complaint against a video of Sidhu meeting a group of farmers of Jalandhar district wearing a shawl bearing Sikh religious symbols, the officiating jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh had on Tuesday directed Sidhu to tender an apology for violating the maryada (Sikh code of religious conduct) and hurting the Sikh religious sentiments. Jaspal Singh, personal assistant of the jathedar, said the Akal Takht secretariat had not received any written apology from Sidhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/navjot-singh-sidhu-tweets-apology-says-wore-shawl-unintentionally/articleshow/80038539.cms||---
December 31, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Hindon elevated road will be shut for 8 hours from 10pm today||GHAZIABAD: The Hindon elevated road will be shut from 10 pm on December 31 to 6 am on January 1 and police will set up check-posts to keep tabs on errant drivers out to celebrate New Year’s Eve. The road connects Rajnagar Extension and UP Gate. The SSP of Ghaziabad has also said that bars and restaurants will not be allowed to stay open after December 31 midnight. Kalanidhi Naithani, the SSP, said that no one will be allowed to drink at public places and a special team will be formed at each police station to keep tabs on residents. “All liquor and wine shops will have to shut by 10 pm on December 31. Bars and restaurants will not be allowed to stay open after midnight. More than 4,000 police personnel will be deployed across the city to maintain law and order. The police will also carry out strict patrolling across the city to crack down on those who violate Covid-19 guidelines as well,” he said. The officer added that people should not be out on the roads in large numbers. “We will not stop people who want to come out of their houses to celebrate New Year’s Eve. But they should not come out in large numbers because of the guidelines in place because of the pandemic. The celebrations should wrap up by midnight otherwise, the police will take strict action against the violators,” the SSP said. Naithani said that anti-eve teasing cells will also be active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/hindon-elevated-road-will-be-shut-for-8-hrs-from-10pm-today/articleshow/80036772.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
