01-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Cong leader Anand Sharma slams party's tie-up with ISF||Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma on Monday slammed the party's tie-up with Indian Secular Front (ISF) led by Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui in West Bengal, saying it was against the party's core ideology and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism. He also said that the party "cannot be selective in fighting the communalists" and it must do so in all its manifestations, irrespective of religion and colour. Sharma, a former union minister and a leader of the group of 23 which had written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi demanding organisational overhaul, said the issue of a tie-up with a radical party like the ISF should have been discussed and approved by the Congress Working Committee (CWC). The CWC is the highest decision-making body of the party that takes important decisions of the party. Sharma is a member of the CWC and the deputy leader of the Congress in Rajya Sabha. The Congress is contesting the West Bengal assembly elections in alliance with the Left and ISF, but is fighting the CPI-M in Kerala as the principal opposition party. Even though the Left has finalised its seat-sharing with ISF, the Congress is yet to do so. Leaders of the Left, Congress and the ISF addressed a joint rally at the Brigade Parade ground in Kolkata on Sunday. "Congress' alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC," he said on Twitter. "Congress cannot be selective in fighting communalists but must do so in all its manifestations, irrespective of religion and colour. The presence and endorsement by West Bengal PCC President is painful and shameful, he must clarify," the senior party leader said. Joining the Left and Congress leaders at the dais was Abbas Siddique of the iconic Furfura Shareef and founder of the Indian Secular Front (ISF), a recent member of the opposition alliance in the state. Sharma and several other 'G-23' leaders had gathered in Jammu on Saturday and said that the party was weakening, in an apparent show of dissent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
01-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC likely to drop several sitting MLAs for Bengal polls||The Trinamul Congress is likely to axe several sitting MLAs from its candidate list for the upcoming West Bengal elections, sources said on Monday. The party is planning to nominate more youths, women, and leaders with clean image and acceptability in their area, they said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee met the party's 12- member election committee in the afternoon at her residence in Kalighat and brain-stormed over the nominations. "Today, the election committee authorised Mamata Banerjee to take the final call regarding selecting candidates," a senior TMC leader said. Nearly 30 per cent of the 294 constituencies, including those of the 19 MLAs who have switched over to BJP, are likely to have new candidates, the sources said. "Reports by Prashant Kishor's I-PAC on every MLA and their constituencies are likely to play a key role in the candidate selection," another TMC leader, who was present at the meeting, said. "How the MLAs have performed in the last five years, their image in the area and acceptability will be the main parameters. This time we won't be taking any chances," he added. Another party leader said that elderly MLAs with age above 75 are likely to be dropped. "Stress will be given on nominating more woman leaders. Last time our candidate list had around 33 per cent woman candidates. This time it will go up further," he said. In 2016, the TMC won 211 seats in the 294-member House. The Left-Congress alliance had bagged 77 seats, and the BJP three. The elections this time, which are seeing a stiff contest between the TMC and the BJP, will be held in eight phases, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27. Votes will be counted on May 2. After having a marginal presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP has emerged as the ruling Trinamool Congress's main rival over the last couple of years, managing to win 18 out of 42 seats in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 and following it with inducting popular TMC MLAs, MP and ministers into the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
01-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP delegation alleges foul play by cops to enable proxy voting in Bengal||A BJP delegation on Monday wrote to Calcutta Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra alleging that an illegal exercise was being carried out in the force to "enable collection of postal ballot and effect proxy votes" during assembly elections, set to begin on March 27. In the letter undersigned by BJP MP Swapan Dasgupta and senior leaders Sabyasachi Dutta and Shishir Bajoria, the party claimed that a section of police officers, under the banner of Welfare Association, is collecting photocopies of voter and Aadhaar cards of their colleagues across all ranks as part of the operation. The saffron party also said that it was a "highly irregular act and also tantamount to taking away someone's fundamental right to vote". It said that an "inspector by the name of Santanu Sinha Biswas is spearheading the exercise and two sub- inspectors Tapan Kr Maity and Bijitaswo Raut are assisting him, among others". The BJP leaders further stated in the letter that several "serving police personnel were seen swearing allegiance to Trinamool Congress in the presence of party MP Subrata Bakshi" at Uttirno building in Alipore on February 13. The party demanded that an enquiry be carried out in the matter, and the police personnel carrying out the "illegal exercise" be immediately suspended. It sought necessary steps to stop the operation, as it "comes under the provisions of Corrupt Practices in the Representatives of People's Act". Last week, the BJP had lodged a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer of Bengal against some police officers, who, the party claimed, were resorting to unfair means to prevent free and fair polls in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Plea in SC challenges 8-phase Bengal polls||A plea challenging the Election Commission's decision to conduct assembly elections over eight phases in West Bengal was filed in the Supreme Court on Monday. The plea, filed by lawyer M L Sharma, seeks the apex court's direction to the poll panel to stop it from conducting eight-phase elections in the state as it violates Article 14 (right to life) and Article 21 (right to life) of the Constitution. On February 26, the Election Commission announced the schedule for assembly elections to be held in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and in Puducherry. While the Trinamool Congress Party-led West Bengal will have elections over eight rounds from March 27-April 29, polling in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry will be held in one phase on April 6 and in Assam over three phases. The plea, which may come up for hearing in a few days, also seeks a direction to the CBI to register an FIR into the alleged chanting of religious slogans during electioneering in West Bengal. The chanting of "Jai Shri Ram, other religious slogans are creating disharmony" and is an offence under the IPC and the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the plea said. "Whether using a provocative religious slogan 'Jai Shri Ram' is for electoral benefits as well as others is not violated S.123(3) & 125 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951," reads the legal question raised in the plea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Left veterans let youths take the centrestage at Brigade||Veteran Left leaders stepped back to push the younger generation on the big stage and youths made up a bulk of the crowd at Brigade Parade Grounds, both these features standing out at the Left-Congress-ISF rally on Sunday. The “youthful” mood was evident on the podium when octogenarian Left Front chairperson Biman Bose who presided over the meeting led a striking departure from tradition by stepping back after “seeking people’s permission”, and handing over the mic to young actor-activist Badshah Moitra to introduce speakers. “I can’t express my feelings in words (at you) allowing me a chance to speak on such a stage,” said Badshah as he introduced RSP leader Manoj Bhattacharya to the podium. Badshah’s role was shared by two other young faces of the Left — Aishee Ghosh and Dipshita Dhar, both SFI leaders. This change was welcomed by the crowd with loud cheers. “The older generation of leaders should become friends, philosophers and guides to the younger generation of leaders who have proved their mettle by taking on fascist forces on JNU campus and elsewhere,” said Arijit Dutta, 36, who came from Burdwan. Despite its plummeting graph since 2011, the Left in the past refused to respond to cries from within and outside the party to bring younger faces to the forefront. The leadership did concede ahead of the Brigade rally in February 2019, when it included former JNU president and CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar, and the CPM’s tribal face Debalina Hembram in the list of speakers. Kanhaiya could not make it then as he fell ill. On Sunday, however, Badshah, Aishee and Dipshita were the faces on the podium. On the ground, there were young faces like Md Jiyarul, 28, son of a landless labourer in East Burdwan’s Purbasthali, excited about his “first Brigade”. “I was a labourer in the construction industry in Kerala but had to come back during the lockdown. My family had voted for Trinamul but we became disenchanted... It is then that I decided to take up the red flag,” said Jiyarul who held a huge CPM flag as party posters covered his body. The flutter of white flags of the CPM’s students and youth wings — SFI and DYFI — far outnumbered the red flags of the CPM and its allies. Calcutta University students Meghna Roy, 23, and Samprikta Bose, 22, were among the faces at the Brigade as a part of the organisers’ strategy to make “60 per cent of the crowd” that of students and youths. “We managed to achieve more than we expected,” said a SFI state committee member but admitted that Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front did bring in many young men. “The youth’s disillusionment with the current scenario is helping to make the Left acceptable. Youths want jobs and not doles that Trinamul prefers to offer. Attending the rally in such large numbers goes to prove that the youth are with the Left,” said SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya. CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty said the crowd-puller Brigade was a rejection of the BJP and the Trinamul. The BJP reminded the Left of the Abbas factor. “It looked like a Brigade meeting organised by Md Salim for the ISF where the CPM and Congress took part,” mocked BJP leader Samik Bhattacharya. Apart from Badshah, actors Sabyasachi Chakraborty, Debdut Ghosh, Sreelekha Mitra, filmmakers Tarun Majumder and Kamaleswar Mukherjee, music composer Debojyoti Mishra and singer Kazi Kamal Nasser spoke and performed before political leaders took over the stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||‘Showstopper’ cleric makes Congress uneasy||Bengal Congress president Adhir Chowdhury was speaking at the Brigade Parade Grounds on Sunday when chants of “bhaijaan, bhaijaan” rent the Brigade air, forcing the veteran to pause midway, indicating that the road ahead for the Left-Congress-ISF alliance would be rocky. “Should I stop?” Chowdhury, who looked upset, was overheard as senior Left leaders like Md Salim and Biman Bose made a beeline to welcome a young man in white kurta-pajama, a skull cap and a dark blue jacket, on the dais. Chowdhury had to stop because the crowd had erupted into cheers on seeing Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui who has floated the Indian Secular Front (ISF). Siddiqui waved at the crowds, and Left leaders rushed to greet him. The Brigade rally on Sunday was historic not only because it brought the Left and the Congress leaders together on such a huge political platform for the first time, it would also be remembered as it pitchforked a cleric into the centrestage of Bengal polls 2021. Md Salim requested Siddiqui to ask his followers to settle down at which the Congress state president said he would not continue. Scores of Left leaders like Bose, Salim and CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra placated Chowdhury. A reluctant Chowdhury, who had lost the flow of his speech, did finish his address and earn a huge round of applause, but by then the audience at the Brigade had come to know that Siddiqui was the showstopper. Siddiqui who had walked on the stage even as Chowdhury was speaking and waved at the crowds, gesticulated to his supporters to settle down. He then seated himself between his party president Simul Soren and Forward Bloc’s state secretary Naren Chatterjee. Going with the theme of the meeting, Siddiqui in his address went all out against Trinamul and the BJP. “We have to take a vow that we will have to smash the black arms of the BJP,” Siddiqui said. “In the coming days Bengal will slip out of the hands of Didimoni (Mamata Banerjee) and we will rule here,” he added. As the crowd erupted in cheers each time Siddiqui attacked Mamata or the BJP, it was clear that he was the top draw of Sunday’s meeting. However, the other features of his 10-minute address,  left many wondering whether he would at all add value to the fledgling alliance because of his less-than-friendly approach towards the Congress. “I would like to thank Mohammad Salim, Bimanda (Bose) and all workers, responsible members of the Left parties….They’ve shown honesty and have agreed to give most of the seats we had demanded. Hence, from this Brigade grounds, I urge all the people who love me, to fight for their motherland, to give their blood in all the seats that Left parties will contest,” Siddiqui said making it clear that ISF would go all out campaigning for the Left. However, he didn’t say anything like about the Congress, which jarred. Towards the end of his speech, Siddiqui clarified his stand. “I’ve come here for my share. I’ve not come to appease anybody…Hence if anyone wants to extend an arm of friendship, this Abbas Siddiqui will campaign for them in the future,” Siddiqui said, hinting he wouldn’t compromise on the number of seats he demanded from the Congress. Siddiqui’s statements indicated that the alliance among the three constituents is yet to be firmly stitched even though the state elections are scheduled to start on March 27. The ISF wants to contest in many seats in Malda, Murshidabad and North Dinajpur, which has upset the Congress. The Left and ISF have finalised a deal, but problems with the Congress have not been ironed out yet. “The manner in which he was trying to belittle Congress was in poor taste,” said a senior leader of a Left Front ally. During Siddiqui’s address, Chowdhury and other Congress leaders like MP Pradip Bhattacharya and MLA Abdul Mannan were seen either fiddling with their cellphones or sitting with blank looks on their faces. “Adhirda left as soon as Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhpesh Baghel finished his speech... other Congress leaders too...I wonder whether the alliance between the Left and the Congress will suffer at the cost of the alliance between Left and ISF,” a source said. As soon as Siddiqui had finished his speech, the organisers had to ask the crowd to be patient, saying there were many other speakers left, along with CPM general-secretary Sitaram Yechury. All the leaders present on the stage were seen holding hands together as a sign of unity, but Siddiqui and Chowdhury remained separated by people on the dais. “Our party doesn’t run on the commands of Abbas Siddiqui... Our alliance is with the Left and we are yet to finalise on the number of seats we will contest. How can we say how many seats we will give others?” said Chowdhury after the meeting. Amid widening differences between the ISF and the Congress, the Left leaders were seen trying their best — both on the dais and behind closed doors — to ensure truce, but sources said the fine balance seemed easier said than done after Sunday’s meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul mulls fielding own faces in hills||Leaders of Mamata Banerjee’s party in the hills feel Trinamul should field candidates in all three Assembly seats — Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong — to skirt the factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, who despite being Trinamul allies, are engaged in feuding. “Both factions (Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang) are desperate to field their own candidates in these seats. Their leaders engage in a war of words and none  is ready to relent. It is evident that if one faction is asked to contest a seat, the other faction will not support it, which can benefit the BJP,” said a Trinamul insider. “Trinamul fielding its own candidates and seeking support from both factions can be more effective,” he added. L.B. Rai, Trinamul president of Darjeeling (hills) district committee, said their workers have been for years going every nook and corner of the hills to establish the party’s base. “We enjoy a support base of over two lakhs in the hills and more and more people are supporting us these days,” Rai said. “In our meetings, we sense our grassroots workers  want the party to field candidates in all these three seats instead of giving them to its allies.” Last October, Trinamul leaders were elated to have  Morcha leader Bimal Gurung on board after he severed ties with the BJP. But his arrival in the hills did not go down well with the Binay Tamang faction of Morcha that has been with Trinamul since 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||In pics: Show of strength at Left-Cong rally||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Political parties tapped on ‘sensitive’ booths in Bengal||The district administration in Jalpaiguri has asked leaders of political parties to submit details of booths they feel should be identified as sensitive and information on areas where they apprehend breach of peace. In an all-party meeting  at the district magistrate’s office here on Sunday, Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu asked representatives of parties to submit the details to the administration by March 2. “Primarily, we have identified 294 booths as sensitive, spread across seven Assembly constituencies of the district. We have also told political parties to submit lists of booths and areas they feel should be marked sensitive. This will help us prepare a security deployment plan,” the DM said. Asking political parties, administrative sources said, is a parallel move. Usually, the administration identifies sensitive booths by consulting the police and intelligence agencies. “However, asking political parties as well may prove to be an effective move as we can get additional information about more booths and can act accordingly,” said a source in the district administration. Representatives of political parties present at the meeting said they would soon gather information and submit the list to the administration. The Left, Congress and BJP leaders said they would provide lists of booths where violence was witnessed during the 2018 panchayat and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. District Trinamul leaders said they would also furnish details of areas such as Maynaguri block where their workers had allegedly been murdered. “Our workers have been attacked in a number of locations during the past couple of years. We also have come to know that they are being intimidated and stopped from carrying out campaigns in rural belts. We will submit a detailed list of these,” said Bhaskar Sarkar, Trinamul’s media coordinator in Jalpaiguri. The administration, sources said, has taken up the task to identify booths where in past elections, polling percentage was comparatively less than the district average. “Government officials and security forces will go there to encourage voters there to exercise their rights. Officials will take note if voters cite any problem that discourages them from voting,” a source said. As of now, two companies of central paramilitary forces have reached Jalpaiguri and  are carrying out route marches in several areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Joint Forum sees hope in Brigade Parade Grounds turnout||The Left Front and the Congress, along with their new partner Indian Secular Front, held their first joint public meeting at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta on Sunday, prompting the alliance to claim that the well-attended rally showed that they were ready to take on the BJP and the Trinamul Congress in the Bengal Assembly polls. In what many thought was a historic moment in terms of political alignment, Sunday’s show witnessed leaders of all constituents of the alliance dubbed as the Sanjukta Morcha or the Joint Forum sharing the dais and rolling out claims that they would be the deciding factor in the elections. “A Brigade like this has never been seen in the past. All these forces are here together fighting shoulder to shoulder…. There is no doubt that there will be a change in Bengal,” said CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra. Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury echoed Mishra as he said that he had never spoken at such a huge rally. “The unemployed youths and all the people who have come here today should take a vow that in 2021, you will bring another change in Bengal,” he said. The ISF founder and Furfura Sharif cleric, Abbas Siddiqui, parroted the theme of the meeting saying the new Front would uproot the BJP and its B-team, Trinamul, from Bengal. As expected, the show at the Brigade was aimed at contesting the general perception that the battle for Bengal would be a contest between Trinamul and the BJP. The alliance leaders said the turnout — organisers said the crowd count was 10 lakh while police sources pegged it at around 5 lakh — and the body language of the leaders bore signs that the newly formed Sanjukta Morcha was fast catching the imagination of people of Bengal. Unlike other Brigade shows of the Left, where the red flag had been the predominant theme, Sunday saw an eclectic mix of the tricolour representing the Congress and the ISF’s white-blue-green flag, along with the red flags. However, the presence of the Congress’s flag was much lower compared to the other two. Whatever be the relative contribution of the constituents to the rally, the fact that such a meeting was held just two days after the poll schedule was announced was significant. In 2016, the Left-Congress alliance had held a single major political programme, on April 27 when only two phases of the polls were left. At the Park Circus grounds, the rally brought Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and Rahul Gandhi together, but it failed to yield any political dividends for the alliance. Then in 2019, both the Left and the Congress fought separately as negotiations over seat sharing went awry. “In comparison to the past, this time it appears the alliance is not only on paper... Leaders from all three constituents as well as supporters were here,” a source in the Congress said. Although the constituents of the fledgling alliance put together a decent show on Sunday, the final test, however, will be how they collectively prepare for the polls and organise ground level activities. While the CPM and the ISF alliance has been sealed, as the latter has been allotted 30 seats to contest, there are hiccups in the seat sharing talks between the Congress and the ISF. The primary reason for the tussle over seats between the Congress and ISF is that both these entities depend on Muslim votes in districts like Maldah, Murshidabad and North Dinajpur. Sources in the Congress said that Congress leaders like Chowdhury and Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury were unwilling to sacrifice their seats in Murshidabad and Malda respectively whereas ISF leaders have said that they won’t bow down to the Congress. Some political observers think if such fissures exist between two alliance partners, it doesn’t bode well for the Front. The fact that the might of the alliance would depend on the extent to which the constituents remain united up to the booth level was stressed by multiple leaders. “We have to take this alliance to the booth levels,” said Left Front chairman Biman Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
01-03-2021||West Bengal||Abbas Siddiqui formally inducted into Left-Congress alliance||Bengal on Sunday witnessed the injection of a new dimension into its politics with the formal induction of Abbas Siddiqui, a Furfura Sharif pirzada, who took centre-stage at the Brigade rally of the Left and the Congress with a pledge to uproot both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP. The cleric’s formal entry into mainstream politics — a rarity in Bengal till now — added an element that even sections within both the “secular” allies were uncomfortable with while it drew derision from Trinamul as well as the BJP. “For decades, we had successfully asked crores of Bengal’s minority voters to support a Marxist party and its allies, shunning identity-based politics. Even though many of them had turned away from us in favour of Mamata Banerjee, we had not compromised ideologically,” said an Alimuddin Street insider. “But with the inclusion of Siddiqui’s so-called Indian Secular Front, giving the fledgling outfit 30 seats from the Left quota in the alliance, we will formally be asking the same voters to make a sea-change in their mindset. Will that be reversible in the foreseeable future? We don’t know,” he added. The answers to other questions like the impact of Siddiqui on the upcoming polls or the future of the political discourse in Bengal also remained hazy. Siddiqui supports the cause of the marginalised, including the Dalits, but his party is still seen as deriving its core strength from the minority community. The images of the young Siddiqui emerging as the top draw at Brigade, upstaging Left and Congress stalwarts, his claim that he could have doubled the mega turnout on the ground had he been given more time and his vows to keep the BJP out and teach Mamata a lesson were uncommon features on the Bengal political firmament. Siddiqui’s chest-thumping assertions of being there for bhagidari (the right of a stakeholder) and not for toshon (appeasement) also stood out. In private, an influential section of the Congress, which is having a tough time negotiating with Siddiqui who has been seeking seats for his party in the Congress strongholds in Malda, Murshidabad and North 24-Parganas, also articulated reservations about the Siddiqui phenomenon. “It is being unfairly said that the Congress’s reservations are solely on account of the conflict of interest in districts with a substantial minority population in central Bengal (traditionally, Congress bastions) from which Siddiqui wants seats. There are bigger, wider considerations for the longer term that cannot easily be ignored,” said a source close to state president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. On the dais, a brief episode of an apparent expression of displeasure by Chowdhury — as Siddiqui walked in to thundering applause and frenzied waving of the countless ISF flags in the crowd — laid bare in full public view the Congress’s discomfort with the equation. “There is also the key question of how this might end up helping the BJP in furthering its agenda of polarisation,” the source added. Mamata’s party, which has conspicuously not been getting in the way of the Left-Congress alliance, expressed disappointment. Trinamul’s septuagenarian minister Subrata Mukherjee said that prior to Sunday afternoon, he had many reservations about the Left and the Congress (his former party) but never did he harbour any doubt about their secular credentials. “That was until this afternoon. There has clearly been an ideological compromise for the sake of immediate electoral concerns. This was not expected of either. It is not a heartening sign of things to come,” said Mukherjee, who has been in Bengal’s electoral politics for over five decades. The BJP is not entirely displeased with the Siddiqui element. If Siddiqui’s party eats into Mamata’s minority support base, it works to the BJP’s advantage. The BJP said the “fake” secular label of the Left and the Congress had been exposed. “They are unmasking themselves before the people ahead of the elections,” said the BJP’s state chief spokesperson, Samik Bhattacharya. “This goes to show how, despite their lofty claims, they are actually believers of identity-based politics,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
