02-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC MLA Jitendra Tiwari joins BJP in presence of state party chief Dilip Ghosh||Amid an ongoing exodus from the ruling Trinamool Congress ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections, two-time party MLA from Pandabeswar in Paschim Barddhaman district and former Asansol mayor, Jitendra Tiwari, joined the BJP on Tuesday. Tiwari, who had rebelled against the TMC leadership but had mellowed down after the BJP declined to induct him into the party in December last year, joined the saffron camp in the presence of party state chief Dilip Ghosh at a programme in Sreerampur in Hooghly district. "I have joined the BJP as I want to work for the development of the state. In TMC, it was no longer possible to work for the party," he said after joining the saffron party. As per a report by NDTV, welcoming Tiwari into the BJP, its Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh said, "Jitendra Tiwari has changed his party today. He worked very hard for the Trinamool. One poriborton (change) has already started in Bengal, the other will also happen. Rajeev Banerjee and Probir Ghoshal (former TMC leaders) are also here with us." "Our party is growing every day. And we are growing in Bengal also. Jitendra Tiwari is a big leader but he has joined us on a small stage," Ghosh added. Elections to the 294-member state assembly will be held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Yogi Adityanath slams Mamata for involving in appeasement politics||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday lambasted his Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee for allegedly pursuing appeasement politics and endangering national security by allowing illegal immigrants into the state for vote bank politics. He promised that cow smuggling will be stopped within a day if the BJP is voted to power in the state. Claiming that Bengal, which had once led the nation, is now facing a lawless situation, Adityanath, while addressing a rally in Malda district's Gazole, alleged that incidents of 'Love Jihad' are happening in the state, but the TMC government has failed to stop them. "Appeasement politics for the sake of vote bank has endangered the security of not only West Bengal but also of the country. The TMC government has a problem with refugees getting citizenship but has no issue with illegal immigrants coming to the state," Adityanath said. Claiming that the raising of 'Jai Shri Ram' slogan is not allowed in Bengal, Adityanath said that the people of the state will give a befitting reply to the TMC government for "playing with their religious sentiments". "Jai Shri Ram slogan is not allowed in Bengal, but people won't allow this to continue. 'Love Jihad' incidents are happening in Bengal. In Uttar Pradesh, we have made a law to stop such incidents but the TMC government has failed to stop both cow smuggling and 'Love Jihad'," he said. "If the BJP is voted to power in Bengal, we will stop cow smuggling within 24 hours," he added. Elections to the 294-member Assembly will be held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Akhilesh, Tejashwi offer support to Mamata||Akhilesh Yadav in the morning, Tejashwi Yadav in the evening. The Young Turks of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar politics on Monday threw their weight behind Mamata Banerjee in Bengal. The expression of solidarity is fuelling hope in the Trinamul Congress that the Hindi-speaking voters of Bengal would favour the ruling party at the hustings. The back-to-back endorsement from the heartland is also expected to help Trinamul drive home the message that it is not against those with roots outside the state but its “outsider” label is aimed solely at those parachuting into the state to divide and polarise the people. Akhilesh, the Samajwadi Party chief, held a news conference on his home turf. Tejashwi, the RJD leader who came within striking distance of power and  gave the BJP alliance a scare in the Bihar elections although he was initially written off, met the Bengal chief minister at her office at Nabanna on Monday evening. Tejashwi’s gesture stood out all the more because he gave the Brigade rally of his Bihar allies —  the CPM and the Congress — a miss despite being in the city on Sunday. Both young leaders  virtually echoed each other while delivering their messages aimed at the large number of people from the two states who live in Bengal. Some estimates say voters in Bengal from the two states total at least 45 lakh. The voters from both states are being assiduously wooed by the BJP. Tejashwi, 31, urged the voters against getting swayed by the BJP’s “double-engine sarkar” pitch — a suggestion that having the same party in control of the Centre and the state government would expedite development in the state. He asked the people to learn from the example of his home state. “We will use all our strength to support Mamata Banerjee. Wherever she needs us, we will be there for her. No matter how hard the BJP tries, Bengal is a different kind of place. The language, the culture, the heritage, the ethos… of Bengal has to be protected. Democracy must be saved from those who are trying to destroy it,” Tejashwi said after meeting Mamata, echoing the uncompromising stand of his father Lalu Prasad against the BJP. “This is not only about Bengal, but about values, for the whole country, the Constitution and democracy,” the young leader added. Tejashwi made his message crystal clear: “Those from Bihar who live here, I would urge them to support Mamata Banerjee.” “That deceit of a double-engine sarkar, people (here) ought to know how that worsened the deprivation of the masses,” Tejashwi added. Mamata lauded Tejashwi, asserting that he had actually won the Assembly polls in Bihar but was deprived of victory by the trickery of the BJP, and said she was certain that sooner or later he would come to power in the state. Hailing Lalu Prasad as a father figure, Mamata wished him a long life for the sake of democracy. “The BJP should get the message. Wherever Tejashwi is fighting, I am fighting… wherever I am fighting, he is fighting,” she said. Mamata added: “They (the BJP) cannot win this election, no matter how much you try, with all the resources and powers at your disposal.” Asked if there were any talks with Mamata on seat-sharing, as the RJD purportedly wants 10-odd seats to contest from in districts such as Howrah, West Burdwan and Calcutta, Tejashwi said: “When she is fighting here, there would be no need for us.” Sources, however, said two senior RJD leaders met Trinamul poll consultant  Prashant Kishor  in Calcutta on Sunday for talks on a possible truck here. Although Tejashwi was to appear on the Brigade dais on Sunday, and he made it to Calcutta on time, he did not participate in the rally. Sources attributed this to advice from his Bihar ally Dipankar Bhattacharya, the general-secretary of the CPI (ML). Bhattacharya has been repeatedly advocating that non-BJP forces, including the Left, should de-prioritise their fight against Mamata in Bengal and focus on keeping the BJP out. Asked if his equation in Bengal would impact his allies such as the CPM and the Congress in Bihar, Tejashwi said every state has to be treated differently, according to the ground reality. “In Kerala, the Congress and the CPM are in a direct fight, whereas they are allies in Bengal,” he pointed out. Earlier in the day, Akhilesh, 47, declared his party’s moral support for Mamata in Bengal. “I will ask all our well-wishers to support Mamata Banerjee, to secure another victory for her…. We fully agree with her concerns about the BJP,” he said. The BJP mocked both Yadavs. BJP state youth wing chief Saumitra Khan said Akhilesh and Tejashwi were not even in power in their own states and claimed that neither wields any influence in Bengal. “What they say matters precious little here. We are coming to power,” said Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections: Congress claims 92-seat deal with Left Front||The Congress on Monday said it had reached a deal with the Left Front and would field candidates in 92 Assembly segments, but vowed that not a single seat would be left aside for the Indian Secular Front from its share. “Today, we have been able to secure 92 seats for ourselves in our discussion with the Left,” Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said. Chowdhury and Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya represented the Congress during the seat-sharing talks with the Left Front. CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra, Left Front chairman Biman Bose and politburo member Md. Salim took part in the parleys on behalf of the Left Front. “We had asked for 130 seats from the Left parties at the beginning… We, however, may not ask for the rest any more,” Chowdhury said. Asked how many of the 92 seats would be offered to the ISF, Chowdhury replied not a single one would be left to the new outfit. Sources aware of the negotiations said the state Congress chief may agree to a formula of the ISF getting a few seats from the remaining 38 of the initial list that the party had placed before the Left leaders. Chowdhury also said some seats that the alliance had initially allotted for parties like the NCP and the RJD may be considered for the ISF, a fledgling force floated by Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui. Leaders in the Left and the Congress said in private that hard bargaining by Siddiqui was coming in the way of smooth negotiations on the seat sharing. “Congress leaders are under tremendous pressure from the AICC to complete the seat sharing and hence, they would again sit with ISF functionaries to strike a deal,” said a source. Siddiqui told The Telegraph that it wasn’t possible for his party to make adjustments in more than two to three seats. “We have a list of 60 candidates ready. However, the candidates have also been told that in a couple of seats, they may have to sacrifice. But that is true for only a few seats,” Siddiqui said. Referring to the hiccups in negotiations with the Congress, he said that some people within the state Congress were in touch with Trinamul and were trying to disrupt the seat-sharing process. Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma raised questions about the alliance with the ISF. “Congress’ alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC,” he tweeted. Jitin Prasada, the Congress observer for Bengal, tweeted: “Alliance decisions are taken keeping in mind the best interests of the party and the workers. Now is the time for everyone to join hands and work towards strengthening the prospects of the Congress in the poll bound states.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Parivartan Yatra: Wheels of BJP rath halts a day earlier in Malda||Wheels of the “rath” or the tableaux taken out by the BJP for its Parivartan Yatra in north Bengal came to a halt a day ahead of its schedule in Malda on Monday as it did not move into minority-dominated areas of the district. Although state and district BJP leaders attributed the yatra’s abrupt halt to their preoccupation with arrangements for Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s public meeting scheduled for Tuesday, there were indications that the lukewarm response to the “rath” spurred the decision. On February 11, Union home minister Amit Shah had flagged off the yatra from Cooch Behar. The tableau, BJP  insiders said, was supposed to visit all 12 Assembly constituencies in Malda from February 27 to March 2. As the “rath” arrived in the district, it moved through the constituencies of Habibpur and Malda, the Assembly segments which have a concentration of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes. On Sunday, it went to Englishbazar, Sujapur and Baishnabnagar Assembly segments and on Monday, the tableaux was supposed to move to areas like Ratua, Harischandrapur, Chanchal and Malatipur, where voters of minority communities is close to 60 per cent. However, leaders of the saffron camp decided to suspend the yatra on Monday. “All senior BJP leaders of Malda are busy with preparations for Yogi Adityanath’s meeting and it was tough to engage them in the yatra. That is why it was called off on Monday,” said Sayantan Basu, a state general secretary of the BJP. Although Basu came up with such a clarification, party insiders said the lukewarm response that the yatra had received in most areas of Malda where it went led to such a decision. According to them, even when the tableaux went into areas where there is concentration of scheduled castes, tribals and other communities, the response was minimal. “This had left us wondering whether there would be any response from locals in the minority-dominated areas. In fact, there was an apprehension that it would turn out to be a poor show and would prompt other political parties to scoff at us. That is why it was decided to stop the yatra. On Tuesday, the tableaux will be taken to the public meeting venue in Gazole,” said a party leader. Such a decision by the party leadership however, has invoked strong discontent among party workers and supporters of these Assembly constituencies, said sources. It has also drawn flak from both Congress and Trinamul leaders who have pointed that the saffron camp’s strategy has failed. “The yatra has been a failure across north Bengal, and particularly in Malda. BJP’s plan to cancel the yatra in some areas indicates that they lack even a bare minimum support base in these Assembly seats,” said Dulal Sarkar, a district Trinamul leader. Mostaque Alam, the Congress MLA of Harischandrapur, said: “Their leaders and ministers might make tall claims that people from different communities are with them. But the ground reality is different. That BJP does not have support in minority belts has got exposed today.” Minority Morcha Leaders of the minority morcha of the BJP in Cooch Behar have demanded that at least one Muslim candidate should be fielded in any of the four general Assembly seats of the district at the upcoming elections. In Cooch Behar, there are nine Assembly constituencies among which five are reserved for scheduled castes. Siddique Ali Mian, the district president of the minority morcha, said they have submitted their demand in writing to the district and the state leadership of BJP. “In 2016, the party fielded Ali Hossain in Natabari seat. He is the state president of the minority morcha now. This year too, we want the party to field a person from the minority community in at least one seat,” said Mian. According to party insiders, there are a number of Muslim leaders in the saffron camp in Cooch Behar who work in different tiers. “Often, they have to face questions as to why they are with the BJP. If a Muslim candidate is chosen for a seat, it would be easier for them as well as for the party to campaign across the district that has a considerable minority population, including Rajbanshi Muslims,” said a source. District BJP leaders declined comments. “The selection of candidates would be done by the state and central leaders. We have forwarded the message to them,” said a district BJP leader. Additional reporting by Main Uddin Chisti in Cooch Behar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Glitches in CoWin 2.0 app hit vaccination drive||Thousands of senior citizens across Bengal on Monday had to wait for hours or left without a jab from the hospital as the CoWin 2.0 app faced glitches on a day the central health ministry started vaccinating those above 60 and people aged above 45 years with comorbidities against Covid-19. The vaccination of these select groups of citizens was kicked off when Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the jab at AIIMS in Delhi on Monday morning. Sources said elderly people who wanted to get the jab at government hospitals had the option of walk-in registration, while those opting to take the vaccination at private facilities were directed to pre-register the names using the CoWin 2.0. Officials said as part of the process senior citizens aged over 60 started queuing up at various hospitals from Monday morning to register their names but glitches in the CoWin 2.0 app halted the programme. “The government had directed that vaccination could be done only after registration through the CoWin 2.0 app. As a result, we asked the elderly people to wait. But when the glitches continued for over two and half hours, we requested them to return but that was protested by senior citizens,” said a health official in Birbhum. Following the agitation, we got in touch with the state health department seeking their nod to carry out the process offline. “At the day end, we received permission from the state to vaccinate the elderly people offline. Later we called them up again after 2.30 pm but the turnout was naturally low. We could vaccinate only 14 elderly people in the district on Monday against a target of 300,” said a senior health official in Birbhum. Like Birbhum, health officials in districts like East Burdwan, Purulia and Bankura faced similar problems. Officials in those districts said there was no way other than sending back senior citizens because many of them were above 70 or 80 years. “It was very inhuman for us to see very elderly people waiting at hospitals. Many of them started raising questions about why they were invited without preparation. What can I do? The CoWin 2.0 app did not work for the entire day,” said an official in Burdwan. Swapan Kumar Mondal, 72, a retired police officer, reached Bolpur subdivisional hospital around 10.30pm. But he had to wait for around two hours and later left the hospital as his vaccination was not done. However, he was later informed over the phone and came back at around 4pm to get a jab. “The nurses and health officials informed me about the problem. They asked me to go. I came again  as per request of the health staff. I understand the trouble but it is really a problem to visit a hospital  twice after waiting for two hours,” said Mondal. Sources in the state health department said there was clear direction from the health ministry not to vaccinate anyone without registering through the app. “However, we gave the permission after complaints from most hospitals started pouring in. We will conduct a meeting tonight to get rid of the glitches with the CoWin 2.0 app,” said a state health official. No Covid death Bengal on Monday, in a first since April last year, logged zero death from Covid-19. But the state logged 212 recoveries and 198 infections as a drop in its total active cases continued for the 126th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 3,293. “Even in December, there were 50-60 daily deaths across the state and 20-plus in Calcutta. From there, we have reached a stage of no death from Covid,”  said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Tollywood actress Srabanti Chatterjee joins BJP||Tollywood actress Srabanti Chatterjee, who was seen close to the Trinamul Congress, joined the BJP on Monday. She accepted BJP the flag from state party president Dilip Ghosh and the minder for Bengal Kailash Vijavargiya. “This is a new journey for me. I’ve received a lot of love from people and it is my duty to work for the people who have loved me,” Srabanti said after her induction into the BJP. “I want to thank the BJP that they’ve considered me to be qualified enough to be a member of their family,” she added. Srabanti was one of the many popular faces from the film and the television industry who were regular at events organised by the Mamata Banerjee-led state government or even the Trinamul Congress. She had also campaigned for several state government schemes. That’s why her joining the saffron camp came as a surprise for many. “They’ve done a lot, but we will do more,” Srabanti said when asked if she thought that the incumbent ruling party of the state has failed to discharge its duties. She also added that contrary to what other actors who had joined the BJP in the past had alleged, it wasn’t necessary for artistes to be in favour of the Trinamul to work in the industry. Sources in Tollywood said a powerful producer in Tollywood, who was in the Trinamul camp till a few months ago, had played a key role in her switch to the saffron camp. A few days ago, actors Rudranil Ghosh, Yash Dasgupta and Hiran Chatterjee, who were previously close to Trinamul, had switched sides to the BJP under the influence of this producer. While Yash had refrained from accusing Trinamul of misrule, both Rudranil and Hiran had expressed their angst against the party. Srabanti has expressed her desire to contest the ensuing polls. However, she added that it would be the party’s decision to field her or not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: Connecting voters via road and rail in north Bengal||The road and rail connectivity has emerged as a major topic of election campaign in north Bengal with the central and state governments led by the BJP and the Trinamul Congress vying with each other by making major announcements and inaugurating new projects and services to draw support in the region. While the BJP is keen on retaining its support base — it won seven out of eight Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal, Mamata Banerjee’s party is desperate for a revival. The region has 54 Assembly constituencies. “Both the parties are playing cards to woo different communities, right from Rajbanshis to adivasis and Gorkhas. But one of the principal issues which they have been highlighting consistently is the recent developments in the road and rail connectivity in the region, that is considered as a key strategic area of the country,” said a political observer. In north Bengal, the most important stretch in terms of national security is the “Siliguri Corridor” or a stretch that starts from the Islampur subdivision of North Dinajpur and ends in Siliguri of Darjeeling district. The width of the Indian sub-continent is slimmest in this stretch, with Bangladesh and Nepal on either side. In the past few months, the Trinamul government in the state and the BJP government at the Centre came up with a number of new announcements and launched new infrastructure services. The Telegraph lists some of the important initiatives made by both the sides. Following are some of the initiatives of the Mamata Banerjee government: ⚫ Construction of the 2.709km-long Joyee Bridge (probably the longest bridge in the state) over the Teesta river to connect Haldibari and Mekhliganj in Cooch Behar; ⚫ Construction of Asian Highways 2 and 48 which connect the Bangladesh border with Nepal and Bhutan, respectively. The fund was provided by the Centre. ⚫ Construction of a bridge over the Ganga to connect Bhutni, an islet in Malda district with around 90,000 residents. ⚫ Construction of a bridge over the Fulhar river reducing the distance between Malda and Katihar in the neighbouring state of Bihar by 90km. ⚫ Allocation of over 100 acres for the expansion of the Bagdogra airport. ⚫ The first Inland Container Depot or dry port of north Bengal at New Jalpaiguri, where cargo can be ferried via rail. Following are some of the initiatives of the Narendra Modi government: ⚫ Allocation of Rs 25,000 crore in the Union budget of the next fiscal for construction of the 675km Calcutta-Siliguri economic corridor ⚫ Introduction of goods train services along Haldibari-Chilahati (Bangladesh) route in December last year. From March 26, a bi-weekly passenger train service will commence between Siliguri and Dhaka ⚫ Construction of second road bridge over the Teesta along NH27 near Jalpaiguri. Work of a second rail bridge, parallel to the road bridge, is in progress. ⚫ A 10km-long road to bypass NH27 at Islampur in North Dinajpur has been opened for traffic recently. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, who is busy reaching out to people in his Assembly constituency, said north Bengal residents witnessed a series of development initiatives since 2011 in different sectors, one of which is the improvement in road connectivity. “The Centre is, however, delaying some major projects. They include widening of NH31 at Darjeeling More (the principal entry point to Siliguri) and construction of a bridge over the Teesta near Sevoke Bazaar,” the minister said. BJP leaders, however, said the four-laning of NH 27 — the principal highway that connects Northeast — had been expedited by the Centre since 2017. “Also, there have been major developments in the rail network and service. The electrification of tracks is almost complete in north Bengal and an international rail route has been opened. Infrastructure has been developed at a number of stations in the region,” said a BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad bride ties nuptial knot to books, families agree||Moyna Khatun, 24, a resident of Murshidabad’s Suti and an arts graduate from D.N. College in Kalyani University, has set an example in the minority-dominated area when she demanded 60 books as “mohor” (dowry that a groom needs to pay) to tie the nuptial knot on Monday. Although Moyna entered into an arranged marriage with Mizanur Rahman, 24, a geography graduate from Bhagalpur University in Bihar, family members of the bride said she had made it clear to her parents that she would demand books instead of traditional mohor when the two families discussed the duo’s marriage in January. “She had no interest in traditional mohor, which can go up to Rs 50,000 these days. Initially shocked and awed by her parents’ request, Mizanur’s family happily accepted the demand,” said a family member of Moyna. The groom’s family not only accepted the demand of Moyna, but decided to give some more books in addition to her demand. On Monday afternoon, Kidderpore village, the native place of Moyna, witnessed a rare sight as the marriage party was carrying cartons full of books, which would not be less than 80, a resident said. The cartons contained Quran in Bengali, besides works by Rabindranath Tagore, Nazrul Islam and Bibhutibhushan Bandhopadhyay. A member of the groom’s family said they would also be giving the bride an undisclosed amount of cash for personal expenses as they were “overjoyed” at her “unusual” request for books. Pictures of the unusual dowry have earned applause in the social media. Senior district officials said the unusual dowry had drawn attention as literacy rate among the minority girls in the remote corners of the district still remained a problem. “The government is trying hard to bring all girls to schools so that literacy rate increases among them. The stress is particularly on girls from minority communities living in remote areas. Moyna has set a great example. The government believes if a girl is imparted education, it will transmit to next generations. Girls like Moyna can be used as a poster girl for this purpose,” said a senior official. Politicians have also praised the initiative taken by Moyna. “It’s girls like Moyna who make us as well as their families proud,” said Samserganj MLA Amirul Haque, when contacted by this newspaper. Attendees already had a glimpse of the unusual mohor as it was kept in the centre of a room. “I have always been a bookworm since my childhood,” Moyna had told this reporter late on Sunday. The daughter of a farmer, Moyna had the opportunity to go to college despite being of modest means and says she was struck by the idea when she read news of a similar bridal request in Kerala a few years ago. “I knew then that this is how I would get married,” she added. Mizanur is also a man of letters and sources say he freelances for a number of Bengali periodicals in the area while helping his father’s ration business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Whiff of witch hunt in charges on Visva-Bharati teacher||Visva-Bharati authorities framed charges against Rajesh K.V, an assistant professor of the department of drama and general secretary of Adhyapak Sabha, accusing him of visiting the academics and research section “almost every day” by neglecting his duty. There were allegations that he had been “targeted” for initially refusing to sign a petition prepared by the authorities against one of his colleagues. The chargesheet against Rajesh was signed by officiating registrar Ashok Mahato reads. “Shri Rajesh K. V. Assistant Professor, Department of Rabindra Sangit, Dance and Drama, Sangit Bhavana comes to Academic and Research Section almost every day from 3.30PM to 6.00PM neglecting his duties at his department and Bhavana. These are prejudicial to the interest of the university and in terms of CCS(CCA) Rule and provisions of the Visva-Bharati Act 1951 and statues made thereunder and such kind of acts may be regarded as misconduct,” the chargesheet signed by officiating registrar Ashok Mahato reads. Rajesh, popular on campus as Rajesh Venugopal, becomes the second teacher to face the wrath of varsity officials after Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the president of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association and a whistleblower against activities by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, was suspended in January. On February 26, all teachers of English department were allegedly “confined” by authorities in a bid to grab a copy of a mass petition written to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi informing them about the state-of-affairs of the varsity. The charge was later rejected by the varsity. The action against Rajesh raised questions about the varsity’s recent activities to gag voices of dissent as it was the first case of any teacher being charge-sheeted for visiting the varsity’s academic and research department. “It is unheard of that a teacher could be questioned for visiting a department associated with academic and research. I have been working here for around 20 years and never heard of such a ridiculous reason. We always visit the academic and research department. What is wrong if someone sits and spends time with senior officials,” said a varsity teacher. Officials said Rajesh was first served a showcause notice and charges were framed against him on Saturday that was served to him on Monday. Framing charges is a step forward to punish any employee under act and statues of Visva-Bharati and service act for central government employees. A teacher in Sangit Bhavana said in the last routine, Rajesh had not been allotted any class in his department between 3.30pm and 6.30pm. “Rajesh stayed here all through the pandemic even though the campus was closed. He joined in 2012 but we never found him neglecting duty,” said a colleague of Rajesh. Sources said in mid-February the VC had called a meeting where Rajesh was asked to sign on a paper accusing a woman teacher of the department of “misconduct”. Rajesh had initially refused to sign on the dotted lines but was again summoned after two days when the authorities allegedly forced him to sign. “Rajesh told me that he had signed the paper under force amid threats that he would face professional hazards,” said a teacher. Rajesh, however, refused to comment when this newspaper got in touch with him for his reaction on the issue. Visva-Bharati’s public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls and nor did he respond to messages. on action taken against Rajesh K V when contacted through text message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Plaster from ceiling of govt high school falls on teachers and students||Plaster from the ceiling of a government high school staff room collapsed from a height of 13ft on the heads of two students and two teachers, grievously injuring one of them, at Dhangbhara near Salboni in West Midnapore around 11.30am on Monday. The injured students and teachers of Sashibhushan High School had to be rushed to the local health centre. One of them was administered four stitches as he had suffered a deep cut in the head. The incident had raised questions about the quality of construction as the building is less than six-months’ old. Sources said the building was constructed under the Paschimanchal Unnayan Parishad scheme approved in the 2018-2019 state budget. The building was completed in September 2020 under the monitoring of the panchayat samiti. Sources said a chunk of plaster from a 5ft radius of the ceiling collapsed. Sandip Singha, member of the Salboni panchayat samiti and in-charge of the construction, said an explanation had been sought from the contractor following the collapse. “This building is not even six-months’ old. This has happened because inferior materials were used to construct the building,” said headmaster Tapas Bhattacharya. “We had asked the contractor in February last year to improve the materials but he didn’t listen to us. And this is the price we had to pay for lapses on part of the contractor,” the headmaster added. Responding to the charges of lapses in construction, Singha said: “It is a new building and the incident is being probed by our engineer. The contractor has been asked to explain the reason for the collapse and if found guilty his security deposit will be forfeited. He will also have to repair the damage.” Asked, district inspector of schools Chapeswar Sardar said he was responding to the incident and “would look into how the incident occurred”. Sources said all four victims were stable as of Monday evening, including the teacher who was seriously injured in the head.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling hills to host legislators for Sustainable Mountain Development Summit||The Darjeeling hills are ready to host legislators from across Himalayan states and Union territories in India later this year for the Sustainable Mountain Development Summit. The Integrated Mountain Initiative (IMI), a civil society-led forum, has decided to pass on the baton to its unit Darjeeling Himalayan Initiative to host the 10th edition of the summit, which is one of its kind initiative involving nine states and two Union territories. “The Mountain Legislators’ Meet and the Indian Himalayan Youth Summit are two events which are integral components of the annual summit. We will be organising the events at Darjeeling and Kalimpong,” said Praful Rao, the president of the DHI. Governments of mountain states have been active participants in the deliberations of the IMI. The first such summit was held in Uttarkhand capital Nainital in 2011 and over the decade, the IMI has been able to influence policy decisions on mountain issues. P.D. Rai, the president of the IMI, said the body played a key role in setting up a working group in the Planning Commission during the finalisation of the 12 five-year plan in 2011. “A separate division on mountain issues was also set up by the ministry of environment and forest,” said Rai, who is also a former MP from Sikkim. Many believe the initiative by the forum led to the formation of B.K. Chaturvedi Committee to look into all aspects of development in the mountain region. “The outcome of an international seminar (organised by the IMI) which was taken to the parliamentary standing committee on water resources has led to many outcomes on issues of water security and also setting up of a centre for glacial studies at Sikkim University with a grant of Rs 10 crore,” said Rai. Last Wednesday, a “passing of the baton” ceremony was held in Kalimpong where Rai handed over the baton to Rao mandating the Darjeeling unit to plan, execute and host the summit. “The manner in which the event would be held would also depend on the Covid-19 situation but we will organise the event both in Darjeeling and Kalimpong,” said Rao. The theme of this year’s summit is “One health and resilient mountains”. The dates are yet to be finalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||West Bengal||Four youths get life term for murdering friend||A court in Jalpaiguri on Monday sentenced four youths to life imprisonment for murdering their friend around nine years ago. The convicts are Bhaichung Sherpa, Nitesh Sharma, Dawa Tamang and Vivek Pradhan. Dawa is a resident of Pradhannagar in Siliguri and the other three are from Gangtok. The trio from Sikkim, along with their friend Siddharth Gurung, had reached Siliguri in August 2012. Dawa joined them and all the five then reached the New Jalpaiguri area and checked into a hotel. On the second day, they shifted to another hotel. “On August 22, 2012, the quartet who has been convicted of the murder, checked out of the hotel. They told the manager and other staff members that Siddharth was sleeping in the room and they should wake him up in the afternoon. The staff went and called Siddharth, but he didn’t respond. The employees called up police who found that Siddharth had been strangled,” said a source. The police soon arrested all the four. During interrogation, they admitted that they had killed Siddharth to grab his cellphone, laptop and cash. Government lawyer Subrata Sarkar said the additional district and sessions first court had conducted the trial. “In total, 21 witnesses deposed in the case. The court awarded the death sentence today,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
02-03-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal Muslims seek newly constituted board||An organisation of north Bengal Muslims with considerable clout in the community has demanded that a newly constituted board for the socio-economic development of Nasya Sheikhs be converted into the one for all Muslims in the region. The Mamata Banerjee government had constituted the West Bengal Nasya Sheikh Development Board through a notification on February 22. The Nasya Sheikhs or Rajbanshi Muslims number around 35 lakh in north Bengal. Abul Hossain, the secretary of the Uttarbanga Anagrasar Muslim Sangram Samiti, said the Nasya Sheikh board wouldn’t benefit the entire Muslim community which belongs to different sub-castes. “Hence, we want the state government to change the board’s name and convert it into one for all backward Muslims in north Bengal,” said Hossain. Karimul Islam, another leader of the samiti, said there were 110-odd sub-castes of Muslims in north Bengal. “If the board’s mandate and purpose are amended, it can work for all Muslims. We have been raising the demand for long,” he said. The demand that has been raised ahead of the Assembly elections is being seen as an attempt to mount pressure on Mamata Banerjee and her party. The demand has drawn flak from members of the Nasya Sheikh board. “The state government has constituted the board for our community. Some people are trying to politicise the issue ahead of the elections. They have never spoken for us,” said Bazlay Rehman, a member of the board. Altogether, around one crore Muslims, including 35 lakh Nasya Sheikhs, live in north Bengal. “One of the key topics of discussion among political pundits is Muslims who account for around 30 per cent of total voters in the state. New forces like the ISF and the AIMIM are foraying into the political arena of Bengal and changing equations. In such a context, the new demand will mount pressure on Trinamul,” said an observer. He noted that the model code of conduct was in force and the state government couldn’t meet the demand till the elections got over. Trinamul leaders are, however, confident that the minority community in north Bengal would not join hands with any other party. “We have communicated the demand for a socio-economic development board for all Muslims in north Bengal to our senior leaders. We are confident that the minority community will stand by Trinamul across north Bengal,” said Dablu Mohammad, the Jalpaiguri district coordinator Trinamul’s minority cell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-180
