03-03-2021||West Bengal||PM photo on Covid vaccine certificates violates poll code, TMC tells EC||A delegation of TMC leaders on Wednesday met Election Commission officials here and alleged that the use of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's photo on advertisements of various central schemes and the COVID vaccination certificates, distributed by the Union health ministry, violated the model code of conduct. The ruling party in Bengal termed it as a "blatant misuse of official machinery" and sought the intervention of the poll panel to remove hoardings advertising central government schemes with images of Modi at petrol pumps, state minister Firhad Hakim said after meeting the EC officials. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi happens to be the star campaigner of the BJP in this assembly elections. As a politician, he is seeking support for his party during rallies. In this situation, using his photo in vaccination certificates is akin to influencing voters and violates the model code of conduct. "We have sought the EC's intervention to remove his photo in hoardings promoting central schemes at petrol pumps," Hakim said. The minister called on the EC officials a day after TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien alleged that the PM photos have been used on the COVID-19 vaccination certificates even after the announcement of poll dates. "Elections declared. PM photo still brazenly appearing on #COVID19 documents. Trinamool @AITCofficial taking this up strongly with Election Commission @ECISVEEP," he said on Twitter on Tuesday. Reacting to these allegations, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh termed it as "baseless" and said the vaccination drive had started before the announcement of the election dates. "If a government project starts before the declaration of an election, it may continue in the same form. At petrol pumps, hoardings are advertising several welfare projects of the Centre. These are put up on private land," Ghosh said. He also said the EC would take a call on the issue. Elections in Bengal will be held in eight phases, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Saradha to coal, ED questions Kunal Ghosh ||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday questioned Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh for five hours at its Salt Lake office in Calcutta in connection with its probe into the Saradha deposit mobilising scam. This development came on a day the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) drew up a list of district magistrates who would be possibly asked to appear for questioning in connection with its probe into the multi-crore pilferage of coal across many districts of Bengal and the Union home ministry handed over the probe into the Nimtita blast in Murshidabad to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). A team of ED officers questioned Ghosh for over five hours in trying to find out, they claimed, some of the missing links of the money trail in the Saradha scam. A former Rajya Sabha member, Ghosh headed a television channel and a newspaper funded by the Saradha group. Asked about the timing, ED officers said the investigating officer of the case was recently changed and the new incumbent has drawn up a list of unanswered queries which demanded Ghosh’s questioning. Ghosh has been asked to re-appear for questioning, sources in the agency said. Trinamul leaders said this was a characteristic trait of central agencies — dusting out old files ahead of the polls. “Kunal (Ghosh) was recently vocal about BJP offering shelter to some of those accused in the Narada sting case and therefore made a target,” said a senior Trinamul leader. In Delhi, the Union home ministry entrusted the NIA to probe into the February 17 Nimtita blast in Murshidabad bordering Bangladesh that left at least 26 people seriously injured, including Jakir Hossain, the minister of state for labour. However, Mamata Banerjee had immediately set up a special investigation team to probe the blast with three agencies, the CID, the Special Task Force and the Counter Insurgency Force (CIF). The CID arrested two persons. Hossain is still admitted to the SSKM hospital. The CBI has started drawing up a list of IAS officers who served Birbhum, Murshidabad and erstwhile Burdwan between 2017 and 2020 as district magistrates, before possibly inviting them for a round of questioning in the alleged multi-crore coal pilferage case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls: Congress leaves 7 seats for ISF||The Congress on Tuesday agreed to allot seven seats in south Bengal to Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front, but reiterated that it would field candidates in not less than 92 Assembly segments. The consensus over the seven seats was reached at a meeting attended by the leaders of the CPM, Congress and the ISF at the CPM state headquarters in Alimuddin Street on Tuesday. “We have finalised a deal with the ISF on seven seats in south Bengal,” Congress leader and MP Pradip Bhattacharya told The Telegraph. “We have made progress in our discussions,” Bhattacharya said adding that the entire picture would be clear in a few days. Besides Bhattacharya, leader of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly Abdul Mannan represented the Congress in the parleys with ISF chairman Naushad Siddiqui, CPM leaders Surjya Kanta Mishra and Md. Salim and Left Front chairman Biman Bose. Although Naushad didn’t wish to disclose the number of seats the ISF had agreed upon, he confirmed that “quite a few seats” had been allotted to his party by the Congress. “We are in talks with them for a few more in south Bengal,” Naushad added. Sources in the ISF, a fledgling political outfit founded by a Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui, said the deal so far had been sealed for seven to eight seats. However, Bhattacharya echoed the words of state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and maintained that the party would contest 92 seats in the ensuing polls. Chowdhury had on Monday said the Congress would not give any seat to the ISF from its share of 92 seats. Congress sources said even if any of the seats the party had identified for itself was given to the ISF, it would be compensated from the seats that remained undistributed. The Congress had initially asked for 130 seats from the Left Front and finally, settled for 92, leaving 38 Assembly segments undistributed. The dispute over the ISF’s claims over Assembly segments in north Bengal remains. However, sources in the ISF said its leadership was willing to take a step back for the sake of the alliance. “We had demanded 13 seats in north Bengal from the Congress. Since they don’t want to give away all these seats, we are now asking for six seats only,” the ISF source said. “Congress representatives have told us that they will speak to the higher leadership and let us know on the issue,” the source added. As most of these seats are in the Congress strongholds of Malda, Murshidabad and North Dinajpur, it remains to be seen whether even the party would spare six seats for the ISF. Sources in the Left Front said chairman Bose would announce on March 8 the list of candidates for the first phase of polls. On March 6, a day ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting in Calcutta, the Left Front will hold rallies across the state in protest against the hike in prices of petroleum products and to demand jobs for all. In Calcutta, the procession will be taken out from Subodh Mullick Square to Mahajati Sadan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Politics of ‘ostracism’ sours wedding feast||Rising political temperatures of poll-bound Bengal soured the wedding feast of a Trinamul leader’s daughter in Birbhum’s Dubrajpur on Monday, with BJP leaders and workers allegedly forcing villagers to boycott the event. Niranjan Ghosh, a Trinamul booth president in Paduma village of Dubrajpur, had invited over 500 villagers for his daughter’s marriage on Monday. To manage the large number of invitees, he invited one lot to lunch and the other to dinner. By the end of the day, a shocked Ghosh realised that many villagers did not turn up and a lot of cooked food had to be thrown away. “I learnt that BJP leaders and workers owing allegiance to the saffron party’s state committee member Ramkrishna Roy threatened people to boycott them socially if they attended my daughter’s wedding. Over 200 invitees did not respond to my invitation after the threat because the BJP controls the panchayat. A lot of food was wasted,” said Ghosh. Paduma village is part of the Dubrajpur Assembly seat where the BJP led by over 14,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. A resident of Paduma said “Sholo Ana”, an unofficial assembly of villagers, decides on social and cultural events in the village. Sources said though an independent body it is often controlled by the political party that dominates the region. The BJP, which replaced the Trinamul as the main force after the panchayat polls, took control of Sholo Ana as well. A villager, fearing to be named for fear of social reprisal, said he was Niranjan’s relative but could not attend the marriage. “They (BJP workers) threatened me and my family with social boycott if I attended the event. I did not take the risk (of defying them) as the BJP is the main force in the village,” said a villager. Ghanashyam Ghosh, a CPM’s Dubrajpur area committee member, was among those asked not to stay away. But Ghosh did not cower. “BJP workers did threaten me and ask not to attend the marriage ceremony of Niranjan’s daughter. I clearly told them we are against ostracism. Despite warnings, I responded to Niranjan’s invitation,” said Ghanashyam. “There are political differences with Niranjan but that does not interfere with our social ties. This ostracism is shameful. Villagers are so scared that they refuse to talk about it,” he added. Niranjan said social boycott was enforced immediately. Seven villagers who had come to his home for lunch on Monday were told not to come for dinner at another wedding in the village. “As they had lunch at my place, their dinner host cancelled their invitation. It hurt me,” Niranjan said. Refuting allegations of threats and ostracism, BJP leaders said the boycott was “spontaneous”. “Villagers were angry with Niranjan as he earlier filed fake cases against a few BJP workers. Most villagers decided to boycott the event. We did not threaten anyone,” said Ramkrishna Roy of the BJP. Social scientists criticised the alleged ostracism. “Dr BR Ambedkar felt villages were cesspools of cruelty and caste prejudice. (But) in Bengal, the culture (of ostracism) is strongly condemned. It is unfortunate when such a call comes from a political party that rules a country or state,” said sociologist Surajit Mukhopadhyay. Anubrata Mondal, Trinamul’s Birbhum president, said: “This is not the culture of Bengal. The BJP is using its politics of hate even though they are not in power.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader’s acquittal and re-arrest within 2 hours||BJP leader Anisur Rahman, acquitted of charges of murdering a Trinamul leader in 2019 by the local court here, was arrested two hours after his release on Tuesday following a Calcutta High Court order that overturned the bail granted to him last month and the process of acquittal underway since then. A petition challenging Rahman’s bail order by the lower court was moved by a East Midnapore resident in high court last week, alleging the state government did not follow proper legal procedure. The prayer came up for hearing before Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya of the high court on Tuesday, who observed the state administration failed to cite proper reasons while withdrawing its case against Rahman and directed the police to re-arrest Rahman. The case acquired political colours for more reasons than one. Rahman faced charges of murdering Trinamul leader Qurban Shah on October 7, 2019. Rahman himself was was a popular Trinamul youth leader who in 2018 joined the BJP after differences with then Trinamul heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari. When Shah was killed, Rahman was arrested in November 2019. After Suvendu defected to the BJP in December 2020, chief minister Mamata Banerjee publicly said in East Midnapore that Rahman was wrongfully implicated. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul homes in on 4 houses in Nandigram for Mamata||Trinamul Congress leadership in East Midnapore has begun a search for a temporary address for Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram from where she is likely to contest in the Assembly polls. The chief minister herself announced her desire to contest from Nandigram, the site of her anti-land acquisition protest, during a January 18 mega rally in Tekhali as she threw the gauntlet down at former aide Suvendu Adhikari who defected to the BJP in December. Sources said her candidature in Nandigram was likely to be confirmed by the state Trinamul leadership later this week before the beginning of the nomination filing window of March 5-12. As Mamata always contested from seats in Calcutta, she never needed a temporary address in the poll season. For Nandigram, around 140km from Calcutta, she would, however, need a place to put up and reach out to voters. “Didi will be going across the state for Trinamul candidates, but she will be coming to Nandigram several times for her own campaign.… We have to have a place ready for her so that she can stay here during her visits,” said Abu Taher, deputy chief of Nandigram panchayat samiti. Multiple Trinamul sources said the hunt for a temporary accommodation for Mamata, who didn’t leave the family’s modest home on 30B Harish Chatterjee Street in Calcutta even after becoming the chief minister, is a challenge as she prefers a spartan lifestyle and is averse to display of luxury in her personal space. Besides, security protocols for the chief minister, who will have an entourage during her stay in Nandigram, added to the degree of difficulty in zeroing in on a place for Mamata. Taher said the party had short-listed four buildings in and around Nandigram town and started paying temporary leases for two of them. “We have short-listed four buildings of different types — at Nandigram town, Reyapara, Battola and Dinabandhupur. These four buildings will be used for the chief minister and her entourage during her stay in Nandigram,” he said while adding that they were creating provision for the stay of 50 to 100 people. Although there was no confirmation on which of the four would be used as Mamata’s temporary address, sources in the East Midnapore district party unit as well as residents of the area said on Tuesday that the residence at the town seemed to have caught the leaders’ eyes. “State Trinamul president Subrata Bakshi and MP Dola Sen have been coming here frequently since mid-January and this house is the one they have frequented most,” said a resident of Nandigram town, pointing to a pink two-storey building with four separate flats ranging between 600sqft and 1,000sqft. Contacted by this newspaper, homeowner Sheikh Rajab, a school teacher, said: “The party has leased two flats from me for two months. The smaller one upstairs may be used by Mamata Banerjee whereas her detail will use a flat downstairs.” “I told Trinamul leaders that they could pay whatever rent they want to. I even had my wife clear out her office downstairs for the time being,” he added, explaining that the average monthly rent of one flats was Rs, 4,000. Senior Trinamul leader and zilla parishad deputy chief Sheikh Sufian confirmed the party’s interest in the building, saying its location and layout were “perfect” for the chief minister. “Our leaders Subrata Bakshi and Dola Sen inspected several properties in the area over a month and were finally satisfied with two in particular,” he added. The other property is a community hall at Battola with accommodation on the second-storey. This property has also reportedly been rented out for two months. Sources said both the properties would fall within a 3km radius of the proposed helipad for the chief minister at the Nandigram College Grounds. “The final confirmation, however, will lie with the chief minister’s security detail who will visit the buildings after the announcement of her candidature. The decision will be made solely on safety grounds,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Yogi Adityanath plays majoritarian card to polarise Bengal elections||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday played the majoritarian card to polarise the Bengal elections, alleging that the Mamata Banerjee government wasn’t allowing people to chant “Jai Shri Ram” and imposing restrictions on Durga Puja celebrations. Ajay Mohan Bisht, also known as Yogi Adityanath, attacked the Trinamul Congress government over law and order in Bengal, but didn’t refer to the killing of a sexual assault survivor’s father allegedly by the prime accused in his state on Monday. “The law and order in Bengal is in a shambles. Cattle rustling and cross-border smuggling have become commonplace and police and the administration do not take steps against criminals…. Even women aren’t spared. Any government that can’t ensure the safety of women and residents of the state as a whole should not be in power even for a day,” the Hindutva poster boy told a gathering of 30,000-odd people at the College Ground in Gazole of Malda “If the BJP is voted to power, we will stop cattle slaughtering and will close down all illegal abattoirs within 24 hours. Cattle smuggling would also be stopped,” he added. His criticism of the Mamata government prompted questions from her party. “Even as he was making these statements, that astounding crime took place at Hathras in UP,” said Bengal minister Tapas Roy, referring to the Monday incident, in which a person residing at a village under the Sasni police station of Hathras had been gunned down by a local youth, who is accused of molesting his daughter in 2018. The victim had filed the police complaint against Gaurav Sharma, the accused, who was arrested and was later released on bail. “There is an element of tragic hilarity to this, when someone like Adityanath makes such statements in Bengal,” said Roy. The Hindutva hardliner, deemed a favourite of the Sangh parivar right after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, predictably peppered his speech with communal, inflammatory elements that the saffron ecosystem thrives on. “The Trinamul government here gets agitated if someone chants ‘Jai Sri Ram’. They can’t stop people from chanting it. Also, obstructions are created here for festivals like Durga Puja, unlike in UP, where all the festivals are celebrated with equal vigour and enthusiasm,” said Adityanath, who also brought up contentious concepts of the saffron camp, such as “Love Jihad” and the controversial legislation in his state against it. Malda, a district with around 55 per cent of the people from a minority community, has 12 Assembly seats, with minority votes being decisive in six to seven. Senior minister and Trinamul veteran Subrata Mukherjee said: “First of all, as recently as 2020, the Uttar Pradesh government had imposed restrictions on Durga Puja, while in Bengal, there were so many — as usual — that Calcutta, for instance, came to a standstill for days. Who here takes a man like that seriously anyway?” “People here haven’t ever seen a so-called monk who is also a chief minister. Some go to check him out, because of that. If he pays a visit somewhere close to me, I too might go, simply because of that. Does that mean I will be influenced by what he has to say?” asked Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections: Fix census, say Nepali speakers ||The alleged inaccurate numbers of Nepali speakers on the census is an issue this poll season in Darjeeling hills, with organisations appealing to political parties to speak on the census enumeration process during campaigns. Census figures reveal that while decadal growth of people having listed their mother tongue as Nepali grew by 38.29 per cent between 1991 and 2001, the growth was only 1.89 per cent from 2001 to 2011. This decade’s census is due this year. While Nepali speakers were 20,76,645 in the 1991 Census the figure rose to 28,71,749 in 2001. However in the next 10 years, numbers went up by just over a lakh, said Anjani Sharma Bhujel, spokesman, Gorkhaland Sanyukta Sangharsh Samiti (GSSS), an organisation which works on socio-political issues in the region. “The 2011 Census figures recorded 29,26,168 people having Nepali as their mother tongue,” she said. Only Konkani with a decadal growth of minus 9.34 and Urdu with minus 1.48 fared worse than Nepali among 22 languages under the Eight Schedule of the Constitution. However, Anjani added that her organisation feels that the true numbers of Nepali-speaking population are not getting reflected in the census owing to various reasons. The Nepali community has a number of sub-communities like Tamang, Gurung, Limbu, Rai, Newar etc, and each has their own dialect and some even their own script, though Nepali is accepted as a lingua franca of this community. Many believe that members of sub-communities tend to list their dialect as mother tongue instead of the lingua franca. “We are trying to explain to the people the definition of mother tongue vis-à-vis census and to record it accordingly,” said Anjani. A glance through the list of non-scheduled languages in Census suggests people have recorded Tamang, Subba or Rai as their mother tongue. Many also believe that the race to get their sub-community recognised as a Scheduled Tribe might also have propelled people to highlight their dialect/language over lingua franca Nepali. Eleven Gorkha sub-communities are currently demanding tribal status, and apart from Khas, all other communities have their own dialect and some even their script. “Geographic difficulties given the hill terrain might also be a factor in some places. Enumerators may not be able to meet each and every family,” said a social activist from Darjeeling. GSSS along with other similar groups like Federation of Indian Gorkhas are taking the lead in explaining the enumeration process and also appealing to political parties to explain the nitty-gritty during their election campaign. Binay Tamang, president of his faction of the Gorkha Janmukti flagged off the issue during his address in Assam recently. The Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM) have also been participating in awareness programmes organised by GSSS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Rajbanshi Muslim plea to Mamata: field 5 candidates from community||The largest association of Nasya Sheikhs or Rajbanshi Muslims in north Bengal have sent a letter to Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee, requesting her to field at least five candidates from the community in various seats of north Bengal in the upcoming Assembly elections. Representatives of the Uttarbanga Nasya Sheikh Unnayan Parishad — some 35 lakh Rajbanshi Muslims live in the region — have said that such a move is necessary to thwart forces such as the Indian Secular Front (ISF) and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) from eroding Trinamul’s minority vote bank. The five Assembly seats that they have stated in their letter are Itahar (North Dinajpur), Harirampur (South Dinajpur), Chanchal (Malda), Tufanganj and Cooch Behar South (both Cooch Behar), said sources. Bazlay Rehman, the president of the Parishad, said that Mamata had agreed to their demand of forming a development board for the community. “We are with her and will extend all possible support to Trinamul. But considering the recent political developments in the state such as new political forces deciding to contest the elections, we feel it is necessary that at least five people from our community contest in the elections from various seats. This will help Trinamul,” Rehman said. The ISF, headed by influential Furfura Sharif cleric-turned-politician Abbas Siddiqui, has forged an alliance with the Left that has decided to allow ISF to contest in 30 seats. The Congress has offered eight seats to the ISF but negotiations are still in progress. On Sunday’s Brigade rally in Calcutta, Siddiqui’s mass appeal was noticed by all present there. “Furthermore, the AIMIM headed by Asaduddin Owaisi has also announced that it will field candidates in minority-dominated areas of Bengal. These parties might try to draw support from people of our community if none from us is fielded in the elections. That is why we have sent the letter to Mamata Banerjee,” said another representative of the organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
03-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul MLA Jitendra Tiwari joins BJP||Trinamul Congress MLA and former Asansol mayor Jitendra Tiwari joined the BJP at a rally attended by the saffron party’s Bengal president Dilip Ghosh at Baidyabati in Hooghly district on Tuesday. “I am glad that the BJP has given me some space in their family and I will now work under the leadership of Narendra Modi. I have no allegation to raise against anyone but I must say that from now, I will be able to say whatever in my mind freely,” Tiwari, the Pandaveswar MLA, said after receiving the BJP flag from Ghosh. At the end, Tiwari who had recently been appointed the spokesperson for Trinamul’s Hindi cell by Mamata Banerjee, chanted “Jai Sree Ram”. “Since my childhood, I have been chanting ‘Jai Sree Ram’ but now, I will be able to chant it openly from the dais,” he said. There had been speculation about Tiwari’s defection to the BJP since December last year after he had fired off a “confidential” letter to urban development minister Firhad Hakim expressing his “grief” over not getting central funds under the Smart City project because of “political reasons”. In his letter dated December 13, Tiwari, who was then the chairman of the board of administrators at the Asansol Municipal Corporation, had apparently accused the Mamata Banerjee government of not allowing him to receive the funds because of “political reasons” and thus hampering the town’s development. Two days after sending the letter, Tiwari quit the post of chairman and president of Trinamul in West Burdwan. On the same day, he attended a meeting with former minister Suvendu Adhikari at ex-Trinamul MP Sunil Mandal’s house in East Burdwan’s Galsi. Both Adhikari and Mandal later defected to the BJP but Tiwari’s induction was stalled as a section of BJP leaders, including junior Union minister Babul Supriyo, raised objections. Later, Tiwari met chief minister Mamata Banerjee and told the media that he had made a mistake and apologised to Didi. Although Tiwari was appointed as the spokesperson for Trinamul’s Hindi cell, he lost his acceptance among party rank and file. “His rivals in Trinamul were not allowing him to work. He got involved in a scuffle with a Trinamul leader at a meeting at Andal recently and he had no other alternative than to join the BJP,” said the source. The sources said the relation between Babul and Tiwari had been very “unpleasant” since the 2014 general election. Tiwari had accused the singer-turned politician contesting for the first time from Asansol as a BJP candidate of carrying illegal firearms and campaigning in drunken condition. However, Babul on Tuesday said many people were leaving Trinamul and the CPM and there was now nothing in it. “Tiwari’s induction had been under consideration for the past one month. Many people are now coming to the BJP from Trinamul and the CPM. It is a fact that there were bitter relations between us but there is no need to recall such memories now. We will put the past behind and work together for the development of Asansol,” said Babul. Trinamul secretary general Partha Chatterjee said Tiwari’s desertion would have no impact on the party. “We have no loss. People have faith in Mamata Banerjee. Those leaving Trinamul will regret after the elections,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-179
