04-03-2021||West Bengal||Shiv Sena pledges support to Mamata, will not contest elections in Bengal||After the Rashtriya Janata Dal and Samajwadi Party (SP), the Shiv Sena on Thursday extended its support to TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee, and said it would not contest assembly elections in Bengal. Hailing Banerjee as the "real Bengal tigress", the party, which had earlier said that it would join the electoral battle in the state, vowed to "stand in solidarity" with the TMC camp. Senior Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut, in a tweet, made the announcement and said that the decision was taken following discussions with party president and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Raut took to Twitter and said "at the moment, it appears to be a Didi vs All fight". "A lot of people are curious to know whether Shivsena is contesting Bengal Polls or not? So here's the update after discussions with Party President Uddhav ji Thackeray." "All 'M's - Money, Muscle and Media are being used against 'M'amata Didi. Hence, Shivsena has decided not to Contest West Bengal polls & stand in solidarity with her. We wish Mamata Didi a 'roaring' success, 'cos we believe She is the real Bengal Tigress," he added. On Wednesday, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said the party would campaign in favour of the TMC for the Assembly election, while accusing Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of misleading the people in Bengal. In a statement, Yadav said the BJP wanted to come to power in the state by spreading "confusion and propaganda" during the Assembly polls. "The Samajwadi Party will not allow this conspiracy of the BJP to succeed," he added. He alleged that Adityanath was "misleading" the people and appealed to the voters not to fall prey to the designs of the BJP, which "indulges in politics of hate". "It's in the interest of democracy to be cautious of it (BJP)," the SP leader said. Yadav said SP vice president and former minister Kiranmoy Nanda would conduct an election campaign in support of the TMC in the state. RJD chief Tejaswi Yadav pledged allegiance to Banerjee on Monday. "West Bengal is home to a large number of Hindi-speaking people from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand," he had said, adding the RJD's stand is to provide "full support" to Banerjee. The high-stakes elections in Bengal, poised to be a tough contest between the TMC and the BJP, will be held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Protest forces Burdwan university to revoke attendance order||The University of Burdwan on Wednesday issued an order asking teachers and non-teaching staff of 62 degree colleges under its jurisdiction to join duty on the campus but had to withdraw the directive within a few hours following protests from the faculty members who noted that the state government had last month decided not to open colleges and universities immediately in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said the varsity’s inspector of colleges (IC) Sujit Kumar Chowdhury had issued the order. “I am directed to inform you that the executive council, B.U, at its meeting held on 02.03.2021, resolved that in view of the General Election to the Assembly and UG/PG semester examinations to be conducted by the university of Burdwan, regular attendance on all working days and on Sundays (wherever required) in usual office hours for all the teaching, the non-teaching staff and the librarians of all affiliated colleges under the university is urgently required to provide uninterrupted public services for the greater interest of the students. So, you are requested to take necessary steps in this regard,” read the order. “When most college teachers are attending election training, how can they attend college regularly? Moreover, colleges have not been sanitised and railway services are yet to be normalised,” said a college teacher from Birbhum. Following the protests, Chowdhury issued another order on Wednesday evening: “As directed by the competent authority, our earlier letter…dated 03.03.2021 is hereby withdrawn,” the order said. Pro-vice-chancellor Ashis Kumar Panigrahi said the earlier order had been the result of miscommunication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC to look into Trinamul leader acquittal overturn||A division bench of Calcutta High Court, headed by Chief Justice T.B.N Radhakrishnan, on Wednesday admitted a plea by former Trinamul leader of East Midnapore Anisur Rahman, who challenged the legality of the high court order on Tuesday that overturned a Tamluk court verdict acquitting him in a 2019 murder case. Rahman, acquitted by Tamluk court on Tuesday, was re-arrested within hours when the bench of Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya set aside the order. The division bench will hear the petition on Monday. Rahman, who had left Trinamul for the BJP in 2018, on Wednesday disassociated himself with the saffron party. The state government also moved a plea before the division bench of Chief Justice Radhakrishnan to withdraw criminal cases filed in 2007 against 14 Trinamul activists of Nandigram by then Left government. The petition will be heard on Friday. However, the Chief Justice remarked “decisions to withdraw cases against murder accused are not wise”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Overnight scare for trekker from Calcutta ||A 62-year-old Calcutta trekker, who was part of a senior citizen trekking group, lost his way in the Sandakphu region at an altitude of over 11,000 feet, on Tuesday evening, but was found a day later. Sambhu Roy Chowdhury, 62, a resident of Netaji Nagar in Calcutta, got separated from his group of nine other members owing to dense fog and hilly terrain. “We got information around 8pm (on Tuesday night) that one person in a group of 10 was missing. A rescue operation involving the police, the SSB (Sashastra Seema Bal) and forest personnel was arranged following which Sambhu Roy Chowdhury was rescued today (Wednesday),” said Abhishek Gupta, Darjeeling additional SP. The SSB guards the India-Nepal border in that area. Chowdhury is a retired central government employee and avid trekker, most members of the group are either his former colleagues or friends. Sources said the senior citizen lost his way somewhere between Sandakphu and Moley, a village perched at an altitude of around 11,000 feet. Many trekkers take the Moley route to reach Ramman on their way down from Sandakphu, Bengal’s highest point. Subham, his son, who spoke to The Telegraph over phone from Calcutta, said the group had left Calcutta on February 26 and were scheduled to take a March 5 train to Calcutta. The son said his father had spoken to them around 2pm on Wednesday and sounded fine, though he could not be reached on phone aftterwards. “They are unreachable on cellphones at the moment but are fine,” said an official source. The Telegraph has two video clips taken by the rescue team which shows the trekker crying emotionally after being rescued. “We never thought we would receive support in such an area, hail SSB, police, forest personnel,” members of the team are heard saying in the video. “For us they (rescuers) are God.” Temperatures at the region where the senior citizen lost his way are nearly sub-zero during this time of the year. The Singalila National Park where Sambhu lost his way has a strong wildlife population. The rescued team is expected to reach Maneybhanjyang, the starting point of treks to Sandakphu, by Thursday. Son Subham said that the team whose members fall in the 60 to 65 years bracket were avid trekkers. “This is not his first trek, my father has trekked to many places including Sandakphu on numerous occasions,” said Subham.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Four Bangladeshis arrested on border||The Border Security Force arrested four Bangladeshis and an Indian from near the international border on Wednesday morning. The arrest was made by the 129 battalion of the BSF after receiving a tip-off. The arrested Bangladeshis have been identified as Mahima Khatun Bibi, Nasir Sheikh and Rijaul Islam who hail from Bagerhat district and Mohammad Saigander Sheikh  from Fatikchari in the Chittagong district. Sunil Burman, a resident of Sahebganj in Cooch Behar, was arrested along with the quartet. According to BSF sources, the four had infiltrated into India with the help of Burman and were trying to take shelter at a location. The BSF got the tip-off and intercepted them. “The BSF handed over all the five to Sahebganj police station. An investigation has started,” said a police officer. Gaur attack Three gaurs (Indian bison) strayed out of the Patlakhawa forest and entered the Paschim Ghughumari-Fasirhat area near Cooch Behar town on Wednesday. When local people gave the animals a chase, the bison went berserk. Sirajul Haque, a resident, suffered serious injuries after one of the gaurs attacked him. Two domesticated cows were also killed by the rampaging gaurs. The bison also damaged crops in agricultural fields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Murder finger at TMC-leader kin||A youth died and two children got injured after a Trinamul leader and his aides allegedly fired pellets at them on Wednesday morning during an altercation over a plot of land in Islampur subdivision of North Dinajpur. Trinamul leadership in the area, however, have denied the involvement of their party colleague, Mohammad Taimul, and said he was not present when pellets were fired. A police team rushed to the spot at Bandiragach village under Islampur police station and recovered the body. Both the injured are under treatment at the Islampur sub-division hospital. The attackers fled the spot. Police sources have that said the deceased Mohammad Faiyal, 24, who was a resident of Bandiragach village, had been having a dispute with Taimul, one of his relatives and also the Trinamul member of the local Agdimkhunti panchayat, over the possession of a piece of land. During preliminary investigation, the police have also come to know that recently a “salishi sabha” (local kangaroo court) was recently held in the village where it was agreed that Taimul would stop claiming ownership of that piece of land if Faiyal handed him some compensation in cash. “For past new days, Taimul had been asking for the money and Faiyal apparently was buying time,” said a police source. “On Wednesday, Taimul and some of his associates reached the latter’s place and asked for the money. An altercation ensued and Taimul and those accompanied him fired pellets at Faiyal and his family members,” the policeman said. As Faiyal’s family raised an outcry, some locals came out, prompting the attackers to escape the spot. Faiyal and two other children of his family, who are 10 and 13 years old, respectively, were rushed to Islampur subdivisional hospital where doctors pronounced the youth dead. A police team went to the spot and started investigation. “The attackers have fled the village. Searches are on to nab them,” said a police officer. Trinamul leaders of Islampur block, however, have denied Taimul’s involvement in the incident. “Taimul was not present at the spot. It is the fallout of a family dispute but some people are trying to victimise him for political reasons,” said Zakir Hossain, a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Army man held over uncle murder in North Dinajpur||An army man has been arrested from Uttar Pradesh in connection with the murder of his uncle near Raiganj in North Dinajpur district in January. Mohammad Ali, a Trinamul Congress leader of Krishnamuri village, had gone missing from his home on January 26. The following day, his body was found at nearby Laxmania-Jhumjhumia with bullet injuries. The police came to know that he was having problems with his brother Tepu Ali over the possession of a piece of land. Soon, the police arrested Sikandar Ali, a nephew of the victim, for allegedly involved in the murder. “During interrogation, Sikandar admitted that he and his brother Shahenshah had conspired and killed their uncle. Shahenshah was on leave and after the murder, he fled the village. We started tracking his cellphone and communicated with army officials,” said a police officer. As the police came to know that Shahenshah was posted in Alwar of Rajasthan, a five-member team lead by Ashish Kundu, a sub-inspector posted in Raiganj police station, went there in search of him. “In Alwar, the team members were told that he was posted at an army camp in Talbehat that is in Lalitpur district of Uttar Pradesh. The team went there and on February 28, he was arrested,” the police officer added. On Tuesday, the team reached Raiganj with Shahenshah and on Wednesday, he was produced at the Chief Judicial Magistrate’s court. “The court heard the case and sent him to police custody for 14 days. A petition was filed by the police, seeking his custody as he needs to be interrogated,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls: Banners seek ‘son of soil’ on Gautam Deb’s turf||Several banners were seen on Wednesday in Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly constituency, the seat of state tourism minister Gautam Deb, seeking a “son of the soil” as the Trinamul candidate for the seat in the upcoming elections. As the news spread, Trinamul supporters took down the banners. While local party leaders alleged it was the ploy of rivals, Deb, likely to contest from the seat for the third time, downplayed the issue. On Wednesday, banners with the message seeking a “bhoomiputra” from Trinamul for Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat were seen in Kamrangaguri, near Uttarkanya — the state branch secretariat — and in Chunabhati area. The demand came from a group that introduced itself as “amra didir Trinamul Congress er sainik (We are the soldiers of Didi’s Trinamul Congress)”. However, no “sainik” has come forward so far. A political observer said that in north Bengal, this was the first time that such banners had been seen in the constituency of any state minister. “Those who put them up seem to be trying to stoke local sentiments as Deb is not a resident of his constituency (he is a resident of Collegepara in Siliguri, under Siliguri Assembly seat),” he added. “However, I don’t think that such tactics will rattle a seasoned politician like Deb,” the political observer added. Debasish Pramanik, who is the president of Trinamul’s Dabgram-Fulbari branch committee, said that Deb, over the past couple of months, had been “relentlessly working in his constituency from dawn to dusk and is literally trying to reach out to every household”. “The minister is receiving overwhelming response from people. That’s why we suspect these banners are a ploy of our rival political parties to undermine his efforts and that of our party as a whole before the elections,” said Pramanik. Dabgram-Fulbari constituency, which is under Jalpaiguri district, is spread over 14 wards of Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four contiguous panchayats. Since 2011, Deb has won twice successively from here. But in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP candidate of Jalpaiguri managed to secure a lead of over 80,000 votes from the Assembly segment. Minister Deb — one of Trinamul’s veterans who also seems aware that this was a crucial election — appeared unfazed when asked about the banners on Wednesday. “No point in giving importance to this,” Deb said. “Those who have put up the banners better come out in open, and if they feel like, can campaign against me,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Morcha leader held in Sikkim||Lopsang Lama (Yolmo), the working president of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung camp) and purportedly an aspirant of the party for the Kalimpong Assembly seat, was arrested from Namchi in Sikkim on Wednesday. Sikkim police arrested Yolmo under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act but did not divulge specifics. Prawin Gurung, spokesperson of Sikkim police, confirmed the arrest. Sikkim’s political eco-system is largely considered to be aligned to the BJP. Bimal Gurung recently dumped the BJP and joined hands with Trinamul in poll-bound Bengal. “Against the backdrop of Bimal Gurung now supporting Trinamul, the arrest of one of his leaders, Yolmo, from Sikkim is significant,” said an observer, who saw in the development a “significant political message” ahead of the crucial Assembly polls. “It could be a message that things are not easy for Gurung,” said an observer. “Lopsang Lama (Yolmo) has been arrested in a case related to the Pocso Act and will be produced in court within 24 hours of the arrest,” said Sikkim police spokesperson and DIG (range) Gurung. A senior leader from the Bimal Gurung camp confirmed to this paper that Yolmo was one of the party's aspirants from Kalimpong. The arrest had “surprised them”, he added. Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Morcha (Bimal Gurung camp), refused to comment. “I, too, have just heard about the arrest but since I am not aware of the details, I am not in a position to comment,” he said. Yolmo, who runs an educational institution in Namchi, Sikkim, was the deputy chairman of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) Sabha when Gurung was at the helm of GTA and is also the current working president of the party. He was also the elected GTA Sabha member from constituency 45 of Kalimpong. Bengal police had earlier alleged that Sikkim had provided a safe haven to Gurung, who was “underground” for three years since the Gorkhaland agitations in 2017. But that was when Gurung was a BJP ally. In fact, a raid had also been conducted in Namchi (Sikkim) during the 2017 hill agitation in Sikkim. Gurung surfaced in Calcutta in October 2020 as a Trinamul ally and since then has blasted the BJP in public meetings. Yolmo’s arrest is seen by many as proof of repercussions with the change in political equations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury accuses Anand Sharma of helping Trinamul and BJP through tweets||Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Wednesday accused party leader Anand Sharma of helping the Trinamul Congress and the BJP through his tweets that criticised the Congress’s move for an alliance with the Indian Secular Front, a fledgling outfit floated by Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui. “He (Sharma) came out on Twitter with his own views against the party (Congress) and thereby creating a controversy about the party...By this he has only helped the forces that are against us. In Bengal, he has helped Trinamul and the BJP. Hence, we condemned his words,” Chowdhury told journalists in Berhampore on Wednesday. Sharma, a member of G-23 (group of dissenters in the Congress), had tweeted on Monday criticising the party’s alliance with the ISF. “Congress’s alliance with the ISF and other such forces militates with the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These decisions need to be approved by the CWC,” Sharma wrote. In another tweet Sharma criticised Chowdhury’s role in the alliance. “It was a matter of just one phone call. In his tweet, Anand Sharma said he believed that the alliance in Bengal was against the Congress’s ideologies. If he had called me, I would have explained it to him,” said Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress legislature party in the Lok Sabha. He added that Sharma hadn’t spoken within the party over his reservations about the tie-up with the ISF . Clarifying his stand on the ISF, Chowdhury has said the party’s nature is secular as its name suggests. He added that the Congress had clarified that the first condition for the alliance must be secularism. “The leaders of the ISF might have said something (objectionable) earlier...We can’t stick to that in our way forward. The ISF has adivasis and Dalits,” said the Berhampore MP. He said all parties had made objectionable comments at some point of time. “If we find them saying something communal after aligning with us, we will not support that...Rather, we will reject them outright,” Chowdhury said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati VC faces protest over 'derogatory' remarks||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Wednesday faced protests from a group of teachers of the physics department in the wake of his alleged “derogatory” remarks, forcing him to leave a teachers’ council meeting. Teachers said Chakrabarty was shouted at till he left, after he used terms like “awmanush (inhuman)” and “Mir Jafar” for teachers over their alleged negligence in keeping files safe from termites. In the evening, the department took a resolution to condemn the VC’s “obnoxious behaviour”. In the resolution, they cited the words “awmanush” and “Mir Jafar”. “A teachers’ council meeting was called by the principal earlier, where the VC suddenly came and started accusing teachers as some files were damaged by termites....He suddenly started abusing us, using terms such as awmanush and Mir Jafar. All the teachers stood up...asked him to get lost if he couldn’t speak like a gentleman,” said a physics teacher. “The VC had to leave. One may say he was shouted out,” he added. A physics teacher said when Chakrabarty used words such as Mir Jafar, he was called “Tughlaq”, used to imply a whimsical decision-maker. Wednesday’s incident took place within few days of a police complaint against Chakrabarty by two physics teachers over the alleged confinement of a group of English teachers for over six hours. Teachers had alleged it was a ploy by authorities to “grab” a petition to the Prime Minister and President on the varsity’s state of affairs — to identify the teachers who had written it — while authorities claimed that wasn’t confinement but a series of meetings. However, following that incident, the head of the physics department Manas Maity was removed from his post and the two physics teachers were showcaused for lodging the complaint. Sources said four more teachers were showcaused on Wednesday for accompanying the two physics teachers. “Because of the lockdown, termites damaged portions of a few files and principal Taraprasad Chatterjee was informed. The authorities sent two officials to look into the matter and a teachers’ committee meeting was convened. We think it was planned to humiliate us. We had nothing to do with termites when the campus was closed for months,” said a physics teacher. Visva-Bharati public relations officer Anirban Sircar neither took calls nor replied to a text message from this paper. However, in a news release, Sircar said the VC had visited the department on learning files and books had been damaged by termites. Sircar stated when authorities saw what happened to the files and books, teachers expressed their ire which was unfortunate. Sircar said the rooms where the damaged files and books had been stored were sealed and a committee would probe the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul starts booth-level drive using colour codes||The Trinamul Congress leadership in Nadia has started a booth-level drive using colour codes for voter preferences to get an estimate of the party’s strength and finalise its campaign strategy in the run-up to the Assembly polls. Trinamul’s Nadia district unit chief and Krishnagar MP Mahua Moitra, the brain behind this initiative, has asked all booth-level committees to scrutinise the voter list and identify the voting preference of each person with green, orange and red colours. Accordingly to Moitra’s strategy, party workers have begun marking out committed Trinamul voters on the list with the colour green. Voters whose choice is not clear to the ruling party are marked in orange, while those who are expected to cast their votes against Trinamul have been “painted” red. After taking charge of the party organisation in Nadia, Moitra formed booth-level committees and asked workers to begin this colour-coded scrutiny meticulously. “This is a reality check,” Moitra, one of the most talked-about parliamentarians in the Opposition for her impassioned and informed speeches, told The Telegraph. “This is basically an endeavour being taken at every booth to know who are our voters, who are not and who are in the middle. Accordingly, our objective is to work on those who are not our committed voters, so that they can be brought in our favour,” Moitra added. Moitra has told the workers to be careful as she would compare their booth-level report with actual booth-wise results after the elections. “It has been introduced as a reality check in the true sense. Sometimes party leaders at the grassroots level claim to ensure a lead by a big margin, but eventually results reveal a different story. So, I have told booth-level workers to be careful while scrutinising voters,” Moitra said. Party insiders said Moitra had introduced the method during the 2019 Lok Sabha election, but the effort was not successful because some grassroots leaders apparently did not cooperate. Leaders close to Moitra claimed that in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul had lost in 14 Assembly segments out of 17 in Nadia only owing to poor ground-level scrutiny despite her repeated appeals. But Moitra introduced mandatory booth-level voter list scrutiny after taking responsibility of the organisation during December last year. “In December last year, Mahuadi launched direct interaction with the party workers at 4,582 booths in the district when she directed us to begin the scrutiny of voters using colour codes in an organised manner for the first time. Now our main objective is to continue pursuing the orange voters (fence-sitters) as advised by her so as to ensure a win,” said a booth committee member in Ranaghat. Moitra added: “I have told booth-level workers to meticulously know their voters well. Sometimes party workers spend time on negative voters by visiting them repeatedly. BJP workers also do not spend time unnecessarily by trying to woo Muslim voters repeatedly...”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-177
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Morcha status haze in three hill seats ||Confusion prevails in the two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha over filing of nominations as leaders of both the camps lack formal recognition as office-bearers of the party because of a legal tangle. According to an order issued by Calcutta High Court and an observation made by the Election Commission of India, Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang, who head the rival factions, don’t have recognition as authorised office-bearers of the Morcha. The Morcha, sources said, is a registered unrecognised party. This means that in any election, the party’s name will appear next to the name of its candidate but unlike recognised parties, it cannot use its own symbol and will have to choose one from the symbols provided by the EC. “The issue had come to light back in 2019, ahead of Lok Sabha elections. That is why Amar Singh Rai had contested as a Trinamul candidate in the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat and Binay Tamang as an Independent in the Darjeeling Assembly bypoll. The same situation persists,” said a Morcha leader of the Tamang faction. With this, the leaders of both factions who have already asserted that they would field candidates in the hill seats and that they would not support each other, have complicated the situation for Mamata Banerjee and her party, opined a veteran in hill politics. “As both factions of Morcha, which is still considered the largest political force in the hills, sided with Trinamul, there was a renewed vigour within Trinamul leaders of Darjeeling and north Bengal as a whole about their prospects in the hill seats. But bickering among these factions and the issue of non-recognition have come as posers for Trinamul,” he said. This prompted L.B. Rai, the president of Darjeeling (hills) Trinamul, to write to the state leadership last week requesting that Trinamul field candidates with the party’s ticket in these three seats. Morcha insiders said if any or both factions field candidates in the next Assembly elections, they will have to contest either as Independents or as a candidate of their ally Trinamul. “If we go with the first option, we have to take the onus to say during campaigns which faction of the Morcha this Independent candidate represents. This is necessary to ensure that the individual’s supporters do not get confused. This time, both sides (Morcha factions) have said they will field candidates in all three hill seats,” a Morcha leader from the Bimal Gurung camp said. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the spokesperson of the Tamang faction of Morcha, said: “During the campaign, we can use our party flag and say who is our candidate. This, we believe, can help us tide over the present situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
04-03-2021||West Bengal||State kept in dark on IAS poll tour||The Election Commission has appointed 29 IAS officers from Bengal as poll observers in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puduchery without consulting Nabanna, which, according to sources, is a departure from the EC’s practices. “The EC sent the names of 29 IAS officers to Nabanna mentioning that they needed to join the training programme for election observers in Delhi on March 3.… The state was not kept in the loop when the EC selected the observers,” said a senior Bengal government official. Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puduchery will go to the polls, along with Bengal, in March and April. According to sources, there was a standard practice of selecting election observers in the country. The EC usually asks various states to send a certain number of officers, preferably of IAS, for their engagement as poll observers. A section of officials at Nabanna said the Bengal government had refused to send the required number of officers as poll observers in the past. “In the past few elections, the state government had never sent enough officers despite repeated requests from the EC. That might be the reason behind the EC’s unilateral appointment of 29 IAS officers as poll observers,” said a source. The way the EC functioned with regard to the election observers has given an impression that the poll panel might post officials in crucial positions without consulting the Bengal government in case incumbent officers are removed ahead of the polls. “Usually, the EC removes officers involved in the election process if an allegation of bias comes against him or her. But the replacement is made in consultation with the state government. But the mood of the EC suggests it will not follow the standard practice if such a situation arrives,” said a source at Nabanna. “The poll panel might appoint officers unilaterally as the BJP has started alleging that the entire administration is biased,” said another official. After the model code of conduct for the 2021 Assembly polls came into force, the EC has replaced Jawed Shamim with Jag Mohan as ADG (law and order) after discussing with the state government. Nabanna apprehends that some officers without proper experience could be posted in important positions, which can hurt the entire poll proceedings. “For example, there are officers who never worked as district magistrates. If they are posted as DMs ahead of the polls, entire poll process might get hurt as they don’t have any experience of handling elections in the past. If the state is consulted, then only a proper replacement could be offered,” said a senior bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
04-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls: Battle of nerves prolongs wait for candidate list||Mamata Banerjee is purportedly ready with a list of Trinamul Congress candidates for all 294 Assembly constituencies, but she didn’t announce even on Wednesday the nominees for the first phase of the elections. In a marked departure from Mamata’s practice of announcing the names of Trinamul candidates ahead of all other parties, the Bengal chief minister kept holding her cards close to the chest, which sources attributed to counsel from poll consultant Prashant Kishor and her religious belief. “This is a crucial election. The BJP is yet to announce names. The others (the Sanyukt Morcha comprising the Left Front, Congress and the ISF) are also far from doing so. There’s no need for a rush,” said a senior Trinamul MP. However, since the last date for filing nomination for the first phase (March 27) of the polls is next Tuesday, nerves were taut in the ruling camp on Wednesday afternoon when it became clear that Mamata was not going to publish the candidate list. “PK (Kishor) has advised Didi against declaring the names for at least the initial phases without first seeing the BJP list. That will enable us to fine-tune our list, making some last-minute changes according to the need,” said the MP. “Besides, she has always considered Friday to be auspicious. She has, for decades, been conducting special prayers for Santoshi Mata (a deity in Hindu folklore) every Friday. Also, a senior servitor of the Jagannath Temple at Puri (who conducted special prayers at her residence the day the polls were announced) had suggested that a good time to declare the candidates will be after 5pm on Friday,” he said, adding that Mamata would file nominations to contest from Nandigram on March 11, the day of Maha Shivratri this year. The BJP state unit’s election management committee met on Wednesday to shortlist the names of probable candidates for the first two phases. Sources said for each of the 60 constituencies (which will go to the polls in the first two phases), around five probable names have been short-listed. However, in yet another indication of how little faith the national leadership of the party has in the state unit, all the names — nearly 1,000 for the 60 seats — are to be presented for consideration. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh, the national joint general-secretary (organisation) Shivprakash, and the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya will carry the two lists with themselves for the Thursday meeting of the parliamentary committee in Delhi. One list will have the short-listed names — around 300 of them — and the other will have all the names. “After the Thursday meeting, the candidates for the first two phases would be announced, either in the evening itself or on Friday morning,” said a BJP state functionary. Trinamul insiders said Mamata might announce all the 294 names on Friday, as she plans to begin an extensive campaign tour from Saturday. “She is going to north Bengal on Saturday. On Sunday, from there, she would steal Narendra Modi’s thunder,” said a Bengal minister. He said the chief minister, in an unusual move, might rain on the Prime Minister’s parade — he has a rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta on Sunday — by conducting her own public event in the north around the same time. “Now, she apparently wants to deny him unhindered coverage in electronic and print media. This could well be her strategy for the entire poll season this time,” he added. From the Sanyukt Morcha, the Left Front has decided to announce its list of candidates for the first two phases on Monday. The Congress state unit, which will meet on Saturday, would also declare its candidates for the first two phases also on Monday, if not on Saturday. ISF chairman Naushad Siddiqui said discussions within his party were on and the list of candidates for the first phase would be announced in “a day or two”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-178
