05-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Left-Cong-ISF alliance names nominees for first two poll phases||The Grand Alliance of the Left Front, Congress and Indian Secular Front (ISF) announced the seats they will contest in the first two phases of the assembly election in Bengal. The Left Front will contest in the largest number of 40 seats in the first two phases, followed by Congress which will fight in 12 seats and ISF in five. It is yet to be decided which party will contest from Egra, Nandigram and Pingla seats but will be decided amicably soon, Left Front chairman Biman Bose said. Lights are trained on the contest in Nandigram as Trinamul Congress supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has announced her candidature from the seat, which is known for its anti-farmland acquisition movement that changed the poliical scenario over a decade ago. "The details will be given once they are finalised," Bose said. Election will be held in 60 out of the total 294 seats in the first two phases of the eight-phased polls which is slated to stretch from March 27 to April 29. The date for the second phase of election is April 1. The Left Front also announced the names of candidates for the seats allotted to it. The prominent among them are CPI-M leaders Susanta Ghosh, a former state minister who had become infamous for the Benachara skeleton case from Salboni and Deblina Hembram , a central committee member of the party and a former state minister from Ranibandh(SC) seat, besides former party MP Pulin Behari Baskey from Keshiari. The Congress and ISF said that they will come out with the names of their contestants later. ISF has been allotted Mahisadal, Chandrakona (SC), Raghunathpur (SC), Saltora (SC) and Raipur (SC). The Congress has already been given Purulia, Bhagabanpur, Balarampur, Baghmundi, Bankura, Bisnupur, Kotulpur, Patharpratima, Kakdwip, Moyna, Kharagpur Sadar and Sabang. Asked to comment on the announcement of contestants of Trinamul Congress earlier in the day, Bose said "I am not sure but there are whispers that the TMC list has been compiled after an understanding with the BJP. " TMC had announced names of 291 contestants. Accusing TMC of directly helping BJP to form the government at the Centre from 2014, Bose said "People are making certain comments with regard to the TMC list, about understanding with BJP. But no such comments are being made about us, about our lists by anyone." He said the Left Front list of candidates will give representation to young faces. Bose said while all the alliance partners will issue a joint appeal soon to defeat BJP and TMC and support secular, democratic and progressive forces. "The Left Front, Congress and ISF will issue their manifestos separately," he said. Asked if an understanding has been reached in 234 other seats, Bose replied "We will". Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pradip Bhattacharya said the names of the party's candidates will be announced by its high command in Delhi. Bhattacharya said even if there are differences over a few seats, it will be "surely sorted out" by the alliance partners. "Our main aim is to unitedly fight against the falsehood spread by BJP and the undemocratic stance of Trinamul Congress," he added. ISF leader Simul Soren said "We will announce the candidates in the next two days from the ISF office." Asked if ISF wants to contest from Nandigram, Soren said "It is subject to discussion." Bose said the LF, Congress and ISF are undertaking joint programmes against the "communal and fascist BJP and reactionary undemocratic TMC" at the block level. He said on March 15 there will be joint protests by the Alliance partners across the state against divesting of the stakes of PSUs. On March 12, the alliance will support its Kishan Morcha rally in the state against the anti-farmer policy of BJP, he said. Congress had won 44 seats and the Left Front, which comprise mainly of CPI-M, CPI, RSP, Forward Bloc, won 33 seats fighting within an alliance in the 2016 state poll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata to contest from Nandigram as Trinamul reveals first list of nominees ||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Friday confirmed her candidature from Nandigram seat as she released the list of Trinamool Congress candidates for the upcoming assembly polls for 291 seats with emphasis on youths, minority, women and backward communities.

Three candidates of the Bimal Gurung faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), an ally of the TMC, will be contesting from the remaining three seats in Darjeeling.

Affirming her candidature from the high profile Nandigram seat, Banerjee will vacate her traditional Bhowanipore seat in Kolkata, as she threw a challenge to her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari, who crossed over to the BJP in December.

"I will contest from Nandigram as I stick to my words.

From Bhowanipore constituency, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay will be contesting in the upcoming Assembly elections," Banerjee said while releasing TMC candidate list for the state polls.

"On March 9 we will release our manifesto. On March 10 I will file my nomination for Nandigram seat," she told reporters.

In January this year, Banerjee had announced that she would contest elections from the Nandigram seat in Purba Medinipur district.

When asked about Adhikari likely to be pitted against her from the Nandigram, she declined to comment on it.

This will be for the first time that Banerjee will be in the poll fray from Nandigram constituency represented by Suvendu Adhikari in 2016 and another TMC candidate in 2011.

Though Suvendu Adhikari has time and again expressed his desire to take on his former boss directly in Nandigram, the saffron party leadership is yet to a take a decision on it.

Banerjee and Adhikari were the prominent figures of the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram in 2007 that ultimately catapulted the firebrand Trinamool Congress supremo to power in West Bengal in 2011 ending 34-year-old rule of the Left Front.

"This time we have stressed on more youths and women candidates. Around 23-24 sitting MLAS have been dropped and there are names of about 50 women, 42 muslims, 79 SC and 17 ST candidates in the list," Banerjee said.

Exuding confidence of returning to power for the third consecutive time, Banerjee termed it as the "easiest" election the TMC has ever faced.

"This would be a smiley election for us. We would win it," she said when asked whether this will be the toughest election ever the party had faced since Trinamool Congress inception in 1998.

"After we come to power we will create Vidhan Parishad (Legislative Council) to accomodate senior and experienced leaders. We could not accommodate everybody especially those above the age of 80 years," she said.

Listing out names of candidates, Banerjee sought the blessings of the people of the state and urged them to have faith in her.

"I seek the blessings of people. I appeal to Maa Maati Manush for your faith. Have faith in me, will protect the state and take it to new heights," she said, turning to the slogan that first brought her to power in 2011.

State Finance Minister Amit Mitra won't be contesting elections due to poor health, the TMC supremo said.

Purnendu Bose is another elderly minister missing from the TMC list of candidates and so is veteran legislator Jatu Lahiri from Sibpur.

"We will support GJM in the hills and they will support us in the plains," she said .

Banerjee also challenged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to deploy as much central force as they want, but the TMC will still emerge victorious.

She also thanked Hemant Soren of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Sharad Pawar of NCP for extending their support to TMC.

"After RJD, SP and Shiv Sena, TMC has received support from JMM and NCP for Bengal assembly polls. We would like to thank all of them," she said.

Though electorally not much relevant in Bengal, the prominent opposition parties- RJD, SP, Shiv Sena, JMM and NCP of Sharad Pawar have prefered TMC to Congress-Left parties and announced their support to Banerjee in the battle royale for Bengal.

Actress Sayantika Banerjee, Koushani Mukherjee, film director Raj Chakraborty along with several other actors and actress have been given nominations.

Cricketer Manoj Tiwari will contest from Shibpur constituency in Howrah district.

Prominent ministers-Partha Chatterjee, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee have been retained from their traditional seats.

Banerjee released her party candidate list from the same lucky room in her Kalighat residence from where she had done so in 2011 and 2016 assembly elections.

In the 2019 general election she had announced candidates names from a different place within her residential premises which proved unlucky for her.

The BJP had won 18 Lok Sabha seats in last Parliamentary poll out of total 42 constituencies in Bengal, only four less than TMC's tally of 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s active cases 3,236 ||Bengal on Thursday logged 217 Covid-19 recoveries, 209 new infections and one death, none from the city. The state now has 3,236 active cases in all, having fallen continuously for 129 days since Vijaya Dashami, when there were 37,190 cases. The state's recovery rate is now 97.65 per cent, ahead of 96.99, the national average. Bengal now has 1.86 per cent of India’s active cases, the share reducing steadily from nearly 7 per cent a couple of months ago. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.67 per cent, having fallen steadily for 105 days. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78 per cent, while the national average is 1.41. Since the first infection was detected on March 17 last year, the state now has a total of nearly 5.76 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.62 lakh recoveries and 10,273 deaths. Of the total toll, 8,627 deaths (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Fire ravages famed Darjeeling hotel||Hotel Shangri-la at Chowrasta in Darjeeling, a favourite with many tourists, was ravaged by a fire on Thursday. The fire, which broke out around 11.50am, seems to have started from the south-end of the hotel which used to house the staff room and kitchen. Three fire tenders were deployed for over three hours to bring flames under control, but the reason behind the blaze is not yet clear. “Almost 50 per cent of the structure is gone. The outside might look fine but everything has been destroyed inside. We need to investigate the reason for the fire,” said a fire official. Shangri-la has a famous restaurant and bar on the ground floor and four rooms on the first floor. Samir Rai, one of the first witnesses, said he was basking in the sun when he noticed smoke billowing out of the first floor of the hotel. “I tried to alert people nearby and ran to the police booth,” said Rai. The structure made of stone masonry and wood carries many memories not just for the people of Darjeeling but also for many tourists. Many Darjeeling residents and tourists fondly remembered on social media their time spent at the Shangri-la. The British-era building was called Carburry House.  Darjeeling Properties Limited bought it from an English lady named Rosa Rebecca Rosamund in 1943, said Siddharth Gyalsen, one of the directors of the company. “The property was then run by Bobby Wong who ran the famous The Park Restaurant before the place was again rented to B.S. Lama who ran the restaurant in the name of Shangri-la,” said another company official. Gyaltsen added that he had filed a general diary after the fire “seeking an inquiry into the cause of fire” and has also requested steps be taken “to ensure that no persons whomsoever save and except authorised officials enter the site as it is in a highly dangerous condition”. It is learnt that B.S. Lama’s sons Ranjan and Sonam are running Shangri-la but both are currently abroad. The hotel’s website states: “The hotel is owned by a Tibetan, Ranjan Lama, who owns the very popular hotel Shangri-la Regency, also in Darjeeling.” Ranjan Lama, speaking to The Telegraph over phone from the United Kingdom, said: “I am currently coordinating with my staff in Darjeeling….I would be able to speak in detail tomorrow (Friday).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Fresh row over Visva-Bharati VC’s ‘social boycott call’||A physics teacher of Visva-Bharati, who along with his colleague had recently filed a police complaint against vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for allegedly confining teachers of the English department, on Thursday lodged another complaint against the VC for allegedly asking, during a virtual meeting on Tuesday, some 300 teaching and non-teaching staff to “socially boycott” him and other dissenters. “…He (Chakrabarty) also incited others to launch a social boycott against me. This happened in the presence of about 300 people. The next day, 03.03.2021, he visited the department of physics, Visva-Bharati, where a meeting was in progress at around 4pm. In that meeting he abused me with threatening gestures,” the teacher wrote in his complaint lodged with Santiniketan police on Thursday afternoon. “I feel insecure enough by now to ask for police help. A call for this kind for social boycott implies ostracism and an attempt to drive me away from my hearth and home. I feel my wife and I face the risk of physical violence,” the senior faculty member added, requesting the police to get the transcript of Tuesday’s virtual meeting. Birbhum police chief Meeraj Khalid said they had received the complaint and would probe into it. Sources said the physics teacher had earned the wrath of the varsity administration for lodging the police complaint against the VC for allegedly confining English teachers on February 26. The teacher, aged around 60, and popular among students, received a showcause from authorities that same day. Two divergent views had emerged on the February 26 incident. While the teachers alleged that they were confined so that authorities could “grab” a copy of a petition to the Prime Minister and president— supposedly critical of the varsity’s current state of affairs — to identify those who wrote it, the varsity authorities later claimed that there was no confinement but a series of meetings, especially on issues such as absenteeism. Many of the physics teacher’s colleagues who had attended Tuesday’s virtual meeting confirmed that the VC had asked a teacher from the journalism department to launch a social boycott campaign against all those teachers trying to “tarnish” the varsity’s image with false complaints. A teacher who attended Tuesday’s virtual meeting said Chakrabarty had expressed “a grudge” against many dissenting voices on campus, including the physics teacher. The VC spoke of launching a social boycott after a teacher of journalism criticised filing “false” complaints against Chakrabarty and the varsity. “Boycott them socially. I told you to boycott those teachers socially. You, who are attending this meeting, write a letter condemning those teachers and submit it to me. I will take steps. Let me send your letter to the President and the Prime Minister,” the teacher quoted Chakrabarty as having said at the meeting. Reacting to Chakrabarty’s purported call for social boycott against dissenting teachers, general secretary West Bengal College and University Teachers’ Association Keshab Bhattacharya, said: “There are no words to condemn such advice (of social boycott), particularly when it comes from the VC’s chair. It proves there is no democratic right of teachers on the campus.” General secretary of All Bengal University Teachers’ Association Goutam Maity agreed it was a crime to call for anyone’s social boycott and it should not have been done by a VC. The varsity’s public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a text from this reporter. On Wednesday, Chakrabarty allegedly humiliated some teachers in a meeting by calling them awmanush and Mir Jafar for apparently neglecting to save files from termites during the lockdown. Teachers asked him to behave like a gentleman and virtually shouted him out of the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul seeks to rally women behind Mamata||Trinamul Congress strategists have decided to make women empowerment the theme of the party’s election campaign and have lined up two back-to-back programmes in Siliguri and Calcutta next week to build on the narrative. Mamata Banerjee will lead a road show with thousands of women in Siliguri on Sunday, around the same time Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address an election rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta. On Monday (March 8), which coincides with International Women’s Day, she will hold a similar show in Calcutta with an overwhelming presence of women. “Mamata Banerjee has always worked for empowerment of women in political and social fields. For their socio-economic development, an array of schemes has been floated by her government to encourage girls to continue their education so that they can stand on their own feet….. Women from different sections of the society are with Mamata, who is the sole woman chief minister in the country now. That Mamata Banerjee enjoys unparalleled support among the women would be proven through the two rallies,” Chandrima Bhattacharya, the state president of the Trinamul Mahila Congress, the women’s front of the ruling party, said at a news conference in Calcutta on Thursday. The Sunday rally will commence from Darjeeling More (located in the northern end of Siliguri) and end at Venus More (Hashmi Chowk). The Calcutta road show will start from College Square and culminate at Dharmatala. Trinamul strategists have trained their focus on women who make up more than 49 per cent of the voters in Bengal to cement the chances of Mamata’s third term in the chief minister’s office. The Trinamul leadership and poll consultant Prashant Kishor had taken up a number of initiatives in the past few months to garner women’s votes. On one hand, the party has floated Banga Janani Bahini, a new forum for women. On the other hand, it has come up with the new slogan of “Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chay” (Bengal only wants its own daughter). “Trinamul leaders, including the chief minister, have always emphasised the welfare schemes of the state government for the empowerment of women,” said an observer. “The women’s front of the party has also been activated to create a situation where women voters take decisions on their own and do not go by political inclinations of male members in their families, as is the usual trend.” In January last year, Trinamul had managed to host a stellar show in Siliguri by assembling around 35,000 people who had walked with Mamata in protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens. “This time, we want to assemble more people and most of them would be women. All preparations are in progress,” said a Trinamul leader in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Sixty-six companies of central forces for two Midnapores||The Election Commission is set to deploy 66 companies of central forces in East Midnapore and West Midnapore by Monday in a clear indication that the poll panel is worried about the law and order in the two districts regarded as the backyard of Suvendu Adhikari who left the Trinamul Congress to join the BJP. The number of companies for East Midnapore and West Midnapore are 35 and 31, respectively. “Usually, such a huge deployment of central forces is not done during the campaigning phase. It is clear the poll panel is keen to ensure that the law and order doesn’t worsen in the two districts, especially in East Midnapore where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to take on Suvendu (in the Nandigram Assembly segment),” said a senior Bengal government official. The two Midnapores will go to the polls on March 27 and April 1. Sources in the state administration said the political atmosphere in East Midnapore and the adjoining West Midnapore had been charged up after Suvendu’s switch to the BJP. “The atmosphere has become more competitive since the chief minister’s decision to contest from Nandigram whose sitting MLA is Suvendu. If the EC decides to deploy a large contingent of central forces in the district, it is clear the poll panel is keeping a close watch on the developments,” said another official. The sources said 125 companies of central forces had already been deployed in the state. The poll panel is set to send another 170 paramilitary companies to Bengal by March 8. Of the 170 companies, 66 would be deployed in East Midnapore and West Midnapore. The remaining forces would be posted in districts like Jhargram, Purulia, Bankura, Howrah and South-24 Parganas, which will go to the polls in the first three phases. A section of officials at Nabanna said they had never witnessed such a huge deployment in the state even before the formal launch of campaigning by political parties. “In the past, only a few companies, for example three-four companies for each district, used to be deployed after the election dates were declared. Heavy deployment was done three-four days ahead of the polls,” said an official. The sources said Opposition parties, mainly the BJP, had lodged a series of complaints with the EC about the law and order in Bengal. “The EC is perhaps trying to give a level-playing field to all parties ahead of the polls. The panchayat polls in 2018 had made it clear that if the poll panel depends on state police to maintain law and order ahead of the elections, the Opposition parties would not be allowed to campaign,” said a BJP leader. According to the sources, the EC might deploy a total of 650 paramilitary companies in Bengal before the first phase of the voting on March 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul wants EC officer’s exit from Bengal poll scene||The Trinamul Congress on Thursday questioned the impartiality of deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain and asked the Election Commission to divest him of the responsibility to handle the Bengal Assembly polls. In a letter to the commission, Trinamul’s leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien cited the 1994-batch IAS officer’s activities in Bengal during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and accused him of bias against Mamata Banerjee’s party. “… we have serious doubt that Shri Sudeep Jain would be impartial, fair and his approach towards all parties would be equal for the reason that all his actions were favourable to and/or are tilted towards BJP and/or are undue, illegal and/or unconstitutional. We have no confidence in Shri Sudeep Jain,” wrote O’Brien in the missive, on behalf of his party. The 51-year-old IAS officer of the Tamil Nadu cadre has been the deputy election commissioner since 2015 and had played a prominent role in the 2016 Assembly elections and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bengal. Trinamul cited two actions of Jain to allege he had bias for the BJP. One was his “inaction/illegal” action during the vandalism of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s bust in Calcutta on May 14, 2019. The vandalism occurred when then BJP national president Amit Shah was holding a road show. The second was an “illegality” in the introduction of a concept of quick response teams comprising state and central police personnel and led by central officers. “In the aftermath of the same (the vandalism of the Vidyasagar bust), Shri Sudeep Jain furnished an erroneous and biased report based on which the Election Commission of India in an unprecedented manner barred election campaigning two days prior to the polling date. Only one political party, Bharatiya Janata Party, was allowed to complete its election campaigning for that day before such a bar was announced,” read the Trinamul letter. Since the vandalism of the polymath’s bust, Mamata has been relentless in her attacks on the saffron camp, with a “BJP versus Bengal and Bengali” spin. Numerous gaffes by the BJP have helped the chief minister reinforce the perception. “No explanation was sought, no show-cause was issued, no action was taken by the Election Commission of India against the perpetrators, i.e., Shri Amit Shah or his entourage,” said Trinamul’s letter. “Shri Jain’s actions were completely biased, partisan, reeked of partiality and tainted.” Trying to substantiate the other charge against Jain, Trinamul said allowing an official of central forces to lead a quick response team was “completely beyond the realm of law”. “… the said decision as introduced and/or communicated by Shri Sudeep Jain was bad in law. Subsequently, the Election Commission of India realised the wrong and the decision for QRT to be led by an officer of the CAPF was withdrawn,” read the letter. “....In light of the above we call upon you to withdraw Shri Sudeep jain as in-charge on behalf of Election Commission of India for West Bengal Assembly elections, 2021,” concludes the letter. Calls and text messages to the top brass of the commission seeking a reaction to the allegations against Jain met with no formal response till late on Thursday. A source in the Nirvachan Sadan said the complaint against Jain had been submitted to Bengal chief electoral officer Aariz Aftab and was yet to reach the commission. He added that the commission was yet to decide on Trinamul’s other complaints regarding Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pictures at petrol pumps and on Covid-19 vaccines. The BJP has responded with derision to the Trinamul demand and allegations. “Knowing that it is about to lose, unable to keep up politically or electorally, Trinamul is stooping to such tactics. The people are not taking this seriously. None of this would matter anyway,” said the BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh, a Trinamul turncoat. The commission-appointed special observer Ajay Nayak and special police observer Vivek Dube are scheduled to arrive in Bengal on Friday. Both had handled similar responsibilities for the 2019 general election in the state. When the decision of the commission to again send Dube, a retired IPS officer from the Andhra Pradesh cadre of the 1981-batch, had been announced, the Trinamul chief expressed serious reservations. “I would humbly request the ECI not to look at Bengal through the eyes of the BJP. That same man is being deputed as an observer. In 2019, Vivek Dube was the observer here, we know what he had done…. We know all the games, all the tricks, and the drama,” Mamata had said on February 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Carpenter stabbed to dead, cousin arrested in Siliguri||A 30-year-old carpenter was stabbed to death allegedly by his cousin in broad daylight here on Thursday. Police have arrested the assailant and suspect a family dispute led to the murder. Sources said Shankar Das, a resident of Shantinagar in ward 36 of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, was sitting at a local tea stall. Suresh, his cousin, reached the spot then. “The duo had an altercation and suddenly, Suresh took out a dagger and repeatedly stabbed Shankar,” said a police officer. As Shankar collapsed on the spot, Suresh fled the area. Local people came out for help and rushed him to Siliguri district hospital where he succumbed to his injuries soon. The residents, who were horrified over the attack, informed Alok Bhakta, the ward coordinator (former councillor). He went to the spot and informed the police. A team from Ashighar police outpost that is under Bhaktinagar police station went to the spot and initiated a probe. After some time, Suresh was picked up and whisked away. “Preliminary information suggests that the victim had some family dispute with his cousin Suresh who had attacked him earlier on a number of occasions. As I learnt about the incident, I informed the police who came and arrested Suresh,” said Bhakta. Later in the evening, as the victim’s body reached the locality from the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, the residents resorted to a road blockade, demanding exemplary punishment of the accused. A police team went to the spot and it took them about an hour to persuade the residents to lift the blockade. “We are waiting for post-mortem report. A case has been registered and investigation has started. Situation is under control in the area,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Adult male leopard found dead in tea estate||The carcass of an adult male leopard was found near a stream flowing through a tea estate in Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri on Thursday afternoon. The carcass, foresters said, bore injury marks that possibly point to death while fighting with other animals. However, foresters are awaiting the post-mortem report. “The leopard has injury marks in its throat and tongue, and there are claw marks on its body. We suspect a case of infighting but can confirm it after the autopsy report is received,” said Rajkumar Layak, range officer of Khunia. Sources said during the past few weeks, the leopard was roaming in the plantations of Nagrakata tea estate and taking away cattle and poultry. Perturbed residents had informed foresters who laid a trap to cage the leopard. “It could not be trapped and foresters took away the cage. In the past three-four days, we saw its activities again,” said a resident. On Thursday, some workers spotted the carcass near the Sadhukhola stream.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Tea Board of India data show export dip||Decline in tea production across India in 2020 has hit its quantum of exports, reveals data published by the Tea Board of India. According to Tea Board numbers, the total export in 2019 was 252.15 million kilos, with the average price being Rs 227.55 per kilo. In 2020, the quantity of export declined by around 50 million kilos and came down to 207.58 million kilos. However, at Rs 248.55 in 2020, the average price per kilo increased from 2019. The data also revealed that 1255.60 million kilos of tea were produced in the country in 2020 in comparison with  1390.08 million kilos in 2019. The dip has been attributed to the Covid-induced lockdown and inclement weather. “Because of less production (the margin being around 134 million kilos), exports have dipped. There had been a rise in average price realisation from international markets, but eventually, the total earning remained less,” said Sumit Ghosh, secretary of the north Bengal branch of Tea Association of India. Another tea planter in Siliguri agreed. “There may have been an increase in the average price but as a whole, the Indian tea industry has lost around Rs 600 crore in revenue because of the reduction in quantity. We hope the industry recuperates this year,” he said. He pointed out that in 2019, the industry earned Rs 5,737.66 crore from exports, which reduced by Rs 578.20 crore in 2020 to Rs 5,159.46 crore. The overseas markets, stakeholders said, however, continued to remain the same. Russia, the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and the Middle East continue to remain principal buyers of Indian teas. There have been exports to a number of countries in Europe and the US. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista), said initiatives should be taken to find out new international markets to merchandise Indian tea, particularly the CTC variety. “Production is on the rise in the small tea sector but there hasn’t been any major change in the per capita domestic consumption,” he pointed out. He also stressed on more exports. “In 2020, prices have considerably surged due to less production but there is always a risk that the prices may decline if production rises. To ensure that prices remain steady, it is necessary to scout new international markets and augment the exports,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Pre-poll violence in north Bengal ||Incidents of arson and attacks on political workers and leaders were reported from a number of locations of poll-bound north Bengal on Wednesday, prompting both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP to point fingers at each other. In Raiganj, a fire broke out in the outer part of the house of a BJP leader on Wednesday night. Jayashree Chakraborty, the leader who recently joined the saffron camp from Trinamul, and her party colleagues accused workers of her former party of arson. Jayashree’s family members  doused the flames with the help of neighbours. Sources said on Wednesday evening, Jayashree had held a meeting with BJP workers to make transport arrangements for workers attending the public meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi scheduled in Calcutta this Sunday. As she returned home at Ashokpally area of the town, she found the outer part of her house in flames, she said. “Some people had set the fire in a planned manner and I suspect they wanted to damage my house. They have also pelted bricks and stones at my house,” the BJP leader said. Senior BJP leaders of the area went to the spot.  BJP leader Abhijit Joshi accused Trinamul of the attack. Trinamul leaders, however, denied the charges. “The BJP is trying to earn sympathy by resorting to such tactics,” said Priyatosh Mukherjee, the Raiganj town block president of Trinamul. In Siliguri, Anit Das, the vice-president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha in Siliguri (organisational) district, was attacked by a group of goons near the indoor stadium in Deshbandhupara of the city on Wednesday night. Anandamoy Barman, a party leader, said some Trinamul-backed goons had attacked Das. “He (Das) was returning home with one of our party workers after attending a wedding. Suddenly, a group of Trinamul supporters attacked them near the indoor stadium. They were beaten with blunt instruments and both of them got seriously injured,” said Burman. Other BJP workers took the duo to Siliguri district hospital and both are under treatment. In another incident, a group of goons, who the Trinamul Congress alleged were BJP supporters, attacked the car of Hiten Burman, a former state minister and Trinamul MLA of Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar on Wednesday evening. Sources said Burman, along with some others, speaking at a public meeting in Nayarhat of Mathabhanga-I block when attackers lobbed crude bombs at his car. Also, some motorcycles of Trinamul supporters were damaged. “The BJP had orchestrated the attack. The attackers also took away the MLA’s bag which had some cash, ATM cards and some documents,” said Partha Pratim Roy, district Trinamul president of Cooch Behar. On Thursday, Roy met senior police officers and sought necessary intervention. A complaint has been filed with the police where 18 persons, mostly BJP supporters, have been named, sources said. BJP leaders have brushed aside the charges. “The incident is a fallout of acute infighting within different lobbies of Trinamul,” said a local leader of the saffron camp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Chamling to supporters: Hit streets against govt||Sikkim Democratic Front president Pawan Chamling on Thursday gave a call to his supporters to take to the streets and oppose the Sikkim Krantikari Morcha government tooth and nail. Speaking at the 29th foundation day celebration of the SDF, Chamling said his party had been deliberately lying low for the past two years in order to enable the SKM government to govern without hindrance but the P.S. Tamang (Golay)-headed administration had done precious little since coming to power. “The SKM government has only been scoring suicide goals at the cost of Sikkim. We will score goals at the right end and ensure Sikkim wins. We will now take to the field,” he said. Accusing the SKM of indulging in the politics of intimidation, the SDF president asked his supporters not to be cowed down by threats. “You cannot practise politics by hiding, but you must hit the streets. We must oppose all the wrongs being done by this government,” he said, while urging the youths to front the campaign against the present dispensation. Chamling, who had helmed Sikkim for 25 years as chief minister, was addressing his first public meeting in exactly a year. He and his party had been lying low for close to two years after SDF lost power to SKM in May 2019. Chamling had returned to Sikkim a couple of days ago after spending three-and-a-half months in Delhi. His long absence had come in for criticism from both the SKM and his own supporters and leaders. In fact, 5,000 SDF supporters and leaders had recently shifted their allegiance to the SKM, citing the lack of Chamling’s leadership. Chamling said his party henceforth would practise collective leadership and promised to leave behind a legacy from where the capable youths of Sikkim would take the state forward. “We want to hand over the responsibility of Sikkim to the capable youths of the state,” he asserted. The SDF president admitted that his party supporters were traumatised by the defeat suffered at the hustings in 2019, but they had since recovered. “We might have overestimated ourselves. We might have had some flaws. But, this (the defeat) has provided an opportunity to rectify ourselves,” he said. Listing a whole lot of unfulfilled promises made by the SKM, Chamling promised to lend all his support to the government if it seriously worked towards fulfilling them. “The SKM insulted us for not delivering on those issues and came to power. Yes, we failed to do so. Now the SKM must deliver,’ he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
05-03-2021||West Bengal||Shiv Sena throws weight behind Mamata Banerjee||The Shiv Sena has extended full support to the Trinamul Congress in the Bengal Assembly polls, saying the BJP was using “money, muscle and media” against Mamata Banerjee in an undemocratic manner. Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut, after a discussion with Maharashtra chief minister and party chief Uddhav Thackeray, said: “A lot of people are curious to know whether the Shiv Sena is contesting Bengal polls or not. Looking at the present scenario, it appears like a Didi-vs-All fight. All M’s — money, muscle, media — are being used against Mamata Didi. Hence, the Sena has decided not to contest Bengal polls and stand in solidarity with her. We wish Mamata a roaring success because we believe she is the real Bengal tigress.” While the Sena doesn’t have much political clout in Bengal, the message is important because it preferred Mamata over its ally Congress, which is contesting the election in alliance with the Left. The Congress central leadership, too, is not very concerned about this decision because it is not interested in harming Mamata in Bengal despite the aggressive posturing of the local leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-176
