06-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP names 57 candidates for Bengal polls, pits Suvendu against Mamata||The BJP on Saturday released its first list of 57 candidates for the Bengal Assembly polls and fielded Suvendu Adhikari from his home turf of Nandigram, from where Trinamool Congress president and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has already announced her candidature. Former Indian cricketer Ashoke Dinda and ex-IPS officer Bharati Ghosh are among the BJP candidates, party general secretary Arun Singh said at a press conference, adding that it has conceded one seat to ally AJSU. With this the party has announced candidates for all but three of the 60 seats which will go to polls in the first two of the eight-phase elections to be held between March 27 and April 29. "Jungle raaj" prevails in the state, and voters have made up their mind to oust the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and elect the BJP to power, Singh claimed. The BJP on Friday shied away from announcing its candidates for either of the first two phases of the Bengal Assembly elections. The delay in publishing the list, a section of workers said, was to avoid any possible “sabotage” of Narendra Modi’s rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta on Sunday by those denied the BJP nomination. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to address a rally in Calcutta’s Brigade Parade ground on Sunday, his first after the announcement of the poll dates. Nandigram, the site of protests against the Left government which had ignited a popular upsurge and catapulted the TMC to power in 2011, is set for one of the keenest electoral battles in the state with Banerjee taking on her former protegee and now BJP leader Adhikari. Adhikari had won from the seat in 2016 and resigned recently before crossing over to the saffron party. Banerjee announced her candidature from the seat while leaving her traditional constituency of Bhowanipore in Kolkata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Six BJP activists injured in bomb attack in Bengal||Six BJP activists were injured, two of them critically, in an alleged bomb attack by the rival TMC workers in West Bengals South 24 Parganas district, police said on Saturday. Family members of those injured alleged that a few members of the local Trinamul Congress hurled bombs at them while they were returning home in Gosaba area of the district from a marriage ceremony late Friday night. Police, however, claimed that the accident happened inside the house of a BJP activist where the crude bombs which were being manufactured went off accidently. "We have listened to the claims of the family members of those injured but it seems that they were manufacturing bombs when it exploded. "We are investigating the matter and talking to the locals," the officer said when contacted over the phone. Unconfirmed reports said that on Friday night, Gosaba witnessed clashes between TMC-BJP activists when bombs were hurled at each other, leaving six injured. Nobody has been arrested in connection with the blast,the police officer added. The injured are undergoing treatment at Canning Sub- Divisional Hospital, he said. A huge number of policemen have been deployed there as sleuths of the bomb squad and forensic department reached the spot, the officer said. Gosaba reserved assembly is scheduled to vote in the second phase of the assembly elections on April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Former TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi joins BJP||Former Trinamul Congress MP Dinesh Trivedi joined the BJP on Saturday, weeks after he announced quitting his Rajya Sabha membership on the floor of the House deploring "violence" in poll-bound West Bengal. He joined the BJP in the presence of its president J P Nadda, and Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Dharmendra Pradhan besides other leaders. Lauding Trivedi as a principled politician, Nadda said he was earlier a right person in the wrong party and was now in the right party. Trivedi said he had been waiting for this "golden moment" and added that family is supreme in some parties but it is people who are supreme in the BJP. He also praised the Modi government for its handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and the issues involving neighbouring countries. A number of TMC leaders have quit the party in recent months to join the BJP as the saffron party mounts an aggressive all-out campaign to end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year-old reign in the state. Trivedi (70) was once a close confidant of TMC president Banerjee and was her choice for holding the important railway ministry portfolio in the Union Cabinet during the UPA government. Though his ties with her strained resulting in him being removed from the cabinet, they later patched up. After losing the Lok Sabha election in 2019, he was sent to the Rajya Sabha by the party. With the BJP being successful in wooing over a number of TMC leaders to its fold, the saffron party has said that this underscores an increasing unease in its rival camp and is a pointer to its "decisive" victory in the assembly polls to be held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: BJP holds candidate list||The BJP on Friday shied away from announcing its candidates for either of the first two phases of the Bengal Assembly elections, a move attributed to two contradicting theories. A section of BJP leaders said the announcement was put on hold as the saffron camp was planning to reap dividends from the dissent in Trinamul because of omission of 23 sitting MLAs and five ministers from the list of 291 that Mamata Banerjee announced on Friday. “The list doesn’t have the likes of Smita Bakshi (of Jorasanko), Mala Saha (Cossipore-Belgachia) and Rabindranath Bhattacharya (of Singur)…. We have to try and take advantage of the discontent,” said a source explaining why a pause button was pressed on publication of the list. The delay in publishing the list, another section said, was to avoid any possible “sabotage” of Narendra Modi’s rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta on Sunday by those denied the BJP nomination. Sources within the state BJP said there were “intense differences” between rival factions over candidature in at least 10 of the 60 seats going to the polls in the first two phases. “Yes, the list for the first couple of phases was to be announced yesterday evening or this morning. But that didn’t happen, and only candidates for two Assam phases were announced instead…. There are fears of sabotage of the Brigade rally by influential sections disappointed by denial of candidature,” a source in the BJP said on Friday. “It is no secret that the BJP here is a divided house. For these 60 seats, around a thousand names have been submitted. There can only be 60 candidates in the end. The party does not want the disappointed sections to deliberately contribute towards less crowd count, or some other unwarranted act of defiance,” said the source. A state BJP functionary said candidature in at least a sixth of the seats in the first two phases was yet to be decided. “Those are highly winnable seats for us. Every influential lobby wants those seats for its own preferred candidates. That is why there has been no final decision on those 10-odd seats,” he said. “The candidates will be announced after the Brigade event is over,” he added. Suvendu reaction Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s catch of the poll season, vowed to make the chief minister lose in the Nandigram seat and turned the bohiragawto (outsider) tables on her. “The people of Nandigram are saying, this time, they want a bhoomiputro (son of the soil), and not a bohiragawto,” said the former minister at a Panskura rally. Former cabinet colleague Rajib Banerjee, a fellow Trinamul turncoat now in the BJP, has already said Adhikari told their new party’s national leadership that he would like to take Mamata head-on, by contesting from Nandigram. “The Trinamul netri (woman leader) has to go back empty-handed to Calcutta.” “Why is she running away from Bhowanipore? Because she is sure that she will lose there, if she tries to contest. You are most welcome to contest only from Nandigram. We will meet on the battlefield. On May 2, during counting, saffron will replace green here,” he added. “The margin of defeat in Nandigram will be thrice that of Bhowanipore.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court stays charge withdrawal ||Calcutta High Court on Friday stayed orders passed by two judicial magistrates of a court in Tamluk allowing the state government to withdraw criminal cases against 13 Trinamul Congress supporters accused of murders. The killings had taken place on March 21 in 2007 in East Midnapore’s Nandigram. Hearing a petition moved last week by Nandigram resident Niranjan Adhikari challenging the orders of the lower court, a division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan held on Friday that the judiciary should not indulge any government to withdraw criminal cases against murder accused. The division bench then stayed the orders of the Tamluk court. The then Left Front government had lodged criminal cases against the 13 Trinamul activists accusing them of murdering four persons. The murdered people included a cop also. The two separate incidents were during the anti-land acquisition movement in 2007. Based on complaints filed by families of the deceased, the then government had lodged cases against the 13 accused. While a judicial magistrate’s court in Tamluk was holding trial for a case involving nine accused, another judicial magistrate was dealing with the case wherein four had been accused of murder. Earlier this year, the state government had moved the lower courts to withdraw the cases against the 13 accused. The two judicial magistrate courts in Tamluk had allowed withdrawal of the cases and the orders were subsequently challenged in the high court last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||EC backs deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain||The Election Commission on Friday threw its weight firmly behind deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain and took ownership of his decisions during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Trinamul Congress had written to the commission demanding that the 1994 IAS officer be divested of his responsibility to hold the 2021 Bengal Assembly polls. Trinamul had cited two instances during the 2019 general election — Jain’s “inaction/illegal” action during the vandalism of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s bust in Calcutta and “illegality” in the introduction of a concept of quick response teams comprising state and central police and led by central officers — to accuse him of bias for the BJP. Jain had been in charge of Bengal during the 2019 general election also. In a statement issued on Friday, the poll panel said: “The commission would like to categorically state that all our deputy election commissioners and other officials posted in the ECI headquarters and/or working in the field are discharging their duties strictly as per Constitution of India and the various extant rules regarding the conduct of elections.” “There could be an odd exception here or there in which case EC takes corrective action immediately. In the immediate case, the Commission has full faith in the integrity and fairness of Shri Sudeep Jain, DEC,” it added. “Unfortunately, it is not for the first time that a concerted campaign is mounted against senior officers of the commission on the eve of/during the process of elections.” The statement virtually ruled out the possibility of Jain’s removal as in-charge of the Bengal polls. The commission also owned responsibility for two instances cited by Trinamul to question Jain’s neutrality in the 2019 polls. “It is clarified that both these decisions were taken by the Commission in the interest of holding free fair and peaceful elections and implemented by the district election machinery under supervision of DEC....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata opts out of one-strategy-suits-all format while choosing candidates||Trinamul Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee did not opt for one-strategy-suits-all format while choosing candidates for seats that were represented by heavyweights who left the party to join the BJP. The chief minister would contest from Nandigram, which was represented by Trinamul turncoat and BJP’s star campaigner Suvendu Adhikari. “I will contest from Nandigram as I always stick to my words,” Mamata said in Calcutta on Friday. Apart from fielding herself in Nandigram, Mamata opted for strategic candidates in seats like Uttarpara in Hooghly, Behala East in Calcutta and Domjur in Howrah from where three prominent leaders of the party switched over to the BJP in the past few months. “Didi has adopted specific strategies for each seat from where prominent faces of Trinamul left the party in the run up to the Assembly polls. The possibility of the turncoat contesting from their old seats on BJP tickets is high. So, Trinamul has fielded those candidates who can create pressure on those who switched sides,” said a Trinamul leader. In the Behala East Assembly segment, Mamata has fielded Ratna Chatterjee, the estranged wife of former Calcutta mayor and minister Shovan Chatterjee who joined the BJP, along with his friend Baisakhi Banerjee. “Shovan Chatterjee is likely to contest from Behala East and just think about the embarrassment he would face to take on his wife. Shovanda publicly said he would contest from the same seat and Ratna has expressed the confidence of defeating him,” the Trinamul leader added. Shovan Chatterjee publicly said he would request his party to provide a ticket to contest from Behala East. In Uttarpara, Mamata’s choice is actor Kanchan Mallick. The actor, who joined Trinamul recently, was fielded after local MLA Prabir Ghoshal joined the BJP. BJP insiders said Ghoshal was likely to contest from Uttarpara and Mallick’s popularity was likely to put pressure on the Trinamul turncoat. In the case of Rajib Banerjee, Mamata adopted a different plan and picked an organisational hand to take on the defector to the BJP at Domjur. “Rajib had won from Domjur in 2016 but it was Kalyanendu Ghosh who had conducted the election. The party has fielded Ghosh to take on Rajib. Ghosh had been sidelined within Trinamul because of infighting,” said a Trinamul leader in Howrah. Speaking to The Telegraph, Ghosh said: “I had conducted the polls for Rajib in 2016 and this time, I will work to defeat him in Domjur.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Tears and protest greet  TMC list in Bhangar in South 24-Parganas||The announcement of Trinamul Congress candidates sparked protests at several places in the state on Friday despite Mamata Banerjee trying her best to keep defectors to the BJP under pressure. At Bhangar in South 24-Parganas, Trinamul leader Arabul Islam broke down while expressing his annoyance with the party for not declaring him as a candidate. Arabul’s supporters blocked a road and allegedly ransacked a Trinamul office to register their protest against the decision to field Rezaul Karim, who had contested as a CPM candidate from Birbhum in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “The party is close to my heart but today the party does not need me anymore. What I do next will depend on the advice of the people of Bhangar,” said Arabul. Mamata, however, said those who had been left out would be accommodated in the Legislative Council that would be formed once Trinamul rode back to power. Senior Trinamul leader and former deputy speaker Sonali Guha, and MLA from Birbhum’s Nalhati Moinuddin Shams, also broke into tears openly after being denied party tickets. A section of Trinamul Congress supporters turned violent and blocked the Basirhat-Taki road for over an hour on Friday by setting tyres on fire for the denial of nomination to party leader A.T.M. Abdullah Ronny from the Basirhat North Assembly constituency. At several places in the constituency, Trinamul workers erupted in protest after the leadership nominated turncoat MLA Rafikul Islam to fight the polls and left Ronny in the lurch. In 2016, CPM’s Rafikul had defeated Ronny by 498. Rafikul had defected to Trinamul in 2020, four years after he had left Trinamul on being denied a ticket to contest the Assembly poll. A Trinamul activist in Basirhat said: “It is unfortunate that the party preferred to choose at the expense of a loyalist like Ronny.” Speaking to The Telegraph, Rafikul said: “This is a minor issue. I am hopeful that all party supporters will fight the polls unitedly.” However, a large number of Trinamul supporters, including elected members of panchayat bodies, met Ronny and urged him to fight the poll as an Independent. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Eight MLAs denied tickets, 15 new faces fielded in north||The names of eight sitting MLAs in north Bengal were dropped from the Trinamul Congress’s list of candidates by Mamata Banerjee who on Friday also nominated around 15 fresh faces in the region for the contest. At a number of locations, Trinamul supporters joined celebrations, held rallies and started drawing graffiti on walls after the announcement. But an underlying tone of disgruntlement prevailed in many Assembly seats, with occasional outbursts by Trinamul supporters witnessed at some locations. As Mamata read out the list, it was found that eight sitting MLAs have been dropped from the fray. Three from Cooch Behar, two from North Dinajpur and one each from Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and South Dinajpur districts were denied tickets. Those who have been dropped include Bachchu Hansda, the Trinamul MLA of Tapan in South Dinajpur, who is the minister of state in the north Bengal development department. In north Bengal, the party nominated around 25 candidates for the first time. “However, among them are a number of sitting MLAs who had defected to Trinamul after 2016 and also former MLAs who had contested in earlier elections. Apart from them, around 15 new faces have been fielded in north Bengal seats,” said a political observer. Protests rocked Raiganj since Friday morning as over 100 Trinamul supporters hit the streets, demanding that the party field a “son of the soil” in the Assembly seat. They raised slogans in support of Arindam Sarkar, a district Trinamul leader who is also the immediate past vice-chairman of the local civic body. The demonstrations continued as the party announced the name of Kanaialal Agarwala, the district Trinamul chief of North Dinajpur, as the candidate for Raiganj. “He is based in Islampur. The party should have found some other seat for him. It is disappointing that he has been sent here and aspirations of party leaders and workers of Raiganj subdivision have been ignored,” said a Trinamul worker. The protests left Agarwala and other district leaders red-faced. “We will talk to them. They should understand that the final decision is taken by the top leadership,” he said. Supporters blocked NH34 for one hour at Itihar in North Dinajpur as sitting MLA Amal Acharya was denied the Trinamul ticket. Such outbursts were also witnessed in Siliguri as Mamata named Omprakash Mishra as the candidate for the seat. Nantu Paul, a veteran party leader, was the first to register his disappointment. “We had made it clear that the candidate should be a Siliguri resident. But the party has taken some other decisions,” said Paul, who is the vice-chairman of the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority. Hundreds of residents across the city were also found venting their grudge through the social media and raising questions as to why the ruling party of the state could not find a local candidate. “In 2011, we had fielded Rudranath Bhattacharya, a local doctor, and had achieved success. But in 2016, the party made an experiment by bringing in Bhaichung Bhutia who was defeated. It is surprising to see why the party leadership is making the same mistake,” said a Trinamul leader. The residents of the city also asked if state tourism minister Gautam Deb could be fielded in a seat that covers some areas of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and if local candidates could be found for Matigara-Naxalbari and Phansidewa — the two other Assembly seats of Siliguri subdivision – why the party could not find a “son of the soil” for Siliguri, considered as the most prestigious seat of north Bengal. According to Trinamul sources, a number of local party leaders have been vying for the candidature. “There was a chance that if one of them is made a candidate, there might be inner differences and thus the poll results can be affected. That is why, it seems, the party has decided to field somebody from outside,” said a source. There are, however, others, who refused to buy the theory. The same logic was elaborated when Bhaichung’s name was announced in 2016 but the strategy eventually did not work, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Left Front keeps Nandigram out for now ||Left Front chairperson Biman Bose on Friday announced the names of Left Front candidates for the first two phases of Assembly elections but did not name anyone for the Nandigram seat which he flagged as a “heavyweight centre”. For the 60 seats which will go to the polls in the first two phases, 39 candidates were declared by the Left Front. The Congress and the Indian Secular Front are allotted 12 and five seats, respectively. The Nandigram seat has not been allotted to any party and discussions were still on, a Left leader said on Friday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will contest from Nandigram where her ex-confidante Suvendu Adhikari might be the BJP candidate. “We are not declaring the names of candidates in Nandigram, Pingla and a few other seats as negotiations are yet to be completed. Nandigram has become a heavyweight centre, so we are keeping it vacant for now,” Bose told a news conference at the CPM state headquarters at Alimuddin Street here. Nandigram will go to the polls in the second phase on April 1. Although the Left parties named their candidates, many of whom are youths, for the first two phases of the polls, the other two allies of the Sanjukta Morcha — Congress and the ISF — did not name their respective nominees on Friday. The last date for filing nomination for the first phase of the poll is March 9, while for the second phase, it is March 12. In a departure from the past and carrying forward the reflection of the large turnout of youths at the February 28 Brigade rally, the Left list is full of young faces like Sheikh Saddam Ali, 28, who is the CPM candidate for the Kharagpur seat. However, veterans like Susanta Ghosh, Pulin Behari Baskey and former minister Debolina Hembram have also made it to the list. Reacting to the Trinamul’s list, Bose said: “Trinamul and the BJP have an understanding in drawing up their list of candidates. So, we are not concerned about what Trinamul has announced.” “We also fielded several young faces,” Bose added when told that the Trinamul list had several young faces. Veteran Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya, who was present at the CPM headquarters on Friday, said: “Names of the candidates of our party are announced at the all-India level. So, we cannot announce the names of our candidates here. The drama that has been started by the BJP and Trinamul will be stopped by our force.” “We are united in our goal and the ISF has joined us.” ISF president Simul Soren, who represented the party at the press meet held to announce the list of candidates of the Left, said they would announce their list within a day or two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-174
06-03-2021||West Bengal||SC and ST nominees up on TMC candidate list||Mamata Banerjee said on Friday that finalising the list of candidates was “difficult” in the backdrop of a sudden change in Bengal’s political landscape because of “caste and community considerations” because of the BJP’s divisive politics. The statement lends credence to the hypothesis that caste-based identity politics will play a key role in determining the outcome of the 2021 Assembly polls. “Preparing the list of candidates is difficult. Not only do you have to strike a balance between the new and the old…. One has to keep in mind the caste and community considerations, which didn’t exist earlier. The BJP’s divisive politics has brought this change,” said Mamata while releasing the party’s list of candidates for the upcoming Bengal Assembly polls. “We have to think about minorities, SCs, STs…. Also we have to ensure representation of women,” she added while rolling out the list of factors that were considered to select the list of candidates. Multiple sources in Trinamul said that navigating through the new realities of poll arithmetic was a challenge for the Trinamul leadership since the 2019 Lok Sabha election results revealed the change in the rules of the game in Bengal, where 34 years of Left rule had reduced the relevance of caste and community questions. Over the past one-and-a-half years, Trinamul has tried to match the BJP’s might in this game of identities, primarily with the expertise of poll consultant Prashant Kishor, whose team apparently played a key role in drawing up the first draft of the list of candidates based on local inputs and caste and community considerations. The proof of the effort was visible in the list that had 79 SC candidates — 11 more than the number of reserved seats for the community — and 17 ST, one more than the mandatory fielding of tribal nominees in 16 reserved seats. Besides, the Trinamul list had 42 Muslim candidates and 50 women nominees. Some party insiders said fielding so many SC candidates and betting on Santhali actress Birbaha Hansda, from an unreserved seat like Jhargram were smart moves against the backdrop of the party’s plan to woo the two communities ahead of the polls. In the Lok Sabha polls, the BJP’s lead in 34 and 13 Assembly segments out of 68 and 16 seats reserved for SC and ST communities, respectively, became game changer for the party. “The leads from these Assembly segments were so big that at least four BJP nominees became MPs…. So, the focus this time was to ensure proper representation of the SCs and STs,” said a source. According to him, Birbaha was fielded from an unreserved seat to send a message to the tribal people. As Birbaha’s election is on the first day of poll, the party will use her in remaining phases for campaigning in tribal pockets across Bengal, the source added. “The effort is visible as the list has four Namo Shudra candidates, which is aimed at wooing Matua voters, who had swung big time in favour of the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls,” said another source. The party has fielded Rajesh Lakra, a pastor with a significant following among the tribal community in north Bengal, from Madarihat in Alipurduar. Keeping with the identity theme, Trinamul has left the three hill seats vacant for “friends”, which mean that Mamata is keen on getting Gorkha Janmukti Morcha nominees for the seats to address the identity issue in the hills. Sources aware of the strategising in Trinamul on candidate list said though Team PK got the inputs from the ground level and the first draft of candidates was drawn up based on these feedback, Mamata gave the final verdict whenever there were differences. To elaborate on how Mamata prevailed over others about the candidate list, a source referred to the selection of Kajol Sinha to contest from Kahrdah, a seat won by Amit Mitra in 2011 and 2016. Though the party had plans to field someone else as Mitra hasn’t been physically fit, Mamata insisted on Sinha and got him included. “The party is on a firm footing in Khardah and so she wanted to put up a political candidate there,” said political scientist Biswanath Chakrabory. In neighbouring Barrackpore, where the Trinamul was lagging behind the BJP in the last Lok sabha polls, she, however, put Tollywood film maker Raj Chakraborty to try and wrest the seat with their star appeal. Selection of Sayantika Bandyopadhyay from Bankura and Sayani Ghosh from Asansol South was also driven by the same logic. Another important feature of the candidate list was Mamata’s strategy of ring-fencing potential defectors to the BJP with nomination. Inclusion of long-time councillors like Atin Ghosh and Debasish Kumar on the candidate list was aimed at preventing their switch to the saffron camp, said Chakraborty. “These two leaders were holding discussing with the BJP… Mamata retained them in the party’s fold with nomination,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee message for paramilitary||Mamata Banerjee on Friday said she expected that state and central forces would work together properly to ensure free and fair conduct of the eight-phase Assembly polls in Bengal, the message was a reiteration of the Trinamul Congress narrative that the paramilitary personnel often try to favour the BJP because of instructions from Delhi. “I want the central and state forces to work together properly… It should not happen that forces coming from Delhi are sent with an instruction,” the chief minister said on Friday while announcing the Trinamul candidate list for 291 Assembly segments in the state from her residence at Kalighat here. “We notice that some people are working according to the instructions given from the BJP office. This should not happen. We want an impartial election. We want free and fair polls,” she added. A section of state government officials said Mamata’s comment would send a smart message to the Election Commission at a time it was planning to give free hand to the central forces after their deployment in sensitive areas in Bengal. “For example, it has been decided that quick response teams would be led by central force commandants and not state police officers. Moreover, deployment of central forces would largely depend on the opinion of police observers. The chief minister perhaps wanted to highlight these issues,” said a source. Trinamul insiders said the top brass of the party was worried over the roles to be played by the central forces. “During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the central forces deployed at booths and in other areas took care of the complaints lodged by the BJP but ignored the grievances of Trinamul. This should not happen this time,” said a Trinamul MLA. Sources close to the chief minister said she had raised questions about the impartiality of the central forces and also some EC officials ahead of the polls very tactically as that would put the poll panel under pressure. “In 2019, the EC had taken several steps, including removal of officials and deployment of central forces based on the complaints lodged by the BJP. This time, the chief minister aired her concerns about the impartiality of some EC officials very tactically so that the poll panel thinks twice before initiating steps based on the complaints of the BJP,” said a source. As the EC removed the ADG (law and order), Jawed Shamim — known as an upright officer — within 24 hours of the election dates being declared, the ruling establishment has become apprehensive of more changes in key positions ahead of the polls. As the Trinamul leadership thinks such “unnecessary changes” put the state bureaucracy under undue pressure, the party had officially lodged complaints against deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain raising questions over his impartiality. Jain is a key person in holding polls in Bengal. Not only Jain, the ruling party in Bengal has also raised questions over posting of Vivek Dubey, a former IPS officer, as a special observer in Bengal as Trinamul had several complaints regarding use of central forces during the last Lok Sabha polls. Dubey had worked as a special observer in Bengal during the 2019 general election. “It is clear that she is concerned about the activities of these two officials as they are retired from service. She is all set to get the party to send another letter to the poll panel.… It is considered to be a smart move as it definitely puts the poll panel under pressure. If a chief minister expresses her displeasure with some EC officials, it sends a message throughout the country,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
06-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC leaders clueless about three hill seats||Mamata Banerjee’s announcement on Friday that the Trinamul Congress would not field candidates in three hill Assembly seats and instead let her “friends” contest put party supporters in a quandary as they were confused which faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha was “dearer” to the chief minister. The Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang camps of the Morcha, which are both allies of Trinamul, have decided to field own candidates from Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong Assembly constituencies. “In the three hill Assembly seats, my friends will contest the election,” Mamata said on Friday in Calcutta. In Darjeeling, Trinamul leaders had no immediate answer regarding the faction they were supposed to support. “Maybe, a directive will come to us. In fact, we were discussing the same issue right now,” L.B. Rai, president, Trinamul (Hills), said when asked about the chief minister’s statement. Rai admitted that the issue was “serious”. “The issue is serious as we have many supporters in the hills and hence, the party should tell us clearly. We will, however, follow whatever the high command directs us.” Hill Trinamul leaders are planning to come down to Siliguri on Sunday and meet Mamata, who will be holding a rally in the plains town, to discuss this issue. “We are trying to meet her in Siliguri on Sunday,” Rai said Not only Trinamul leaders but also functionaries of various cultural organisations who support development boards in the hills are also facing a similar dilemma. “We too are waiting for an appropriate directive. I think the directive will come in a subtle manner. As of now, we have no clear answers,” said a leader of a cultural organisation that supports development boards in the hills. The Mamata Banerjee government set up 16 cultural development boards for various hill communities since 2014. A political observer said since 2017, hill Trinamul leaders and those associated with the various development boards had been working closely with the Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp of the Morcha. “The same does not hold true with the Bimal Gurung camp,” the observer added. Gurung dumped the BJP, a 13-year-old ally, only a few months back and realigned with Trinamul. The Tamang-Thapa faction had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election and Darjeeling Assembly bypoll as an ally of Trinamul. Gurung, however, claimed he could be a decisive factor in “10 to 15” seats in the Dooars. A triangular contest involving the two Morcha factions and the BJP-GNLF alliance is likely to be played in the three hill seats. Each of the three constituencies has a voter strength ranging from 2 lakh to 2.4 lakh. “In such a situation, the role of Trinamul and even leaders of cultural organisations supporting development boards will be of much importance to the two factions of the Morcha,” said the observer. Bista plea Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista on Friday wrote to chief election commissioner Sunil Arora, seeking the removal of board of administrators at the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration as they were “non-elected political nominees”. “These unelected administrators are now using the GTA to influence voters in our region by promising them employment, permanent jobs, contracts and funds,” Bista alleged. The GTA is being run by nominated administrators since 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
06-03-2021||West Bengal||Plastic shields Calcutta trekker after fall from 250ft ||Sambhu Roy Chowdhury, 62, a Calcutta trekker who had gone missing for nearly 24 hours at Sandakphu, situated at an altitude of more than 11,000 feet, braved the cold winter night on empty stomach and  wrapped himself with “plastics” to escape from near sub-zero temperature. Chowdhury got separated from a 10-member senior citizen trekking group on Tuesday and was rescued the following day after having spent the night taking shelter under a tree nearly 250 feet downhill the main trekking route in the Singalila National Park. When the group reached Rimbick, about 60km from Darjeeling and a place with steady mobile connectivity along the trekking route, on Thursday night, Chowdhury recalled the incident to The Telegraph. “I was walking in a group of three and around 11am on Tuesday, I decided to respond to nature’s call. I think there was ice (probably frost) and I suddenly slipped downhill,” said Chowdhury. He believes that he felt almost 250ft downhill and for some time, he was “unconscious”. The area was wrapped in dense fog and even though his team consisted of nine other members, trekkers don’t march in columns like patrolling defence personnel. “Since everyone has his own pace, the distance between trekkers varies. The fog was also dense and they (other trekkers) probably realised after a while that I was missing,” said Chowdhury. The group, which consists of former office colleagues and friends from his Netaji Nagar neighbourhood in Calcutta, had started the search for Chowdhury from Tuesday afternoon. Chowdhury is a retired central government employee. Once the trekker regained consciousness after some hours of his fall, he tried to climb uphill. “I was hurt on both my hands,” he said. When the fog is dense, finding a proper route even during the daytime in the hills is difficult, especially when the terrain is new. As hours passed and the day slipped into night, Chowdhury, who had undergone survival skill training, decided to take shelter under a tree. “I had no food, no medicine with me. I wrapped myself in plastics that I was carrying and broke ice to drink as I had no water with me,” he recalled. Temperatures during night can be near sub-zero and strong freezing cold are common in that area. Going by the video immediately recorded after the rescue, Chowdhury was not adequately dressed for an outdoor night. That day, the team had started trekking from Gorkhay and not the usual Maneybhanjyang end. They were trekking from Phalut to Sandakphu when the incident took place somewhere near Molley. The following morning, Chowdhury tried to find his way uphill despite being weak and tired. “As I was trying to crawl uphill, our guide Janam Singh was the first to reach me, followed by the SSB personnel and other rescuers,” said the trekker. The team will be reaching Calcutta on Saturday. “I was saved because of God’s will,” said Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-175
