07-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata holds ‘padayatra’ in Siliguri to protest LPG price hike||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee led a 'padayatra' in Siliguri on Sunday to protest against the steep hike in the price of LPG cylinders. Accompanied by thousands of supporters, Banerjee set off on the protest march from Darjeeling More around 2 pm. Many were seen holding red-coloured cardboard replicas of LPG cylinders at the 'yatra', which was led by the TMC supremo, and joined by her ministerial colleague Chandrima Bhattacharya, and party MPs Mimi Chakraborty and Nusrat Jahan. "Narendra Modi and Amit Shah are the only syndicate in India. Covid pandemic happened, fuel prices rose but the prime minister is nowhere to be found. You get free rice but to cook it you spend on gas," Mamata said at the rally. Launching a fresh tirade against Modi, she said he was "peddling lies to mislead the voters" in the poll-bound state. The chief minister , addressing a rally following her protest march , said the prime minister made many "empty" promises over the years, and people no longer trust him. She sought to know "why the PM has not yet deposited Rs 15 lakh in the bank accounts of every citizen, as promised by him before 2014 Lok Sabha polls". "You have made many empty promises. People will not accept your falsehood every day. We demand you make LPG cylinder affordable to every citizen of the country. You have made LPG cylinders inaccessible for the common man," Banerjee said in her address. The CM also said that Modi should be "ashamed of his habit of telling lies". "He gives speech in Bangla, but the script in always written in Gujarati, and kept under a transparent sheet of glass before him. He just pretends that he knows Bangla well," she said. "Your party had vandalised Vidyasagar's bust. Your party dishonoured Birsa Munda. Your party wrongly said Rabindranath Tagore was born in Santiniketan. This shows your depth of knowledge about Bengal and its culture," she said. Asking people to raise their voice against the "riot- mongering BJP," Mamata said, "People of Bengal, who had been living in peace casting aside barriers of community and language, would come under grave threat if a divisive force such as the saffron party comes to power in the state." Earlier in the day, the PM, during his mega rally in Calcutta, accused Mamata of "betraying and insulting" the people of the state who trusted that she will bring about a change after the Left rule. "Bengal chose you in role of 'Didi' (elder sister) but you preferred being 'bua' (aunt) to your 'bhatija' (nephew Abhishek Banerjee)," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Always felt at home in West Bengal: Gautam Gambhir||BJP leader and MP Gautam Gambhir who is likely to join party's campaign in poll-bound West Bengal on Sunday said he always felt at home in the state. The former top order Indian batsman, who had captained Kolkata Knight Riders, is likely to campaign in West Bengal from March 22. He is expected to campaign in all eight phases of the assembly polls in the state as well as in three phases of the Assam assembly polls, said an aide of the East Delhi MP. This will be Gambhir’s first full-fledged election campaign for the BJP outside Delhi. Earlier, he had campaigned for former hockey player Sandip Singh in Haryana assembly polls last year. However, his plans for a visit to Jammu and Kashmir during the district development council (DDC) polls in December 2020 did not materialise. Gambhir said he felt ‘sad and dejected’ over West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s remarks that the BJP was a party of ‘outsiders’ and it had no place in the state. “Not even for a brief moment was I made to feel that I was an outsider and was not born or brought up in Calcutta or anywhere else in Bengal, that I had not attended Presidency College or Jadavpur University or that I did not have egg rolls from Park Street while growing up. “I always felt like a part of this huge and happy family which showered me with love and blessings every time I visited the state,” said the former cricketer. Gambhir, under whose captaincy Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) won two finals of the IPL, has a fan following among the youth of the state where polls for 294 assembly seats will begin on March 27. The fate of the West Bengal people and the state cannot be decided by bombs and bullets, Gambhir said expressing concern over “incessant and mindless” killings of political workers and violent clashes between parties. Multiple reports of bomb making factories working in overdrive have surfaced in recent times, he said. “Intimidation, threats and violence have been made new normal by the Left and the Trinamool Congress for decades and it has now become a part of the political culture of Bengal?,” he alleged. He said the ruling party is willing to go to any extent to silence any opposition in the state. This is not the ethos of Bengal and the voters in the state must make it clear, the BJP leader said. People in Bengal have to put their foot down and decide whether they want the rule of ‘syndicate’ or a ‘sonar Bangla’, nepotism or merit, and whether they want crime and corruption or poribortan, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Mithun Chakraborty joins BJP at Modi’s Brigade rally||Veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty on Sunday joined the BJP at Brigade Parade Ground here ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mega rally.  Chakraborty was welcomed into the fold by BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and state president Dilip Ghosh among others.  The National Award-winning actor, after being handed the saffron party flag by Ghosh, said he had always wanted to work for the underprivileged, and the saffron camp has given him a platform to fulfil his aspiration.  He also asserted that he was proud to be a Bengali.  "I always wanted to do something big in life, but had never dreamt of being a part of such a huge rally which is to be addressed by world's most popular leader Narendra Modi. I wished to work for the poorer sections of our society, and that wish will now be fulfilled," he said.  Amid huge cheers from supporters, Chakraborty, borrowing a dialogue from one of his films, said, "Ami joldhorao noi, bele borao noi... ami ekta cobra, ek chobol-ei chobi (Don't mistake me for a harmless snake, I am a cobra, can kill people in one bite)," he said.  Vijayvargiya, who visited Chakraborty at his residence here on Saturday evening, had announced that he would be participating in the rally.  Last month, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat met the actor at his Mumbai bungalow over breakfast, setting off speculation that he might join the BJP. Chakraborty, who earlier maintained close ties with Mamata Banerjee, was nominated to the Rajya Sabha by the TMC in 2014.  He, however, quit the Upper House seat in 2016 citing health reasons, after his name surfaced in the Saradha ponzi scam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers hurt in blast in South 24-Parganas’ Gosaba||Six BJP workers suffered injuries in an explosion in South 24-Parganas’ Gosaba late on Friday night, with the police claiming they had been making bombs and the saffron party alleging an attack by Trinamul-backed goons. Villagers said that around 11.30pm on Friday, they heard a deafening sound at villager Balaram Mandal’s home in Arampur-Kantakhali, Gosaba. They found the home in flames and the injured unconscious. Villagers took the injured Sovon Debnath, Bikram Sil, Sujan Kurali, Mahadeb Nayak, Arpan Debnath and Anal Mandal to Gosaba rural hospital from where they were referred to Canning subdivisional hospital. Later, four of them were admitted to Chittaranjan hospital in Calcutta. A senior police officer said: “Prima facie it appears that the injured persons were making bombs when the blast occurred by accident. There are claims that the victims had been attacked by goons but we are yet to arrive at any conclusion. A probe is on.” No arrest was made till Saturday evening. A forensic team visited the site earlier in the day, but refused to comment. Trinamul MLA and party nominee Jayanta Naskar alleged that a section of the BJP leadership with the support of goons had been trying to unleash terror in the area. BJP leader Sanjay Nayak accused the police of trying to malign  party with the support of the ruling Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: GNLF duo eye Darjeeling||Two key leaders of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), Ajoy Edwards and sitting Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba are locked in a subtle battle for the Darjeeling ticket in the Bengal polls. The GNLF is an ally of the BJP. Edwards, GNLF Darjeeling branch committee president, and Zimba, GNLF leader who won the Darjeeling seat on a BJP ticket maintain they would obey the party’s decision. But, their social media posts and recent media interactions tell a different story. Edwards, who has shot to political prominence through his social work right from the Covid-19 lockdown days has stated in his Facebook status: “Not in a Race….Just in Love with my people and my place.” In fact, even Zimba recently acknowledged Edwards’s social work and termed him a “socially political leader” while calling himself (Zimba) a hardcore politician. Zimba is also upfront about his hopes of contesting from Darjeeling in recent media interactions. “After playing the semi-final, who will play the finals? After scoring a goal in the semi-final, it is not the right system to play another player in the finals,” Zimba recently said in Darjeeling, adding that ultimately he would agree with whatever the party decides.  In the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly bypoll, Zimba defeated Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang who had been supported by Trinamul. Zimba apparently referred to this win as a “semi-final” and Bengal polls as the finals. Shadow games between Edwards and Zimba spilled over to some GNLF supporters. “We want Edwards to be the candidate from Darjeeling because we feel he has better chance of winning. Zimba should be given a ticket from Kurseong,” said one. Zimba’s supporters maintain there is no reason why the sitting MLA would not win the Darjeeling seat. While Zimba had to fight on a BJP ticket due to “coalition compulsions” in 2019, some in the party now wants the BJP to support GNLF in Darjeeling. “We cannot say for other two hill seats, Kalimpong and Kurseong, but in Darjeeling we want our candidate to fight under the GNLF banner and be supported by BJP. Our candidate should not contest under the BJP symbol,” said a supporter who believes that the GNLF has become a force to reckon with in Darjeeling. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman, Morcha (Binay camp) on Saturday questioned Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista on issues such as tribal status for 11 hill communities and a “permanent political solution” for the region. “Do not eye the GTA but concentrate on your work...Where is the tribal status, where is PPS permanent political solution?” said Pokhrel. The Binay camp was reacting to Bista’s letter to the chief election commissioner, Sunil Arora, to remove “non-elected political nominees” from GTA alleged they were using the hill body to influence voters. Binay camp leader Anit Thapa currently heads GTA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Tusker injures tea worker near Banarhat||A wild tusker went on a rampage in the workers’ quarters of Gairkata tea estate near Banarhat under Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri on Friday night and damaged a number of quarters. A tea worker who was wounded while trying to flee  is under treatment. Sources said a wild tusker came out of the Moraghat forest in search of fodder, walked along the Gairkata-Nathua Road and entered the garden. It damaged the kitchen of tea worker Santuram Oraon and devoured rice and vegetables. As Oraon and his family raised an alert, their neighbours started beating utensils to drive away the animal. The elephant then walked into workers’ quarters in Hindupara division of the garden, tried to get into a quarter and damaged a wall. A worker and his family escaped unhurt as parts of a wall fell. The tusker ate whatever food there was in the house. Some residents tried to steer the elephant back to the forest. The angered animal gave them a chase. Kartick Nag, a worker, fell on the ground and suffered injuries. The elephant stayed in the quarters for a couple of hours. Past midnight, it left for the forest, said residents. Rajkumar Pal, range officer of Moraghat forest range, said those who faced losses  will be compensated under government rules. “We are preparing detailed reports of the damage caused by the tusker,” he said. Six shops and an adjacent hutment at Bagrakote, ward 20 of Siliguri, were gutted in a blaze that broke out around 2.30am on Saturday. The fire also damaged four two-wheelers and an e-rickshaw parked nearby. Three fire tenders from Siliguri fire station doused the flames in two hours. A short-circuit is being suspected, but nothing has been confirmed. Asok Bhattacharya, chairperson of the board of administrators at Siliguri Municipal Corporation, said he would appeal to the election commission to allow them to provide relief materials to affected people. “Many have suffered damages in the blaze. It is because of the alertness of local residents that major damage was averted. There is an allegation that fire engines delayed in reaching the area. I will urge officials of the department concerned to conduct an inquiry,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP turnout target for Modi rally ‘too stiff’||BJP leaders in many south Bengal districts are facing a challenge they dare not publicly admit — meeting the party’s stiff target of over 50,000 people per district to the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Sunday rally. On Saturday evening, many BJP leaders on the ground admitted without wanting to be named that meeting such targets were “practically impossible” from areas with a substantial minority population and where the party’s organisational strength is poor. These apart, there are smaller yet significant hurdles. For instance, BJP workers said that in districts such as East Burdwan and Hooghly, many supporters are farmers busy with potato harvesting. BJP leaders said the local leadership — for instance at booths — was told to go out of their way to maximise the turnout at the Brigade for Modi’s event because it is a show of strength for the party. “Big targets have been given to all districts as the BJP plans to at least double the crowd of February 28 Brigade rally of the Sanyukt Morcha (the Left Front, the Congress and the Indian Secular Front). I do not think there will be any problem in making this a historic rally,” said Hooghly’s Subir Bag, a BJP state committee member. Leaders on the ground begged to differ. Birbhum, for example, has 3,039 booths, with around 950 booths that have a substantial minority population. In Assembly seats Murarai and Nalhati, the minority community comprises over 60 per cent. The BJP set a target of at least 15 from each booth area to meet the state leadership’s target of 45,000 people from Birbhum. “We needed to omit the booths from minority areas as we have practically no support in those pockets….The target given to us is unrealistic,” said a BJP worker in Birbhum. Dhruba Saha, BJP’s Birbhum unit chief, admitted that many booths “will have no representative”, but predicted “60,000 people from Birbhum will be at the Brigade”. “We are getting 300-odd people each from hundreds of other booths.” BJP’s state chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said there was no “target fixed for districts” but the party asked for representation from all booths. On ground-level problems, he said: “We understand there are attempts to stop our people from coming to the meeting, but we have confidence in our workers and organisers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to flag LPG hike, woo women||Trinamul leader Mamata Banerjee here on Saturday indicated that her party will keep on flagging rising LPG cylinder prices and affirmed she would hit the streets in Siliguri on Sunday to protest the hike. On Sunday, Mamata is scheduled to walk a 3.5km rally from Darjeeling More of the city to Venus More (Hashmi Chowk), her first public programme after her name was announced as Trinamul’s candidate in the Nandigram Assembly seat against the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. “On one hand, rice is available for free (by the state government through the PDS) while on the other hand, LPG prices are increasing steadily and going beyond the reach of people. This cannot simply go on. Tomorrow (Sunday), we will carry cylinders at the rally in protest,” Mamata told journalists at the Bagdogra airport after her arrival. Earlier this week, women Trinamul leaders of the state had announced the event  had been planned on the same day as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s arrival in Calcutta. Trinamul, party insiders said, is keen to tap women voters who form around 50 per cent of Bengal’s electorate. “LPG price hike is an issue any household can easily relate to. On Sunday, thousands of women, including leaders and elected representatives of our party, will join the party supremo (Mamata) in the rally. We expect she will address the gathering and it is significant that it will be her first public speech after her name was announced as our party’s Nandigram candidate,” said a Trinamul leader. The event planned within 48 hours of Trinamul announcing the names of its candidates of 291 seats — barring three of the hills — can also help the party address the discontentment brewing among some party leaders and workers over the selection of candidates. To cite an instance, on Friday, some Trinamul leaders and workers had expressed disappointment over the party’s decision to field Omprakash Mishra from Siliguri instead of a “son of the soil”. As Mamata landed here on Saturday afternoon, she was accompanied by party MPs Nusrat Jahan, Mimi Chakraborty and others. Mishra travelled with her in the same flight. Mishra told the media about his north Bengal roots and that he had born in Malbazar, subdivisional headquarters in Jalpaiguri district in western Dooars, and about his father — a prominent face in the trade union movement. “I am not new to the region,” Mishra said. “I have studied in North Bengal University and was actively associated with student politics. We will all work together to ensure Trinamul’s victory here. The BJP might have won some Lok Sabha seats here in 2019 but their support base has steadily eroded since.” Mishra’s remarks show that he intends to drive home the point that he is not an “outsider”, said political observers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar BJP MP’s broom operation ‘shady’||District Trinamul leaders posted a minute-long video clip on social media on Saturday that claimed local BJP MP Nisith Pramanik had recently resorted to a “publicity stunt” with a broom on Cooch Behar palace grounds. After a cultural event at the royal palace, the MP and his associates threw garbage on palace premises and his aides shot a video of the parliamentarian and some others sweeping the place with brooms, Trinamul’s district chief Partha Pratim Roy alleged, with the short clip to apparently back it up. Pramanik, in Calcutta for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Sunday rally, could not be contacted by this paper, but district BJP leaders brushed aside Trinamul’s claim. In the video, some persons, one of whom appears to be the MP (The Telegraph could not independently verify the authenticity of the video) are seen scattering items that appear to be pieces of white paper or plastic on palace grounds. After some time, they are seen sweeping the grounds with brooms while two or three persons are recording the activity on their phones. “This is what the MP and his party leaders do for cheap publicity, using videos shot in a planned manner. First they scatter so-called garbage and pose for a cleaning-up video. The video I posted was shot by a visitor in the palace,” Roy claimed. Sources said after Union ministry of culture and tourism hosted the three-day Rashtriya Sanskritik Mahotsav on palace premises from February 14 to 16, Trinamul leaders alleged that the palace grounds had been dirtied. Then, Pramanik allegedly took up the task to clean the premises, and videos and pictures of him sweeping the palace grounds surfaced on social media to appreciative comments. On Saturday, when Trinamul leaders shared the new video of the “staged” clean-up, many commented on this too. Sanjoy Chakraborty, the district general secretary of BJP in Cooch Behar, said he had not seen the clip uploaded by Trinamul. “I suspect it is a ploy by Trinamul to try and tarnish us (the BJP) ahead of the state elections. Such tactics won’t work,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
07-03-2021||West Bengal||Truck hits van, kills 4 bystanders along the Chandrakona-Midnapore state highway||Four persons were killed when a speeding goods truck rammed into a van parked along the Chandrakona-Midnapore state highway near Koanpur village in West Midnapore late on Friday. The deceased have been identified as Sentu Ghosh, 55, Joydeb Sen, 45, Jiten Pujari, 35 and Karthik Nayak, 55. Two critically injured persons were admitted to Midnapore Medical College and Hospital. “They are still critical,” said a doctor on Saturday. Sources said around 11pm on Friday, six persons from nearby Koanpur village were sitting and chatting near the parked Maruti van when the truck skidded off the road and rammed into the vehicle. The stationary vehicle moved forward and hit the six persons, four of whom were later thrown into the way of the speeding truck that fled, said an eyewitness, Anirban Das. Sen and Ghosh died on the spot while Pujari died early on Saturday at Chandrakona Hospital. Nayak succumbed en route to Calcutta on Saturday. The police tracked down the truck and arrested the driver on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-173
