08-03-2021||West Bengal||Five sitting MLAs of TMC, many others join BJP||The Trinamool Congress on Monday lost five more sitting MLAs and the control of the Malda Zilla Parishad to the BJP as defections continued to rock Bengal's ruling party ahead of the assembly polls. Four-time MLAs Sonali Guha, a close associate of TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee for decades, and 80-year-old Rabindranath Bhattacharya, a prominent face of the Singur movement, joined the saffron party after they were denied poll tickets. Another four-time legislator, 85-year-old Jatu Lahiri, and former footballer Dipendu Biswas, a first-time MLA, also switched sides after their names did not feature in the TMC's candidate list released on March 5. They were handed over party flags by BJP state president Dilip Ghosh in the presence of other leaders such as Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy. One more TMC MLA, Sital Sardar. also joined the saffron party later. Hours after being replaced due to "ill health", Sarala Murmu, the TMC candidate of the Habibpur constituency in Malda district, also switched sides. There was speculation earlier that she might join the BJP as she did not get the seat she had desired. The party replaced her with Pradeep Baskey in the morning. A number of sitting TMC MLAs, including ministers, have joined the saffron camp in recent months. The BJP also took control of the 38-member Malda Zilla Parishad after its 22 members changed sides. Bengali actress Tanusree Chakraborty also joined the BJP. Assembly elections in the state will be held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata dig at PM over using his picture in Covid vaccine certificates||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for "spreading lies and canards" against the TMC government, and said voters, this time, would witness 'Didi versus BJP' fight in all 294 constituencies of the poll-bound state. Taking a dig at Modi over inclusion of his picture in Covid-19 vaccination certificates, she said the "day wasn't far when the country will be named after him". Asserting that she will return to power for the third consecutive time in Bengal, the feisty TMC boss said, "The fight is between me and the BJP in all 294 seats." "They (BJP leaders) will come to Bengal only during elections and spread canards and lies. He is lecturing us on women's safety. What is the situation of women in BJP-ruled states? What is the situation in Modi's favourite Gujarat? "The prime minister has named a stadium after him. He has put his photographs on COVID-19 vaccination certificates. A day will come when the country will be named after him," Banerjee, who led a rally here on the occasion of International Women's Day, stated. Rebutting the PM's claim that women do not feel safe in Bengal, she said, "Had that been the case, they wouldn't have been able to move around freely at night." Hitting out at the PM, Banerjee also said that Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah should shift focus on BJP- ruled states, including 'model state' Gujarat, "where, media reports suggest, four rapes and two killings have been recorded every day over the past two years." The TMC rally, which commenced in the College Square area in central Calcutta, concluded near Dorina crossing, five kilometres away. Senior party leaders Chandrima Bhattacharyaa and Mala Roy joined the march. Among others, actresses and now TMC candidates June Maliya, Saayoni Ghosh and Sayantika Banerjee were also seen taking part in the rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee draws attention towards rising cost of cooking gas||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday focused on everyday issues, drawing attention to the rising cost of cooking gas and linking it to a leader obsessed with building a personality cult while the common people suffered. The chief minister, who held a protest march along Hill Cart Road in Siliguri with tens of thousands of women, addressed a public meeting at Hashmi Chowk at the end of the rally. Unlike Modi, who in his 70-minute speech in Calcutta appeared to take a scattershot approach without a definite narrative, Mamata was precise and concentrated her firepower on specific issues. “The price of LPG cylinders is about to touch Rs 1,000. Those running the country have not made any move so far to arrest the hike. We provide food grains free of cost and, in a similar manner, cylinders should be distributed free among the people,” Mamata said. The chief minister sought to contrast the price rise with the recent actions of the Prime Minister. “The Prime Minister keeps coming here for a political campaign… but it is unfortunate that he is only here for political propaganda and even speaks lies. He has renamed after himself a stadium named after Sardar Patel and now, it seems, he intends to rename the country after himself,” the Trinamul Congress chief said, making her first public speech after the announcement of candidates for the eight-phase Bengal Assembly polls. “He (Modi) has even emblazoned his photo in the Covid-19 injection…. he himself is Covid-19, the virus, and you should not get anywhere close to him. He was never seen here during the pandemic and was into the virtual mode of communication. I, on the other hand, had been on the streets, putting out markings (to ensure social distancing),” the chief minister said, attempting to drive home the point that when the Prime Minister and his party leaders were indoors, she had stepped out to stand with people during crises. Over the past few weeks, BJP leaders functioning in different tiers, including Modi, the party’s national chief J.P. Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah, have repeatedly tried to exert pressure on Mamata by raising issues such as the alleged highhandedness of illegal syndicates and extortion. “There is only one syndicate in this country… it is run by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. They are selling off all national assets to serve the interests of their friends. These people committed the real tolabaji (extortion)…. These days, these two people have turned even the BJP into a Union Territory, where everybody else has been silenced,” Mamata said. Responding to Modi’s questions on law and order in Bengal, Mamata asked him about the BJP-ruled states. “Women here can move around at any hour of day or night but in Uttar Pradesh, they can’t go out after 3pm. The situation is similar in Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat. They should not comment on law and order in Bengal,” the chief minister said. She scoffed at the BJP’s campaign for “Sonar Bangla” and accused the party of failing to run the country properly. “They have sold off the Red Fort in Delhi and may have plans to sell even the Taj Mahal…. These people are speaking of ‘Sonar Bangla’. If voted to power, they will divide Bengal and sell it,” Mamata said. Since the beginning of the march, intermittent slogans of “Khela hobe (the game is afoot)” resonated on the streets of Siliguri. While addressing the gathering, Mamata too uttered the phrase, which is fast gaining popularity ahead of the polls. “I want to say ‘Khela hobe’ and challenge the Prime Minister to fix the date and venue. I am ready to contest, one on one, and will make them realise that Mamata Banerjee is made of sterner stuff than they give her credit for,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Modi happy with Brigade Parade Grounds turnout||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said on Brigade Parade Grounds here that he had seen such a big crowd for the first time in his long political career. “In my political career I had the opportunity to address hundreds of political rallies. But it is the first time in my long career that I have got blessings from such a huge crowd. I found from my chopper that there was no space on the grounds and all roads in the town were filled by people trying to come here,” Modi said at the start of his speech. Later, he said no one would doubt that the BJP will wrest the seat of power in Bengal after hearing the crowd’s roar. Sunday’s Brigade turnout was the biggest that the BJP has had in Bengal. Trinamul turncoat Sabyasachi Dutta claimed over 20 lakh had come when the party had targeted around 10 lakh. Calcutta police claimed turnout was around 4 lakh, roughly what it was on February 28 when the Congress-Left-ISF held its rally. “The 10 lakh-20 lakh claim means nothing...The area of the Brigade is 4,66,000 sq ft... A significant part of it is left for the stage and security zone. Assuming each person has 1 sqft of space, the count at any point of time can’t be more than 3 lakh," said a police source. Some senior police officers said the ground became smaller as a large space was kept vacant as security zone for the Prime Minister. “If you look from the dais, you will see a very large area called D-zone in front of the main dais left vacant for security,” said a police source. Amal Haldar, the state secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, said he personally attended the Brigade grounds on February 28 when the space was “actually filled up”. “Today (Sunday) I saw that the dais was in front to make the ground smaller. There were so many vacant places in the ground if you see the ground from different angles,” he said. Several old timers said it is considered that there were two largest rallies in Brigade Parade ground and no rallies crossed the record so far. One in 1955, when Nikolai Bulganin and Nikita Khrushchev arrived in India in November for the first official visit of Soviet leaders after 1947. The second was by Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman who attended the Brigade ground rally in 1972. Since the saffron party started preparation for Modi's Brigade rally, it became a challenge for them as they knew that the turnout would be compared with the February 28 show. As a result, the party gave an “unrealistic” target to each district in Bengal to bring 50,000 to 60,000 people with mandatory representation from all booths. “We were asked to take as many people as we can. It was a historic Brigade and it was enough to overwhelm our Prime Minister,” said a senior BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Thousands of women march at Mamata rally in Siliguri||Thousands of women came out on the streets of Siliguri on Sunday to march with Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee and other women leaders of her party in protest of the LPG price hike. In the run-up to the crucial Bengal polls, Mamata Banerjee and her party leaders have been focusing on women voters who form almost 50 per cent of Bengal’s voters. The party is flagging the hike in the price of LPG cylinders, an emotive issue Trinamul believes can help drum up support of “mothers and sisters”. That the strategy worked, at least for now, was evident from Sunday’s crowd of 50,000-odd among whom 75 per cent were women. At the march, Mamata, carrying a “BJP fail” placard, walked briskly with thousands of women, including INTTUC president Dola Sen, state president of Trinamul Mahila Congress Chandrima Bhattacharya, MPs Nusrat Jahan and Mimi Chakraborty and Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri. Some party supporters carried a giant model of a cylinder throughout the rally from near Mainak Tourist Lodge to Hashmi Chowk, covering 2.8km along Hill Cart Road. “In January 2020, the chief minister marched on the same route in protest of the  NRC and CAA with around 35,000 people. But today, the larger crowd proves this LPG issue has struck a chord among women,” an observer said. On the dais at Hashmi Chowk, where Mamata spoke in front of the backdrop of the slogan “Mahilara Didir Sathe” (women are with Didi), the audience heard out Mamata and other women leaders. The sole male speaker was minister Gautam Deb. Mamata also spoke on welfare schemes her government floated for women and drew parallels with BJP-ruled states on law and order and women’s safety. Nusrat, in her speech, spoke about the struggles of Mamata and how the chief minister has worked for empowerment of women. Mimi, on the other hand, was short and underlined the slogan “Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chay” (Bengal only wants its daughter). Both drew huge applause from the audience. “The planning of the entire event was meticulously made to reach out to the women voters. Those in the saffron camp might have slammed the state government here over law and order issues but are yet to come up with such a specific strategy to draw support,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Mithun Chakraborty joins BJP with cobra quip||The saffron camp, apparently in a bid to establish a Bengal connect, produced on the Brigade dais Mithun Chakraborty, who joined the BJP on Sunday to complete a full circle in politics from the far Left in his youth to the far right at age 70. The BJP, having lost the opportunity of fielding the seemingly unassailable BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly, purportedly because of his health, tried pitching the veteran actor as its prize catch for the Narendra Modi event. Chakraborty ruled nothing out in his interaction with journalists after the event, including the possibility of being “the face” of the BJP’s campaign to wrest Bengal from Mamata Banerjee. The actor, who showed up in Bengali dhuti-kurta, underscored his “proud Bengali” credentials and played to the gallery. “Those who try to snatch people’s rights, some like us (pointing at BJP leaders) will stand firm as obstacles….Marbo ekhaney, lash porbey shawshaney (I will hit you here, and your corpse will land in a crematorium),” said Chakraborty to loud cheers. “...Everything that has been said here (by the BJP leaders on the dais), if all of that is put together, what it means is this: Heley noi, jawldhnorao noi, beleyborao noi. Ami…amra jaat gokhro. Ek chhoboley chhobi (I am not a non-venomous snake. I am…we are purebred cobras. One bite is enough to kill)…,” he added, apparently referring to his new party’s leadership striving to win Bengal. By joining the BJP on Sunday, Chakraborty went in over five decades from being a Naxalite activist in his youth, to a CPM-backer later, to becoming a Rajya Sabha member briefly as a Trinamul leader, to enlisting in the BJP. “Today is a dream come true for me. I came from a narrow cul-de-sac behind the Jorabagan police station (in north Calcutta)…back then, I had dreamt I would do something with my life. But never did I dream that I would be part of such a dais...where the Prime Minister of the world’s largest democracy is supposed to arrive...” said the three-time National Award-winning actor, who has been a singer, producer, writer, social worker, entrepreneur, television presenter and politician. “I also had another dream. That I would do something for the poor. Today, I feel, I can see that dream again...” he added, apparently explaining his decision to return to politics after a hiatus of over five years. In 2015, Mamata had said Chakraborty was keeping away from her because of a fear of political witch-hunt in the Saradha scam. This was a year after she had sent him to the Rajya Sabha, and a year before he stepped down. Chakraborty was not an accused in the Saradha case. He had been questioned by the Enforcement Directorate as he was one of the brand ambassadors of Saradha. When he quit Trinamul, sources close to him had said he was shattered when his name was dragged into the controversy. Chakraborty used to be known for his desire to help people in need. He also took pride in being among the highest income-tax payers in the country, a rarity in show business in the 1980s when his Bollywood movies were box-office hits and he was known as the “poor man’s Amitabh Bachchan”. Even in 2006-07, his role as a thug-turned-politician with a heart of gold in the Fatakeshto films had found wide acceptability among the audience in Bengal. After the event, speaking to journalists, Chakraborty said plans were being drawn up for him to be a key part of an extensive campaign schedule across the state for his new party. He said would not blame anybody or say anything foul against his former party or its leadership. “It was my own decision (to join Trinamul). A bad one, a wrong one,” he said, after a 15-minute one-on-one. Asked specifically if he is to be the BJP’s face — the de facto chief ministerial candidate for its Bengal campaign — Chakraborty neither confirmed nor denied it, saying: “I will not break protocol.” “In any case, I am a man of films. Why should I say everything at one go? It will all slowly be revealed,” he added. Trinamul veteran Subrata Mukherjee said Chakraborty’s move was “unfortunate”. “He is a very good man, a good human being…I don’t know what happened for him to take this unfortunate decision,” said the senior minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata turns up heat on Teesta water-sharing||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday referred to the contentious water-sharing issue of the Teesta river as she lambasted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government. “They didn’t bother to consult the state (Bengal) government before finalising the sharing of Teesta waters…we have cordial relations with Bangladesh and I respect (its) Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina….But we can afford to provide water only when we have enough for ourselves,” she said, coining a slogan, “Teesta, Uttarbanga ka hissa (Teesta, a part of north Bengal)”. Mamata’s stance is being seen as a two-fold strategy to fan the sentiments of north Bengal voters and exert pressure on Modi, who is supposed to visit Bangladesh — with which the water-sharing treaty is yet to be inked — this month. The Bangladesh government for years has been speaking on a treaty to ensure more water supply from the Teesta to its country. While the Centre wants the treaty, the Mamata government has not assented, as during the lean season, water levels are abysmal. A commitment to Bangladesh can pose a problem for certain areas of north Bengal, it avers. The Teesta flows down Sikkim and moves through  districts of Kalimpong, Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri in Bengal to enters Bangladesh near Mekhliganj in Cooch Behar. Last December, when Hasina and Modi attended a virtual bilateral summit, Hasina had raised the issue again. It, sources said, is likely to be raised again during Modi’s proposed visit to Bangladesh on March 26, when Bangladesh celebrates its 50th Independence Day. A political analyst pointed out that ahead of Assembly elections, Mamata is trying to put the pressure back on BJP on the Teesta water issue. On the other hand, there is consistent pressure from Bangladesh. “It is evident that she tried to stoke the sentiments of north Bengal residents, particularly those living in the districts through which the river passes,” pointed a political observer. “She also took up the onus to prove the point that the BJP is not sincere in considering the interests of the people here who use the Teesta water for several purposes.” “It would be interesting to see how the Prime Minister and his government handle the situation. It cannot afford to strain its ties with Bangladesh. On the other hand, any abrupt move or commitment on the sharing of Teesta’s water can antagonise voters in north Bengal where the BJP had performed well in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Modi's scooter barb against CM sidesteps fuel price  hike||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday appeared to mock chief minister Mamata Banerjee by bringing up a near-accident that she had while riding an e-scooter in Calcutta to protest the fuel and LPG price hikes on February 25. Speaking at the Brigade Parade Grounds rally on Sunday afternoon, Modi conveniently kept the rhetoric on a personal level and brushed aside actual facts of the price hike that had fuelled Mamata’s protest. “Everyone started to pray for your wellness when you handled a scooty a few days ago and prayed you would not suffer injuries....It was good that you did not fall down. Otherwise, you would make an enemy of the state which produced the scooter. If the scooter-producing state was in south (India), you would make the south the enemy and if it was north, you would make the north the enemy,” said Modi. On February 25, the chief minister had staged a protest clubbed with a demand for price rollback of LPG cylinders to UPA-II era level by deciding to ride pillion on an e-scooter from Bhowanipore home to state secretariat Nabanna with urban development minister Firhad Hakim at the wheel. On her way back home, security personnel helped her ride the scooter, during which photographers captured a moment where she appeared to lose her balance. “It was good you did not fall. What can we do if your scooter takes a turn towards Nandigram instead of Bhowanipore? We always want wellness for everyone; we don’t want someone to be injured. But when the scooter decides to fall down in Nandigram, then what can we do?” added the Prime Minister to loud chants from his supporters. Mamata is contesting from Nandigram against her own former minister and aide Suvendu Adhikari who defected to the BJP last December. On Sunday, the price of petrol in Calcutta was Rs 91.35 a litre and diesel Rs 84.35 a litre while the cost of an LPG cylinder touched Rs 845. Amid the hike, Mamata Banerjee government reduced petrol and diesel prices by Re 1 per litre. Mamata and her party launched a statewide attack on the Modi government over LPG and fuel hike starting February. As a part of her protest on Sunday, she led a rally with thousands of women in Siliguri. Trinamul leaders on Sunday also criticised Modi for mocking Mamata’s protest without uttering a single word in his long speech about the issue. “It is the style of Modi to mock people but to not utter a single word on the burning issues of the day,” said Saugata Roy, a Trinamul vice-president and its Dum Dum MP. “He took credit for providing free gas cylinders under the Ujjwala Yojana, but did not mention how it is impossible for common people to buy a cylinder by spending Rs 845,” he said, and pointed out how Modi has been silent on the farmers’ movement against the farm laws too. “Who will mock Modi when he mispronounces Bengali names? He did not mention rejoinders against him that he is attempting to grow a beard like Rabindranath Tagore. There are many things to mock (him for) but he is mocking other people,” scoffed Roy. Sources said Mamata’s protest by riding an e-scooter, and later grabbing the handles of the vehicle in an attempt to pilot it struck a positive note amid her electorate. Despite Opposition leaders trying to criticise her way of protest, thousands of people in Calcutta stood by to see the chief minister riding a scooter. Visibly pleased over her maiden e-scooter run, Mamata had said: “Now it becomes very easy for me. I will go anywhere, alone…I made so much progress in just a day.” A Trinamul leader said “Didi’s scooter ride” and the core issue of price hike that she had wanted to raise through it had grabbed Bengal’s attention. “That’s why Modi desperately tried to attack her amid fear of losing votes in this regard.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Mithun Chakraborty has no credibility, no respect, no influence among the people: Saugata Roy||Hours after Mithun Chakraborty joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), senior Trinamool Congress leader Saugata Roy on Sunday accused the actor of ‘originally being a Naxalite’ and said the ‘star of yesteryears’ has no influence over people now. The TMC leader also reflected on the National Award-winning actor’s political career, saying he has changed parties four times. As reported by Hindustan Times, Roy also pointed out why Chakraborty resigned from the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of Parliament, citing health reasons in 2016. He was then part of the incumbent TMC. “Mithun Chakraborty is not a star of today. He is a star of yesteryears. He has changed parties four times. He was originally a Naxalite, and then went to CPM, then he joined TMC and was made a Rajya Sabha MP. BJP threatened him (actor Mithun Chakraborty) with cases by ED and he left Rajya Sabha and now he has joined BJP. He has no credibility, no respect, and no influence among the people,” Roy stated. The veteran actor joined the BJP at Brigade Parade Ground in Calcutta ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mega rally on Sunday. Chakraborty was welcomed into the fold by BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and state president Dilip Ghosh among others. Vijayvargiya, who visited Chakraborty at his residence here on Saturday evening, had announced that he would be participating in the rally. Last month, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat met the actor at his Mumbai bungalow over breakfast, setting off speculation that he might join the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: Matuas unhappy with Trinamul list||The chief of a Matua outfit allegiant to the Trinamul Congress has said the party should have fielded two-three members of the community in the Assembly polls and claimed she had been offered candidature in the Bongaon South seat, but there was no further discussion on her contest. “It is unfortunate that Matuas are denied Trinamul tickets. But I have accepted it since the decision has been taken by top leadership,” said Sarbabharatiya Matua Mahasangha chief and former Trinamul MP Mamatabala Thakur. She said Trinamul poll consultant Prashant Kishor had called her up and asked her whether she was interested in contesting from the Bongaon South seat. “It is true that the party offered me a seat. I was interested in fighting the polls from the Swarupnagar seat as people there love me a lot. I told Prashant Kishor categorically that unless members of my community were also offered candidature, I would not fight…. I also told him that I did not mind if I was denied a ticket in order to accommodate them. There was no further discussion and eventually, I have decided not to fight,” she added. Thakur went on: “I am unhappy with the way the members of our community have been denied Trinamul tickets this time.” The Bongaon Lok Sabha constituency has seven Matua-dominated Assembly segments, of which only Gaighata was offered to a member of the community. However, Narottam Biswas’s nomination led to resentment within Trinamul. Two Trinamul leaders left the party on Sunday in protest against Biswas’s candidature. The Matua leader asked if Trinamul was so concerned about Matuas, why they were not fielded in the elections. “They are also party supporters and are not outsiders. The party can offer at least two or three seats to Matuas heeding my demand.” She did not rule out reconciliation with nephew Santanu Thakur, the BJP’s Bongaon MP, in the “greater interest” of the community. “Some Trinamul leaders met Santanu Thakur and me yesterday (Saturday) and offered to bring about a reconciliation between us in the larger interest of the Matua community. I have no objection to it. It will be nice if that really happens. We do not want any division at Thakurbari,” Thakur said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Adivasi outfits root for Trinamul in Malda||Leaders of two prominent tribal outfits, the Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan and the Jharkhand Disham Party, jointly hosted a public meeting at the Gazole College ground in Malda district on Sunday and urged the community to vote against the BJP that according to them had neglected their longstanding demands. The meeting, which was held in support of Trinamul, was attended by north Bengal  development minister Rabindranath Ghosh and former state minister and party leader Madan Mitra. Altogether, 20,000 people were present at the event that was held at the same ground where Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had spoken at a public meeting of five days back. Salkhan Murmu, the national president of the ASA, told the gathering: “The BJP has neglected the interests of tribal people, Dalits, minorities and all marginal citizens of the country. We urge you to stand by Trinamul and Mamata Banerjee in the polls.” In north Bengal, electoral results in around 10 Assembly seats are decided by the tribal population. Mohan Hansda, the state president of JDP, harped on their demand for the “Sarna” religious code. “We are worshippers of nature. The central government has not approved it but the Trinamul government is sympathetic to us. So, we should stand by Tri¬namul,” he said. Some other senior tribal leaders, including the national president of JDP Sumitra Murmu and state leader Panmuni Besra were present at the meeting. Minister Ghosh said the Mamata government had always stood by adivasis. “A number of development schemes were introduced for them. We are confident that they will support us in the elections,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
08-03-2021||West Bengal||Two leaders leave Trinamul in north Bengal ||Former Trinamul Congress councillor at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation Nantu Paul said on Sunday that he would quit the party and contest as an Independent in the Siliguri Assembly seat. Trinamul fielded Omprakash Mishra in the seat and local party leaders were disappointed with the nomination of the “outsider”. Paul is the vicechairman of the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority and North Bengal Board for Development of Sports & Games, which function under the state urban development and state sports and youth affairs departments, respectively. Asked about Paul’s announcement, Ranjan Sarkar, the district Trinamul president, said: “It is his decision. I have nothing to comment on it. We will abide by whatever instructions given by the party leadership.” Rajen Mukhia, who was instrumental in establishing Trinamul’s base in the Darjeeling hills in the early years of the last decade, also walked out of the party on Sunday. “I have left Trinamul because it appears to us that top leaders of the party are ignoring local functionaries and workers, who have been trying to expand Trinamul’s support base,” said Mukhia. Also, in Malda, Amlan Bhaduri, the immediate past district president of youth Trinamul, quitted the party. Bhaduri, who is also a former councillor and a government lawyer, said he is disappointed with inner differences within Trinamul in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-172
