09-03-2021||West Bengal||EC orders removal of Bengal DGP with immediate effect||The Election Commission on Tuesday ordered removal of Virendra as the Director General of Police of poll-bound Bengal with immediate effect, and appointed P Nirajnayan in his place. In a directive to the state chief secretary, the EC said Virendra "should not be given any post which directly or indirectly relates to conduct of election." The move came in the wake of several political parties complaining to the Election Commission, alleging that Virendra was inclined towards the ruling Trinamool Congress, sources said. "Kindly inform the commission about the compliance latest by 10 am tomorrow (Wednesday)," the order said. The commission had recently removed Jawed Shamim from the post of ADG (Law and Order) of Bengal and replaced him with Jagmohan. Shamim, a 1995 batch IPS officer, was posted as the DG of fire and emergency services. He had taken over as ADG (law and order) only on February 8, replacing Gyanwant Singh and  keeping the forthcoming elections in mind.. The eight-phase assembly elections in the state will begin on March 27 and conclude on April 29. The results will be announced on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata dismisses 'outsider' claim in Nandigram||Coming down hard on those calling her an outsider in Nandigram, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said for them people "coming from Gujarat" are insiders. Addressing booth-level TMC workers a day ahead of filing her nomination for the seat, Banerjee said people who had "sold their souls to outsiders from Gujarat" are insulting the Nandigram movement by playing the communal card. Banerjee is pitted against her former confidante Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP some time ago, in the high-profile seat. Without naming Adhikari even once, Banerjee said she had made up her mind to contest either from the Singur or Nandigram--the two cradles of anti-land acquisition movement-- that catapulted her to power in 2011. She said she decided to contest from Nandigram because of overwhelming response of the people. "I have heard some people are calling me an outsider in Nandigram. I am amazed. I was born and brought up in the neighbouring Birbhum district, and the person who is calling me an outsider was also not born here. Today I have become an outsider, and those coming from Gujarat have become insiders in Bengal," she said. Adhikari has often called himself "bhoomiputra" (son of the soil) while seeking to get back at the TMC supremo who has been targeting the BJP with the "party of outsiders" barb. Accusing Adhikari of trying to incite communal passions, Banerjee said,"Those who have sold their souls to the outsiders are insulting the Nandigram land acquisition movement by playing the communal card." "Some people are talking about 70:30 ratio (of Hindu- Muslim population). Those doing that are insulting the sacred Nandigram movement which people of both communities fought together. People of Nandigram will make BJP 'April fool' on April 1 when polling is held," she asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Political storm brews over Strand Road fire accident||A day after a devastating blaze claimed nine lives at the New Koilaghat building of Eastern Railway here, a political storm has broken out ahead of West Bengal assembly polls, with the BJP blaming the TMC government for poor disaster management and the ruling dispensation rubbishing the allegation. BJP Bengal co-incharge Amit Malviya in a tweet said, the state should equip local bodies with fire fighting equipment and put in place appropriate protocols. Quipping "Pishi has failed Bengal," Malviya tweeted, "WB needs a proactive disaster management policy, equip local bodies with fire fighting equipment and put in appropriate protocols. "It also needs a transparent and efficient fire fighting policy, with mechanism to certify buildings for fire preparedness." "Pishi" is the Bengali word used for paternal aunt and the BJP refers to Mamata Banerjee as "Pishi' as she is the aunt of TMC MP and party heavyweight Abhishek Banerjee. Countering the allegation, state Fire and Emergency Services Minister Sujit Bose said, "From installing hydraulic ladder to largely containing the blaze, our men did everything possible. It is the Railways which could not provide us with a map of the interiors of the 12th floor." Bose regretted that the saffron party is politicising the tragedy for "cheap electoral gains". Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had visited the site on Monday night and alleged that senior railway officials were not present. "The building belongs to the Railways. But I have come to know that no one from the Railways reached the spot till now. Our fire department asked for the building map from them in order to enter the premises but there was no cooperation from them," she had said. The chief minister, however, said that she did not want to indulge in politics with a mishap. Nine persons, including four firefighters, three railway personnel and an assistant sub-inspector of Kolkata Police, died in the blaze, police said. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has set up a high-level committee to ascertain the cause of the fire at the sprawling building situated on Strand Road in the central business district of the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||SC suspends warrant against BJP nominee till Bengal polls ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed that the non-bailable arrest warrant issued against BJP candidate and former IPS officer Bharati Ghosh in connection with the 2019 Lok Sabha polls violence case be kept in abeyance till the conclusion of the assembly polls in Bengal. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S Abdul Nazeer and Hemant Gupta said no further coercive action be taken against Ghosh in the case. The top court listed the matter for further hearing after two months. Former IPS officer Ghosh, who has been fielded by the BJP for the assembly polls in West Bengal from the Debra constituency of West Midnapore district, had moved the top court on Monday seeking a stay of the arrest warrant and quashing of the FIR lodged against her in connection with the 2019 Lok Sabha polls violence case. Ghosh is contesting the election from Derba against Humayun Kabir, a Trinamool Congress candidate and also a former IPS officer. Ghosh, in her intervention application filed through advocate Sameer Kumar, said despite the top court granting her relief of no coercive action in series of false cases lodged against her on February 19, 2019, which was extended from time to time, she has been implicated in new cases out of political vendetta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Didi lines up women for fuel price fight||The backlash against the “hensheley aagun (fire in the kitchen)” spread to Calcutta on Monday with Mamata Banerjee hitting the streets to raise the pitch of her protest against the fuel price hike by getting women on her side on International Women’s Day. The Trinamul Congress chief led a 2.5km march from College Square to the Dorina Crossing in central Calcutta along with 35,000 participants, “around 90 per cent” of whom were women, and then launched an attack on the Narendra Modi government, a day after the Prime Minister had come to the city to launch the BJP’s campaign for the 2021 Assembly polls. Mamata scoffed at the rally Modi held at the Brigade Parade Grounds on Sunday. “Your Brigade event yesterday was a B-grade event…. Money cannot buy everything,” she said to loud cheers from tens of thousands of women. In her 14-minute address at the end of the event, she unleashed a volley of attacks on Modi, his government and his party over the relentless rise in fuel prices. “When crude oil prices declined globally, you raised it (fuel prices). Raised it to such an extreme that LPG cylinders in Calcutta cost nearly Rs 900. Every day almost, a Rs 25 hike… a state of anarchy,” she said. “I tell you, no need for anything else, just the one thing, make LPG free for the masses. We are not interested in your bhashon (speech) of borbad (destruction).” A cabinet colleague who was present on the dais with her said Mamata felt the price-rise pitch could undermine Modi’s “development agenda” for Bengal, alongside the saffron camp’s attempts to polarise the polls. An important feature of Monday’s show was Mamata’s attempt to give prominence to not only some of the newest women inductees from civil society but also other women who have been fielded as candidates this time. “I tell you yet again on this auspicious occasion that our foremost responsibility is protecting the rights of women. Disrespect of women and their power, we will never tolerate,” Mamata said at the brief public meeting in Esplanade at the end of the march. There, the Bengal chief minister encouraged others such as filmmaker-actor Sudeshna Roy and actors Subhadra Mukherjee, Ronita Das and Manali Dey to speak. Mamata also gave the mic to several women candidates such as actors Sayantika Banerjee (Bankura), Koushani Mukherjee (Krishanagar North), June Malia (Midnapore), Lovely Moitra (Sonarpur South), Saayoni Ghosh (Asansol South) and singer Aditi Munshi (Rajarhat-Gopalpur). As the new inductees spoke one after another on the theme that Bengal wanted its daughter Mamata and the BJP had no place in the state, the audience kept applauding the speakers. “The Tollywood personalities lifted the spirit of the rally.… Actors like June and Koushani injected energy into the audience,” said a Trinamul veteran. He underlined that the protest gelled with Mamata’s carefully cultivated image of being the voice of women, and that she had also introduced a victim card to this pitch by highlighting how the entire saffron ecosystem – alleged to be misogynistic -- and all agencies at its disposal was up in arms trying to oust the last remaining woman chief minister in the nation. “It is already well established that she is the loudest voice for the rights of minorities, Dalits and others who are deprived and downtrodden under saffron rule. Now, she is also underscoring her women-friendly side,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Police recover bullet-ridden bodies of two CRPF personnel in West Midnapore||Police recovered bullet-ridden bodies of two security personnel — a woman jawan and her male colleague — from the CRPF office in West Midnapore’s Salboni late on Sunday night. The police are probing if the deceased — Rajiv Kumar, 36, and Rabari Sejalban Kanjibhai, 26, — died by suicide by firing from their own service revolvers or the bullets were fired from one single weapon. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. Sources in the CRPF said Rajiv lived in Jhakahichak village in Sant Kabir Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh, while Rabari was from Karoli village in Gujarat’s Gandhinagar. The two had recently returned from vacation and resumed duty at the CRPF’s Salboni office, the headquarters of the 232 battalion. The bodies were recovered from near the armoury depot of the CRPF, where Rajiv was posted. Rajiv was in the CRPF for the last 18 years, while Rabari had joined the force a little over six months ago. Superintendent of police, West Midnapore, Dinesh Kumar said: “The Salboni incident prima facie looks like a case of suicide. It will be clear once the post-mortem report comes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Three killed as bus from Brigade hits e-rickshaw in Domkal||A five-year-old girl, her mother and another woman were killed in Bhatshala village of Murshidabad’s Domkal on Monday when the e-rickshaw they were on collided with a bus carrying some 40 BJP workers returning to their village from Sunday’s Brigade rally. Police said that the deceased were identified as Kalpana Biwi, 35, her daughter Armina Khatun, 5, and neighbour Sharifa Biwi, 40. Kalpana is a resident of Garaimari village and Sharifa is from adjoining Sahdiar village. Four other occupants of the e-rickshaw, including the driver, were also injured in the mishap. Two among them, whose condition was deemed to be more critical than the others, were rushed to the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital. The two others were admitted to a hospital in Domkal. An eyewitness said that on Sunday a bus from Domkal had gone to Calcutta carrying around 40 BJP workers to attend the rally addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Brigade Parade Grounds. On Monday, the same bus was returning to Garaimari village with the BJP workers when the accident took place around 10am. “Seven persons, including  the driver, were in the e-rickshaw that was heading towards the Domkal market. When the bus hit the e-rickshaw, it overturned and the three passengers died on the spot,” a local trader said. “We have seized the bus but its driver managed to flee,” a police officer said. After the accident, the BJP workers had to deboard from the bus and walk around 5km to reach their village Garaimari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress fuels ire at LPG price hike ||A day after Mamata Banerjee hit the road with thousands of women in Siliguri to protest the steep rise in prices of LPG cylinders and fuel, Trinamul candidates and leaders took out colourful protests on Monday across the state on this issue. Sources said, the top Trinamul leaderships in Calcutta had instructed the party leaders in districts and the contesting nominees in 291 constituencies to flag the rise in the prices of fuel and LPG cylinders as both are connected to the daily life of common people. The price of an LPG cylinder has touched Rs 845 now, making it outside the realm of the budgets of many households. “The chief minister’s march in Siliguri touched the right chord on Sunday as thousands of women came out on the road to march with Mamata Banerjee. As rise in the price of LPG cylinders directly hits the kitchen budget, it easily angers people. After getting reports from the ground, we asked our leaders and the candidates to use the issue prominently in their poll campaign,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Calcutta. In her speech in Siliguri on Sunday, Mamata had reminded her audience that the price of LPG cylinders was “about to touch Rs 1,000”. “Those running the country have not made any move so far to arrest the hike. We provide food grains free of cost and, in a similar manner, cylinders should be distributed free among the people,” she said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not comment on the relentless hike in the price of fuel and cooking gas at the Brigade Parade Grounds rally on Sunday but did not forget to mock Mamata for riding an e-scooter in protest. On Monday, state fisheries minister Chandranath Sinha, who is the Trinamul candidate from Bolpur, rode a bullock cart as part of a protest march in the town. The bullock cart was decorated with balloons. The minister wore a poster of a cylinder on his chest asking people to protest against the BJP’s policy to raise the price of an LPG cylinder to Rs 845. “Modi is trying to take credit for his move to provide free gas cylinders (under Ujjwala Yojana) but he is silent on the price of LPG cylinders. The poor and the common man cannot afford to buy a cylinder. People in the districts depend on two-wheelers for their livelihood but it has become difficult to buy fuel with petrol selling for over Rs 95 per litre,” said Sinha while sitting on a bullock cart. In Howrah’s Uluberia, around 50 women led by Trinamul district president and party’s Uluberia South MLA Pulak Roy protested against the LPG cylinder price rise by cooking on wood-fired ovens. “Monday was International Women’s Day and the Narendra Modi government has made it difficult for women to buy LPG cylinders. So, women members of our party protested by cook on wood fires near the LPG cylinder filling station in Uluberia,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Women poll duty officials face childcare hurdle||The Election Commission of India’s directive to have women run one-fourth of Bengal’s total polling booths has become a challenge for the administration in districts with many recruited women requesting they be spared from poll duty as they need to take care of their children. EC sources said that around 28,000 new polling booths have been selected this year over and above the existing 78,000-plus across Bengal. With more booths, demand for polling personnel has gone up accordingly and as a result the need to deploy women polling personnel is required. “This time there will be 101,916 polling booths across Bengal instead of 77,000-plus in 2016. So, it was an urgency to involve women government employees in poll duty. According to the EC directive, 25 per cent of booths in each district need to be run by women polling personnel,” said an official. The pandemic necessitated hiring more polling personnel to adhere to Covid-19 protocol. For the same reason, the EC directed 20 per cent polling personnel as reserve instead of 10 per cent in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Sources said hundreds of applications from women, mainly mothers of small children, were coming to district election offices with requests to relieve them from poll duty. Officials in districts said most had informed the EC that they were unable to meet the target because many women had child care responsibilities. Moreover, women couldn’t be deployed to remote areas because of security issues. In Birbhum, Bankura and East Burdwan, officials said they could ensure 10 per cent of their existing booths would be run by women. “In Birbhum, we have over 3,900 booths this election but can deploy women personnel only in 500,” said an official. An official in East Burdwan added that husbands of these women are also government employees, and with both parents working, there was no one to take care of children. Kalyani Pathak, an assistant teacher of Nivedita Kanya Vidyalaya in Burdwan town, is a case in point. Pathak, who recruited as a presiding officer for a booth in East Burdwan, explained her quandary. “My husband is a state government employee posted in a block office in Birbhum and also involved in election duty. I live in Burdwan town with my year-old son. If I report for poll duty there will be no one to take care of my son. Hundreds of women like me are facing similar problems and have requested authorities to relieve them from poll duty,” she said. Birbhum district magistrate Devi Prasad Karanam said: “We are getting requests from women polling personnel with genuine problems. We will assess how many women-run polling booths we can have.” Bankura district magistrate K Radhika Aiyar echoed Karanam and said: “We need to assess the number of women who could be deployed on poll duty.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-170
09-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC olive branch to disgruntled leader Nantu Paul||Senior Trinamul leaders here have taken up the onus to placate Nantu Paul, a key political face of the city, in the wake of his decision to walk out of Mamata Banerjee’s party and contest as an Independent from the Siliguri Assembly seat. On Sunday, when party supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee was in town, Paul announced his decision in protest of Trinamul’s decision to field Omprakash Mishra. Tourism minister Gautam Deb, instrumental in inducting Paul into Trinamul, said he hoped the dissident would change his mind. “I brought him into Trinamul in 2004. He was one of our senior councillors of the civic body, chairman of our party’s election committee of Siliguri Assembly seat and vice-chairman of SJDA. Anybody can have political aspirations but one has to obey the party’s decision. I hope his good sense prevails,” said Deb. According to party insiders, Paul’s decision marred Trinamul’s major LPG price hike protest rally on Sunday. “We suspect his decision may encourage others disgruntled with Mishra’s nomination (to revolt),” said a party leader, adding that Paul enjoys clout in many wards of the city. “If he contests as an Independent, he will cut our votes.” Paul said many party leaders had contacted him but he stood firm in his decision. “There is no question of withdrawing my stand. I have clarified to senior Trinamul leaders including state tourism minister and state sports minister on Sunday that I am sticking to my decision and will contest as an Independent,” he said, adding that on Tuesday, he would resign as vice-chairman of the SJDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders and workers question absence of North Dinajpur district president||Trinamul leaders and workers in Raiganj town have started questioning the absence of Kanaialal Agarwal, the party’s North Dinajpur district president who has been fielded from Raiganj Assembly seat. “Three days have passed (since party supremo Mamata Banerjee named candidates) and yet he has not come to Raiganj to start his campaign. This is surprising as even popular leaders of north Bengal like Gautam Deb and Rabindranath Ghosh are constantly meeting people in their constituencies,” said a senior Trinamul leader of the town. Last Friday, as Mamata announced the names of candidates, open protests were witnessed in Raiganj and suburbs over Agarwal’s candidature. “He is from Islampur and we want somebody from Raiganj. Arindam Sarkar (district INTTUC president) is  a suitable candidate. We fail to understand what made the party leadership bring him (Agarwal) here from Islampur,” a protester said. These sentiments may be a reason keeping Agarwal away, said political observers. Sources said that on Saturday, Agarwal was in Bindol, a suburb of Raiganj, but still did not visit Raiganj. “The party has started putting out graffiti, festoons and banners in his name but he’s staying away. It seems he fears protests from some party workers,” said an observer. Agarwal said as he was also the district president, he needed to discharge certain responsibilities in other Assembly seats of North Dinajpur. “Once I reach Raiganj, I have to spend some days there, which is not possible for me right now. It will take another four-five days before I visit Raiganj,” he said. The saffron camp scoffed at Agarwal and Trinamul. “There was infighting within Trinamul and it has become more acute after the candidates have been announced. That is why, this candidate (Agarwal) is staying away from Raiganj,” said North Dinajpur BJP president Biswajit Lahiri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls: Survey projects narrow edge for TMC||The second voter survey conducted by pollster CNX for ABP Ananda has indicated that the Trinamul Congress will retain power in Bengal with a narrow margin in the coming Assembly polls. The survey was conducted between February 15 and 23. A total of 9,360 people in 117 Assembly segments took part in the survey. The bright side of the second survey (see chart) for the ruling party is it has retained its 42 per cent votes, while the BJP’s share slid to 34 per cent from 37 per cent in the first pre-poll survey held between January 23 and February 7. In the first survey, Trinamul was predicted to bag 146-156 Assembly segments, while the projection for the BJP was 113-121 seats. The second survey predicted that the Left-Congress alliance would increase the vote share to 20 per cent from 17 per cent of the first one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections: Trinamul lawmakers join BJP at Hastings||Trinamul nominee Sarala Murmu and five sitting Trinamul lawmakers who did not get tickets this time — former deputy speaker Sonali Guha, Sital Sardar, Jatu Lahiri, Rabindranath Bhattacharya and former footballer Dipendu Biswas — joined the BJP at the saffron party’s election office at Hastings, Calcutta, on Monday. Murmu’s defection became a talking point in political circles as she joined the saffron camp despite Trinamul having nominated her from Habibpur of Malda district for the 2021 Assembly polls. Murmu, who is not an MLA, when quizzed about her decision to leave a party that gave her the poll ticket, said: “It is not possible to work for Trinamul in Malda, where development has taken a back seat. What exists is acute infighting among lobbies. That is why I made the decision (to switch parties).” Senior political analysts said  Murmu’s was a rare move as MLAs usually tend to switch sides when they are denied tickets. “It is common to see MLAs defecting to other parties after winning in elections. But it is rare to see a candidate fielded by the party joining another party ahead of polls,” said an observer. Trinamul in Malda hurriedly announced the name of Pradip Baskey, a new candidate, in Sarala’s seat. Party workers were also seen wiping out her name from a wall graffiti that had come up in Habibpur area. The fact that people like Guha, known to be a close aide of Mamata Banerjee since her days as a firebrand Opposition leader, and Bhattacharya, who was by Mamata’s side in her anti-land acquisition movement in Singur, have defected to the BJP have given many an impression that discontent over ticket distribution was brewing in Trinamul. The impact of Trinamul defections to the saffron camp was felt the loudest in Malda district as along with Murmu, 14 members of the Trinamul-run zilla parishad of Malda, led by Sabhadhipati Gour Chandra Mondal, also joined the BJP. They were accompanied by a number of office-bearers of Trinamul and its frontal organisations of Malda. “BJP now has majority in Malda Zilla Parishad,” claimed BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, who coordinated the joining event at the BJP office. Back in Malda, Trinamul leaders claimed they still had majority in the Zilla Parishad and admitted they were aware of the possibilities of such a defection as Trinamul turncoat Adhikari looked after the party’s affairs in the district for months. “Most who joined BJP lack mass support. The BJP is desperately trying to purchase elected representatives. But let us make it clear that we have a majority in the Zilla Parishad,” said Mausam Noor, the district Trinamul chief of Malda. Political veterans in Malda, when asked about the defections, said it will not cause any major impact in poll results of the district. This is because in Malda has a minority population of around 55 per cent and the saffron camp has been playing the polarisation card to consolidate its votes. “Out of 12 Assembly seats, election results in seven seats of the district are being decided by the minority population. The saffron camp has started playing the polarisation card by bringing in hardliners like Yogi Adityanath and trying to consolidate votes in the remaining five seats. In such a situation, it is unlikely that these defectors will be able to draw fresh support from the minority-dominated seats,” said an observer. Along with political entities, Tollywood actress Tanushree Chakraborty also joined the saffron party on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: CPI(M–L) leaders call for non-BJP forces to unite||Senior leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Liberation on Monday called for all non-BJP forces to unite for the upcoming Bengal Assembly polls. At a news meet in Siliguri, leaders of the CPI-ML (Liberation) announced they would field candidates in 12 Assembly seats in Bengal, support some Left candidates in some other seats and iterated afresh the party’s stand of supporting the strongest non-BJP candidate in each seat elsewhere. “We will field candidates in 12 seats and in some other seats we will support the Left candidates. As far as the remaining 250-odd Assembly seats are concerned, we would like to appeal to all the anti-BJP political parties to stand together and encourage people to vote for the strongest non-BJP candidate for the seat concerned,” said Dipankar Bhattacharya, the general secretary of the party. “The idea is to ensure that the BJP is defeated in each and every seat as they are our principal political opposition,” Bhattacharya added. Of the 12 Assembly seats where CPI-ML (Liberation) will field its candidates, three are in north Bengal. These are Phansidewa in Darjeeling district, Maynaguri of Jalpaiguri district and Mothabari of Malda district. The other nine seats are Khargram of Murshidabad, Nakashipara and Krishnanagar Dakshin of Nadia, Uttarpara and Dhanekhali of Hooghly, Ranibandh and Onda of Bankura district, and Jamalpur and Manteswar of East Burdwan. “The BJP is trying to come to power in Bengal by some means or other. Their only objective is to establish a single party system that will rule in every tier, right from the Centre to the panchayats. This has grossly affected the federal structure of our country. We would like to extend our support to political parties which are opposing these aggressive policies of the BJP,” said Bhattacharya. Such an assertion comes after his party managed to win 12 of 19 seats at the Assembly elections held in Bihar a ths ago, opined political observers. An observer pointed out that though the CPI-ML sought to apply Bihar’s lessons in Bengal, the latter’s political situation was different. “In the Bihar polls, the party had sent forth the missive that every effort should be put in to defeat the BJP. It helped the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar win a number of seats. Now that Bengal polls are drawing near, they are iterating the same narrative. But Bengal’s political equations are different from Bihar’s,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: BJP rebels to contest in 4 West Midnapore seats||A group of BJP old-timers in West Midnapore district has decided to field Independents in four Assembly constituencies, claiming that the party’s nominees are “unpopular”. Both the dissidents and the official candidates will file their nominations on Tuesday. “We have decided to field Independents in Garbeta, Salboni, Midnapore and Kharagpur Assembly constituencies. The candidates fielded by the party in these seats are new in politics and do not enjoy the confidence of the people,” said Pradip Lodha, former vice-president of the BJP’s West Midnapore organisational district. Lodha will contest from Garbeta as an Independent. “Our decision will only strengthen Narendra Modi and Dilip Ghosh’s vision of a new Bengal,” Lodha said, hinting that if the candidates fielded by the dissidents won, they would back the BJP. The development has gained significance in the backdrop of the scepticism expressed by a group of state BJP leaders that there would be multiple instances of factional feud in the party after candidate lists are announced. “This is just the beginning and only 57 out of 294 names have been announced. The cracks within the party will widen once all candidates are declared,” a state BJP office-bearer said. The likes of Lodha, Dhiman Koley, BJP’s former president for West Midnapore and the dissident candidate from Salboni, members of the Hindu Mahasabha, Bajrang Dal, Hindu Jagaran Manch and representatives of the Kurmi community held a meeting on March 7 and floated the Samanway Manch or Coordination Forum. It was decided at the meeting that the dissidents would contest the polls under this forum’s banner. “The party announced the list of candidates in the evening of March 6. The dissatisfaction has been brewing since then and hardly any BJP worker from our district took party in (Narendra) Modi’s rally in Calcutta yesterday (Sunday). That made us field our own candidates in the four seats. Otherwise, the party would suffer,” Lodha said. The BJP has fielded Madan Ruidas at Garbeta, Rajib Kundu at Salboni, Tapan Bhuiya at Kharagpur and Shamit Dash at Midnapore. Dash is the present West Midnapore district chief of the BJP. Dissidents alleged that Dash was to blame for the feud. Dash has allegedly helped his close associates, including Ruidas, an employee at his shop, get the tickets. Although the district BJP leadership claimed that the problem had been resolved, the dissidents denied any such development. “A problem had emerged. However, the dissidents met our district president and everything has been sorted now,” said Shankar Guchhait, the BJP district general secretary. According to Lodha, if the dissidents don’t field candidates, a large section of BJP votes will shift to the CPM and ultimately, Trinamul will be benefited. “The support that the party enjoys in Midnapore is primarily because of the traditional Left votes that had shifted to us,” Lodha said. “The CPM has fielded two heavyweights, Susanta Ghosh and Tapan Ghosh, in the district and the BJP’s candidates are weak,” Lodha said. Apart from Lodha and Dhiman Koley, the other two dissident BJP candidates are Jayanta Chatterjee and Pashupati Deb Singha. Deb Singha is a Kurmi and hence will be well accepted by the community which has a major poll share in the Midnapore Assembly seat, the dissidents feel. “We are fielding two candidates in the Midnapore Assembly seat and hope the people will choose the best option,” a source in the dissident group said. The candidate for Kharagpur is yet to be decided. In Bankura, BJP leaders face a similar predicament with party workers putting up posters to show their dissent with the official choice of candidates in at least two of the district’s 12 constituencies — Bankura and Taldangra. In Bankura, the BJP has fielded Niladri Shekhar Dana, a councillor in Bankura municipality, and Trinamul turncoat Shyamal Sarkar for the Taldangra Assembly. Sources said there were two more aspirants for the Bankura seat but Dana was given the ticket. BJP insiders said the candidate choice was wrong as Trinamul has fielded popular actress Sayantika Banerjee in Bankura. “Change Niladri Dana as a candidate... We are not ready to accept Niladri Dana,” read one of dozens of posters apparently put up by disgruntled BJP supporters in Bankura town. In Taldangra, the names of two senior party leaders, including BJP’s district president Vivekananda Patra, were doing the rounds but the ticket was given to “outsider” Shyamal Sarkar, who is from Khatra. “The BJP candidate of Taldangra is an outsider and the people of Taldangra is not ready to accept him,” the poster said claiming that Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar was trying to keep his control on Taldangra and Simlapal by making Trinamul turncoats victorious,” a poster says. BJP president in Bankura Vivekananda Patra said: “There is no connection of the BJP with these posters. At both the places, Trinamul has done it as the party smells defeat in all the 12 seats.” However, Trinamul’s spokesperson Dilip Agrawal said: “The infighting in the BJP has come out in the open. Trinamul has nothing to do with the posters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 215 new infections||Bengal on Monday logged 221 Covid-19 recoveries, 215 new infections and two deaths, but none from the city. The state now has 3,155 active cases, down from 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), owing to an unbroken slide over 133 days. Bengal now has 1.7 per cent of India’s active cases, with the share having reduced steadily from nearly 7 per cent a couple of months ago. It is now eighth among states with the most active cases, notches better than third spot at the start of 2020. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.67 per cent now, ahead of the national average of 96.91. Its mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national average is 1.4 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.62 per cent, having fallen steadily for 109 days. On Monday, the state reported 14,412 tests, taking the total past 87.13 lakh, at 96,814 tests per million people. Of the total toll of 10,280, 8,633 deaths (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
09-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections: Helipad at Nandigram for Suvendu Adhikari’s state ride||Suvendu Adhikari will be one of the main campaigners of the BJP in the Bengal Assembly elections and to ensure his smooth journey across the state, a helipad is being constructed for the former transport minister in East Midnapore’s Nandigram. The BJP has fielded Adhikari in Nandigram where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is the Trinamul Congress’s candidate. Under the watchful eyes of local BJP leaders, a group of labourers is working 24X7 on a four-acre land in Nandigram’s Haripur village to build the helipad from where Adhikari will take off frequently to campaign against Trinamul across Bengal. “We are constructing a temporary helipad. Ten farmers have allowed us to use their land for free even though we wanted to pay them,” said a BJP leader. The BJP said Adhikari would have to attend multiple meetings and the helipad was being set up mainly for “ease of movement” and to avoid traffic snarls. To ensure a smooth ride for Adhikari to the helipad, contractors have been busy laying bricks over the last few days on a 200m road that veers off the Chandipur highway to reach Haripur. Another set of workers are preparing concrete mix that would form the periphery of the circle on which the helicopter will land. Asked what necessitated the construction of the helipad, a local BJP leader said: “This poll is of immense importance to the party as well as Adhikari. We don’t want to depend on the administration to get a helipad for his chopper to land. The chief minister will use the Nandigram College Grounds for her chopper to land and take off. As we want to avoid any administrative interference, we are constructing our own helipad.” One of the landowners who parted with plots for the helipad said his cooperation stemmed from his “unconditional” allegiance to Adhikari. “I was with him during his association with Trinamul and am with him now even though he has switched sides. All I wanted was that the land be returned to me, which BJP leaders have agreed to. I do not want compensation for helping Suvenduda,” said Nantu Pal, 52. A BJP leader overseeing the work said: “The helipad will have a 100ft radius where bricks would be laid out. On the periphery, concrete mix and bricks are being used. In the middle of the helipad, a piling of broken bricks and mortar is being used. After the end of the polls, the entire structure of the helipad will be demolished and the four-acre farmland returned to the farmers in its original shape. The entire project will cost Rs 40-50 lakh.” The BJP leader added that after the Election Commission had declared that Nandigram would vote on April 1, the party decided to drop the plan to use concrete in the middle of the helipad. “Therefore, we opted for bricks on the advice of engineers.” Vice-president of the BJP’s Tamluk organisation committee, Pralay Pal, said the poll campaign in Nandigram would pick-up next week and the helipad would be ready by then. Asked whether permission to operate the helipad had been taken from relevant authorities, Pal said: “We will start applying with the authorities concerned very soon. The nod from the director general of civil aviation is taken care of by the company from which the party is hiring the helicopter for Adhikari’s travel.” Haldia subdivisional officer Avneet Punia, under whose jurisdiction the helipad falls, has said: “The permission for helicopter landing will have to be sought from the district election officer.” An official of East Midnapore district administration said the permission would be granted only after verifying whether the helipad had adequate infrastructure for choppers to operate. Apart from the helipad, BJP leaders are scouting for a house in Nandigram where Adhikari will stay during the election campaign. “We have short-listed a few accommodations for Adhikari to choose from for his stay in Nandigram. He would be staying in Nandigram for at least a month during the polls,” said BJP leader and former Trinamul block president Meghnad Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-171
