10-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata injured during campaigning in Nandigram, alleges ‘conspiracy’||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Wednesday that she was attacked by "four-five men" who manhandled her during the election campaign in Nandigram, because of which she was injured in the left leg. The incident happened around 6.15 pm when Banerjee was about to leave Birulia area near Reyapara after praying at a local temple. "I was standing outside my car with the door open. I was praying from there on seeing a temple. Few people came around my car and pushed the door. The door hit my leg," she said. Banerjee alleged that she was pushed by four-five men while she was trying to get into the car, following which fell flat on her face. The chief minister said that her leg got swollen because of the injury and she was feeling feverish, besides having chest pain. Pointing to her leg, she told reporters, "See how it has swollen." "Some people deliberately did it. Of course, it is a conspiracy. There were no local policemen around me, neither the district police superintendent was present at the spot," she alleged. The chief minister also has severe pain in the waist, TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, who is at present in Nandigram, said. Banerjee was seen being carried by her security personnel to the backseat of her SUV from the front seat, which she usually occupies during travel, as she was in pain. A white cloth was also wrapped around her injured leg. The incident triggered a security scare as the chief minister gets Z-plus protection. The Election Commission of India sought a report from the state police on the alleged attack, an official said. Banerjee, who was supposed to stay the night in Nandigram in the Purba Medinipur district, was rushed back to Calcutta, around 130 km away, through a green corridor. She was taken to the state-run SSKM Hospital for treatment. The state government constituted a team of five senior doctors to treat Banerjee, Health Department sources said. In the team were a cardiologist, an endocrinologist, a general surgery doctor, an orthopedist and a medicine doctor, they said. Banerjee was taken to the 12.5 special cabin in the Woodburn Block of the hospital on a stretcher as her convoy reached the hospital, amid a huge presence of her supporters who raised slogans against the BJP. "We will stabilise her first. An X-ray will be conducted on her leg. We need to find out the degree of her injury and then the course of our treatment will be decided," a doctor at the hospital told PTI. The chief minister's nephew Abhishek Banerjee, a TMC MP, and state ministers Partha Chatterjee, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee were present at the hospital. State Health Secretary NS Nigam was also present. Banerjee was in Nandigram over the last two days to campaign for the upcoming elections. Earlier in the day, she filed her nominations in Haldia. Banerjee is pitted from the seat against her former aide Suvendu Adhikari, who switched over to the BJP a few months back. The TMC leadership claimed that the attack was a well-planned conspiracy to "remove her" from the poll campaign. "Many people don't want her to campaign for the elections. They want her to be removed from their path. That is why she has been attacked by goons. People will give a befitting reply," state minister and senior TMC leader Subrata Mukherjee said. The BJP alleged that Banerjee was trying to turn a "simple accident" into a "pre-planned conspiracy", and demanded a CBI investigation. "It can happen that she met with an accident but to claim that she was deliberately pushed is not acceptable. She has a lot of security personnel guarding her round the clock," BJP's national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said. "Such tactics to gain sympathy are unacceptable. I think the matter should be handed over to the CBI for an investigation," he added. State Congress president Adhir Chowdhury said such "tactics to gain sympathy" would not work this time. "Mamata Banerjee is the police minister of the state and if she is not safe then she should immediately resign from the post," he said. CPI(M) candidate from Nandigram Minakshi Mukherjee wished her a speedy recovery, but asserted that "people would not be fooled this time".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP fields actor Hiran Chatterjee from Kharagpur Sadar||The BJP on Wednesday named Bengali actor Hiran Chatterjee, who recently joined the party, as its candidate from Kharagpur Sadar assembly seat, ending speculations whether party's state party chief and MP Dilip Ghosh would be fielded from there. The party also fielded Supriti Chatterjee from Barjora seat, raising the number of women contestants to seven, for the 60 seats in the first two phases of the polls. Hiran Chatterjee is the first Tollywood actor to be fielded by the BJP for the upcoming assembly polls, beginning on March 27. The actor named as Hiranmoy Chatterjee in the official BJP list told PTI, "I will follow the party's decision. If the BJP asks me to campaign from today, I am ready. Our common objective is to build a Sonar Bangla." He is among several Bengali actors like Rudranil Ghosh, Srabanti Chatterjee and Payel Sarkar who had joined the BJP in past one month. The BJP had earlier announced names of candidates for the remaining 58 seats where polling would be held in the first two phases. On Saturday, the saffron party had released its first list of 57 candidates for the first two phases and announced the name of another candidate on Monday. Medinipur MP Dilip Ghosh's name was doing the rounds for the Kharagpur Sadar seat, which he had won in 2016. Ghosh had vacated the seat after being elected as an MP in 2019. The BJP had lost the Kharagpur Sadar seat during assembly by-poll in December, 2019. The party gave emphasis to new faces and candidates belonging to backward communities as most of the seats where polling will be held in the first phase are either reserved seats or have a high density of SC and ST population. The eight-phase polling for 294 assembly seats is poised to be a stiff contest between the TMC and the BJP. PTI SUS MM||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: I can never forget Nandigram, says Mamata after filing nomination ||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday filed her nomination for Nandigram assembly seat, where she will take on her former protege and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari and exuded confidence of winning it saying she has never returned empty-handed from the land of anti-farm land acquisition movement. Accompanied by TMC president Subrata Bakshi, Banerjee filed her papers at the Haldia sub-divisional office here after taking part in a 2-km roadshow. She offered prayers at a temple before filing her nomination, and at another after doing so. "I am confident about my victory from the Nandigram assembly seat. I could have easily contested from Bhawanipur seat (which she represents). "When I had visited Nandigram in January, there was no MLA from here as the sitting MLA had resigned. I looked at the faces of the common people and decided to contest from here," she said after filing her paper. Deputy chairman of East Midnapore zilla parishad Sheikh Sufiyan has been appointed as Banerjee's election agent. "I have never returned empty-handed from here. Nandigram is not just a name, it is the name of a movement. Bhulte pari sobar naam, bhulbo nako Nandigram (I can forget everyone's name, but can never forget Nandigram). That's the significance of this place for me," the TMC supremo said. Banerjee said that she had made up her mind this time to contest either from the Singur or Nandigram - the cradles of the anti-farm land acquisition movement which had catapulted her to power in 2011. "My feeling is very clear - no one can divide this place along religious lines. During the Nandigram movement all the communities had participated in it. Those who are lecturing now about its legacy were nowhere when violence was unleashed here. I was fighting alone," she said. The fiesty TMC chief will contest from Nandigram for the first time after relinquishing her Bhowanipore constituency in Calcutta. She has rented a house in Nandigram and will campaign from there. Nandigram assembly constituency is set for a high octane battle with Banerjee deciding to contest from the seat against Adhikari, who recently switched over to the saffron camp. Adhikari, who too filed his nomination paper for the seat on Wednesday, called her an "outsider" to Nandigram and himself a "bhoomiputra" (son of the soil). He had won the Nandigram seat in the 2016 assembly poll, while another TMC candidate emerged victorious from the constituency in 2011. Adhikari had quit TMC and resigned from the assembly late last year to join BJP following differences with the state's ruling party. Both the leaders were prominent figures in the the anti-farm land acquisition movement in Nandigram in 2007 that had catapulted Banerjee to power in West Bengal in 2011 ending the 34-year-long rule of the Left Front. The little known rural area, which had witnessed one of the bloodiest movements against the government's acquisition of cultivable land for industrialisation, had then changed the political landscape of the Bengal. Now after more than a decade of peace, Nandigram, home to 70 per cent Hindus and 30 per cent Muslims, is witnessing political and communal polarisation. The Muslims are firmly behind TMC that has controlled the area for the last 15 years. The constituency mainly comprises two blocks -- Nandigram I and Nandigram II -- with the first having 30 per minority population and the second almost 15 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP old-timer ire at Trinamul Congress turncoat||Murmurs of discontent over new BJP inductees among old-timers in Malda punctured the celebratory mood in the saffron camp a day after the party brought in a number of Trinamul leaders, including Gour Chandra Mondal, the sabhadhipati of Malda zilla parishad, on board. Even as BJP state leaders were busy chest thumping, some local leaders and workers of the BJP were heard questioning why these Trinamul leaders, who had been at odds with the party and had even resorted to malpractices to defeat BJP candidates in earlier elections, were brought into the party. Among those vocal on the issue include Anil Mondal, a BJP leader of Manikchak of the district. According to party insiders, back in 2018, Anil, who had contested from a Zilla Parishad seat against Gour, had accused the Trinamul leader of unethical activities during the rural polls. “He had manipulated the counting. I had moved to the Calcutta High Court, challenging his unlawful victory. Our party leader Mukul Roy had assured me to provide all sorts of support to continue fighting against Gour. Now, he has been brought to the party. Since 2018, Gour filed at least five false complaints with the police against me and tormented around 1,000-odd BJP workers of Manikchak in some way or the other,” a disgruntled Anil said on Tuesday. Such blatant remarks by him has left the district BJP leader flummoxed. While some of them admitted Anil’s grudge is genuine, others said that they would resolve the issue soon. “Anil Mandal is a BJP veteran and had moved court after the 2018 panchayat polls to file a case against Gour Chandra. But the situation has changed now. We would request him to reconcile for the interest of the party,” said Gobinda Chandra Mondal, the district BJP president of Malda. Anil, however, is not ready to budge and has said that if Gour is fielded as the BJP candidate from Manikchak Assembly seat, he will stand as an Independent. It is believed that as Trinamul did not choose sabhadhipati Gour as its candidate, he joined the BJP. Gour, when told about Anil’s remarks, was diplomatic. “Anil Mondal is a good human being. I will speak to him once I reach Malda on Wednesday,” said Gour. While the BJP is busy addressing grievances fomenting within the rank and file of the party, Trinamul has taken the task to control the damage. On Monday, Sarala Murmu who had received a ticket from Trinamul, and 14 members of the Trinamul-run Zilla Parishad of Malda, led by Sabhadhipati Gour Chandra Mondal, joined BJP. They were accompanied by many office bearers of Trinamul and its frontal organisations of Malda. “The sudden defection of so many members has naturally disappointed many of us. But it is now clear that BJP resorted to money politics to break Trinamul. However, many of those zilla parishad members, who were misled into joining the BJP, are likely to return to Trinamul,” said Mausam Noor, district Trinamul chief of Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Ex-councillor Nantu Paul sticks to word, quits Trinamul Congress||Nantu Paul, the dissident Trinamul leader who had threatened to quit the party on not getting the party ticket from the Siliguri Assembly seat, stuck to his stand despite efforts from his colleagues to make him stay. Paul, a popular political face in the city, on Tuesday resigned from Trinamul and stepped down from his official posts. For the past few days, Paul had been vocal about his disappointment over Trinamul’s decision to field Omprakash Mishra from Siliguri. He repeatedly said that the party should have selected a local leader as the candidate and that he would stand as an Independent from Siliguri. “I will contest the elections as an Independent,” he said on Sunday, when Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee was in the town for a mega rally against LPG price hike. On Tuesday afternoon, Paul reached the office of Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) here and resigned as SJDA vice-chairman. Earlier, he went to the Kanchenjunga Stadium and resigned as vice-chairman of North Bengal Board for Development of Sports and Games. “I have resigned from all official posts. Also, I have sent a letter to the district president of Trinamul and have resigned from the primary membership of the party,” he said. A number of posters were put in across the city in his support later in the day. The posters, under the banner of Siliguri Unnayan Samiti with his photograph, said the samiti stood by him. Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul president, said he hadn’t received Paul’s letter of resignation. “He is a senior leader and I have asked him to reconsider his decision,” said Sarkar. In another development, Lalit Pramanik, a former deputy chief of Cooch Behar Zilla Parishad, left Trinamul for the BJP. Pramanik, based in Mathabhanga of the district, said old-timers like him were being ignored in Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Farm leaders set for Nandigram rally on March 13||Leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the farmers’ body spearheading the national protests against the Centre’s three agriculture laws, will address a rally on March 13 in East Midnapore’s Nandigram, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is taking on Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. “We have been invited by a group of Sikh sympathisers from Bengal to campaign in favour of our movement at four places in the state, including Nandigram and Singur. Some of us will be participating in these programmes,” said Hannan Mollah, CPM leader and general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha. “From March 11 to 14, we will be in Bengal. There will be multiple programmes across the state and we will participate in them,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. Nandigram has regained political significance in Bengal politics prior to the Assembly polls after chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that she would contest from the seat. Following the announcement, the BJP decided to field former Trinamul minister Suvendu Adhikari against Banerjee. The Left Front-Congress-ISF alliance is yet to declare the candidate in Nandigram. Both Nandigram and Singur had been the sites of historic peasant movements and played pivotal roles in Mamata’s accession to power in 2011. After Adhikari switched to the BJP in December 2020, Mamata decided to contest from Nandigram. The meetings at Nandigram and Singur have been organised by the West Bengal Kisan Coordination Committee, an association of the representatives from Bengal’s Sikh community who sympathise with the farmers’ protests. The body will hold two other rallies, one at Calcutta and another at Asansol. Although the meetings are being pitched as apolitical, both Mollah and Rajewal said they would be campaigning against the BJP in Bengal, as they had been doing in rest of the country. “We will be requesting the people to punish the BJP and its allies because they have not been accepting the genuine demands of the farmers for the past three months,” Rajewal said. “We will not be campaigning for any party in particular,” he added. Sources in Trinamul feel the farmers’ campaign at places like Nandigram and Singur would only help Mamata in her battle against the BJP. Although the Left-Congress-ISF alliance has come up as a strong third contender, the primary tussle is still between Trinamul and the saffron camp. “If farmer leaders can successfully convince the peasants to work against the BJP, the consolidation of votes in favour of Trinamul will increase,” a Trinamul leader said. This probability has, however, sparked a controversy amongst the agitators themselves. Leaders like Yogendra Yadav and CPM’s Mollah are unwilling to let Trinamul reap benefits from their agitation, sources said. Hence, some of them like Yadav might decide against participating in the Nandigram rally. Rakesh Tikait, another face of the farmers’ agitation and spokesperson for the Bharatiya Kisan Union, might be present at Nandigram. One of the organisers said while initially it was decided that the meeting at Nandigram would be held on March 13 morning followed by the programme in Calcutta, the events were later swapped since Tikait would be reaching Calcutta on March 13 morning. “We wanted Tikait to be at Nandigram. Hence, we pushed it to later in the day,” the source said. On March 12, leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will address a news conference in Calcutta and participate in a tractor rally from Esplanade to Ramlila Maidan. At Ramlila Maidan, they will address a Kisan Maha Panchayat on lines of those being held by the Morcha in several north Indian states. On March 13, they will address one meeting at Calcutta in the morning and another in Nandigram in the evening. On March 14, similar meetings will be held in Singur and Asansol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: BJP faces dissidents in seven seats||BJP dissidents on Tuesday filed nominations to contest as Independents in at least seven Assembly constituencies which would go to the polls in the first phase on March 27. Elections will be held to 30 Assembly seats in the first phase and Tuesday was the last date of nomination filing. The BJP old timers filed the nominations as Independents in West Midnapore, Bankura and Purulia as they were “unhappy” with “unpopular” candidates declared by the BJP and allocation of a seat for the partner, All Jharkhand Students’ Union (AJSU). Dhiman Koley and Pradip Lodha filed the papers in West Midnapore’s Salboni and Garbeta, respectively. In Purulia, Gopinath Goswami filed nomination in Balarampur, Nepal Chandra Mahato in Joypur and Swapan Bauri in Para. Defying the party’s decision to leave the Baghmundi seat in Purulia to the AJSU, BJP old timer Shankar Kumar has filed nomination as an Independent. Similarly, two local BJP leaders — Dinanath Chatterjee and Tapan Mahanto — have filed papers to contest from the Chhatna constituency of Bankura against the party’s nominee Satyanarayan Mukherjee. The rebel leaders said Mukherjee, who is a native of Bankura’s Gangajalghati, was “an outsider and hence, did not represent the constituency”. Among the rebels, Koley was former president of the West Midnapore district committee, while Lodha was the vice-president. The Independent in Balarampur, Gopinath Goswami, is a sitting zilla parishad member, while Mahato is the BJP’s mandal committee president. BJP Bankura district president Vivekananda Patra said: “BJP workers who have filed nomination papers against the party’s official nominee will have no truck with the party.” The rebels, however, suffered a setback in West Midnapore when two old timers, who had agreed to contest as Independents from Midnapore and Kharagpur, respectively, did not turn up. Asked about the dilemma among the rebels, Lodha said: “The district leadership had managed to convince them to join the campaign for the official candidates. But Dhiman Koley and I remain firm to fight the polls as Independents in protest against the party’s decision.” The rebellion in Purulia’s Balarampur and Joypur is worrying the BJP leadership as the two places had played a significant role in the growth of the saffron party in the district after three party workers had allegedly been killed by Trinamul supporters. “Our three martyrs — Trilochan Mahato, Dulal Kumar and Jagannath Tudu — had to sacrifice their lives in 2018 to establish the BJP in Purulia. A large number of BJP workers and leaders started protesting against the party’s decision to field Baneshwar Mahato from Balarampur. I filed nomination today (Tuesday) on the advice of a majority of district leaders to save the party,” said Goswami. However, BJP’s Purulia district president Vidyasagar Chakraborty said: “We will not tolerate such anti-party activities and stern action will be taken against them.” The show of rebellion has come as a headache for BJP leaders, who expect more such cases of factional feud once the names of all candidates are announced. “This is just the beginning. The cracks within the party will widen once the total list of candidates is out. However, we will try to manage dissent,” said a senior state BJP leader and added that many of those who had filed papers would withdraw from the race by March 12, which is the last date for withdrawal of nomination for the first phase. Apart from the ire over choice of candidates, BJP’s attempt at inorganic growth through inductions has angered party workers at the grassroots level. The induction of Basirhat’s Trinamul MLA Dipendu Biswas was met with protests at several places in the North 24-Parganas district. BJP supporters held protest rallies in the town and set fire to the cut-outs and banners of the former India footballer who switched sides after he was denied a ticket by Trinamul. BJP leader in Basirhat, Kaushik Dutta, said: “Dipendu is an opportunist who exploited many youths only to win their support by making false promises for jobs. It is unfortunate that the party did not bother to understand the anger of the people against Dipendu before inducting him into the party. It would be unfair if he is given a ticket to fight the polls. Party workers will oppose his candidature.” If the BJP is not a happy house over distribution of tickets, Trinamul is also facing a similar trouble in Murshidabad. A bunch of disgruntled Trinamul leaders left the party on Tuesday and said they would join the Congress soon. Led by senior Trinamul leader and Murshidabad zilla parishad member Maidul Islam, around 1,000 people quit the ruling party to protest against the nomination of Imami Biswas from Suti constituency. Former Suti block president Obaidur Rahaman and former panchayat samity chief Anikul Islam also left Trinamul, along with Maidul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP tops list of winners with cases: Election Watch||The BJP may have been a marginal force in Bengal before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, but a recent study conducted by the Bengal chapter of the Election Watch revealed that the saffron party had the highest percentage of MPs and MLAs with criminal cases between 2004 and 2019. According to the study published virtually on Tuesday, 59 per cent or 17 of the 29 BJP MPs and MLAs elected since 2004 declared criminal cases against them. The report further reveals that 48 per cent or 14 of those lawmakers face serious criminal charges. In comparison, in the Trinamul Congress, 32 per cent or 171 of the 520 MPs and MLAs, elected since 2004, have criminal cases. Out of the total number of lawmakers with cases, 151 or 25 per cent have serious charges against them. “We have studied the affidavits submitted by the candidates in all general and assembly elections, and bypolls since 2004. Of all the elected candidates, the percentage of lawmakers with criminal cases is highest in the BJP,” said Ujjaini Halim, the state coordinator for Election Watch. A civil society body, West Bengal Election Watch is associated with the Association for Democratic Reforms and works independently towards electoral reforms and good governance. The WBEW has been publishing such studies prior to every Lok Sabha and Assembly poll for over a decade. In the ensuing Bengal Assembly polls, the affidavits of the candidates who file their nominations will be analysed and similar reports will be published over the eight poll phases, said Halim. Tuesday’s report also shows that in the state, BJP lawmakers are the wealthiest in terms of average worth of the assets declared by them in their affidavits. The average assets of the 29 BJP MPs and MLAs who have won since 2009 are worth Rs 2.27 crore, followed by 530 Trinamul lawmakers whose average assets are worth Rs 1.55 crore. In both these parameters, the percentage of tainted lawmakers and average asset worth — the CPM MPs and MLAs found their place at the bottom of the chart. While only 41 or 15 per cent of the 274 CPM lawmakers have criminal cases against them, their average asset is just worth Rs 22.37 lakh. The study has two broad categories. While it discusses the nature of all the candidates on one hand, on the other, it focuses on the candidates who were finally elected. “We have analysed a total of 6163 affidavits that were filed by the candidates since the 2004 Lok Sabha polls,” Halim said. Additionally, the WBEW has introduced a new section to this year’s report, which tries to predict the winning chances for a clean candidate and a person with criminal cases. According to the study, the chances of winning for a person with a clean image is only 15 per cent while that of a candidate with criminal cases is 28 per cent. “Our effort has always been to make voters aware…However, the findings of our winnability analysis is saddening,” Halim told the news conference. “It is very natural that BJP MPs and MLAs will have more criminal cases against them. This is because the Trinamul government has filed several cases against them just in order to either taint their image or stop them from campaigning in a full-fledged manner. Arjun Singh and Mukul Roy are such examples. None had any case against them when they were in Trinamul and when they switched to the BJP, they were booked under multiple criminal charges,” said election analyst and professor of political science Biswanath Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati issue: Prime Minister’s nominee Dulal Chandra Ghosh now dissenter||The nominee of Prime Minister and Chancellor Narendra Modi in the executive council, Dulal Chandra Ghosh, on Tuesday led around 100 retired teachers and staff of Visva-Bharati, to protest in front of the varsity’s central office against the varsity administration’s decision to scrap free medical consultation at the university hospital in Santiniketan. Ghosh, also the president of the Visva-Bharati Pensioners’ Association, has written  to the Prime Minister’s Office, requesting him to intervene and make the varsity administration reconsider. “Pensioners have been getting healthcare services at the hospital since the time of Rabindranath Tagore. Ever since vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty came here, he had been saying we will not be able to consult doctors at the hospital for free as the central government provides us Rs 1,000 a month as medical allowance. The varsity administration stopped the service since July 2020,” said Ghosh. Asked why he led the protest against the VC despite being a nominee of the Prime Minister in the varsity’s executive council, Ghosh said: “Look at the faces of these elderly people deprived of consulting doctors at the hospital. The VC told us that we have consumed Rs 1.20 crore by getting free health services from the varsity hospital. It is humiliation for pensioners.” Some varsity teachers said that things had come to such a pass that the Chancellor’s nominee had to protest. Visva-Bharati PRO Anirban Sircar issued a press release claiming that the varsity took the decision as “CAG has raised questions as to how pensioners could get free health service and Rs 1,000 allowance for health at a time”. A varsity official countered that had the administration wanted, the CAG could have been told that only consultation was free for pensioners and not medicines. The hospital was set up during Tagore’s lifetime to treat varsity staff and residents because healthcare services were very poor in Birbhum. Sources said in the 1950s the hospital was named after William Winstanley Pearson (1881-1923), the Cambridge graduate who had joined Santiniketan as a teacher in 1914.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||CPM and Congress tie-up triggers reception tweak||The electoral coalition between the CPM and the Congress has inspired two leaders of the respective parties in Durgapur town to take the spirit of the alliance home and readjust the timings of their sons’ wedding receptions to help common guests make it to both the events. CPM leader and blood donation activist, Kabi Ghosh, had fixed his son Kabya’s wedding on March 8 with a reception on March 10 and it clashed with the dates that Congress leader Tarun Roy had planned for his son Iman’s marriage. When the dates had been fixed, the poll bells did not toll and the February 28 mega-rally in Calcutta’s Brigade Parade Grounds had not been planned. The announcement of poll dates and the firming up of the alliance between the Left and the Congress got the two leaders thinking and they decided to send a message of unity through the wedding ceremonies of their sons. As both the events had a large number of common invitees, the two families opted to rework the ceremony timings. Both had planned to hold the receptions on Wednesday evening. To avoid the clash of the reception timings, CPM leader Ghosh has decided to host a lunch to enable common invitees to turn up for Roy’s dinner in the evening. “Under the earlier arrangement, most of us would have had to choose one function to attend in place of the other. Even if it was not poll time, this would not have been a good feeling,” said one invitee, a CPM worker from Durgapur town. Ghosh concurred, explaining that he was unaware of the clash of timings until recently, further explaining that Roy was also “a personal friend”. “Tarun Roy is one of my closest friends despite his association with the Congress, which was our rival earlier. When I came to know about the clash of dates, I immediately decided to adjust the timing of my son’s wedding reception,” he said. Asked, Roy said the two sat down earlier this week to find a solution after realising that it was posing a hurdle for the invitees, mostly leaders and workers from both the parties. “We have been friends for a long time but belonged to rival political parties. We are now political allies and the adjustment at the personal level will send a positive message to the rank and file of the parties,” said Roy. Both Ghosh and Roy said the adjustment of reception timing was meant to strengthen cordial bonding between the two parties in the town ahead of the polls. “It is understood that when we can adjust problems and differences of opinions on a personal level, the bonding between us will become stronger. It is a positive message to the grass root level of the party,” said Ghosh. Both expressed their conviction that the Sanjukta Morcha (the alliance between CPM, Congress and Indian the Secular Front) would come to power defeating both the Trinamul and BJP in May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Election Commission replaces police chief Virendra with P. Nirajnayan||The Election Commission has replaced director general (police) Virendra with P. Nirajnayan, a 1987-batch IPS officer currently posted as director general (administration) — the most significant rejig after the Bengal poll dates were announced. The order, issued by Rakesh Kumar, secretary of the poll panel, directed the chief secretary to execute the order “immediately” and send a compliance report by 10am on Wednesday. It also mentioned that the change was made after “reviewing the situation of poll preparedness” in the state on Tuesday. The Election Commission has said in its order that Virendra could not be sent to any post that involves any poll-related responsibility. Within 24 hours of the announcement of the election dates, the Election Commission had replaced Jawed Shamim, additional director general (law and order), with Jag Mohan. While it was still not clear why the DGP was transferred, a section of officials at Nabanna said the poll panel had acted on the basis of a series of complaints lodged by the BJP against Virendra over the last few days. “A delegation of the BJP had met the DGP a few days ago apprehending that postal ballots to be issued for police personnel could be misused under the direct involvement of police bosses. The BJP had lodged complaints with the EC that no step had been initiated in this regard even after the DGP had been informed in this regard,” said a source. A section of the officials also said the Election Commission was not satisfied with Virendra as the poll panel identified a series of flaws by the police administration ahead of the elections. First, the Election Commission had expressed its dissatisfaction with the non-execution of pending warrants in the state. The state had 50,000 pending warrants and the police administration could execute only 17,000 of them till last week. Second, the poll panel was apparently not happy with the police administration’s lack of interest in identifying the vulnerable areas in the state. Sudeep Jain, the deputy election commissioner, had pulled up the state administration for its lackadaisical attitude in identifying vulnerable areas properly. Third, the EC was unhappy with the state police as the bosses in the districts did not visit temporary structures — where polling stations would be set up in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic — till the last week of February. The Election Commission was unhappy because the total security arrangement plan could not be finalised until the police submits reports. “These might have triggered the change at the helm of the state’s police administration. The complaints by the BJP could have also played a role behind the change,” said a senior official. Nirajnayan, who would take over the charge early on Wednesday morning, is known to be an upright officer. He had worked in the CBI for years. He had earlier worked as the secretary in the home department in Bengal but he was transferred from the important post apparently after he had advised the state not to file “a politically motivated case” in the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections: Religious symbolism marks chief minister's Nandigram tour  ||Chief minister and MLA-aspirant from Nandigram Mamata Banerjee held a public outreach here on Tuesday evening, after a meeting with Trinamul workers, a day before she files her nomination papers in Haldia. Nandigram, once the pivot of the anti-land acquisition movement that catapulted Mamata and her party to power in 2011, is now again the focus of this crucial Assembly elections, as Mamata takes on her trusted lieutenant-turned-bête noire Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. Mamata toured Nandigram for nearly four hours, paying visits to temples of sentimental value, at least two Shahid Bedis, sites of remembrance for those killed in the 2007 land agitations, and an Islamic shrine. Her multi-layered tour of the area comes soon after BJP neo-convert Adhikari shifted his voter registration to Nandigram from Haldia and declared he would “wait in line with people” to vote on April 1, the day Nandigram goes to polls in Bengal’s eight-phase polls. After ending her speech at Battala around 4pm, Mamata and a contingent of district leaders first went to the Basuli and Singha Bahini temples at Sonachura, some 16km from Battala, where the chief minister made offerings of fruits and vestments. Thereafter, they paid tributes at the Gokulnagar Shahid Bedi which marks the spot where land agitators in March 2007 lost their lives in clashes with the police. The entourage then proceeded to Chandimatha temple in Tekhali, the village where Mamata first broke news of her candidacy at a meeting on January 18, and were greeted by more than 1,000 cheering supporters. Widespread cries of “Didi we are with you”, alluding to the air of rivalry with Adhikari, were rife in the air. She then proceeded to the day’s second Shahid Bedi in Maheshpur’s Karpalli to pay her respects. The contingent visited a Sitala Mandir in Parul Bari and an Islamic shrine where the CM laid a scarf. The chief minister also made tea for people at a stall in Nandigram town at 6.30pm and ended the day at the Janakinath temple in Reyapara. Religious symbolism was rife through the day as Mamata also made a notable change of itinerary in deciding to spend the night at a home in Reyapara, a Hindu-dominated area, that the party has leased for a year. Sources said earlier plans were for her to stay in Battala, a minority area. Speaking to residents, she even pointed out “there is a Shib Mandir right by the house I am staying in,” making it clear that her plans for the constituency have to do with appealing to the “homegrown” sentiments as much as to ensure that Adhikari, with the polarisation card of his party, does not swing the Hindu vote. Mamata also declared on Battala earlier on Tuesday that she would build a small home in Nandigram this year. Trinamul block president Swadesh Das said Mamata had “won Nandigram’s heart” following her Tuesday tour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata visits Nandigram for first time after announcing candidature||Mamata Banerjee has chosen Nandigram to launch the second biggest battle of her life, too, taking by the horns the bull of polarisation and daring the proponents of the BJP’s brand of Hindutva to compete with her in practising the true form of Hinduism. “Some will try to break up homes, polarise, with that ‘70:30’ concept. Do tell them that it’s actually 100:0. People cannot be divided like that,” Mamata said in Nandigram on Tuesday on her first visit there since formally announcing her candidature from the Assembly seat. She did not name Suvendu Adhikari, the turncoat who has been citing a “70:30” formula — dog-whistling the approximate ratio of Hindu and Muslim voters in the Bengal electorate — implying that substantial support from the “70” would be enough to outweigh the support of the “30”. Adhikari, now with the BJP, has also been suggesting that Mamata is an outsider in Nandigram. On Tuesday, Mamata replied that a daughter of Bengal was far less of an outsider than people trying to call the shots from Delhi. Uproarious laughter rippled through the audience when Mamata said: “April 1, that’s when Nandigram votes. Make them April fools, please.” Addressing Trinamul workers in Nandigram, Mamata said: “I have a surname too, like everybody else. That makes me a Brahmin home’s daughter. Should I talk about it? Should the many leaders and workers here (both Hindus and Muslims)… talk about their last names?” “Nandigram, you taught us… at the peak of the movement, fighting for your lives and land between the bullets and the bombs, you resisted the terror, with the sound of azaan (the Islamic call to prayer) being sounded side by side with shankhadhwani (the sound from blowing the conch shell),” Mamata said to thunderous applause. In the Nandigram Assembly seat’s 355 booths, voters total 2.53 lakh. Over 69,700 voters — around 27.55 per cent — belong to the minority community. Adhikari has been saying in his public addresses that the “remaining” 1.83 lakh voters — tacitly referring to voters of the majority community — would be “enough”. But Mamata warned: “Don’t try to play the Hindu card with me. If you want to, first declare whether you are a good enough Hindu. The ideals of Hinduism are about loving the people.”
Chanting several shlokas, Mamata asked: “You want to teach me Hinduism? You really want to play that game with me? Think again.” That refurbishing her Hindu credentials — deemed a necessity in the face of the saffron ecosystem’s Hindutva onslaught — would form a large part of her campaign this time has been evident for some time. After her speech on Tuesday, Mamata made several temple visits, offering prayers to Hindu deities, and has lined up similar visits on Wednesday too. She underscored how she plans to release her party’s poll manifesto on Maha Shivratri, on Thursday, in Calcutta. Mamata took time to address the other focus of Adhikari’s attack. “Some have been saying I am supposedly an outsider. I am a daughter of Bengal, even I am an outsider now? What about the people from Delhi… trying to call the shots? They are not outsiders?” she asked. “Then I should never have been the chief minister… then I simply had no right. No outsider can ever become the chief minister here, can they?” asked Mamata, seeking to touch a raw nerve in the BJP that remains unable to go to the polls with a homegrown chief minister candidate. The Trinamul chief directly asked the workers present at the meeting if she should withdraw from the contest. “If you genuinely believe I shouldn’t contest from here — my nomination is to be filed tomorrow — tell me, and I won’t contest. I don’t need to. If you think I am a daughter from your homes, born of your movement here, only then (ask me to contest),” she said to loud cheers in the affirmative. Underscoring how easy it would have been for her to contest from Bhowanipore instead, she spent time reminiscing her long association with Nandigram and its people, especially from the turbulent times of 2006-08. Mamata acknowledged that the anti-land acquisition movements in Nandigram and Singur had played a pivotal role in Bengal’s modern history — they certainly propelled her to power in 2011 — and said she would have contested from either seat this time. “Remember, when I came here (in January)…. I had tried running an idea by you, the people here responded overwhelmingly with positivity. Your courage, your enthusiasm, your respect, your love… it convinced me,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Talks for Covid-19 vaccination ease in Dooars tea belt||The state health department, which plans to start Covid-19 vaccination in the tea gardens of the Dooars, has convened a meeting here on Thursday to discuss issues related to the task. “We want to start vaccination in the tea gardens in the districts of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts and have invited the stakeholders, particularly tea planters’ associations and tea trade unions, for the meeting. We will discuss modalities and make decisions to clear deterrents so that the vaccination drive is smooth,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty for Covid-19 in north Bengal. In the Dooars, around 10 lakh people live in tea estates. According to sources in the health department, though vaccination of people aged above 60 years have started across the country, it has been found that tea garden residents are facing problems in registering themselves for the jab through cowin.gov.in. “Many elderly residents are not accustomed to smartphones. Also, in a number of gardens, Internet connectivity is poor. We need to explore effective alternatives to ease the registration process,” said a source. He also said that based on the location of the gardens, the nearest health centre or hospital where vaccination can be held has to be identified and intimated to people concerned. “Tea associations can play a major role in disseminating this information. The managerial staff of the gardens can help workers and their families know how they should register themselves and get vaccinated,” the source added. The health department has also come to know that in the brew belt there are fears over the side-effects of the vaccine among some. This is where they intend to engage tea trade unions. “It is necessary to clear doubts to encourage more and more people to take the jab,” said a health official. Sanjoy Bagchi, secretary of the Dooars branch of Indian Tea Association, said they would give all necessary help to the health officials for the vaccination and share ideas at the meeting to ease the process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Kalimpong joins polls and photography in one frame||Amid the heat and dust of the poll season, Kalimpong has linked elections with tourism with an innovative photography contest. The district administration of this hill district is encouraging voters to click pictures of hidden tourism gems of Kalimpong — holding their voter ID card — and submit the photographs to officials. Pictures, which can be selfies or clicked by someone else, if selected, will be publicised by the district in tourism-related advertisements and brochures. The competition is part of Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) initiative that the Election Commission of India started in 2009. The flagship programme is aimed at promoting and spreading voter awareness. “We are encouraging residents to take photographs holding voter cards amid the beautiful landscape of the district and submit the same to us. We feel this is a chance to showcase the hidden treasures of Kalimpong to the world,” said Kalimpong district magistrate Vimala R. Residents can submit their entries till March 15 and the best three submissions will get  cash awards of Rs 10,000, Rs 5,000 and Rs 3,000. This hill district has in many ways been under the shadow of its more famous neighbours Darjeeling and Sikkim. However, Kalimpong is coming of age. “Kalimpong district has the maximum number of registered homestays in Bengal,” said district magistrate Vimala. There are 337 registered homestays in Kalimpong, way ahead of South 24 Parganas’s 78 and Darjeeling’s 63, which come second and third place on the list of Bengal districts with registered homestays. No wonder the Kalimpong administration is keen to get the momentum going. On the photography contest, Vimala said: “We decided on this concept as we felt that most youngsters have mobile phones and they love photography. This way we are looking at promoting both voter awareness among the young and tourism.” Residents are being encouraged to click in any spot they feel “is the most beautiful spot or depicts Kalimpong perfectly”. The plan, district official say, is to create “a distinct and unique” brand for Kalimpong tourism. “We are trying to work on creating our own identity,” the district magistrate said. In the coming days, plans are also afoot to start a similar campaign under SVEEP to highlight river rafting and paragliding in Kalimpong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Police officer finds groom for girl left at altar||A police officer posted here went beyond the call of duty on Monday to arrange a groom for a girl who resides in a locality under his police station area after a youth with whom her marriage was fixed absconded a few hours ahead of the ceremony. Basudeb Sarkar, the inspector-in-charge of Kumargram police station, also took the task to collect the cash and other items which the youth had taken from the girl’s family. Sources said Mintu Burman, a resident of Baburhat in Alipurduar-I block and home guard by occupation, was supposed to marry a girl of Kumargram, Supriya Das, on Monday. The girl’s family had also handed over some cash, gold ornaments and a two-wheeler to Mintu as dowry. On Monday afternoon, when preparations for the marriage were on in full swing at the bride’s home, the family members of the groom-to-be called them up and said he would not marry the girl. “They called up and said he has an affair and that he has fled home in the last minute. We were too shocked to react,” said the girl’s father Rashu Das. As the news spread, some neighbours and relatives advised the bride’s family to approach the local police authorities. Accordingly, Das and some other relatives went to Kumargram police station. There, they briefed inspector Sarkar about the groom’s decision. Sarkar, on hearing the details, took up the task to find a groom for Supriya. He zeroed in upon Dhiresh Das, a civic volunteer posted at the police station. “I spoke to Dhiresh who is unmarried. He consulted with his family and agreed to marry the girl. It was good that the girl got married the same day and the arrangements made by her family did not go in vain. I appreciate Dhiresh’s decision,” said Sarkar. In the evening, Sarkar turned up at the bride’s place to greet the newlyweds. Sarkar, local residents said, is known to be a tough cop. His work during the KLO (Kamtapur Liberation Organisation) movement is well known and he has been recognised with a number of awards. “In Kumargram, he has arranged marriages of a number of girls from poor families. But what he did on Monday is remarkable. The girl’s family had lost all hope,” said a resident. Sarkar not only found a new groom for Supriya, he also made arrangements to get back the cash, gold and two-wheeler that her family had handed over as dowry to the home guard’s family. The girl’s father was overwhelmed. “We will stay grateful to him (Sarkar) all our life for what he did for my daughter,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
10-03-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung's camp to raise Gorkhaland issue during poll campaign||The youth wing of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided to raise the Gorkhaland issue during the election campaign, an indication that the camp is running out of a core issue at the hustings. The stand is also diametrically opposite to the one taken by the Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp of the Morcha. The rival factions of the Morcha are allies of the Trinamul Congress and have both decided to field candidates in three hill Assembly seats. Trinamul left Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong seats vacant for the “friends”. Prakash Gurung, the president of the Yuva Morcha (Gurung camp), said: “We will go to the people with our constitutional demand, which is Gorkhaland, in the current election.” Trinamul is opposed to the division of Bengal and the youth front’s statement could put the ruling party in a spot in the rest of Bengal. However, the bigger takeaway from the Yuva Morcha’s stand is an indication that the party is desperate to rely on its time-tested strategy of raising the Gorkhaland bogey when other issues have failed to lend an air of gravitas. In the past, Bimal Gurung had even fought civic elections on the Gorkhaland plank. Prakash tried to underline the fact that the youth wing’s stand was nothing new and reiterated that it had never really supported the formation of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). “When the GTA was formed (in 2012), the Yuva Morcha neither supported nor opposed the hill body. Even in 2017, I was the first to resign from the GTA in March (three months before the statehood agitation and before other elected GTA members resigned) opposing the GTA,” said Prakash. The Gurung faction’s leader added that the GTA was “not a permanent political solution” for the hills. While the Yuva Morcha has made its stand clear on Gorkhaland vis-à-vis election, Gurung has so far been measured in his speech and is stressing that he has “not sold the dignity of the hill people”. Leader of the other Morcha faction Anit Thapa had said recently: “It needs courage to say this, but I will not seek votes on the Gorkhaland slogan.” The Tamang camp has been stressing the need for “politics of reality” and said hill leaders should stop seeking votes in the name of Gorkhaland. “If elections are to be won for Gorkhaland, we should by now have had 10 Gorkhalands,” said Thapa. Acknowledging the statehood sentiment in the hills, Thapa has been saying while the demand is “dear” to the hill people, it should be pursued by apolitical forums and intellectuals. With the Gurung faction raising the statehood issue, the GNLF lost no opportunity to ridicule the hill party. “They surrender themselves at Didi’s feet and now, they are talking about Gorkhaland. This is nothing but a political drama,” said GNLF leader Ajoy Edwards. Many in the hills say the bigger question is whether the people will buy the Gorkhaland slogan raised by Gurung after his tie-up with Trinamul. “The Yuva Morcha’s latest stand reflects the desperation to win the election and the lack of a core issue to campaign on,” said an observer. Trinamul has some support in the hills and many wondered if Prakash’s statement might stop Mamata’s party from openly supporting the Gurung faction in the hills. Hill Trinamul leaders have said they are yet to receive a clear direction from their “high command” on which Morcha faction they should support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
