11-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC memorandum full of insinuations and averments: Election Commission||The Election Commission on Thursday sent a strongly-worded letter to the Trinamool Congress on its memorandum over injuries to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during campaign, saying it looks "undignified to even respond" to allegations that the poll panel is doing things in the state at the behest of a "particular party". The EC said at the outset, it needs to be stated that injuries sustained by Banerjee at Nandigram "is indeed an unfortunate incident and deserves to be inquired into with promptitude and dispatch." "Having said that it is rather unfortunate that the memorandum in question is full of insinuations and averments, which in fact questions the very basis of creation and functioning of Election Commission," the letter said. It is completely incorrect to suggest that the Election Commission has taken over the law and order machinery in the state in the name of conducting elections and appropriated the whole governance structure, the poll panel said. "This virtually tantamounts to undermine the very foundation of the Constitution of India, the most sacrosanct document in democratic polity. The Commission does not appropriate or take over the day-to-day governance of any state including West Bengal...," it noted. The EC said, "It looks undignified even to respond to the allegations of all this being done on the behest of a particular political party, etc". The poll panel said West Bengal Director General of Police Virendra was not removed summarily and without any application of mind. "It was the outcome of the recommendation given by Special Observers Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube. In fact, yesterday also when the Commission became aware of the unfortunate incident from the electronic media, report was immediately sought from the Chief Secretary, West Bengal and from both the Special Observers, at present in West Bengal, within 48 hours.... Till such time the reports are available to the Commission it will not be possible to draw any empirical conclusion let alone start linking it to the removal of earlier DGP Virendra." The Election Commission on Tuesday ordered removal of Virendra as the Director General of Police of poll-bound West Bengal with immediate effect, and appointed P Nirajnayan in his place. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Wednesday that she suffered injuries in her left leg after being attacked by "four-five men" in Nandigram during election campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul MPs to meet EC officials in wake of ‘attack’ on Mamata||A parliamentary delegation of the Trinamul Congress will meet Election Commission officials in Delhi on Friday over concerns following the alleged attack on party supremo and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, party sources said on Thursday. Six TMC MPs from both the Houses of Parliament are expected to arrive in Delhi to join the delegation, a source said. A delegation of the party met poll panel officials in Calcutta on Thursday and later alleged that the "Election Commission did nothing despite there being reports of a possible attack on Banerjee". Claiming that the attack was a "deep-rooted conspiracy to take the life of the TMC supremo", party leaders said anti-social elements have been mobilised from the neighbouring states by the BJP in Nandigram to unleash violence. The EC can't shun responsibility as it is in charge of the law-and-order situation in poll-bound Bengal, it said. The Trinamul Congress supremo was injured in the leg after being allegedly pushed by unidentified people near a temple at Reyapara area during campaigning at Nandigram on Wednesday, where the BJP has pitted her protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari against her. Banerjee alleged that she was pushed by four to five men while she was trying to get into the car, following which fell flat on her face. Earlier in the day, TMC activists blocked roads, burnt tyres and raised slogans, blaming the BJP for the alleged attack. Besides several areas in Calcutta, including Chetla and Sovabazar, TMC workers protested in Howrah, Hooghly, Bankura, Paschim Medinipur, Jalpaiguri, Paschim Bardhaman and Purba Medinipur, among others. Following this, the TMC supremo urged her supporters on Thursday to maintain peace and not do anything that would inconvenience the public. In a video message from the hospital bed, Mamata said she would be back for poll campaigning in a few days and would probably need to use a wheelchair for some time. "I appeal to my party cadres, supporters, activists and common people to maintain peace and calm. It is true that I was badly hurt last night and felt severe pain in the chest and head. The doctors are looking after me," she said. "I appeal to everyone to maintain peace. I hope to be back on the field in the next few days," Mamata added. Doctors treating her said that the chief minister is stable but is suffering from severe pain in her injured left leg and has a low sodium concentration in blood. She will be under strict observation for the time being, they said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata in pain, but stable; sodium count low, say doctors||The health condition of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is stable but is suffering from severe pain in her injured left leg and has a low sodium concentration in blood, doctors treating her said on Thursday afternoon.  She will be under strict observation for the time being, they said.  "The chief minister has severe bone injuries in her left ankle and foot, besides injuries in right shoulder, forearm and neck. She is stable now but is having severe pain in the injured leg," a senior doctor at the state-run SSKM Hospital said.  "The board of doctors evaluated her condition in the afternoon and has decided to conduct a further radiological investigation to exclude any pathology arising out of the post-traumatic syndrome," he said.  The doctors will meet again in the evening for another round of review. "The treatment continues in the same line with correction of hyponatremia. The review board will again meet in the evening," the doctor said.  Hyponatremia is a condition in which the concentration of sodium in the blood is abnormally low.  Banerjee, 66, will not require any surgery for the injuries, the doctor said.  Replying to a question on how long the chief minister is needed to remain at the hospital, the doctor told reporters, "Can't give you any date, the treating doctors will decide depending on her health condition."  Till afternoon, Banerjee underwent around eight different types of blood tests, sources at the hospital said.  The doctors are planning to conduct a series of medical tests, including a CT scan, to assess the degree of her injury, they said.  "A temporary plaster was done on her left ankle. Her ECG report was fine. Her fever has subsided," one of the sources said.  The state government constituted a six-member medical team to treat Banerjee, and doctors conducted an X-ray on the chief minister as soon as she was taken to the hospital from Nandigram on Wednesday evening.  Banerjee is undergoing treatment at special cabin number 12.5 at the Woodburn Block of SSKM Hospital, following an alleged attack on her during the election campaign in Nandigram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata appeals for calm in video message from hospital bed||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, recovering from an alleged attack on her that has left her with a cast on her left ankle, urged her supporters on Thursday to maintain peace and not do anything that would inconvenience the public. In a video message from the hospital bed, Mamata said she would be back for poll campaigning in a few days and would probably need to use a wheelchair for some time. "I appeal to my party cadres, supporters, activists and common people to maintain peace and calm. It is true that I was badly hurt last night and felt severe pain in the chest and head. The doctors are looking after me," she said. "I appeal to everyone to maintain peace. I hope to be back on the field in the next few days," Mamata added. The Trinamool Congress issued the over-a-minute-long video clip that was recorded at a special cabin bearing number 12.5 of the Woodburn Block of SSKM Hospital where Mamata is undergoing treatment after being injured during the election campaign in Nandigram. Doctors said on Thursday that she was stable and would be kept under observation for 48 hours. The chief minister was rushed back to Calcutta on Wednesday and admitted to the state-run hospital with injuries on her left leg, waist, shoulder and neck, according to doctors. She has alleged that while in Nandigram, she was attacked by four-five men who pushed her, besides banging the door of her SUV on her while she was standing on the footboard to greet people. "I was doing 'namaskar' standing on the bonnet of my car… at that time pressure was exerted, because of which my leg was hit by the car. In that condition, whatever medicine I was carrying I had those and soon we left for Calcutta. Since then, the doctors are treating me," the chief minister said in the video. "I will be back within one or two days," she said and appealed to her supporters for calm in the wake of widespread protests by Trinamool Congress workers across the state. TMC activists blocked roads, burnt tyres and raised slogans, blaming the BJP for the alleged attack. Besides several areas in Calcutta, including Chetla and Sovabazar, TMC workers protested in Howrah, Hooghly, Bankura, Paschim Medinipur, Jalpaiguri, Paschim Bardhaman and Purba Medinipur, among others. Earlier in the day, doctors said they were planning to conduct a series of medical tests, including a CT scan, to assess the degree of Mamata’s injuries, sources at the facility said. Preliminary medical tests conducted on Banerjee late on Wednesday night detected severe bone injuries in her left ankle and foot, and injuries in her right shoulder, forearm and neck, they said. "A temporary plaster was done on her left ankle and she will undergo several blood tests this morning. Her ECG report was fine. "Banerjee is stable now. She will be under observation for the next 48 hours. A CT scan may be conducted during the day. We will again examine her and decide on our next course of treatment. Her fever subsided," a doctor of the SSKM Hospital told PTI. On Thursday morning, senior district officials visited the area in Nandigram where the chief minister was allegedly attacked while campaigning for the upcoming Assembly elections. Purba Medinipur District Magistrate Vibhu Goel, SP Praween Prakash and other officers visited the Birulia Bazar area to inquire about the incident, officials said. The officers spoke to eye-witnesses, besides looking for footage from any CCTV installed in the area to ascertain the exact sequence of events, they said. "We are talking to people who were present here during the incident. We have not got hold of any clear footage of that moment till now," the district magistrate said. "Multiple people are giving multiple versions of the incident. We are trying to listen to those who were present at that moment, and then file our report to the Election Commission," he added. The district administration may file a report to the Election Commission by the second half of the day, sources said. Trinamool Congress and BJP supporters got engaged in a war of words over the attack on Mamata as the officials were visiting the Birulia Bazar area. While TMC supporters alleged the "attack was a pre-planned conspiracy", BJP workers termed it a “lie”. On Wednesday, the Trinamool Congress on Wednesday postponed the release of its manifesto for the upcoming elections in West Bengal, following the alleged attack on Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
11-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC slams EC, asks them to take responsibility of 'attack' on CM||Trinamool Congress on Thursday slammed the Election Commission for failing to provide security to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who was injured during election campaign in Nandigram, and said the EC can't shun responsibility as it is in charge of law and order situation in the poll-bound West Bengal. Accusing the EC of acting "as per orders" of the BJP leaders, the TMC delegation after meeting the EC officials here, alleged that the "Election Commission did nothing despite there being reports of a possible attack on Banerjee". "The law and order situation in Bengal was good. But, after announcement of elections law and order became the responsibility of the EC. "The EC removed the DGP of the state police and the very next day she was attacked," TMC secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said. Claiming that several comments by senior BJP leaders had dropped enough indications that Banerjee might be attacked, Chatterjee said "despite having those inputs the chief minister was left with no proper security". "Who will take responsibility for the attack on Mamata Banerjee, when EC is in charge of administration? EC has to take responsibility for the incident. "They are acting as per orders of the BJP leaders. The BJP is asking the EC to remove an official and they are removing him," he said. The three-member TMC delegation, led by state minister Partha Chatterjee met EC officials and registered a complaint into the incident and demanded a thorough probe. Chatterjee was accompanied by TMC leader in Rajya Sabha Derek O'Brien and state minister Chandrima Bhattacharya. "You have to understand the chronology. You remove the DGP, leave a woman chief minister's security less and then attack her. If you go through social media post by the BJP leaders there have been indications that she would be attacked," O'Brien said. Banerjee is at present undergoing treatment at the SSKM hospital in Calcutta with injury to her left leg, waist, shoulder and neck, according to doctors. The TMC supremo alleged on Wednesday evening that during her campaign in Nandigram, she was attacked by four-five men who pushed her, besides banging on her the door of her car, leading to the injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Protests erupt across Bengal over 'attack' on Mamata||Trinamool Congress activists took out rallies across Bengal on Thursday, protesting against an alleged attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Purba Medinipur's Nandigram. Protests were held in different parts of Calcutta, North 24 Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah, Birbhum, South 24 Parganas, Jalpaiguri districts, and Trinamool Congress supporters briefly blocked roads in some areas. They shouted slogans against the BJP, accusing it of conspiring against Banerjee. The ruling party activists took to the streets and burnt tyres to protest against her political conspirators in Nadigrams Birulia Bazar area where Banerjee sustained injuries on her left leg and waist as she fell on the ground after she was allegedly pushed by unknown miscreants while campaigning for assembly elections on Wednesday. A scuffle broke out between the Trinamool Congress activists and a group of BJP workers in the Birulia area this morning but the situation was soon brought under control, police said. Prayers were held by Trinamool Congress workers in various temples and shrines of Pirbaba (Mazar) in Nandigram for her speedy recovery. She is undergoing treatment at the 12.5 special cabin of Woodburn Block of the SSKM Hospital in Calcutta. Banerjee had on Wednesday alleged that she was attacked by "four-five men" in Nandigram, hours after she filed nomination as a Trinamool Congress candidate from the high-profile seat. She is pitted against her former confidante Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP some time ago, in the Nandigram constituency that will go to poll on April 1 in the second phase. The eight-phased elections to the 294 seats in West Bengal will be held between March 27 and April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh demands CBI probe into 'attack' on Mamata||BJP's Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh on Thursday demanded a CBI probe into the alleged attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, saying that it needs to be seen whether the incident was a "well-scripted drama" to garner votes. Speaking to reporters, Ghosh said that the people of the state have seen such "drama" earlier as well. "It needs to be probed what actually happened. How come a Z-plus protectee gets attacked is a matter that has to be looked into. The state should order a CBI probe to bring out the truth," he said. "It needs to be seen whether it was a true incident or a well-scripted drama," Ghosh said, referring to Banerjee's photos on the hospital bed with her leg plastered. Ghosh said that "such a drama" to garner sympathy votes, sensing defeat, would not yield any results this time. "The people of the state have seen such drama earlier too. Those who know they would be voted out of power can stoop to any level to get votes," he said. The chief minister is at present undergoing treatment at the SSKM Hospital in Kolkata with injury to her left leg, waist, shoulder and neck, according to doctors. Banerjee alleged on Wednesday evening that during her campaign in Nandigram, she was attacked by four-five men who pushed her, besides banging on her the door of her car, leading to the injuries. The Trinamool Congress alleged that it was a well- planned conspiracy to "remove her" from the poll campaign. "Many people don't want her to campaign for the elections. They want her to be removed from their path. The BJP should be ashamed of themselves that they have stooped so low that they are attacking a woman," TMC leader Sougata Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata ‘stable’, officials visit Nandigram to piece together events of Wednesday||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is undergoing treatment at a state-run hospital here following an alleged attack on her in Nandigram is "stable" now, and doctors are planning to conduct a series of medical tests, including a CT scan, to assess the degree of her injury, sources at the facility said on Thursday. Preliminary medical tests conducted on Banerjee late on Wednesday night detected severe bone injuries in her left ankle and foot, and injuries in her right shoulder, forearm and neck, they said. "A temporary plaster was done on her left ankle and she will undergo several blood tests this morning. Her ECG report was fine. "Banerjee is stable now. She will be under observation for the next 48 hours. A CT scan may be conducted during the day. We will again examine her and decide on our next course of treatment. Her fever subsided," a doctor of the SSKM Hospital told PTI. On Thursday morning, senior district officials visited the area in Nandigram where the chief minister was allegedly attacked while campaigning for the upcoming Assembly elections. Purba Medinipur District Magistrate Vibhu Goel, SP Praween Prakash and other officers visited the Birulia Bazar area to inquire about the incident, officials said. The officers spoke to eye-witnesses, besides looking for footage from any CCTV installed in the area to ascertain the exact sequence of events, they said. "We are talking to people who were present here during the incident. We have not got hold of any clear footage of that moment till now," the district magistrate said. "Multiple people are giving multiple versions of the incident. We are trying to listen to those who were present at that moment, and then file our report to the Election Commission," he added. The district administration may file a report to Election Commission by the second half of the day, sources said. Trinamool Congress and BJP supporters got engaged in a war of words over the attack on Banerjee as the officials were visiting the Birulia Bazar area. While TMC supporters alleged the "attack was a pre-planned conspiracy", BJP workers termed it a “lie”. Banerjee alleged on Wednesday evening that she was attacked by four-five men who pushed her, besides banging the door of her car on her, injuring her left leg, waist, shoulder and neck as she fell on the ground. Soon after the alleged incident, the Election Commission sought a report on the matter from Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. "This is a serious matter which needed to be investigated. We are constantly keeping a tab on the situation. We have sought a report from the state police and administration. The report must be sent quickly," a senior official at the CEO said. In a video message from the hospital, the TMC supremo urged her followers to keep calm. The state government constituted a nine-member team to treat Banerjee, and doctors conducted an x-ray on the chief minister as soon as she was taken to the hospital from Nandigram on Wednesday evening. Banerjee sustained injuries on her left leg and waist. She is undergoing treatment at the 12.5 special cabin of Woodburn Block of the SSKM Hospital. On Wednesday, the Trinamool Congress on Wednesday postponed the release of its manifesto for the upcoming elections in West Bengal, following the alleged attack on Mamata Banerjee. As the party chairperson, she was scheduled to release the manifesto in the afternoon at her residence in Kalighat. "The manifesto release has been postponed for the time being. It will be released after Mamata Banerjee gets well and is back home. Although our manifesto is ready, there is no question of releasing it without her," a senior TMC leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee injured in Nandigram after filing nomination||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was admitted to hospital with multiple injuries to her left ankle, hip and the region around the collar bone, suffered when a group allegedly slammed the door of an SUV on whose footboard she was standing to greet people after filing her nomination for the Nandigram seat on Wednesday. Late on Wednesday night, an MRI scan showed a crack in the left foot, and ligament and soft tissue injuries, sources said. “I was standing on the footboard of the car to greet the crowd when four to five people suddenly slammed the door (of the car). See how my feet have swollen. It’s a conspiracy.... It was deliberate,” Mamata, who was clearly in severe pain, said in Nandigram. “There was no one from the local police. The SP was not there, either,” she added, sitting in the front seat of the SUV. As Mamata was feeling nauseous, a green corridor was created and she was rushed to Calcutta for admission to SSKM Hospital. A five-member medical board has been set up. The incident injected an unexpected element into the election discourse, with some Opposition leaders such as the BJP’s Arjun Singh calling it “drama”. Several other leaders, including railway minister Piyush Goyal, echoed him and suggested that Mamata’s allegations stemmed from the realisation that she would lose from Nandigram. By night, however, some in the BJP appeared to have realised that the barbs were in poor taste and might backfire at the hustings. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar visited SSKM. “Sought an update from Director, Security and Chief Secretary in matter. Health Secretary and Director of Hospital urged to take all caution,” Dhankhar tweeted. The police administration in the state is now under the Election Commission as the polls have been notified. The Election Commission has sought a report on the incident. “Such statements from BJP leaders are in poor taste…. The country’s lone woman chief minister suffers injuries and they make such comments,” said Trinamul MP Saugata Roy. The chief minister complained of excruciating pain when doctors met her at cabin number twelve-and-a-half in the Woodburn Ward of SSKM Medical College and Hospital. She was given painkillers and had X-rays taken. From SSKM, she was taken to the Bangur Institute of Neurosciences next door for the MRI scan. “The chief minister complained of nausea and was clearly in severe trauma,” a doctor said. “She was stabilised immediately after admission.” Several Trinamul leaders, many of whom had rushed to SSKM in the evening, iterated the conspiracy charge. Good wishes for Mamata poured in from different parts of the country. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “I strongly condemn the attack on Mamata Didi. Those responsible should be immediately arrested and punished. I pray for her speedy recovery.” Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav expressed concern and demanded a probe. Poll observer Vivek Dubey said the police would conduct an investigation after recording the chief minister’s statement. Mamata had a busy day in Nandigram on Wednesday. She filed her nomination in Haldia and then visited several places of worship, participated in programmes and interacted with ordinary voters. Before her injury, she had planned to spend the night in Nandigram. Local sources said the incident took place while Mamata was leaving the Giribazar area of Rani Chowk in Nandigram after visiting a temple. “The place was very crowded: around 5,000 people were waiting when she came out of the temple.… Seeing the crowd, she stood on the footboard to greet the people. Suddenly, she fell down and then we heard her cry out in pain,” an eyewitness said. “Her security guards lifted her and placed her in the car. She was writhing in pain.… She was being taken to a rented accommodation in the Reyapara area of Nandigram when she complained of excruciating pain. A swelling had developed around her left ankle. Her security guards got ice cubes from an ice cream shop and applied them to the swelling.” The alleged attack on Mamata and her accusations about the absence of local police threw up questions about her security, which counts as Z-plus. Sources in East Midnapore police said the crowd had been beyond control through the day, with the chief minister travelling around Nandigram after filing her nomination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Suvendu questions Mamata’s hymn recital||Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari marshalled hundreds of BJP workers for a rally in East Midnapore’s Nandigram town on Wednesday morning and used the opportunity to attack the chief minister for trying to reach out to the local Hindu community in the run-up to the polls. Suvendu, who is scheduled to file his papers on Friday, played out the dual narrative of Hindutva and “son of Midnapore’s soil” claim as he accused Mamata Banerjee of waking up to the sentiments of Nandigram “only with an eye on votes”. “I have requested Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to address a rally here. Central ministers Smriti Irani and Babul Supriyo have also expressed interest in coming here,” he said while inaugurating the BJP’s campaign office in Nandigram town. Ridiculing Mamata for visiting several temples since she landed in Nandigram on Tuesday, Suvendu said: “The same Mamata who took offence at the chanting of Jai Sri Ram on the occasion of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary in Calcutta is now paying obeisance at our Janakinath temple…” Suvendu then proceeded to play the radio broadcast of Mahalaya, famed amongst Bengalis as an early morning ritual heralding the Pujas, and then played Mamata’s recitation of the Chandipath verses asking the crowd to “point out the original”. Mamata had recited the verses from a Nandigram podium on Tuesday proclaiming she was “a Hindu woman”. “She has made no contribution to Nandigram and her promises of employment are all dubious,” Suvendu said to cheers from BJP supporters. “Thirty thousands of our youths are migrant labourers thanks to her... She paid no heed to Nandigram when the lockdown happened, when Amphan happened.... If the BJP comes to power, we will return all the money that was stolen from you in chit funds.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Sports icon for disabled voters in Jalpaiguri ||A sportswoman in Jalpaiguri who can’t speak or hear but has proved her mettle in different national sports events both as an athlete and as a coach has been selected as the icon by the Jalpaiguri district administration to encourage physically-challenged voters to exercise their rights in the Assembly elections. Saswati Guha Roy, who is in the mid-forties and is a hearing-impaired person since her birth, will move around across the district and would explain to voters through sign language about the importance of voting, the use of EVMs and the significance of VVPAT and how one should maintain the Covid-19 safety protocols during the elections. Saswati, who resides at Raikatpara here, is known for her prowess as a basketball player and as an athlete. In the nineties, she had secured medals in state and national level sports events hosted for deaf and dumb sportspersons. In 2005, she had participated in the special Olympics in Melbourne. Later, she had trained players and in 2017, she was the chief coach of the national games for the deaf and dumb in Chennai. As The Telegraph met and interacted with Saswati via WhatsApp, the woman appeared confident that she would be able to convince physically-challenged voters as a section of them feels discouraged to exercise their franchise. “I thank the administration for selecting me for the campaign. During the lockdown, I have attended a number of virtual sessions where I have emphasised the need to bring in more and more physically-challenged people to the sports arena,” she said through Whatsapp. Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said:  “She will be the face of our campaign. The Election Commission has given impetus to specially-challenged voters and there are provisions even to cast votes through postal ballots if they find it inconvenient to reach the booths. Saswati Guha Roy has the experience to work with such persons and hence, she will move around the district and encourage such voters.” Saswati, who is a graduate, also has diplomas in information technology and in management of deaf and dumb persons. As of now, Saswati is working as an executive assistant at the block health centre of Rajganj in Jalpaiguri that is located at Belakoba, around 25km from Jalpaiguri town. “Her success in the sports arena and her experience to interact with specially challenged persons can help us get more and more such people to the booths. We have already communicated with her and she is eager to join us in the campaign,” said an official of the district administration. Sanjoy Chakraborty, the secretary of Jalpaiguri Welfare Organisation — a social organisation with which Saswati is associated — has also appreciated the administration’s decision. “For years now, she had been taking care of deaf and dumb people who often turn up in our office for different purposes. She is indeed a role model for such people and we believe this new engagement will bolster her confidence to work for people,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Young faces make a mark on Left list in Bengal||The presence of youths in large numbers at the rally of the Sanjukta Morcha at the Brigade Parade Grounds here on February 28 found reflection in the Left Front’s candidate list that saw several veterans taking a step back and handing over the baton to young faces to fight the polls. Left Front chairperson Biman Bose on Wednesday declared the names of nominees, a large number of whom are below 40 years, for 124 Assembly seats that the Left parties would fight as part of the alliance with the Congress and the Indian Secular Front (ISF). “The choice of young candidates by the CPM has been done in keeping with the party’s state committee’s decision to field candidates below 40 in the majority of the Assembly segments,” said a senior CPM leader. The Left had on Friday published the list of candidates for the first two phases of the Bengal Assembly polls. DYFI state president Minakshi Mukherjee will take on chief minister Mamata Banerjee and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari for the high-profile Nandigram seat. Other than Minakshi, the CPM’s relatively “younger list” includes SFI state president Srijan Bhattacharya, DYFI state secretary Sayandeep Mitra, SFI state secretary Pratikur Rahaman, JNU student leader Aishe Ghosh and SFI’s national joint secretary Dipsita Dhar. “There are several candidates who are below 40 years of age. We will mention the age of the candidates along with their names on our website,” Bose said while releasing the list. Srijan has been fielded from Singur. Sayandeep will contest from Kamarhati in North 24-Parganas, Aishe from Jamuria in West Burdwan, Pratikur from Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas and Dipsita from Bally in Howrah. The CPM has re-nominated Satarup Ghosh from Kasba from where he had lost to Trinamul’s Javed Khan in the 2016 Assembly polls. In Rajarhat-Newtown, the CPM has fielded Saptarshi Deb, the son of former minister Gautam Deb who had played a major role in the metamorphosis of Rajarhat into a new town. Similarly, Pritha Tah, the daughter of slain CPM leader Pradip Tah, has been fielded from Burdwan South that had in the past elected party veteran Nirupam Sen. Among the list of Left candidates, activist and actor Debdut Ghosh has been fielded from Tollygunj. There were talks that the ISF would contest from Nandigram, but on Wednesday, Bose put the rumours to rest by fielding Minakshi. Reacting to the party’s choice to field her from the high-profile seat, Minakshi said: “It is a difficult seat since the chief minister and one of her former colleagues are contesting. As a candidate of the Sanjukta Morcha, I will have to fight against two forms of Trinamul. However, our focus will be on employment, good governance and saving democracy in Bengal.” Commending the party’s decision to field young faces, she added: “It is a very brave step. All those who had been fighting for our cause in the streets will now take the fight to the booths.” However, a bunch of important Left veterans have also found mention in Wednesday’s list. Two sitting MLAs — Sujan Chakraborty and Ashok Bhattacharya —have been fielded from their respective seats Jadavpur and Siliguri. Septuagenarian Kanti Ganguly is the Left candidate from Raidighi and politburo member Mohd. Salim has been fielded from Chanditala in Hooghly. Even though the nomination process for the first phase of polls is over, the Sanjukta Morcha alliance is still having the jitters with the Congress fielding candidates from three seats in Purulia — Kashipur, Baghmundi and Joypur — despite the Left Front announcing their candidates for those constituencies. Asked about the stalemate, Bose said: “The state Congress chief is in Delhi…once we sit together, all the differences will be solved in minutes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Two Trinamul MLAs minus tickets go to BJP||Two Trinamul MLAs, including a minister of state, joined the BJP on Wednesday. Bachhu Hansda, the MLA of Tapan in South Dinajpur and the minister of state for the north Bengal development department, switched to the saffron camp after his former party did not provide him with a ticket for the Assembly polls. Gauri Shankar Dutta, the sitting Trinamul MLA of Tehatta and the former chief of Trinamul in Nadia district, also joined the BJP. He was also denied a ticket. Hansda, sources said, was aggrieved with Trinamul. On Tuesday, Trinamul leader and MP Arpita Ghosh had met him and tried to placate him. “He, however, remained unperturbed, quit the party and joined the BJP,” said a party insider. Along with Hansda and Dutta, a hoard of dissident Trinamul leaders — most of them from Nadia and Howrah districts — joined the BJP in the BJP office in Calcutta. Some of these leaders had held administrative positions at different local bodies in the two districts. Another actor from the Bengali film industry Bonny Sengupta and filmmaker Rajib also joined the BJP on Wednesday. Sengupta’s mother Piya Sengupta and partner Koushani Mukherjee had recently joined Trinamul. Koushani has also been named as the Trinamul candidate for Krishnanagar North. The joining process of ex-Trinamul leaders and workers continued for over 20 minutes. Old and new BJP leaders couldn’t remember any other instance where the event took so long other than in December when Trinamul leader and state minister Suvendu Adhikari had joined the saffron brigade. Members of the workers union of a Calcutta-based club and a glass factory also took the BJP flag from state party chief Dilip Ghosh, which several old timers said was below Ghosh’s dignity. “Is this some kind of a joke? A joining event for 21 minutes has never happened inside the party office,” an angry BJP leader said. “And who are these people? Apart from a couple of MLAs and a few others, most of them are nobodies. Why should the party’s state president be bothered for their joining?” the leader added. In a second news conference, Adhikari inducted a few leaders from East Midnapore into BJP. In Siliguri, Shankar Ghosh, a CPM leader and a member of the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, severed all ties with the CPM. Ghosh has submitted his resignation from primary membership of the party, he said. “I had been associated with the CPM for the past 30 years. But I have been cornered in the party for the past three-four years and my voice was suppressed for some unknown reason. Considering the situation, I felt it is better to quit rather than facing humiliation,” Ghosh, who was also a member of CPM’s Darjeeling district secretariat, said on Wednesday. Ghosh, one of the popular faces of the CPM in Siliguri, was elected as a councillor for the first time in 2015. He was made a member, mayor-in-council and was considered over the close associates of Siliguri MLA and senior party leader Asok Bhattacharya. “I also stepped down from the post of the member of BoA of the civic body on Tuesday. So far, I have not decided anything about joining some other party. I will make a decision in another couple of days,” he added. Sources in the CPM said his decision had come as a shocker for the party. Even Bhattacharya and the party’s district secretary Jibesh Sarkar had been to his house but could not make him change his mind, said sources. On Wednesday evening, however, senior CPM leaders tried to put a brave face. “It will have hardly any effect on the party…. his (Ghosh) political aspiration has forced him to take such a decision,” Bhattacharya said. The Bengal BJP on Wednesday nominated actor Hiran Chatterjee alias Hiranmoy Chattopadhyay from the Kharagpur (Sadar) Assembly seat. In 2016, Dilip Ghosh won his first Assembly polls from this seat but in the bypoll of 2019, after Ghosh was elected as an MP, this seat was wrested by Trinamul candidate Pradip Sarkar. “Our young workers in Kharagpur wanted a young leader. Hence, Hiran has been fielded from that seat. His candidature will encourage the workers,” Ghosh said. Also, Supriti Chatterjee has been named as the BJP candidate from Barjora, on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s Nandigram outreach before injury||Mamata Banerjee went on an outreach overdrive on Day 2 of her Nandigram campaign, conducting a march, filing her nomination, visiting places of worship, participating in programmes and issuing brief statements thanking the people for getting her to contest from the East Midnapore seat. Before her plans were unexpectedly terminated by injuries she suffered in an accident which she attributed to a conspiracy, the Bengal chief minister spent Wednesday trying to woo the 2.53 lakh Nandigram electorate for her fight against former lieutenant Suvendu Adhikari, now the BJP’s candidate. “Nandigram leaders requested the chief minister to visit temples in Nandigram 2 (block) before going back to Calcutta. That is why she had decided on Tuesday itself to extend her stay,” said a district party leader. Even on Tuesday, she had paid several visits to places of worship, apparently trying to nullify the desperate attempts by her principal adversary, the saffron ecosystem, to polarise the elections along communal lines. “The chief minister has been picking many Hindu temples, along with one or two Muslim places of worship. She will not neglect the minorities, of course. But she also has to take a more in-your-face approach with regard to proving her Hindu credentials as well,” said a senior Trinamul Congress MP. “None of this ought to be part of a democratic election in a so-called civilised nation in 2021. But, sadly, the rules of the game have been drastically changed over the past few years, and she cannot afford to ignore the harsh reality,” added the MP. In the afternoon, accompanied by her party’s state president Subrata Bakshi and district leader Sheikh Sufian, the chief minister travelled by helicopter to Haldia around 1pm and made her way to the SDO office — by means of a one km march — where she was later joined by Rajya Sabha member Dola Sen, one of the people handling her campaign in Nandigram. Her nomination was accepted by deputy magistrate Kishore Kumar Biswas, a returning officer for the April 1 polling in the constituency. Speaking to journalists afterwards, Mamata said: “My proposers were Mahadeb (Bagh), Swadesh Das, Susama Das and Abdul Samad, who hail from families of martyrs (of 2007)…. My chief election agent is Sheikh Sufian.” “Our election manifesto will be released tomorrow, on Maha Shivratri, after I go to Calcutta,” she said, hours before the injuries forced her to return in the evening, for urgent medical attention. After the nomination-filing, Mamata once again underscored how easy it would have been for her to contest from her Bhowanipore instead, but she had decided to contest from one of the two “holy movement sites” of Singur and Nandigram this time. She said she had zeroed in on Nandigram on the basis of the people’s “overwhelming response” when she had popped the question at a rally here in January. After the nomination process, the Mamata contingent travelled back by helicopter to Nandigram 2 and visited temples by road. Her stops included Shibrampur’s Kalimandir, where the chief minister spent eight minutes, the Chalmari temple, a Durga temple, a Shivalay temple and finally, the Giribazaar temple at Ranichowk, where a crowd of over 2,000 supporters awaited her. Speaking to the crowd, Mamata said: “Our gathering here is proof of our unity.... The world will remember us for this.” Lashing out at Adhikari, she added: “I have built all of Nandigram, starting from its bus stops, but somebody else takes credit for it.” “It doesn’t matter to me as I know the real truth.... I want no divisions in Nandigram from here on out.… It (winning) will be a game for us,” said the Trinamul chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021:Trinamul seeks to reach voters via Birbhum temples||Trinamul leaders in Birbhum have launched a drive to clean temples in their respective areas in an apparent bid to counter, though subtly, the BJP’s Hindutva-driven narrative to appropriate places of worship and pilgrimages. Sources said ruling party MLAs and workers had started the drive in the run up to the Assembly polls to establish its “connect” with the Hindu way of life, while simultaneously, hinting at the BJP’s apparent failure to put its words into actions. The temple clean-up comes in the backdrop of BJP leaders trying to polarise voters on religious lines and accusing Trinamul of appeasing minorities. While the temple sanitisation is an obvious attempt to level with the BJP’s tactics, rival parties in the district played it down, terming it “unoriginal” and condemning Trinamul’s introduction of politics into religious spaces. “The move will establish good faith among local residents while also countering less obvious forces of the Hindu right-wing on the ground like the Viswa Hindu Parshad,” said a source. The initiative, reportedly conceived by poll consultant Prashant Kishor, comes after the Sangh parivar has launched fundraising for the proposed Ram temple at Ayodhya. Sources said before launching the clean-up drive, Trinamul leaders had been asked to draw up a list of temples and schedule visits where they would interact with devotees and take part in temple-cleaning drives. The leaders are reportedly touring the surrounding areas to gauge people’s sentiments. “Leaders are also holding meetings regarding their attentiveness towards the Hindu community and fuse those speeches with their eye towards local development,” said a worker, adding that Trinamul’s doles for temples and priests were being discussed with the local populace. “The BJP and its wings are playing the polarisation card against Trinamul before the Assembly polls. So, it is high time to reach out to temples so as to send a message to the Hindu community that Trinamul is also there for them,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Asit Majumdar, the Trinamul MLA from Hooghly’s Chinsurah, has visited several temples to clean the premises and interact with local people. “I have already visited six temples and there are at least six more to visit. I, along with our party workers, are going to temples, cleaning premises and interacting with common people and devotees there,” Majumdar told The Telegraph recently. In Purulia, Trinamul leaders have identified around 100 temples for leaders to visit. In the Ayodhya hills in Purulia, the zilla sabhadhipati and a group of Trinamul leaders cleaned a Ram temple two weeks ago. “MLAs are busy for the polls and the drive to reach and clean temples has started. Our leaders already visited around ten important temples in our area,” said a party worker. In a bid to woo Hindu voters, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had already started paying a monthly honorarium for Hindu priests and allotted funds for the development of several temples across Bengal last year. According to the 2011 census, Bengal has a 70.54 per cent Hindu population, making them a deciding factor in the elections. Even prior to the temple clean-up drive, Trinamul had taken several measures across different districts to woo Hindu voters. In Purulia, party leaders had organised a large-scale Ram Navami celebration in 2019 to counter the BJP’s polarisation cards. In Birbhum, district Trinamul leaders had distributed khols and kartals to the kirtan groups at a cost of around Rs 2 crore in 2018. BJP leaders, however, said Trinamul’s ‘gimmicks” would not work. The CPM also criticised Trinamul’s temple sanitisation saying it had been “copied” from the Sangh parivar’s playbook. “We can’t find any difference between Trinamul and the BJP as both are focussing on temples. Politics on religion is nothing but a result of political bankruptcy. We think both the parties are playing polarisation cards to win the elections but are forgetting their social responsibilities,” said Ram Chandra Dom, a CPM central committee member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC special observers’ scan Bengal law and order||Two special observers — Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube — sent by the Election Commission to Bengal met chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, home secretary H.K. Dwivedi and director general of police P. Nirajnayan at Nabanna on Wednesday and asked them to lay stress on law and order issues ahead of the polls. Sources aware of the meeting said the observers laid stress on identifying vulnerable areas properly, optimum use of central forces and mobile patrolling in trouble-prone areas ahead of the polls. “Special observers visiting the state administrative headquarters to hold a meeting is a rare instance. Usually, the EC officials or the special observers call on state government officials in case they need to give any instruction. This gives a hint that the EC is attaching importance to the state’s law and order,” said a senior government official. The sources said the special observers were unhappy as the district authorities were delaying in identifying vulnerable areas in the state. “So far, only about 20 per cent of the estimated vulnerable areas have been identified officially. The poll panel wanted early identification of vulnerable areas,” said another official. Identification of vulnerable areas is very important ahead of the polls as political parties can influence people living in the area by giving cash or liquor, sources said. The special observers also emphasised proper use central forces during and ahead of the voting. “Deployment of central forces is usually done on the basis of inputs sent by the district authorities. In the past, it had been seen that central forces were not used in poll-related responsibilities while state police were involved in majority of such duties,” said an official. The sources said the EC was trying to ensure use central forces in law and order-related responsibilities ahead of the polls as the Opposition parties, particularly the BJP, was alleging that the state police were playing a partisan role at many places. “Besides, 295 companies of central forces were sent to the state so far. Such a huge contingent of forces was never sent to the state so many days ahead of the polls. Using the forces properly is also a factor that the EC is trying to resolve,” said another official. The EC is also trying to ensure that proper mobile patrolling is done in trouble-prone areas. “Patrolling in the trouble-prone areas and the bordering areas is important as it builds confidence among the voters. Involving central force jawans in the patrolling teams is also an issue on which the EC is laying stress,” said a source. A senior government official said visit of the special observers a day after the removal of the DGP, Virendra, was significant as it sent a message to the top brass of the government. “The visit made it clear why Virendra was removed. Moreover, it also sends a message that the top brass of the government should look into the issues with utmost urgency,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Kin of martyrs feel let down by Darjeeling parties||Gorkhaland invariably becomes the major plank of all elections in the Darjeeling hills, but family members of Gangamaya Biswakarma, who lost her life during the statehood agitation in 1986, maintain that “martyrs’ families” are in most deplorable conditions and they have no faith in the present political leaders and their slogan. Gangamaya was 56 when she was killed in a police firing in 1986. She was apparently charging at the paramilitary forces with a sickle in the hand at Thana Dara in Kalimpong when the shots were fired. In recognition of Gangamaya’s contribution to the statehood agitation, Gangamaya Park was built in Darjeeling in 1996 by then chairman of the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC). The park is now a popular tourist point in Darjeeling. On July 27, 1986, Gangamaya, his son Daljit, who was 24 then and daughter Shila, then 29 years, were part of a procession that was on their way to Kalimpong Mela Ground to burn the copies of 1950 Indo-Nepal friendship treaty following a call given by Ghisingh who was spearheading the Gorkhaland demand. Thirteen people were killed in Kalimpong on July 27, which is now marked as Martyr’s Day by all hill parties. A bullet missed Daljit by a whisker. Another Gorkhaland supporter Chunnu Limbu, who was injured that day, died a few weeks later. “Today, the martyr’s family members, those who were jailed in Berhampur jail, those who faced the brunt of the agitation are in the most deplorable condition,” Daljit said on Wednesday. After Ghisingh accepted the DGHC in 1988, Daljit was called to Bhanu Bhavan on June 19, 1989, and handed over “Rs 8000.” “Subash Ghisingh sahib then said the amount might seem less but parsad (holy offering) is also less. He also said the DGHC would soon get its own budget hinting that we would get something more,” said Daljit. The martyrs’ families received nothing more. “All I got was a grade-D contractual job in 1993 through the efforts of C.K. Pradhan (then GNLF leader from Kalimpong,” said Daljit who is still fighting to get his job regularised. Ironically, Daljit was posted at the Sahid Bedi or martyrs column in Kalimpong. When Bimal Gurung renewed the Gorkhaland agitation in 2007, Daljit said, he, too, had hit the streets, once again. “Martyrs' dream is still unfulfilled because leaders are not united. When the agitation reaches its height, it is brought down. Leaders don’t seem to be sincere,” said Daljit adding that he was now busy with his job to be involved in politics. Does his family believe in the present hill leadership and their Gorkhaland slogan? “No,” says Daljit. “There is nothing for us to be happy. If all intellectuals and politicians were united, it would have been good. When one thinks of the present situation, one feels bad,” he said. The Telegraph spoke to Daljit on Wednesday following an announcement by the Bharatiya Gorkha Ambedkar Yuva Sena to confer Gorkha Ambedkar Award on Gangamaya, Anit Gazmer and Bhupen Mothey (three people from the Schedule Caste community who lost their lives in the 1986 agitation) and Bimal Shashankar and Suraj Bhusal (who died in the 2017 agitation) in Darjeeling on March 14. Also, the youth wing of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung faction said it would campaign in the coming Assembly elections on the Gorkhaland issue. The Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha had already said it wouldn’t seek votes in the Assembly polls on the statehood plank. Daljit, however, seems disenchanted with the political system in the hills. “None has been sincere (on the issue). My mother made the supreme sacrifice.” Daljit comes from a farmer’s family at Sindabong in Kalimpong. “That day, three of us from the family decided to take part in the procession. Little did we know about the turn of events,” he said. The son does not remember his mother carrying a sickle from the house but he does remember that she had a habit of carrying a sickle as she would mostly be on the fields. “That day, she did mobilise some supporters. We were at the forefront of the procession. Once the firing started, we all dispersed,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
11-03-2021||West Bengal||Largest tea estate in north Bengal shut ||The management of Chengmari tea estate — the largest in north Bengal — in the Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri district announced suspension of work in the plantation on Wednesday. A section of workers had been creating problems which were leading to disruption in regular activities, the management representatives said. Tea trade unions, however, criticised the decision and demanded immediate reopening of the garden that closed down operations at the commencement of a new tea season. Sources said some senior workers, who had been functioning as “sardars” (group leaders), were asked by the management to work as “chowkidars” (security guards). This had left the workers disgruntled and they had registered their protests against the decision. On Tuesday, the workers, under the banner of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, held a meeting at the garden on the issue. Later on Tuesday night, they realised that most of the managerial employees had left the garden. “On Wednesday night, as the workers went to join their duties, they found that the factory is closed and the management has announced suspension of work. We condemn the decision and want the district administration and the state labour department to take necessary steps,” said Manoj Munda, the local panchayat member of Chengmari. He mentioned that a few days back, they had spoken with the management representatives who had assured that the issue would be discussed in a bipartite meeting. “Instead, they announced suspension of work,” alleged Munda. Chengmari, which has a plantation area spread across 1,500 hectares, employs around 5,000-odd workers. Back in 2018, the garden had closed down in a similar manner but was later opened through tripartite talks initiated by the state labour department. As the news spread, workers assembled near a local club. They discussed the issue and demanded that the management should replace the manager. Kamalesh Kumar Jha, the manager, however, has denied the charges. “We were abiding by all the decisions made through tripartite talks. However, a section of workers were not following the rules and creating tension in the gardens. They were even intercepting temporary workers who are engaged during the peak season which eventually was affecting the production. In such a situation, we had no option but to announce suspension of work,” said Jha. Senior officials of Jalpaiguri district administration, when asked about the closure of Chengmari, said appropriate initiatives would be taken immediately to expedite reopening of the garden. “Officials of the state labour department and the block administration would be asked to look into the issue,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
