12-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee discharged from hospital||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was discharged from state-run SSKM Hospital here on Friday evening after doctors found her recovery to be "satisfactory". Doctors took the decision after the 66-year-old TMC supremo repeatedly requested them to discharge her from the medical establishment. Banerjee, seated on a wheelchair with her left foot plastered, greeted several party activists gathered outside the Woodburn Block of the hospital. She left the hospital in her vehicle for her Kalighat residence. Her nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee, party colleagues and state minister Firhad Hakim were present at the medical establishment. "Her condition has improved a lot and she repeatedly insisted on being discharged from the hospital. She will be able to move with restrictions but she needs to come back for another round of check-up within a week," the doctor said. Banerjee fell and suffered severe injuries in her left ankle and foot and right shoulder, forearm and neck after she was allegedly pushed by 4-5 unidentified persons on Wednesday evening during her campaigning in Nandigram seat, from where she is contesting in this assembly election. She was rushed to SSKM Hospital in Calcutta from Purba Medinipur district through a green corridor and was kept under observation for 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
12-03-2021||West Bengal||CBI summons Partha Chatterjee in ponzi scam case||The CBI has summoned Bengal Education Minister Partha Chatterjee on March 15 in connection with a probe into a ponzi scam pertaining to ICore group of companies, officials said on Friday. Chatterjee, considered close to Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been asked to appear before a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team on March 15, they said. The CBI had registered the case against ICore group which had allegedly raised over Rs 3,000 crore from people by offering high returns on investments and diverted a portion of these funds, defaulting on promised returns, they said. The agency had taken over the probe into the matter in 2014 and registered an FIR ICore E-services under IPC sections related to criminal conspiracy and cheating. The case was registered on the basis of a Supreme Court order in 2014 directing the central probe agency to take over all cases related to chit fund companies that were being probed by the state police. Company directors Anukul Maity and his wife Kanika were arrested by the agency in 2017. Maiti, a prime accused in the ICore E-Services ponzi scam, died at a Bhubaneswar hospital while under judicial custody. Action by the CBI has picked up pace in poll-bound West Bengal. The BJP is leading a vigorous campaign to oust the ruling Trinamool which had secured consecutive wins in 2011 and 2016 under its leader Mamata Banerjee. The agency has already questioned the family members of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee in connection with the illegal coal mining case and summoned two more relatives on March 15 in the case, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Attack on Mamata a conspiracy, TMC delegation tells EC||A TMC delegation met the Election Commission (EC) on Friday and demanded a high-level probe into an alleged attack on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, while claiming that it was not an "unfortunate incident", but a “deep-rooted conspiracy”. The six-member delegation of the Trinamul Congress (TMC) met the full EC team, including Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora, for over an hour and submitted a memorandum to it, highlighting how BJP leaders in Bengal had threatened the chief minister through tweets and other remarks. "Injuries to Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram were not a result of an unfortunate incident but that of a conspiracy. The events leading up to the attempt on her life leave no doubt that the attack was part of a deep-rooted conspiracy," TMC MP Saugata Roy told reporters after meeting the EC. The delegation comprised Derek O’Brien, Saugata Roy, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Satabdi Roy, Pratima and Santanu Sen. In the memorandum, the TMC has made allegations against Suvendu Adhikari, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Nandigram in the upcoming state Assembly polls. "When an attempt was made on the life of Ms Banerjee, in which she was grievously hurt, to cover up the attack, eye-witnesses were planted, illustratively, eye-witnesses Chittaranjan Das and Debabrata Das, who testified that Ms Banerjee's car was hit against an iron pillar, are associates of Suvendu Adhikari, BJP candidate from Nandigram," the memorandum says. The TMC boss had suffered injuries on her left leg and waist as she fell on the ground after being allegedly pushed by unknown people while campaigning for the assembly elections in Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district. She is undergoing treatment at the 12.5 special cabin of Woodburn Block at SSKM Hospital. In the memorandum, the members said the “events or actions leading up to the attempt on her life leave no doubt that the attack was premeditated and part of a deep-rooted conspiracy,” The Indian Express reported. Explaining about the chain of events, the leaders wrote that on March 8, 2021, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh had posted a caricature on his Facebook page where it was shown that Mamata Banerjee would be “hit” when she visits Nandigram. “Around the same time, numerous complaints were filed by the BJP with the Election Commission of India seeking immediate removal of the erstwhile Director General and IGP of West Bengal and almost immediately and unilaterally, on March 9, 2021, in an abrupt decision, without consultation with the state Government, the ECl removed the erstwhile DGP,” the memorandum added. Reiterating their conspiracy jibe, the TMC leaders said that BJP MP Saumitra Khan, on March 9, had written to Babul Supriyo on twitter that “you will come to know tomorrow after 5pm”. “It clearly indicates that something grave was planned and was in the offing beyond at Nandigram on March 10, 2021,” the leaders wrote. Slamming the police for being equally responsible for the attack on Mamata Banerjee, the leaders said, “The SP and local police were suspiciously absent when an attempt was made on the life of Ms Banerjee, in which she was grievously hurt.” Responding to the eye-witnesses who have claimed that no such “attack” took place and the Chief Minister was hurt when the door of her car hit against a pole, the leaders wrote, “To cover up the attack, eye-witnesses were planted. Chittaranjan Das and Debabrata Das, who testified that Mamata Banerjee’s car hit an iron pillar are associates of Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP candidate from Nandigram.” Saying that the chain of event clearly shows a “nexus between the post by Dilip Ghosh on Facebook, the unilateral decision of the ECI to remove the erstwhile DGP, the plan revealed by Saumitra Khan on Twitter, resultant attempt on the life of Mamata Banerjee and the cover up of the same by Adhikari”, the TMC leaders demanded a thorough and unbiased investigation into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
12-03-2021||West Bengal||British Council hosts virtual event for those applying to UK varsities||If you are planning to study in the UK in 2021, you can find answers to all your questions at a virtual event being hosted by the British Council from March 8 to March 19. Study UK Student Connect promises to be a one-stop solution for Indian students and professionals who want to pursue undergraduate or postgraduate courses in the UK in 2021.  Those interested can book exclusive appointments with 10 UK universities, attend live sessions by subject experts and get information about courses, admission process, scholarships, modes of study and more. The participating universities include Brunel University London, Queen Mary University of London, Manchester Metropolitan University, Newcastle University, The University of York, The University of Northampton, The University of Sheffield, University of East Anglia, University of Bristol, and University of Kent. Webinars were held from March 8 to March 12. These will be followed by exclusive meetings with participating universities from March 15 to March 19. Students can also attend seminars conducted by UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) on student visas, the new graduate route and the British Council for information on living and studying in the UK and scholarships. Students preparing for the September 2021 admissions are expected to benefit the most. Here is how you can register: All British universities and colleges accept IELTS academic results. Students will not need to take an IELTS for UKVI (Academic). The UK government has announced a new two-year post-study work visa. The visa will be open to all international students who have valid UK immigration status as a student and have successfully completed a course of study in any subject at undergraduate level or above at an approved UK Higher Education Provider. The visa will allow eligible students to work or look for work in any career or position of their choice for two years after completing their studies. The number of Indian students being granted visas for higher studies in the UK increased by a staggering 93 per cent post the visa rule changes, a report released by the UK immigration department in 2020 revealed. For more information on the event visit: https://study-uk.britishcouncil.org/.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal theatre group drops actor for joining BJP||A theatre group in West Bengal, known for productions on socio-economic themes, has dropped an artist from one of its plays after the actor joined the BJP.
The play being enacted is Saurav Palodhi's Ghum Nei. An  adaptation of the Utpal Dutt classic, it is on the present political situation of the country, seen through the prism of Left ideology. Palodhi had posted on his official Facebook account that the actor, Kaushik Kar, was removed from the production for joining the saffron party.
Kar, had been invited by Palodhi's group "Ichcheymoto" in 2019, to play a character whose name had a reference to the man who was lynched at Dadri in 2015 on suspicion of eating beef.
Palodhi, known to be a Leftist, posted on Facebook three days back in Bengali, "We are removing Kaushik Kar from Ghum Nei with immediate effect because he has joined the BJP. And that is enough reason to remove him in the present times. There can be no place for communal elements in a play for the working class".
The theatre group, he added, would soon announce the date for the next show of Ghum Nei.
The post triggered a storm in social media with netizens like Arka Roy saying, "Is it the example of artistic freedom? Democratic right? Can an artist be judged by his Leftist or Rightist leanings? ......It should be left to the person concerned which political party he or she should join. None has the right to interfere."
Director Kamaleswar Mukherjee said, "As far as I am concerned, my casting had never been influenced by anyone's political belief or colour."
Palodhi said he stood by his decision "as the play is fundamentally against the BJP's ideology and someone associated with that party cannot be a part of Ghum Nei.
"Associating Koushik Kar with the production, despite being aware of his current political identity, will be a grave injustice to the spirit of the play and the working class for whom it is meant," he said.
Describing the entire episode as a manifestation of "Left-wing Fascism", Kar said, "Only armchair elites, who give lectures on communism with no connect with the masses and are ignorant about the history of progressive cultural movement. can take such a decision. "I am shocked at the unilateral decision."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Attack on Mamata a conspiracy, TMC delegation tells poll panel||A TMC delegation met the Election Commission (EC) on Friday and demanded a high-level probe into an alleged attack on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, while claiming that it was not an "unfortunate incident", but a conspiracy. The six-member delegation of the Trinamul Congress (TMC) met the full EC team, including Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora, for over an hour and submitted a memorandum to it, highlighting how BJP leaders in Bengal had threatened the chief minister through tweets and other remarks. "Injuries to Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram were not a result of an unfortunate incident but that of a conspiracy. The events leading up to the attempt on her life leave no doubt that the attack was part of a deep-rooted conspiracy," TMC MP Saugata Roy told reporters after meeting the EC. In the memorandum, the TMC has made allegations against Suvendu Adhikari, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Nandigram in the upcoming state Assembly polls. "When an attempt was made on the life of Ms Banerjee, in which she was grievously hurt, to cover up the attack, eye-witnesses were planted, illustratively, eye-witnesses Chittaranjan Das and Debabrata Das, who testified that Ms Banerjee's car was hit against an iron pillar, are associates of Suvendu Adhikari, BJP candidate from Nandigram," the memorandum says. The TMC boss had suffered injuries on her left leg and waist as she fell on the ground after being allegedly pushed by unknown people while campaigning for the assembly elections in Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district. She is undergoing treatment at the 12.5 special cabin of Woodburn Block at SSKM Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Modi working on welfare of nation but Didi taking credit, says Smriti Irani||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Friday slammed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for getting her photos clicked and affixed to posters claiming credit for central schemes started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and wondered whether the people of the state would vote for "such a daughter" who unleashes violence on mothers and masses. Taking a dig at TMCs poll slogan 'Bangla Nijer Meyeke Chai' (Bengal wants its daughter), Irani wondered if the people would want the return of a regime that unleashes political violence on people of the state. "Will the people vote for such a daughter who unleashes violence on an 80-year-old mother? Will you vote for the daughter (whose party) hangs BJP activists? "The people of the state are awaiting 'Asol Poribortan' (real change)," she said. Irani along with her cabinet colleague Dharmendra Pradhan participated in a rally on the way to filing of nomination by Suvendu Adhikari from the high-profile Nandigram assembly seat. Irani assailed the TMC government, saying benefits of the central schemes, including PM-Kisan yojana, could not reach to the poor in the state. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is working day and night for the welfare of the masses and Didi is busy clicking photographs by falsely claiming credit for several central schemes. "Didi is changing names of the central schemes and claiming them to be their programmes," she said launching a scathing attack at the TMC supremo who has already filed nomination from the Nandigram constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
12-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC betrayed people's trust after coming to power, says Suvendu after filing nomination||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, who is pitted against his former protege and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee from the high-profile Nandigram assembly seat, on Friday urged people not to vote for "outsiders", as he flayed the ruling party for betraying the trust of people. Adhikari, who recently became a voter in Nandigram from Kanthi in East Midnapore district, filed his nomination from the seat a short while ago. Adhikari filed his papers at the sub-divisional office in Haldia after leading a-km-long roadshow. "I am 100 per cent confident of my victory in Nandigram. The people of the area are with me. I am the son of the soil," he told reporters. Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Smriti Irani took part in the rally before Adhikari filed the nomination papers. Adhikari, who switched over to the BJP in December, is up against the chief minister who decided to challenge him at his home ground. Adhikari won the Nandigram seat as a TMC candidate in 2016 by bagging over 67 per cent of the votes, defeating his nearest rival of the CPI by a margin of 81,230 votes. Adhikari has been calling himself "bhoomiputra" (son of the soil) and dubbing Banerjee as an outsider in Nandigram as she does not cast her vote there. The feisty Bengal leader who represented Bhowanipore seat in the West Bengal assembly since 2011 has given up her tradition seat in favour of Nandigram. He also asserted that people duped by the chit fund companies in the state would get back their money if the saffron party is voted to power. "If we are voted to power, we would ensure all the duped investors of Chit Fund scam get back their money. The properties seized by ED and CBI would be auctioned to return money to the duped investors. "The Chit Fund scam happened because of the TMC government, their leaders looted public money," he said. He claimed that the Trinamool Congress has turned into a private limited company, where other leaders "neither have a say in policy-making of the party nor in the state government". "Everybody else, apart from the aunt and nephew (Mamata and TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee), are lamp posts in the party," Adhikari said. The Nandigram assembly constituency is set for a high-octane battle with Banerjee deciding to contest from the seat against Adhikari, who recently switched over to the saffron camp from the TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata 'stable', responding well to treatment||The health condition of West Bengal Chief MInister Mamata Banerjee, who is nursing injuries suffered during poll campaigning at Nandigram, is stable and her improvement is satisfactory, doctors said on Friday. Banerjee slept well at night and is responding well to treatment, said doctors at the state-run SSKM hospital, where the TMC supremo was rushed to on Wednesday after being allegedly pushed by unknown people while campaigning for the assembly elections in Nandigram in Purba Medinipore district. "Our team will review her condition this morning. They may cut open the temporary plaster on her left leg to see how the injury has healed. A few medical tests might also be conducted," a senior doctor told PTI. The swelling on her left ankle has subsided and she is feeling less pain in her neck, shoulder and waist, he said. "We generally advise patients with similar injuries as that of Banerjee at least three to four weeks of rest," the doctor said. The 66-year-old chief minister will try out different kinds of wheelchairs soon, he added. Asked when Banerjee could be discharged from hospital, the doctor said the team would be assessing her health condition on Friday morning and take a call accordingly. The Trinamool Congress boss had suffered injuries on her left leg and waist as she fell on the ground following the alleged attack. She is undergoing treatment at the 12.5 special cabin of Woodburn Block at SSKM Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC delegation to meet EC today over 'attack' on Mamata||A six-member parliamentary delegation of the Trinamool Congress will meet Election Commission officials in Delhi on Friday over concerns following the alleged attack on TMC supremo and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the party sources said. Six TMC MPs from both the Houses of Parliament have flown to the capital to be part of the delegation which will meet the EC at 12 noon. The delegation comprises Derek O'Brien (Leader, AITC Parliamentary Party, Rajya Sabha), Saugata Roy (MP, Lok Sabha), Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar (MP, Lok Sabha), Satabdi Roy (MP, Lok Sabha), Pratima Mondal (MP, Lok Sabha) and Santanu Sen (MP, Rajya Sabha). A delegation of the party also met poll panel officials in Calcutta on Thursday and later alleged that the "Election Commission did nothing despite there being reports of a possible attack on Banerjee". Claiming that the attack was a "deep-rooted conspiracy to take the life of the TMC supremo", party leaders alleged that anti-social elements have been mobilised from the neighbouring states by the BJP in Nandigram to unleash violence. The EC can't shun responsibility as it is in charge of the law-and-order situation in poll-bound West Bengal, it said. The Trinamool Congress supremo was injured in the leg after being allegedly pushed by unidentified people near a temple at Reyapara area during campaigning at Nandigram on Wednesday, where the BJP has pitted her protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari against her. Banerjee alleged that she was pushed by four to five men while she was trying to get into the car, following which she fell flat on her face. The EC on Thursday sent a strongly-worded letter to the TMC on its memorandum over injuries to Banerjee during campaign, saying it looks "undignified to even respond" to allegations that the poll panel is doing things in the state at the behest of a "particular party".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Some people did fall on SUV door that hit CM: Report||The East Midnapore district authorities on Thursday sent a preliminary report to Nabanna on the incident that had left Mamata Banerjee injured on Wednesday, suggesting that the door of the Scorpio that the chief minister had been riding had gone back to hit the chief minister’s left leg after some men had fallen on it. The report has revealed a group of men from among hundreds who were running behind the chief minister’s car at Birulia market in Nandigram on Wednesday evening to catch a glimpse of her had tripped after hitting a four-feet high concrete pole that stood on the 12-feet wide road and fell on the car’s door that she had left ajar while waving at the mass, said sources. “The door, which was heavy since it was a bullet-proof vehicle, went and hit the CM even as she was trying to set her left foot on the ground from her seat in the front. This caused severe injury to her left foot,” an official quoted the preliminary report. The report reached the state secretariat within hours of district magistrate Vibhu Goel and superintendent of police Praween Prakash visiting the Birulia market to inquire about the incident. “This is a preliminary report. The district administration has sought time to send a detailed report,” said a senior official of the home department. The report partly corroborates the version of Mamata, who had said immediately after the incident that four-five men had forcibly slammed the door of the SUV with an intention to injure her. The saffron ecosystem had said the door, which was open, had hit an iron beam and that had resulted in the accident. “The CM’s allegation about conspiracy is not yet proved, but the preliminary report suggests she was partially right,” said a source. The report, according to officials, states hundreds of villagers had started following the chief minister soon after she finished visiting a temple near Birulia market, climbed down four steps of the temple and walked down around 15 feet to get into her car. Mamata boarded her Scorpio without hassle and just as the car started making its way towards her rented accommodation at Reyapara, a huge wave of people kept trailing the car forcing the driver to steer his way very slowly down a 12 feet wide road, said the sources aware of the report. Enthused by the excitement of the swarming mass on either side of the road, the chief minister, seated in the front seat beside the driver, opened the door and kept waving at her followers. At a distance of about 20 feet from where the Scorpio was making its way among the crowd stood a four feet high concrete pole. Villagers have told the police that it was set up to prevent heavy vehicles from entering the road. Some people in the crowd that was running along with the convoy hit the concrete pole having missed it apparently in the darkness of the evening. “A few of them tripped and fell on the door that was left partly open by the chief minister, who was about to step down and had even put her left leg forward. The door hit her left ankle leaving her in excruciating pain. The chief minister had even screamed in pain, which a few shop owners near the site have heard,” the report states. Sources said the top brass of the government would wait for the final report from the district authorities. Ahead of sending a detailed report, the district police have initiated a probe into the incident after drawing up a specific case at Nandigram police station. The police said the detailed probe would try to answer some questions like why there was inadequate police deployment along the VIP’s line of route at Nandigram, why enough civic volunteers weren’t deployed to hold ropes that would keep masses at a bay, how thousands of villagers arrived in front of the convoy when Mamata Banerjee is a Z-category protectee. “There was a clear failure on the part of the local police in handling the crowd and the chief minister could have suffered an even bigger accident,” said an officer of the home department. The Election Commission sought a report from the chief secretary and two special observers deployed in the state on the “incident of attack” on the chief minister by 5pm on Friday. “We didn’t send any report to the EC today (Thursday). But we will definitely send it within the given timeframe,” a senior official said. The chief electoral officer of Bengal and the additional director general of police (law and order) held a video conference with all district magistrates and police superintendents and sent an instruction to tighten security of VVIPs like Prime Minister and the chief minister during their district visits ahead of the polls. The special police observer, Vivek Dube, is scheduled to visit East Midnapore on Friday. “He would hold meetings with the district officials but it has no connection with the inquiry into the incident in which the chief minister was seriously injured,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: EC’s hands-off claim comes under strain||The Election Commission on Thursday sought to deflect blame from the Trinamul Congress on the injuries to Mamata Banerjee by denying that the panel had taken over the law and order machinery in poll-bound Bengal. But the commission’s assertion was challenged by former Chief Election Commissioner S.Y. Quraishi who pointed out that the “state government has no control over the police once elections are announced”. Trinamul on Thursday wrote to the Election Commission, accusing the poll panel of acting at the behest of the BJP and pointing out that an “attack on the life” of the chief minister had taken place within 24 hours of the Bengal police chief being shifted by the EC. “We told the EC that as soon as they took responsibility, changed the additional director-general (law and order), then the director-general (of state police), unilaterally. Within 24 hours of the DG being changed, an attempt was made on the life of the chief minister,” said Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee, summarising the content of the letter from the party to the commission. “Deliberate transfers at the top echelons of the police administration on the instruction and at the behest of the BJP have been leaving a serious destabilising impact on the state administration,” he added. The Election Commission’s response to the Trinamul letter was scathing, saying it was “full of insinuations and averments” and it would be “undignified” to react to the ruling party’s allegations. “…it is rather unfortunate that the Memorandum (the Trinamul letter) in question is full of insinuations and averments, which in fact questions the very basis of creation and functioning of the Election Commission,” read Nirvachan Sadan’s letter, signed by Rakesh Kumar, a secretary, and sent to Trinamul. “It is completely incorrect to suggest that the commission has taken over the law and order machinery in the state in the name of conducting elections and appropriated the whole governance structure,” the commission said. “This virtually tantamounts to undermining the very foundation and fabric of the Constitution of India, the most sacrosanct document in any democratic polity,” the poll panel said. The commission does not appropriate or take over the day-to-day governance of any state, including West Bengal, which keeps on functioning, it noted. “It looks undignified even to respond to the allegations of all this being done on the behest of a particular political party, etc,” the commission added. However, Quraishi, the former poll panel chief, tweeted later: “State government has no control over the police once elections are announced. Every policeman from DGP to the last constable stands transferred to EC. EC transfers/suspends all those against whom there are complaints of corruption or partisanship.” The Election Commission added in its letter:  “The life and security of person of Hon’ble CM and home minister, West Bengal, needs to be duly protected by all tasked with the maintenance of law and order machinery of West Bengal.” Several seniors in Trinamul said the party would formally issue its response on Friday, after a delegation of six MPs meet the top brass of the commission at the Nirvachan Sadan in New Delhi. “But the wording of the commission’s letter is most unfortunate. It seems like it was drafted by a political party. We have been dealing with the EC for decades. It did not come across as so heavily compromised till 2019,” said a senior Trinamul MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: two Left allies break away in Malda||Two Left Front constituents — the RSP and All India Forward Bloc — in Malda have decided to walk out of the Congress-Left Front-ISF alliance and field candidates in nine Assembly seats of the district left for the Congress. The CPM will contest three of 12 Assembly seats in the district — Englishbazar, Habibpur and Gazole — and the Congress nine, a decision that angered the two Left Front allies which asked for but did not get seats. Srimanta Mitra, Malda Forward Bloc secretary, said: “In 2016, we fought against the Congress in Harischandrapur, a seat we had till 2011. We were ready to give up our claim to Harischandrapur, but wanted another seat from Congress. We were overlooked. Party workers want to teach the Congress a lesson by contesting in four seats.” The RSP said they would field candidates in five seats with Congress nominees in the fray. The RSP sought one seat but was denied, said its district secretary Sarbananda Pande. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the party had won a seat in the district. “It is disappointing that neither the state Left Front not the Congress agreed to it (the demand for one Assembly seat). There might be an alliance in the state level but in Malda we will field our candidates against Congress in five seats,” said Sarbananda Pande, the district RSP secretary of Malda. Such a stance by allies has left the district CPM and Congress leaders perplexed. Ambar Mitra, the district CPM secretary, said they would hold talks with the disgruntled allies while Congress leaders said the matter has to be settled within the Left Front. “We no comments,” said Kalisadhan Roy, a district Congress leader. The decision, observers said, can help Mamata Banerjee’s party in the district. In Malda, they said, the saffron camp is trying to polarise votes in around five Assembly seats. “In the remaining seven seats of the district where there is high concentration of minorities, the BJP lacks major support base. In these seats, a split of votes among the Left and Congress can help Trinamul,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Injured Mamata lands BJP in quandary ||BJP’s Nandigram candidate Suvendu Adhikari was busy in his constituency on Thursday hopping from one place of worship to another, but he was conspicuous in his silence over his rival and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s injury suffered during a public outreach programme at Birulia Bazar in the constituency on Wednesday evening. The silence of Suvendu, who had been otherwise consistent in his attack on Mamata at all his public programmes, was eloquent and a section in the BJP linked it to the diktat from the party’s central leadership on how to respond to the incident. “Suvenduda went to the Tilakeswar temple in Sonachura and Mahadev temple in Parulbari, beside a few other temples in Nandigram. Journalists present on these sites asked him about Mamata’s injury multiple times, but all he said was ‘Om Shanti’,” a source close to the BJP leader said. The source also added that Suvendu’s silence was a deliberate strategy. “He has been in an all-out attacking mood. He has gone after Mamata and mocked her on every occasion. If he reacted in a similar manner after her accident, it wouldn’t have gone down well with the electorate,” the close aide to Suvendu added. Throughout the day, the former member of Mamata’s cabinet did not hold political programmes and kept himself busy with religious events related to Mahashivratri event, which was celebrated on Thursday. Suvendu’s silence, a source close to him said, was because of a dilemma on whether attacking Mamata would result in generating sympathy for her and that’s why he chose to follow the Delhi diktat for the time being. The fact that the saffron camp is in two minds on what the right way to handle the issue of Mamata’s injury should be was evident in the statements made by state BJP leaders in Calcutta as well. While a section of the leaders attacked Mamata for “enacting a drama to gain sympathy before the polls”, another section clearly steered clear of politicising the issue. A source in the BJP said Union home minister Amit Shah had asked state party leaders to refrain from making derogatory comments on the incident. However, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh appeared to be unaware of Shah’s instructions. “She had no way to return from Nandigram. That is why she created this drama…She will lose Nandigram and lose all of Bengal,” Ghosh told journalists. Ghosh went on to say Mamata had been instigating her supporters against the BJP by making false claims. “We don’t want to politicise the issue either. But, if she is telling lies and playing political games from one side, why won’t the others play politics too?” Ghosh added. Seven posts related to the incident have been made on the official Twitter handles of Bengal BJP since Thursday night. Most of the posts carry videos where eyewitnesses have claimed that no one pushed Mamata intentionally and what happened was at best “an accident” and not a conspiracy. Invoking politics, all these posts suggested that Mamata had blamed the people of Nandigram and brought disrepute upon them. BJP’s IT cell chief and co-minder for Bengal Amit Malviya tweeted a video that shows two statements from Mamata — one on Wednesday just after the accident when she had said there was a conspiracy behind the incident and another which she had issued from the hospital on Thursday, where she didn’t talk about any plot — and pointed out her alleged contradiction. “We wish Pishi a fast recovery. But it is amusing to see her contradict her own ‘attack’ theory and attribute the injury to a mishap, while campaigning, in less than 24 hours!” he tweeted. Another Trinamul turncoat and BJP MP Arjun Singh had said Mamata was trying to gain sympathy through her drama. Sources in the saffron camp said the BJP’s dilemma on how to handle the issue became evident when chief spokesperson for the party, Samik Bhattacharya, along with party colleague Tathagata Roy, visited SSKM Hospital in Calcutta on Thursday. The leaders, who were greeted with “go back” slogan by Trinamul workers present there, had to return without meeting Mamata as minister Arup Biswas told them that doctors had advised her total rest. Later in the day, BJP MP Locket Chatterjee went to the hospital but had to return without meeting the injured chief minister. “We wish her a speedy recovery and want the matter to be investigated. We will not politicise the issue and this is the party’s official stand,” said Samik when asked why leaders from his party were reacting differently to Wednesday’s incident. He added that a BJP team met the chief electoral officer (CEO) on Thursday seeking an investigation into the incident. “We have also written to the CEO and urged him to order a detailed inquiry into the matter. We have also said that the video footage of the incident must be made available in the public domain,” Bhattacharya added questioning how the incident might have taken place when the director and additional director, security, were both present at the site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||CM injury fallout: Trinamul, BJP clash in Nandigram||Political tension returned in Nandigram, the hotbed of land agitations from 2007 to 2010, after more than a decade on Thursday, with Trinamul and BJP workers scuffling at Birulia Bazar, the site where chief minister Mamata Banerjee was injured on Wednesday evening. A group of BJP workers led by party’s district vice-president Pralay Pal reached Birulia Bazar on Thursday around 10am to protest Mamata’s claim that she was “attacked” as part of a conspiracy. Pal said: “The chief minister had been injured when the door of her car (SUV) hit an iron pillar installed to stop large vehicles from plying in the locality. But she is crying conspiracy to play the victim card.” A preliminary police report on the incident did not cite any such structure, but instead the presence of a concrete pole on the road because of which some men supposedly tripped and fell on the door of the chief minister’s SUV, which flung back to injure Mamata. While Pal was speaking to his supporters, Trinamul leader Prabhakar Bera reached the venue with around 500 party workers and sloganeered against the BJP, accusing the saffron camp of being involved in the attack on Mamata. “As the two sides raised slogans against each other, the situation went beyond control and the political rivals started scuffling,” said a villager present at Birulia Bazar. The police were outnumbered by angry political workers. BJP workers asked the police to come out with the “truth” and their Trinamul counterparts demanded the arrest of those who had slammed the door of Mamata’s SUV. Sources said agitations and roadblocks by the BJP and Trinamul were reported from at least a dozen points, including Sonachura and Gokulnagar, the site of the death of 14 persons in police firing in 2007. Reyapara and Tengua also erupted in protests with BJP and Trinamul processions. Trinamul leaders in Reyapara, where Mamata has rented a house for her stay during the poll campaign, took out a protest rally accusing the BJP of injuring their leader. “It was a planned move to stop Mamata from campaigning as the BJP knows that they will lose the polls,” said Abu Taher, deputy chief of Nandigram-I panchayat samity. Taher said it was tough to identify the culprits of Wednesday’s “attack”. “Many Trinamul workers have switched sides and are working for BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. Tough to say who were involved in the attack on Didi.” Some villagers present at Birulia Bazar on Wednesday, said on Thursday that it was tough to make out what happened as it was dark and crowded. Sporadic clashes on Thursday reminded violence-wary villagers of Nandigram about their tryst with land protests. Veterans in Nandigram said apart from stray clashes, Nandigram has been peaceful since Mamata took over as chief minister in 2011. Farmer Rabin Pradhan, 61, said they’d seen how violence can destroy a region. “Let votes and not clashes decide who wins the polls.” Fourteen people had died on March 14, 2007, when police had opened fire on villagers protesting against the acquisition of land by the then Left Front government to set up a chemical hub in Nandigram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Job focus in ‘inclusive’ Left draft manifesto||The Left Front on Thursday released a draft election manifesto with the aim to reach out to young voters with promises of extensively dealing with their demands of jobs. It is for the first time the Left Front released a draft manifesto for public circulation. “We want all stakeholders and the common man to share their views on the manifesto. We will scrutinise and try to accommodate these opinions in the final manifesto without harming the spirit of the Left Front,” CPM politburo member Md Salim said. The draft has been shared with allies Congress and Indian Secular Front in the Sanjukta Morcha. “They may have their own manifestos. We want commonality in all three documents. The Sanjukta Morcha will later issue a joint appeal,” Salim added. Learning a lesson from the harrowing experiences of migrant workers during last year’s lockdown, the draft promises a separate department to deal with expatriate and migrant workers. “...Our entire campaign and outreach programmes have been woven around the issue of unemployment. This includes (issues such as) lack of appointments by state and union governments, non-creation of jobs and privatisation of public entities that led to job loss,” said Salim. The draft says the Left Front-led government will complete appointments in vacant government and semi-government posts, including those in educational institutes, within a year. It also speaks of easy loans to rejuvenate micro, small and medium industries. The document specifies that if it comes to power  in Bengal it will neither allow the implementation of Centre’s three farm bills nor the CAA. It says the APMC Act passed by the incumbent state government will be dismissed, since it is allegedly in line with the Centre’s farm bills. The draft is cautious in its land acquisition policy, indicating that it has the Singur and Nandigram movements in mind. “Land will be acquired after creating consensus...and keeping in mind environmental aspects. The land-giver families will be given profitable payment...At least one member of the family will have to be trained and employed in such cases,” the manifesto reads. The Left Front promises to guarantee 150 days of employment in the rural sector in place of the current 100 days. It assures a hike in minimum wage from Rs 400 to Rs 700 a day or Rs 21,000 a month. Workers of shut factories will get a monthly stipend of Rs 2,500 and affordable ration. The draft promises rice at Rs 2 a kilo or 35kg a month for every poor family. The Left promises to spend 20 per cent of the state budget on education and make government healthcare free. In a first of its kind, the Left Front manifesto speaks of the welfare of the LGBTQA+ community. The physically impaired will get a monthly stipend hike — from Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000. The Centre will be asked to share half of its total earnings in terms of taxes and clear GST arrears, it adds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Learning setback for individuals with special needs||The 11-month stay at home owning to the pandemic has made many children and individuals with special needs more “dependent” on people around them and in some cases their “learning” has suffered, said psychologists and special educators. Some of the centres are reopening for shorter hours and for individualised therapies and the discomfort of children settled in the home environment is apparent. “In school or centres, children or individuals with special needs are under constant guidance. We feel that we are now having to restart again because a lot of unlearning of life skills have taken place during this period,” said Sudeshna Chowdhury, principal of Bhabna Child Development Centre that caters to individuals with autism and intellectual disabilities. Chowdhury said that there has been a change in toilet training, sitting and eating habits. “Those who are non-verbal would show through signs that they need to to go the washroom but now they need support. Also, since their sitting habits have suffered it is becoming difficult to do activity-based therapy,” she said. Parents also said many individuals with special needs did not want to go to centres. “My son has to go for two hours in the afternoon...but he has been resisting going to the centre,” said a father whose son is autistic. Psychologists have not just noticed changes in individual habits but also in attitudes. “We are noticing that individuals have become more dependent on their parents or guardians and they are unable to think on their own. There is a lack of drive,” said Ishita Sanyal, psychologist and founder of NGO Turning Point. Sanyal said ever since they have reopened for reduced hours parents prefer to wait and take the individuals back with them. “While we are doing activities with them we see many are looking at their parents’ who are waiting in the balcony for help or prompting even for simple activities,” said Sanyal. Not all schools or centres have reopened yet. Some of them that have opened are providing individual therapies or at the request of parents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Taming hill firefighting minus water||Around a hundred youths from Purulia have come together to douse fire raging on Ayodhya hills “without water” since the past few days after the district administration and forest department officials last week admitted the proposition to control the flames was difficult in the absence of enough water. Social media platforms have been been flooded with pictures of Ayodhya hills, which is a popular tourist and trekking destination in Purulia, burning for the past seven days. A group of district administrative officials and police officers who responded with a visit to the site last week, spoke about the difficulties of bringing the situation under control. “We visited the spot but could do little to douse the flames because Purulia is a water-scarce district and we don’t have adequate water up there (in the hills),” a police officer said. After this, a group of youths — including teachers, students, social workers, and environment lovers — formed a WhatsApp group “Save Ajodhya Hills” last Sunday to gather volunteers and tackle the fire. Their method is based on common sense — clearing as much as possible the dry leaves and branches that serve to fuel the existing fire. “We first visited the spots and found we couldn’t put off the fire because of lack of water in the hills. So, we made a passage and cleared dry leaves and branches from burning trees. We know it is tough but we have been successful in dousing the fire in at least five points. Our volunteers are moving to various spots to contain the spread of fire without using water,” said Durgadas Mahanty, one of organisers of the group and a high school teacher from Purulia’s Balarampur. The group also consists of students like Tarun Mahato, who is studying at Sidho Kanhu University, Ajay Bhagat, cyclist and nature lover, and many villagers who reside near Ayodhya hills. Sources said the effort of the group and several others, including members of the CPM’s youth wing DYFI, have helped to contain the intensity of the fire. “Though there are places where the fire is still raging the intensity is far less than what it was seven days ago. Ayodhya hills is not a dense forest like those in Uttarakhand. Therefore, the ploy to clear dry leaves from near the burning trees worked to contain and eventually douse the fire at many spots,” said a DYFI member who also acknowledged a few forest department workers who had joined them in their effort. “We have tried our best to contain the fire in some areas but it needs larger effort from the administration to completely douse the flames,” said Shyamal Mahato , DYFI secretary in Purulia. Forest department officials said that it was impossible for them to douse a forest fire without proper infrastructure. “Our teams did try, but taming a forest fire needs a larger effort such as using helicopters to spray water on flames,” said a forest official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Seven dead in 2 mishaps on NH12||Seven persons, including two schoolboys, were killed in two separate road accidents on NH12 in Murshidabad’s Suti and Beldanga on Thursday. In the first accident, where five persons killed, an SUV (a Scorpio) overturned and was hurtled across the four-lane NH12 in Suti’s Dhalla More around 1pm on Thursday when its right wheel came off, and the SUV careened diagonally to ram into an e-rickshaw with 10 occupants, the passengers all migrant workers on their way home to Malda from Baishnabnagar. Both the occupants of the SUV, including the driver, were reportedly killed on the spot along with three occupants of the e-rickshaw. The deceased were identified as SUV driver Azfarul Sheikh, 25, and his friend Feroze Sheikh, both from Suti, e-rickshaw passengers Nikhil Mondal, 50, Nirvan Mondal, 35, and Subodh Mandal, 40. Sources said the group of nine labourers had reserved the Toto to go home after a month of heavy labour in Baishnabnagar. Seven others in the e-rickshaw were admitted to Jangipur subdivisional hospital with serious injuries. “An unnatural death case has been started and we are awaiting post-mortem results,” said Jangipur superintendent of police Y. Raghuvamshi. In Thursday’s other accident, a goods truck toppled over when it tried to avoid a speeding motorbike that had rushed past it in Beldanga's Mirzapur village. The toppled truck landed on a tea stall, killing two of the four schoolboys who had been playing beside it. The truck, which was headed towards Behrampore, was travelling on NH12. The truck driver fled. Sources said the deceased were identified as Selim Sheikh, 12, a Class VII student at Mirzapur High School, and Iraq Hossain, 8, a Class II student at Mirzapur primary school. Two other children and the biker were rushed to Murshidabad Medical College for treatment. The toppled truck blocked one of the flanks of NH12 for at least two hours creating a huge traffic snarl on the highway. Superintendent of police of Murshidabad K. Sabari Rajkumar said a case of unnatural death had been started and the truck impounded. “We will find the truck driver soon,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
12-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul worker shot at in Malda, blame on BJP||A Trinamul Congress worker was shot at by a group of miscreants at Alampur under Gazole police station in Malda district on Wednesday night. Bifal Mandal has suffered an injury to the right leg and is under treatment at the Malda Medical College and Hospital. Trinamul leaders accused the BJP of attacking Mandal, who hails from Raniganj in Gazole. He had been to Alampur on a personal errand. Local BJP leaders were mounting pressure on the injured worker to join their party in the past few days and attacked him for rejecting the proposal, Trinamul alleged. While returning home, Mandal was intercepted by a group of armed youths, who, according to him, had asked him to quit Trinamul and start working for the BJP. “As I refused to give in, the miscreants, who were on two-wheelers, opened fire at me. They fired at least five rounds and a bullet hit my right leg. Some locals, who heard the firing, came out. I also shouted for help. Then, the assailants fled,” said the injured Trinamul worker. “We want immediate arrest of all those who were involved in the attack. That the BJP is desperate to win the elections by any means is evident from the incident,” said Dulal Sarkar, a district Trinamul leader in Malda. The saffron camp, however, rejected the charges. Kajal Kundu, a BJP leader based in Gazole, said the incident was the fallout of the factionalism in Trinamul. “Some Trinamul leaders are trying to save their face by blaming us,” he said. Mandal was initially taken to a local health centre and later to the Malda Medical College and Hospital. Doctors said he was in a stable condition and was under observation. Acting on a tip off, Bansihari police in South Dinajpur have arrested seven persons who are suspected to be members of a gang that had planned a robbery on Wednesday night. Monojit Sarkar, the inspector-in-charge, said the gang members had assembled near a petrol pump in Narayanpur area. The police team went there and nabbed them. An improvised firearm, one round of live cartridge and some sharp weapons have been recovered from them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
12-03-2021||West Bengal||BSF seizes 1kg gold from Kaijuri, one held ||BSF jawans nabbed a civic police volunteer from Kaijuri in North 24-Parganas on Thursday for allegedly smuggling gold into Bangladesh. The Border Security Force seized around 1kg (998 grams) of gold from the accused civic police volunteer, Mofijur Rehman, 32, who is attached to Swarupnagar police station in North 24-Parganas. A BSF spokesperson for south Bengal frontier in Calcutta put the approximate market value of the seized gold at around Rs 47.10 lakh. Mofijur, a resident of Chithuri-Balti village in Swarupnagar, was handed over to customs authorities at Tentulia and later to police who registered his arrest and began a probe. BSF sources said after receiving a tip-off from the intelligence wing of the border force, a surveillance team of the 153 battalion intercepted Mofijur as he was approaching the Bangladesh border near Kaijuri riding a motorcycle. “During frisking, our personnel found a solid piece of gold in a pocket of his trouser. During the preliminary interrogation, he revealed his identity and confessed that he was scheduled to hand over the gold to a person in Basirhat,” a BSF spokesperson said. In another development, the BSF handed over two minor boys to the Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) authorities. The two boys had allegedly sneaked into the Indian territory to collect wheat bran. The BSF authorities said the boys, both aged 12 and residents of Damarhuda in Bangladesh, had been engaged by a person to collect the wheat bran but were caught by a surveillance team of the force at Rangiapota in Nadia’s Chapra on Wednesday afternoon. “We were approached by the BGB authorities after their parents appealed for help. We considered their request and handed over the two minor boys to them but at the same time, insisted that they take action against the persons who had engaged the boys to collect wheat bran sneaking into the Indian territory,” a BSF spokesperson added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
