13-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Do not vote for BJP, says Tikait at Nandigram||Farmers in Bengal held mahapanchayats on Saturday in the city and at Nandigram, where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is in the fray, at the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and urged voters not to vote for the BJP in the coming West Bengal Assembly poll. Farmer leader and Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Rakesh Tikait, one of those spearheading the four-month-old farmers’ stir against the Centre’s farm laws, reached the state during the day to be part of the Mahapanchayat. Tikait, who was received at the airport by TMC MP Dola Sen, later addressed gatherings of farmers in the city and at Nandigram in East Midnapore district along with social activist Medha Patkar. Patkar and Yogendra Yadav, had reached Calcutta on Friday to address a mahapanchayat at Ramlila grounds, which was followed by an intellectual meet. Alleging that the BJP-led government at the Centre is intent on breaking the backbone of the farmers and their movement, Tikait said it is “anti-people”. “Don’t vote for BJP. If voted to power they will give away your land to big corporates and industries and make you landless. They will hand over the country to big industrialist groups putting your livelihood at stake and in danger,”he said. Calling BJP “a party of cheats” which hides its sympathy for the rich, Tikait said “We will be on the side of those who oppose BJP, those who will stand by the farmers and the poor.” Clarifying that the Krishak Mahapanchayat in Bengal is not meant to pledge support to any particular non-BJP party in the state, the Bharatiya Kisan Union chief said “I am not here to seek votes for a particular party. We are here to issue an emphatic appeal to start the battle against BJP on behalf of the farmers in Bengal.” Referring to Nandigram, he said the land of farmers’ agitation will give new direction to the movement against the farm bills. On the ongoing farmers’ stir in Delhi, he said the protestors are ready to continue their agitation for a long period as their morale is high. Tikait is also expected to visit Singur, one of the epicentres of anti-farm land acquisition agitation in 2006-07. Patkar warned against the “sinister design” of the Narendra Modi government to rob small and marginal farmers of their right over their small plots of land. Also it does not allow farmers to decide the remunerative price of their agri produce. The people of Nandigram must show the way by giving the lead against the BJP's objective to thrust the farm laws, she said. The social activist also urged the people to exercise their franchise cautiously. “This is the land of Rabindranath Tagore, this is the land of so many luminaries. Bengal’s soil will not allow the divisive forces to get a toehold here, its farmers will not allow a rerun of forces like the (British) East India Company to usurp power,” she said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmers’ unions, had on Friday urged ploughmen and other people of West Bengal not to vote for BJP arguing that electoral defeat will force the BJP-led government at the Centre to repeal the three farm laws. Patkar had on Friday condemned the Centre for allegedly insulting the farmers’ stir and had said even the British occupiers had not resorted to acts which the present government is indulging in. She had welcomed the passage of a resolution against the farm laws in the West Bengal assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government’s report on Mamata incident sketchy, says EC||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has found the report submitted by the West Bengal government on the alleged attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram on March 10 as "sketchy" and asked Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to elaborate it, a poll official said on Saturday. The chief secretary has been asked to furnish details like how the incident took place and who could be behind it by Saturday, he said. "The report submitted by the West Bengal government appeared to be quite sketchy and without any details of the incident like how it happened or who could be behind it. We have asked the state administration to furnish more details," the official told PTI. The state government's report submitted to the ECI on Friday evening referred to the presence of a huge crowd at the spot but has no mention of the "4-5 people", who Banerjee alleged had attacked her, he said. It said there was no clear video footage of the alleged attack that took place in Birulia Bazar of Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district on Wednesday evening. After the incident, the ECI sought a report from the state government and appointed two poll observers for the state. The chief minister has left her Bhawanipur constituency in Calcutta to fight former aide and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, where an anti-land acquisition movement catapulted her party to power in 2011. Elections to the 294-member assembly will be held from March 27 to April 29. Results will be declared on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Yashwant Sinha joins TMC, says it is the call of the hour||Former Union minister Yashwant Sinha, a bitter critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi regime, joined Trinamul Congress on Saturday, days ahead of the high-octane West Bengal Assembly polls. Sinha, a senior BJP leader during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government's rule, told reporters it was call of the hour to ensure TMC wins the Assembly elections with a thumping majority which would herald the defeat of Modi government in 2024 Lok Sabha polls and save the country. "The tipping point was the attack (in Nandigram) on Mamata Banerjee. When I spoke to her today, she described the incident to me." he said, adding that he had .had 45-minute conversation with her before joining her party. "This government can do anything to win the election. The attack on Mamata Ji made me decide that I want to work with her," he said about the March 10 incident. Sinha, who served in the cabinet of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, had quit the saffron party in 2018 after having serious differences with the present party leadership. His son Jayant Sinha is the BJP MP from Hazaribagh in Jharkhand. The octagenarian leader had campaigned for TMC in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
Speaking after joining TMC at its office here, the bureaucrat-turned-politician, made a scathing attack on Modi and Union Home minister Amit Shah, observing that democracy in the country was under threat under them. "The strength of the democracy lies in the robustness of its institutions, and all the institutions have been weakened systematically," Sinha said.
"The country is faced with strange situation. The values and principles we gave so much importance, the founding principles of our Republic are not being followed. The farmers of the country are sitting near Delhi for months but the government doesn't care. The ruling party has only one objective - win elections by any means," he said.
The senior politician pledged support to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in her fight against the BJP. "TMC will win the polls by thumping majority. But, we have to increase the victory to another level.
"(Gopal Krishna) Gokhale had famously said, 'What Bengal thinks today India thinks tomorrow'. Bengal should herald changes. The win of TMC in West Bengal Assembly polls will ring in changes in 2024 general elections and defeat them (Modi-Shah) led BJP," Sinha said.
Observing that the BJP led by Atal Behari Vajpayee was vastly different from the saffron party today, Sinha said, "Atal ji believed in consensus. Now Modi and Shah believe in crushing opposite opinion. Atal ji believed in taking people along, but the present BJP regime believes in conquering people.
"Atal ji believed in coalition, now coalition partners are leaving BJP one after another." 
Sinha said migrant labourers were forced to come back home by foot during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown while education, healthcare are also going through a rough phase but the government does not seem to be bothered. The veteran politician observed it is a serious fight today, not merely to win elections but to save the Republic Sinha recalled during Kandahar hijack of Air India plane, when TMC was the coalition partner of the Vajpayee government, Banerjee had volunteered at the cabinet meeting to go and meet the hijackers to secure release of hostages "as she is not afraid of her life." Sinha's joining Trinamul Congress might not help it win votes, but his utterances against the BJP could lend weight to TMC's offensive against the saffron party in the high- voltage Bengal polls. "We welcome Yashwant Sinha to our party. His participation would strengthen our fight against the BJP in the coming elections," TMC Lok Sabha party leader Sudip Bandopadhyay said earlier. Sinha was two-time finance minister, once in the Chandra Sekhar cabinet in 1990 and then again in the Vajpayee cabinet. He also held the portfolio of the external affairs ministry in the Vajpayee cabinet. He served as the Principal Secretary to then Bihar Chief Minister Karpoori Thakur in 1977. Influenced by Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan, Sinha, had resigned from the IAS in 1984 and plunged into politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court upholds EC’s candidate decision||Trinamul suffered a blow on Friday with a Calcutta High Court division bench upholding the Election Commission’s decision to cancel the candidature of Ujjwal Kumar, the party’s nominee from Purulia’s Joypur Assembly seat, on technical grounds. The returning officer of the Election Commission had on Wednesday rejected Kumar’s nomination because of incomplete information in his papers. Kumar had challenged the decision and moved high court on Thursday. Then, a single bench of Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya quashed the EC’s decision and directed the returning officer to accept Kumar’s nomination. The EC thereupon challenged the order before a division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan. The high court’s division bench set aside the order passed by the single bench and upheld EC’s rejection of Kumar’s candidature. It observed that with the start of the poll process, the court had no jurisdiction to interfere with the EC’s decision. General secretary of Trinamul Purulia district unit, Nadendu Mahali, said Friday’s HC decision was a setback and added that they were mulling to support Independent candidate Dibyajyoti Singh Deo. “He is a youth leader of the party and had filed nomination as he was denied a ticket.” In another order, a division bench of Calcutta High Court, headed by Chief Justice T.B.N Radhakrishnan, on Friday refused to pass any order on a plea moved by former BJP leader of East Midnapore Anisur Rahman, who had challenged the legality of the high court order on March 2 that overturned a Tamluk court verdict acquitting him in a 2019 murder case. Following the order on Friday, Anisur will remain in jail for now. Anisur was re-arrested within hours of his release on March 2 when the single bench of Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya set aside the Tamluk court order. Anisur, who before joining the BJP in 2018 had been with Trinamul as well, had been arrested in October 2019 on charges of murdering Trinamul Congress leader Kurban Shah. After Suvendu Adhikari left Trinamul to join the BJP, the state government decided to withdraw murder charges against Anisur. Trinamul had planned to use Anisur’s popularity in the party’s fight against Adhikari in the Nandigram election. Anisur had recently announced his decision to quit the BJP and ally with the Trinamul again. A magistrate in Tamluk earlier this month allowed the state government to withdraw the case against Anisur, but a resident of East Midnapore challenged the Tamluk court’s order in high court. Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya struck down the Tamluk magistrate’s order, leading to the re-arrest of Anisur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee discharged from SSKM Hospital after 46 hours||A wheelchair-bound Mamata Banerjee emerged from SSKM Hospital on Friday evening after about 46 hours under medical supervision, the sight perking up her party which had been battling nerves since her injury on Wednesday. As the chief minister’s personal security guards lifted her to the front seat of a hatchback, and the car set off for her Harish Chatterjee Street home, Trinamul leaders’ relief was palpable. “Didi’s injury had halted all our political activities. Now that she is out of hospital, everything will pick up pace,” a source close to the chief minister said. Although Mamata has termed it a “soft and smiley election”, Trinamul knows it faces the fight of its life, pitted against the might of the Centre and its multiple agencies, with its 66-year-old leader its sole beacon of hope. So, when Mamata had to withdraw herself from campaigning after injuring her left foot, left arm and head during an outreach programme in Nandigram on Wednesday, a pall had descended on Bengal’s ruling party. Trinamul leaders feared it meant the end of their plan to answer the BJP’s campaign blitzkrieg — to be led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and a battery of other Union ministers — with 200-plus rallies by Mamata. On Friday evening, the mood seemed to be lifting as word spread that Mamata, her left foot in a plaster cast, would resume electioneering from Sunday. “We are all waiting for Didi’s campaign to pick up. The moment it gathers momentum in south Bengal, we’ll start reaping the benefit in north Bengal too,” a senior Trinamul leader from north Bengal, who had come to Calcutta for a day to meet Mamata, said. He couldn’t meet the chief minister. But as he left SSKM Hospital to catch his train back home, the knowledge that his leader would be discharged in the evening had put a smile on his face. Sources close to Mamata said that all through her time at her Woodburn Ward cabin, she had been acutely conscious that her party was holding its breath, waiting to hear when she might be able to hit the campaign trail again. So, she overruled the doctors when they advised at least another 48 hours’ stay, and got herself discharged by promising not to exert her injured leg. As Mamata left the hospital, hands folded, she appeared frail and in pain. For once, she didn’t wave to the assembled journalists as her car drove away, with her nephew and MP Abhishek Banerjee and party colleague Firhad Hakim in the back seat. She hadn’t lost her feistiness, though. A source close to her said Mamata had swatted away the suggestion that she return home in an ambulance. “I can’t,” she apparently said, implying she couldn’t be seen in an ambulance in the countdown to such a crucial election. She hasn’t any time to lose, with the BJP set to up the ante with Shah’s arrival on Sunday, followed by three visits by Modi next week. Sources said Mamata had been on the job even when she lay in her hospital bed, working through the pain. It was from the hospital that she decided to reschedule the release of the party’s poll manifesto on Sunday, coinciding with Nandigram Dibas, the day 14 people died in police firing in 2007 — one of the key events that catapulted her to power in 2011. The originally planned release on Thursday had to be put off because of her injury. “She is the candidate from Nandigram, and so releasing the manifesto on March 14 is significant,” a party source said. “The manifesto will contain a separate set of promises for Nandigram, which will define her development narrative against BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari.” A source said Mamata was itching to get cracking and would be campaigning at full throttle from next week. “This weekend’s programmes in Purulia, Bankura and Jhargram had to be postponed because of her injury. She will hold all the programmes as planned from Monday. The district leaders have been informed,” he said. Bengal will, however, see a different Mamata on the campaign trail — one confined to a wheelchair instead of rushing to meet the crowds or pacing up and down the dais with a cordless mike. Trinamul leaders hope that the visuals of an injured Mamata would benefit the party at the booths. “A wounded tigress is at her most dangerous. Wait for the results,” a party insider said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
13-03-2021||West Bengal||As many as 700 companies of central forces for first phase||A total of about 700 companies of central forces will be deployed in the first phase of Assembly polls in Bengal. According to sources, officials of the districts where the first phase would be held on March 27, have submitted a requirement of 732 companies of central forces. “It appears the requirement would be met as the Union home ministry has promised to send central forces as per the requirement to ensure incident-free polls,”  said a senior government official. “So, the state is likely to get a total of 700-odd companies of central forces in the first phase, which could go up in the next few phases.” In the first phase, polls would be held in 30 Assembly segments spread over districts like East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Purulia and Bankura. As per the plan, central forces would guard all the booths and the paramilitary forces would be deployed in quick response teams and also to be deployed in the sector offices and the strong rooms. Senior officials said that the deployment plan was unprecedented as such a huge number of central forces were never deployed in the state during the polls. Till now, 295 companies of central forces have already been deployed in the state for carrying out route marches to build confidence among the voters. "More forces will be sent to the state by March 24 so that they can be deployed in the poll-bound districts to meet the demand of the authorities," a senior official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari mum on injured Mamata Banerjee||Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, now the BJP’s candidate from Nandigram, on Friday declined to comment on the injured Mamata Banerjee. Adhikari, who usually peppers his speeches and media interactions with attacks against his former party supremo Mamata — now his poll rival in Nandigram — has been conspicuous in his silence on Wednesday’s incident that injured and left her hospitalised. On Friday, the 50-year-old former minister responded to questions on Mamata from the media with “leave it” or refused to answer “apolitical questions”. The two central ministers Smriti Irani and Dharmendra Pradhan, who shared the dais with him on Friday at Durgachowk before he filed his nomination papers in Haldia, remained mum on the injuries the chief minister sustained during an outreach in Birulia Bazar of Nandigram. While Trinamul has been alleging it was an attempt on Mamata’s life, the BJP is trying to suggest it was an accident. “We haven’t had a word out of him on Didi’s injuries. Suvendu is a seasoned leader from the grassroots. He understood attacking his former mentor now will annoy people,” said a Trinamul leader, adding no protest to counter Trinamul’s narrative on Wednesday’s incident was seen on Friday. In his speech, the Trinamul turncoat focused on the contribution of Nandigram in overthrowing the Left rule and tried to explain how many like him were forced to leave Trinamul for the BJP. “Nandigram is not just an Assembly constituency. It played a role in bringing change from the Left rule in Bengal through the historic movement against land acquisition....It was a second fight for freedom, for the state, led by Nandigram,” he said. “People here brought in change with many dreams, which were not fulfilled. Today, many like me have quit Trinamul and joined the BJP, as it (Trinamul) turned into a private company,” he said. Later, asked by journalists on the conspiracy theory regarding Mamata’s injuries, Adhikari discontinued many television interviews midway. “I will not comment on that issue. Senior leaders like general-secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya will tell you about this,” said a visibly uncomfortable Adhikari to one of the journalists in Hindi. BJP leaders in Adhikari’s entourage said this reticence was probably was a directive from BJP’s top leadership. “Suvendu (Adhikari) saying something harsh right now, from Nandigram could prove to be counterproductive, coming from someone who had been her close aide for so many years,” said a BJP leader. Irani, the Union textile minister, attacked Mamata for her slogan Khela Hobe (A game is afoot) and the decision to “flee” from the Bhowanipore Assembly seat. Adhikari, for a change, was silent on that and he did not take Mamata’s name. “The BJP understood that attacking our injured chief minister was wrong. However, their senior leaders are continuously attacking her from Calcutta and Delhi. We know Didi will return to Nandigram soon and will hand a huge defeat to the BJP,” said Abu Taher, a Trinamul leader from Nandigram. Pralay Pal, a BJP vice-president in Tamluk, said the party was busy with Adhikari’s nomination on Friday but would be firm in countering the issue, if Mamata’s party used it as a poll plank.
“Trinamul is trying to create pressure on the poll panel. They are distorting facts related to the Nandigram incident and trying to gain sympathy, which is condemnable,” said Samik Bhattacharya, state BJP’s chief spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Farmers led by Rakesh Tikait will travel to Bengal on tractors on 5th April  ||If Prime Minister Narendra Modi looks down from his helicopter on the campaign trail in Bengal next month, chances are he might spot what he is refusing to see from Delhi: tractors. Farmers led by Rakesh Tikait will travel to Bengal on tractors on April 5 and stay on in an attempt to ensure the defeat of the BJP. “Woh toh helicopter mein chalega, hum peechhe peechhe tractor mein chalenge (Modi will travel in a helicopter, we will follow him in tractors),” Tikait, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), told The Telegraph from Jodhpur on Friday. A mahapanchayat was held in Calcutta on Friday. “The fight against the BJP is now going on in Bengal. The need for us is to stay there. I will reach Bengal with tractors on April 5 to ensure the defeat of the BJP for inflicting pain on peasants,” he added. The BKU is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha that is leading the fight against the contentious farm laws of the Centre. The Morcha held a rally in Calcutta on Friday. It has appealed to farmers to defeat the BJP in the upcoming elections in Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry but made it clear it would not campaign for any particular party. Tikait said it was necessary to expose the “company raj” that the BJP government at the Centre planned to impose on the farmers and people at large. Tikait became a symbol of the resistance against the three farm laws when his emotional speech in the face of an eviction order and massive force deployment on January 28 at the Ghazipur border led to a spontaneous mobilisation of people from several hundred miles away through the night. “Since then, Tikait, along with other leaders of the Morcha, has been holding hugely attended kisan mahapanchayats to tell the people about the danger that farmers and ordinary people face from the BJP,” said a senior leader of the Morcha who will take part in a rally along with the BKU leader in Nandigram on Saturday. Invited by a group of Sikh sympathisers of the farm protest, Morcha leaders will address two rallies in Calcutta and one in Nandigram on Saturday to tell the people not to vote for the BJP. On March 14, the leaders, barring Tikait who will leave the city on Sunday, will travel to Singur and Asansol to urge people to vote against the BJP. “We will ask them to vote for any party they like but not the BJP. Voting for the BJP is detrimental to the national interest,” Tikait said before signing off to board a train to Jaipur, from where he will fly to Calcutta on Saturday morning. In its appeal to farmers in the election-bound states, the Morcha urged farmers to teach the “power-hungry, anti-farmer BJP” that it is not wise to pit itself against peasants, hoping that its demands would be met if the “arrogance of the party can be broken”. “We have understood that the Modi government does not understand the language of truth, of goodness, of justice, of constitutional values, etc. However, it understands the language of votes, seats and power. You now have the power of denting their quest for votes, seats and power.” The Morcha said in the letter: “The SKM... is only asking you not to vote for the BJP. We are not advocating for any particular party. We have only one appeal — do not vote even by mistake to the lotus symbol.” About their specific demand for the repeal of the three contentious farm laws, the SKM pointed out that the BJP dispensation had brought these legislation to “dismantle any meagre protection from the government for poor farmers and consumers, and instead facilitate the expansion of private corporations and big capital”. It added that the laws had been enacted without any consultation with farmers. “These are laws that will destroy our future as well as our future generations.” The SKM also said the BJP government had “discredited and maligned farmers” who were protesting against the new laws, called them names and “insulted them continuously”. About the 12 meetings with the Centre that failed to break the impasse, the SKM said the “BJP government’s ministers pretended to hold multiple rounds of consultations with farmer leaders but in reality, did not even listen carefully to what the farmers had to say”. Stating that the BJP was keen on making inroads in the southern states, the SKM noted that this was the time when farmers in Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Bengal and Assam could teach a lesson to the “power-hungry, anti-farmer BJP”. “The BJP should learn a lesson that it is not wise to pit itself against the farmers of India. If you manage to teach them this lesson, the arrogance of the party can be broken, and we can get the demands of the ongoing farmers’ movement fulfilled,” the SKM said. At a news conference in Calcutta, farm leaders iterated that they would visit all the poll-bound states and ask people “to not vote for the BJP”. “We have come to Bengal now. But our plan is to visit all five states where Assembly elections will happen. We will tell the people in these states to not vote for the BJP. We will tell the people that the policies of the Modi government will destroy the peasantry and our country,” said SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. The leaders said they had decided to go to all 29 states and explain the anti-farmer laws to farmers. “We have a mahapanchayat in Bhubaneswar on March 20 and in Bangalore on March 22,” Hannan Mollah, another SKM leader, said. The SKM will circulate the letter written to the farmers in all 294 Assembly constituencies of the state. “The Modi government does not understand the difference between good and bad. It only understands votes, seats and satta (power). We have to hurt them through votes,” said farm union leader Yogendra Yadav. Additional reporting by our Delhi and Calcutta bureaus||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||CPM’s Singur face, Srijan Bhattacharya, revisits past||Srijan Bhattacharya, the CPM’s young bet for the Singur Assembly constituency, has reached out to Manoranjan Malik, the father of Tapasi Malik whose murder was one of the factors that changed the complexion of the antiland acquisition movement in 2006 during Left rule. Srijan, campaigning near the Singur railway station on Thursday, was told by a party colleague that Manoranjan runs a small store selling cosmetics and accessories nearby. The 28-year-old candidate went up to Manoranjan’s shop. “I introduced myself and told him we are speaking for youths and industrialisation in Singur. Our vision for Singur remains the same. I sought his blessings and support,” Srijan told The Telegraph. “Tomake shubhechha (good wishes to you),” Srijan quoted Manoranjan as telling him. Contacted on Friday, Manoranjan said: “It was not only me (that Srijan met). He came to the market near the Singur railway station where I have a small shop. He met all the shopowners there and he met me too.” Tapasi’s charred body was found in December 2006 on the land given to Tata Motors in Singur. CPM leaders Suhrid Dutta and Debu Mallick, out on bail since February 2009, had been accused of rap¬ing and setting fire to Tapasi. “I was about 14 then,” said Srijan. “Tapasi Malik’s death had hurt me too. However, despite all my sympathies for Manoranjanbabu, I want to remind people that none of the CPM leaders who had been accused killing Tapasi was found guilty.” Given a chance, he would ensure proper investigation into Tapasi’s death, he added. The CPM leadership now acknowledges that “some mistakes” were made during Left rule in the industrialisation drive spearheaded by then chief minister, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. “The party in its internal assessment has later accepted that though our intention was right, the implementation could have been done in a better manner,” a CPM state committee member said. “However, we still believe that there is no alternative to industrialisation for Bengal’s growth and we want the people of Singur with us to realise this vision.” Srijan’s first social media post on March 10 evening after his candidature was announced read: “Krishi Amader Bhitti, Shilpo Amader Bhobisyot (agriculture is our foundation, industry is our future). This was the motto of the Left in 2006.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata injury fallout: TMC cites PM and Dilip barbs as proof ||The Trinamul Congress on Friday launched a full-scale political battle over the injury to Mamata Banerjee, listing before the Election Commission a series of events to back up the claim of conspiracy and forcing the BJP to literally follow in the footsteps of its rival in Bengal. Hours before the Bengal chief minister was released in a wheelchair, a six-MP Trinamul delegation met the poll panel top  brass at Nirvachan Sadan, calling the Nandigram incident of Wednesday evening “BJP’s conspiracy” and alleging it was “premeditated”. In an eight-page memorandum, Trinamul quoted several BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to suggest they had dropped dark hints presaging the injury to Mamata. “An attempt was made on the life of our chairperson Ms. Mamata Banerjee… though the perpetrators failed in their vicious attempt,” read the memorandum from the delegation, led by Dum Dum MP and Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy and the party’s leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien. “The events/actions leading up to the attempt on her life leave no doubt that the attack was premeditated and part of a deep-rooted conspiracy…,” it added. Among the instances the memorandum cited was a quote from the Prime Minister’s March 7 address at the Brigade Parade Grounds, where he had said: “Lekin jab scooty ney Nandigram mein girna taye kiya hai toh hum kya kare (If the scooter has decided to fall in Nandigram, what can we do)?” The instances included a social media post by BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh, with a caricature of Mamata, depicting that “she would be hit” at Nandigram, the numerous complaints from the BJP seeking the immediate removal of Virendra as director-general of police (which the poll panel carried out a day before the Nandigram incident) and a social media response by BJP youth wing state chief Saumitra Khan tagging Trinamul minister Bratya Basu and stating: “Kal thekey bujhtey parbey. Bikel panchta’r por (You will come to know from tomorrow. After 5pm).” The memorandum pointed out  the district police chief and the local police were “suspiciously absent” after 5pm on March 10, ahead of the “attack” that took place at 6.15pm. It alleged Chittaranjan Das and Debabrata Das, two of the witnesses who claimed it was an accident, not an attack, and were cited by a TV channel, are “associates” of Nandigram’s BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari. “… there is a clear nexus between post by Dilip Ghosh on Facebook, multiple complaints by BJP seeking removal of DGP, the unilateral decision of the ECI to remove the erstwhile DGP, the plan revealed by Saumitra Khan on Twitter, BJP’s request to suspend/remove security personnel of Ms. Banerjee, the resultant attempt on the life of Ms. Banerjee and the cover up of the same by Adhikari,” wrote Trinamul in its memorandum. On Thursday, the commission had taken exception to the party’s “insinuations and averments”, and that it found it “undignified” even to respond to the allegations of acting at the behest of the BJP. Several seniors in Trinamul have been saying the wording of the commission’s letter made it look like it was “drafted by a political party”. On Friday evening, Trinamul’s concerns regarding the poll panel found an echo in social activist Medha Patkar, who paid a visit to SSKM. Patkar, an ally of Mamata during her days in the Opposition, endorsed the Trinamul allegations and accused the commission of having been compromised in the saffron regime. The BJP, apparently unsure of how the Nandigram incident might impact voter psyche, sent an eight-member delegation, led by its national general-secretary Bhupender Yadav and Union railway minister Piyush Goyal, to the commission in the evening. “We requested the commission to conduct a thorough and impartial probe into the incident. We also requested a special observer to monitor polls in Nandigram alone because it is a sensitive constituency,” Yadav said after meeting the commission officials. “The BJP has requested the commission to release raw footage of Mamata Banerjee’s accident to dispel rumours being spread by Trinamul leaders. We also seek action against Trinamul leaders for spreading misinformation in violation of the model code of conduct,” he added. In Bengal, Trinamul conducted silent marches in condemnation of the Nandigram incident in every block. “Nandigram is suddenly at the centre stage. She was already taking on her former Nandigram aide (Adhikari) in the constituency. Now, there was an attempt on her life…. Nandigram could once again prove to be a watershed at this crucial juncture for not only her political career but also Bengal’s future,” said a Trinamul MP. Anti-land acquisition movements in Singur and Nandigram, between 2006 and 2008, had played a pivotal role in Mamata’s political career and had propelled her to power in 2011.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Prime Minister Modi plans three rallies this month in Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Bengal to hold three public meetings in a span of four days this month. Modi will hold rallies in Purulia’s Bhangra, East Midnapore’s Contai and Bankura’s Ranibandh on March 18, 20 and 21, respectively. On March 27, which is the first day of polls in Bengal, seven Assembly seats of Purulia Lok Sabha constituency, six under Contai Lok Sabha seat and five of Bankura Lok Sabha constituency will go to the polls. “For us, Modiji is the mascot for Bengal polls. The more the number of rallies led by him, the better,” a BJP source said. “We are planning at least 20 such rallies to be addressed by Modiji in the run up to the Assembly polls,” this person added. On March 14, Union home minister Amit Shah will address a rally at Jhargram district. The party has planned an equal number of public meetings for Shah as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul star nominees visit party old-timers||Trinamul candidates have their task cut out during their campaign trail — seek the blessings of party old-timers try and prevent resentment or internal feud. Working towards this, Tollywood star Sayantika Bandopadhyay, who is chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s choice for the Bankura seat, rolled out her campaign on Tuesday with visits to the homes of three old-timers. After visiting an old temple, she visited the house of Minati Mishra, a former MLA and wife of Kashinath Mishra, a five-term MLA from Bankura who died in an accident in 2013. Sayantika touched Minati’s feet and paid floral tribute to a picture of Kashinath. She spent around 30 minutes with the family before leaving the Mishra household to call on the family members of two party veterans Shanti Singh and Tara Kundu who had passed away a few years ago. The effort to involve “party elders and their families” in the campaign was not restricted to Bankura. Trinamul’s star candidate June Maliah for Midnapore visited the house of Mrigendra Nath Maiti, the MLA who died recently of Covid. Trinamul sources said nominees, particularly Tollywood or sports stars, have been asked to visit homes of the party’s old-timers to offset “feelings of neglect”. “We have realised in the past that candidates who make it to the list from outside do trigger feelings of being ignored among old timers. To ensure a smooth and united fight in the polls, we have asked party candidates to call on old-timers and recognise their contribution,” said a senior Trinamul leader, pointing out that “Kashinathda helped build the organisation in Jungle Mahal districts”. Trinamul leaders said the gesture to show respect to old timers made poll sense. “These leaders still have large following in their areas. This show of respect to old timers or their families will touch a large section of voters,” a Trinamul leader said. “Kashinath babu and two other leaders, who have passed away, were pillars of strength for the party. So it the duty for newcomers to visit their homes and seek their blessings,” said Dilip Agrawal, the Trinamul spokesperson in Bankura. The initiative gained urgency as Trinamul nominee and panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee had lagged behind BJP’s Subhas Sarkar by over 46,000 votes in the Bankura Assembly constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The gesture is paying dividends and local residents are welcoming the move. “In the past we have seen a film star win polls from here but ignore leaders like Kashibabu and Tarababu who have built the party in the region. We are pleased that Sayantika called on the families of these leaders to seek their blessings,” said Prabir Ghosh, a close aide Kashinath. Sources said at many places like Nadia, the initiative has been adopted as a strategy to avoid factional feud. Trinamul in Nadia is a largely divided house and Mamata has fielded Tollywood star Koushani Mukherjee for the prestigious Krishnagar North constituency. Trinamul insiders said Koushani had been told to reach out to old-timers and bring all factions under one umbrella. “There are many people who toiled hard to raise the party and develop a support base in the district. I will go to their doorsteps and seek their blessings,” Koushani told the media.
Additional reporting by Subhasish Chowdhury||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases rise after 136 days in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged a rise in its total of active Covid-19 cases, by 23 to 3,133, for the first time since October 26, Vijaya Dashami, after an unbroken 136-day fall. The state reported 253 recoveries, 277 new infections and one death in the city. Before Friday’s rise, the total of active cases had fallen from 37,190 on October 26 last year to 3,110 on Thursday. A minister said a “trend of rise (in Covid infections)” is being witnessed “nationally over the past few days”. “Before Friday, the state had been able to buck that trend. We are sad that the remarkable 136-day streak snapped on Friday. But we hope it is an aberration and not the start of a new trend of deterioration,” he said. Bengal now has 1.57 per cent of India’s total active cases, bettering the 7 per cent at the start of 2020. The state is now ninth among states with the most active cases, having improved from third spot a couple of months ago. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.68 per cent, ahead of the national average of 96.8. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.57 per cent, having fallen steadily for 113 days. On Friday, the state reported 19,376 tests, taking the total past 87.87 lakh, at 97,644 tests per million people. “There are enough positives still, no need to start worrying immediately,” said the minister. Bengal has over 5.77 lakh cases, including over 5.64 lakh recoveries and 10,287 deaths. Of the toll, 8,640 deaths (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate was 1.78, while the national rate is 1.39 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang camp to focus on personal touch||In a major shift in their poll strategy, the Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided against holding mega rallies during their Assembly election campaign and instead concentrate on booth-level meetings. During the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly bypoll and Lok Sabha elections, the Tamang camp had concentrated on major rallies in an effort to show their strength, which they felt would send a positive image to the voters, but this had not yielded results. BJP’s Raju Bista defeated Trinamul’s Amar Singh Rai, which the Morcha had backed, by a margin of 4.13 lakh votes. Tamang  lost the Darjeeling Assembly bypoll to BJP-GNLF candidate Neeraj Zimba by more than 46,000 votes. “We will not hold any major rallies this time. We realised that attendance in rallies tend to be misleading and that does not translate into votes,” said a senior Morcha leader of the Tamang camp. The only major rally that this faction has lined up is while announcing their candidates, which is likely to be done in a week’s time. “Even that rally will not be not be big. We are looking at bringing only 10 vehicles from each constituency,” the leader said. There are 45 Gorkhaland Territorial Administration constituencies in the hills. Instead of rallies, the Morcha will concentrate on holding booth-level meetings. “We will hold small booth-level meetings this time around. We want to reach out to voters on a personal level,” the leader said. Tamang faction leaders maintain that apart from booth-level meetings the party would also focus on smart social media campaigns. “No party can afford to neglect social media campaigns nowadays. We have already set up our social media team specifically for this election,” a Morcha insider said. The Bengal Assembly election has gained prominence in Darjeeling hills, unlike previous years, because of the recent change in the political contours of the hills. With the hills electing only three legislators to the Bengal house of 294, the state polls were considered a routine exercise which would be swept by the party in power in the hills, which basically meant the GTA or Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council prior to 2012. However, this time around the election is seen as a platform for three major hill parties, GNLF, the GJM (Bimal Gurung faction) and GJM (Binay Tamang faction) to prove their mandate. Both the Morcha factions are allies of Trinamul but bitter rivals of each other. “This time no one knows which party has the mandate. The results would bear testimony to whether the decade old party (Gorkha Janmukti Morcha) is still acceptable in the hills,” said Amar Lama, a lawyer, speaking as an independent observer. The Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha admitted the importance of the results of the three hill seats. “In the past, Assembly elections were not taken seriously by hill parties but this time it is important as we have shown that it is necessary for the hills to work with the government in power at Calcutta,” said spokesman Keshav Raj Pokhrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar bank staff held over fraud||Four persons, including three employees of a private bank, have been arrested at Dinhata in Cooch Behar district for allegedly withdrawing cash using the credit cards issued to at least two account holders without their knowledge. Police suspect a racket was behind the fraud and more people were involved in it. Sources have said Anup Saha, a trader at Sahebganj Road in Dinhata, has an account at the bank. Around three weeks ago, he got a phone call from the bank and was told that he had withdrawn Rs 4 lakh through his credit card and he should repay the amount. “The trader was surprised as he does not use a credit card of the bank. He filed complaints with us and the bank,” said a police officer. The investigators found out that another accountholder had lodged a similar complaint with the bank. Someone had obtained a credit card in his name and withdrawn Rs 48,000. “We suspect an organised racket is involved in the case and there is a chance that some employees of the bank are also with them. We could arrest four persons. They had filed fake applications for credit cards on behalf of the account holders, collected the same and used those for different purposes. The account holders, on the other hand, had no inkling of the fraud,” the officer said. The four arrested persons were Mehboob Rehman, a credit card agent, Biplab Majumdar, Nisith Singha and Koushik Chakraborty, all employees of the bank. Police arrested two men with an improvised firearm and seven rounds of live cartridges at Sitai in Cooch Behar district on Thursday night. Both are residents of Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district and the arrests were made by Sitai police. The police intercepted the duo while they were riding a motorcycle without number plate. The law enforcers searched both and seized the firearm and the live cartridges. A North Dinajpur district BJP leader was assaulted by a group of miscreants in Raiganj on Thursday night. Bhakta Roy, who is the former district president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, has been admitted to the Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital. The BJP accused a former Trinamul councillor and his son, who is also a youth leader of the ruling party, of assaulting Roy. District Trinamul leaders denied the charges. “None of us was involved in the attack. The BJP is unnecessarily trying to play politics over the issue,” said a party leader. BJP workers held demonstrations in Raiganj and different parts of the district, demanding the immediate arrests of the attackers. They also held a road blockade in Raiganj. 
Additional reporting by Kousik Sen||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal tourism sector pleads for peaceful polls||Stakeholders of tourism industry in north Bengal have urged political parties to ensure that the Assembly elections are held peacefully, pointing out that any incident of violence in the poll season might deter tourists from visiting the region over the next few weeks. In Bengal, elections will be held in eight phases from — March 27 to April 29 — followed by counting and declaration of results on May 2. In north Bengal districts, polling will start from April 10 and be held in various constituencies of the region till April 29, that is, the last phase. Stakeholders have said that the tourism industry had taken a beating during the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown in 2020. “It is only during past three months that tourists have started moving into the region," said Raj Basu, a veteran in tourism industry of the region. “We are expecting a good summer this year (related to tourist inflow). Any incident of violence during elections can have a negative impact on the tourism sector and people may cancel their trips. That is why we would like to urge political parties to see to it that elections are held peacefully. The administration also has a role to play here,” Basu added. In earlier elections, north Bengal has witnessed inter-party clashes, attacks on political workers and leaders of various parties in a number of districts. Also, during the past few weeks, a number of sporadic incidents of violence have been reported in the region. Jayanta Majumdar, a transporter in Siliguri, said such incidents leave tourists apprehensive and they want to avoid visiting places where elections are due. “We don’t want any unwanted tension to prevail in the region because of the elections. Also, another problem that the industry might face is the paucity of vehicles during the next few weeks as hundreds of vehicles which normally ferry tourists are now being requisitioned for elections. We are keeping fingers crossed and hope the tourism industry does not suffer in the coming weeks of polls,” said Majumdar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
13-03-2021||West Bengal||CBI, ED glare on Trinamul biggies||Two central investigating agencies — the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) — have sent separate notices to Trinamul leaders, including Partha Chatterjee and former transport minister Madan Mitra, in connection with ongoing probes into deposit mobilising companies such as Saradha and others. Chatterjee, Trinamul’s nominee for Assembly polls from Calcutta’s Behala West, has been asked to appear for a round of questioning on March 15 for his alleged involvement with I-Core group, a deposit mobilising company that the CBI claims allegedly raised around Rs 3,000 crore from people by offering high returns on investment in violation of norms. Chatterjee, the CBI claimed, had apparently attended one of the functions of the I-Core group where he reportedly promised government support. The agency wants to know if there was any monetary transaction between him and the Group, whose director Anukul Maity died in November. Maity was in CBI custody since 2017. Chatterjee said he was ready to face questions but before that wanted to go through the letter minutely. Earlier on Wednesday, the CBI had sent a letter to Trinamul’s Manas Bhuiyan in connection with its probe into the I-Core Group case. The ED summoned Mitra, who is contesting on behalf of Trinamul from Kamarhati Assembly seat this time, to appear for a round of questioning on March 18 in connection with agency's probe on Saradha deposit mobilising case. Mitra, arrested in December 2014 and released on bail in September 2016, has been asked to turn up with few documents, the summons coming about a week after his candidature was declared by the party supremo Mamata Banerjee. Mitra has been summoned along with another industrialist from Bengal, senior officials in the ED said. In a separate move, the CBI on Friday summoned to two family members of Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee's sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir — husband Ankush Arora and father-in-law Pawan Arora — on March 15 in connection with the multi-crore coal pilferage case. The Trinamul leadership termed the move by the two agencies as motivated action to create a flutter ahead of the Assembly elections. “The BJP has two allies now, the CBI and ED, which are being used to pressurise and intimidate Trinamul leaders. But it will boomerang," said Trinamul leader Saugata Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Left leader and Asok Bhattacharya aide joins BJP||Shankar Ghosh, a prominent face of the CPM in Siliguri, joined the BJP here on Friday. A couple of days back, Ghosh had resigned from the party and also from the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC). Ghosh, a former member of the mayor-in-council at the civic body and a district secretariat member of CPM’s Darjeeling district committee, was also known to be a confidant of Siliguri MLA and veteran CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya. At an event hosted by the BJP here, Ghosh was inducted into the party by BJP’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya in the presence of Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, among others. “I was was cornered in the CPM for the past couple of years,” said the CPM turncoat who is in his mid-40s. “Some party leaders did not allow the younger generation to work and speak. This made me quit the party and join the BJP. I intend to work under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Ghosh, in his mid-40s now and associated with the Left Front’s student wing SFI since his college days, said. Asked on the defection, Asok Bhattacharya said: “It is a closed chapter.” Sources in the CPM said the party has not faced such an act by any of its leaders recently. “He was associated with the CPM for some 30 years...it is unexpected on his part to join the BJP that functions with a completely different ideology,” said a CPM leader. A party insider said Ghosh’s decision drew flak from Netizens across north Bengal, many saying he “surrendered his ideology”. However, it raised some uncomfortable questions within the CPM. “Many have asked if some senior CPM leaders here want to develop a second line of leadership by bringing in young  faces.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
13-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Nandigram's heavyweight and newbie||BJP’s neo-convert Suvendu Adhikari and CPM’s young turk Minakshi Mukherjee filed their nomination papers for East Midnapore’s Nandigram Assembly seat on Friday, completing the nomination filing process for the high-profile constituency, where the two are locked in an electoral battle with Trinamul candidate and chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The BJP made Adhikari’s nomination filing a high-profile event by deputing central ministers Smriti Irani and Dharmendra Pradhan to accompany him from Nandigram for the paperwork at the Haldia SDO’s office. “The BJP will form the government in Bengal. Mamata Banerjee must take her leave on May 2,” petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan told the crowd at Durgachowk in Haldia shortly before Adhikari filed the papers. Before heading for Haldia to file the papers, Adhikari continued the tradition started by Mamata of paying obeisance at local temples. Around 9am, Adhikari’s contingent visited temples in Sonachura and in Nandigram before heading for Haldia. Adhikari also offered a few words of encouragement to supporters before entering the SDO office. Adhikari’s name, much like Mamata’s, was proposed by members of a family that lost a member to alleged political murder. Manasi Mondal, the widow of Nishikanta Mondal who was the Sonachura panchayat pradhan when he was allegedly killed in 2009 by alleged political opponents, proposed Adhikari’s name. “Suvendu da has been the backbone of Nandigram’s liberation. I am not denying the chief minister’s part, but I would never put her in place of Suvendu da, in terms of what has been done for Nandigram,” said Manasi’s son, Satyajit Mondal, referring to their roles in the Nandigram land agitation during the Left rule. Mamata and Adhikari had been colleagues then. At Durgachowk, Adhikari also brought up the 2007 land agitations, saying: “2007 was the forerunner to 2011's paribartan (change). Now we have to fight for independence a second time (in the polls).” Somewhat ironically, Adhikari blamed the Trinamul government for the rise in unemployment in the state, oblivious to the fact that he had been a key member of Mamata’s cabinet till December 2020, when he joined the BJP. He claimed Opposition members of the Assembly had been kept out of government meetings for the last 10 years. “Former CPM MLA Tapasi Mondal was always stymied whenever she tried to do any work. She will bring a huge change to Haldia, May onwards,” he added, before exhorting supporters of the need to have the same party at the state and central for there to be “real change”. CPM turncoat Mondal is now the BJP’s candidate for the Haldia Assembly seat. CPI(M) candidate Mukherjee arrived in a procession of party workers to file her papers for the Nandigram seat at the SDO’s office in Haldia a couple of hours before Adhikari. Asked about the battle ahead, Minakshi said: “Our two opponents (Mamata and Adhikari) are heavyweights indeed, but heavyweights of corruption. The people of Nandigram have learned (that) and will defeat them. They will vote for the Left, the secular and democratic alternative that we are offering.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
