14-03-2021||West Bengal||EC orders suspension of Mamata security in-charge||The Election Commission Sunday concurred with its two poll observers that there was no pre-meditated attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram during her poll campaign, and that her injuries were the result of a security lapse. Taking stern action over the "slack" bandobast arrangements, the commission ordered immediate suspension of IPS officer Vivek Sahay, who was in-charge of the CM's security, and Purba Medinipur SP Praween Prakash. It also transferred Purba Medinipur district magistrate. "Charges must be framed against him (Vivek Sahay) within a week for grossly failing in discharge of his primary duty as Director, Security, to protect the Z+ protectee," the EC said in a statement. It said the state chief secretary, in consultation with the DGP, is authorised to post a suitable director of security immediately. The poll panel also decided that a committee comprising the chief secretary and the DGP will "identify within next three days the other proximate security personnel below Director Security who failed in their duties to prevent the incident and protect the Z+ protectee, and take suitable action for their failure..." The EC also transferred Purba Medinipur district magistrate Vibhu Goel to a non-election post, replacing him with IAS officer Smita Pandey as the DM and district election officer, the statement said. The poll panel also ordered immediate suspension of Purba Medinipur SP Praween Prakash and directed framing of charges against him for a "major failure" of bandobast. He has been replaced by Sunil Kumar Yadav. The decisions were taken by the EC after reviewing reports sent by its special poll observers, Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube, and the state government. Based on the reports, the EC concluded that CM Banerjee sustained the injuries prima facie due to a lapse on the part of her security in-charge, sources had earlier said. The TMC chief had sustained injuries on left leg and waist after she fell down while campaigning in Nandigram Wednesday evening post filing nomination from the constituency. There were allegations she was pushed by unidentified people. Sources said in his report to the poll panel, the chief secretary has said, "It is evident that the presence of police force at the said spot to protect the Z+ protectee, specially during the election time, was not adequate and deployment of additional police personnel at the spot could have averted the incident." His report also mentions that "the local police arrangements at the spot of the incident were not commensurate with and adequate for the stature of the protectee." "The local police preparedness was not sufficient for dealing with the crowd at the spot. The overall synergy which is required to be established between the Directorate of Security and local or district police was not there," he wrote, according to sources. Special Observers Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube in their joint report have observed that the district administration has the overall responsibility in their jurisdiction for arranging fool-proof security arrangements for a chief minister's visit. The district police is required to provide strong route bandobast for the travel of the VVIP. "In fact, when it was expected that the CM might visit a temple situated close to the scene of incident and a separate contingent of police officers and men were deployed at the temple, it begs the question as to why a strong route-bandobast was not provided to stop the crowd from coming close to the CM's vehicle," the report observed, according to sources. "Obviously, the bandobast arrangements were slack and it led to the unsavory incident," it pointed out. Citing the report of the DM and the SP, the observers said there were several and frequent changes in the tour programme of the CM and therefore they had to take recourse to what they call a "floating security arrangement". "This we find to be bizzare and is definitely not in consonance with the security protocols prescribed for high dignitaries such as the CM of West Bengal. The joint report of DM and SP also includes a report from Kishore Kumar Biswas, the Returning Officer (RO) of Nandigram assembly seat, where he mentions that there was no scheduled event at BiruliaBazar, Gholpukhuria under Nandigram-I Dev block where the incident happened. "The flippant attitude towards the security of the CM exhibited by Vivek Sahay, Director Security, is evident by the fact that he was sitting in the bullet proof (BP) car meant for the VVIP," the observers noted. "It is nobody's case," their report said, "that the CM is known to prefer using normal vehicle rather than the BP vehicle which is sine qua non for the protection of the VVIP. If the VVIP choose to flout the prescribed security norms/protocols as they seem to consider these to be a hindrance in connecting with their adoring masses, it is incumbent upon the security detail to prevail in such matters lest it should lead to tragic consequences," Nayak's and Dube's report said. Based on the inputs and the incident, the Commission has now directed that since the security of star campaigners becomes far more sensitive during the election period, established SoPs, including advance detailed programme, necessary permissions to hold rallies or road shows, should be followed scrupulously. "Any deviation from approved programme should only be permitted after necessary approval," it said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP govt will be successful in bringing 'asli parivartan', says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday promised that after coming to power, the BJP will be successful in ushering in “true change” in West Bengal and turn the state into "Sonar Bangla" (Golden Bengal) again. The senior BJP leader held a colourful roadshow at Kharagpur town in Paschim Medinipur district in support of BJP candidates contesting the West Bengal assembly election. Shah claimed that the huge turnout in the roadshow underscored that people want change in the state under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "I promise that the BJP government will be successful in bringing 'asli parivartan' (true change) and 'Sonar Bangla' will be created again," Shah said in a brief speech at the end of the roadshow. The roadshow, held between the local BJP office 'Premhari Bhavan' and Malancha petrol pump, took over an hour to cover the less than one kilometre stretch, as the huge gathering made it almost impossible for the motorcade to move ahead. Shah was accompanied by BJP national general secretary in-charge of West Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya and the party's state president Dilip Ghosh. Thousands of people took part in the roadshow, which began after sundown, while people also gathered on rooftops and balconies in buildings on both sides of the road to watch it. Shah waved at the spectators and threw rose petals at the participants of the roadshow, with BJP candidate for the Kharagpur Sadar constituency, Hiran Chatterjee, an actor, by his side. Visibly pleased at the huge turnout, a smiling Shah showed the victory sign at the participants and spectators. The turnout proved that Chatterjee will surely be elected to the assembly, the Union minister said. As the wave of people moved forward slowly, the air reverberated with a newly coined slogan, "Ebar BJP" (BJP this time). The slogan was also written on the decorated truck on which Shah was standing, and in festoons and posters. Security personnel had a tough time managing the crowd as the number of people continued to rise while the cavalcade proceeded in a very slow pace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: TMC disagrees with EC’s “no attack” on Mamata observation||The TMC on Sunday stated that it disagrees with the Election Commission’s observation that there was no pre-meditated attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram and demanded a high- level probe into the incident. The party insisted that the inquiry by election observers lacks credibility. However, party spokesperson Sougata Roy expressed satisfaction over the fact that the EC agreed that there were security lapses and took action against some officials. Earlier Sunday, the EC concurred with the reports sent by its two special poll observers and the state government that there was no pre-meditated attack on TMC supremo on Wednesday in Nandigram. Thereby, indicating that her injuries were the result of a security lapse. The poll panel ordered the removal of Director (Security) Vivek Sahay, an IPS officer and the Superintendent of Police of Purba Medinipur Pravin Prakash. Both were suspended while District Magistrate Vibhu Goel was transferred. “We disagree with the EC’s observation based on the report of special election observers that there was no attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The report of the election observers lacks credibility and fails to inspire confidence. We reiterate our demand for a high-level probe into the incident,” Roy said. Reacting to the removal of officials by the EC over security lapses, Roy said, “It is good that at least they have accepted that there were security lapses.” “It is a welcome move that the EC has removed the officials over security lapses. At least they have taken some action. We had raised this question as to how there were lapses in the security of the chief minister,” he said. After reviewing the reports sent by its two special poll observers--Ajay Naik and Vivek Dube-- and the state government, the EC concluded that Banerjee sustained injuries prima facie due to a lapse on the part of her security in- charge, sources in the poll panel said. While Banerjee was using an ordinary vehicle, her director of security Vivek Sahay was in a bulletproof car when the incident took place. Also, no approval was taken from the returning officer of the area where the incident took place, the sources said. Due to this, poll officials could not deploy videographers or flying squads, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
14-03-2021||West Bengal||EC says injuries sustained by Mamata not result of attack, orders suspension of director of security||The Election Commission on Sunday concurred with reports from its two poll observers that there was no pre-meditated attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, indicating that her injuries were the result of a security lapse.

Taking stern action, the commission ordered that Director, Security, Vivek Sahay, an IPS officer, "be removed" from his post and placed under suspension immediately.

"Charges must be framed against him within a week for grossly failing in discharge of his primary duty as Director, Security, to protect the Z+ protectee," a statement from the Election Commission (EC) said.

It said the state chief secretary, in consultation with the DGP, is authorised to post a suitable director of security immediately.

The poll panel also decided that a committee comprising the chief secretary and the DGP will "identify within next three days the other proximate security personnel below Director Security who failed in their duties to prevent the incident and protect the Z+ protectee, and take suitable action for their failure..."

The statement said Smita Pandey, an IAS officer, shall be posted immediately as district magistrate and district election officer of Purba Medinipur in place of Vibhu Goel, "who shall be transferred to a non-election post".

The poll panel also ordered that Pravin Prakash, Superintendent of Police (SP) of Purba Medinipur, be placed under suspension immediately and charges framed against him for major failure of "bandobast".

Sunil Kumar Yadav will now be posted as the SP of Purba Medinipur in place of Prakash, it said.

The decisions were taken by the EC after reviewing reports sent by its special poll observers, Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube, and the state government.

Based on the reports, the EC concluded that Banerjee sustained the injuries prima facie due to a lapse on the part of her security in-charge, sources had earlier said.

The Trinamool Congress supremo fell down and sustained injuries on her left leg and waist while she was campaigning in the Nandigram assembly segment on Wednesday evening after filing her nomination from the constituency. There were allegations that she was pushed by unidentified people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Days after sustaining injuries, Mamata back with wheelchair roadshow||True to her street fighter image, Mamata Banerjee was back on the roads of Calcutta on Sunday, four days after being injured at the hustings in Nandigram, leading a TMC march on a wheelchair and declaring an injured tiger is far more dangerous. Accompanied by senior TMC leaders, Banerjee was seen greeting the crowd with folded hands, with security personnel pushing her wheelchair.
Banerjee joined the five km road show from Mayo Road to Hazra More as part of observation of Nandigram Diwas to commemorate the killing of 14 villagers in police firing during the anti-land acquisition protest in 2007.
Banerjee is contesting the high-profile Nandigram seat for the first time against former confidante-turned- adversary Suvendu Adhikari.
Addressing the gathering after the hour-long march, Banerjee said attempts to incapacitate her to stop her from campaigning have failed, and asserted she will canvass for TMC candidates across the state on wheelchair.
"I have faced a lot of attacks in my life but I have never surrendered before anyone. I will never bow my head. An injured tiger gets more dangerous," she asserted.
Banerjee was injured in her left leg, head and chest while campaigning in Nandigram on March 10 after filing her nomination, an incident the ruling TMC claimed was a "BJP conspiracy to take her life".
The Election Commission, however, ruled out that there was any attack on the West Bengal chief minister and the ruling Trinamool Congress leader after reviewing the reports sent by its two special poll observers and the state government. The Commission concluded that Banerjee sustained injuries due to lapse on part of her security in charge.
"Doctors advised me against going out for campaign today. But I felt that I should participate in today's rally as we have already lost a few days due to my injury.
"My pain is not greater than the suffering of people as democracy is being trampled through dictatorship," she said.
Banerjee said she will leave for Durgapur Sunday evening and address two rallies on Monday.
Carrying posters and placards hailing Banerjee as the "daughter of Bengal", TMC supporters raised slogans against the BJP and called for "defeating the outsiders" in the assembly elections.
The TMC activists also chanted the slogan "Bhanga Paye Khela Hobe!" (Will play with broken leg), a reference to Banerjees leg injury.
"We will continue to fight boldly! Im still in a lot of pain, but I feel the pain of my people even more. In this fight to protect our revered land, we have suffered a lot and will suffer more but we will NEVER bow down to COWARDICE," Banerjee had earlier tweeted minutes before arriving for the march.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
14-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC promoted cops involved in Nandigram firing, alleges Suvendu||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Sunday lashed out at the ruling TMC, saying that the "opportunists" who have given promotions to the officers responsible for the 2007 Nandigram police firing have no right to seek votes from the people of the area as they have insulted the sacrifices made by the agitators. Without naming his mentor-turned-adversary Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Adhikari said those who had forgotten Nandigram for 12 years are now coming here to seek votes. Banerjee has left her Bhawanipur constituency in Calcutta to fight her former lieutenant and BJP candidate Adhikari in Nandigram, where an anti-land acquisition movement catapulted her party to power in 2011. "Fourteen people were martyred in police firing in 2007. I have been coming here every year since 2008 to pay tribute to the sacrifices made by the people of Nandigram. "Whether it is an election season or not, it hardly matters to me, unlike the opportunists who are now coming to this place," Adhikari said here. "It is ironic that those who have given promotions to police officers responsible for the Nandigram massacre are now celebrating Nandigram Divas. The TMC has also inducted some of these police officers into their party after their retirement. Don't cast a single vote in their favour who have betrayed and insulted you all," he said. Lauding the BJP's role in the Nandigram movement, he said had the saffron party not raised the issue in the Parliament, it would have never grabbed the nation's attention. "The Nandigram movement would have never gained national importance had the BJP not raised it in the Parliament. The TMC managed to enter Nandigram during those days because the then leader of opposition in Lok Sabha, Lal Krishna Advani first entered the area after breaking through the barricades erected by the CPI (M)," he said. "Some people may be ungrateful but I am not," Adhikari, who joined the BJP during a rally of Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Medinipur in December last year, said. The TMC observes March 14 as 'Nandigram Divas' to pay respect to the 14 people who were killed in police firing on this day during an anti-land acquisition stir in 2007.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Chose to fight anti-Bengal forces in Nandigram to pay respect to martyrs, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday paid tributes to the agitators who were killed in police firing in Nandigram in 2007 and said she has chosen to fight "anti-Bengal forces" in the constituency as a mark of respect to the martyrs. Banerjee, who is pitted against former lieutenant and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat, said that farmers are the pride of Bengal and the state government is working tirelessly for their development. "On this day, in 2007, innocent villagers were killed in firing at #Nandigram. Many bodies could not be found. It was a dark chapter in the history of the state. Heartfelt tribute to all those who lost their lives," Banerjee tweeted. The TMC observes March 14 as 'Nandigram Divas' to pay respect to the 14 people who were killed in police firing on this day during an anti-land acquisition stir in 2007. The incident had sparked a national outrage and the Calcutta High Court had suo motu ordered a CBI probe. "In memory of those who lost their lives in #Nandigram, we observe March 14 as #KrishakDibas every year and give away the #KrishakRatna awards. Farmers are our pride and our government is working for their all-round development," she said in another Twitter post. Banerjee said it is an honour for her to work along with the martyrs' families in Nandigram. "As a mark of respect and encouraged by my brothers and sisters of Nandigram, I am contesting #BengalElections2021 as @AITCofficial candidate from this historic place. It is my great honour to be here and work along with members of Shaheed families against anti-Bengal forces," she said. Banerjee, then the opposition TMC leader, had spearheaded a movement against the Left Front government's acquisition of arable land in Nandigram and Singur for industrialisation. Her party reaped rich dividends from the agitations, winning 50 per cent of the panchayat seats in 2008, bagging 19 Lok Sabha seats in 2009 and ending the 34-year-long Left Front rule in the state in 2011. Elections to the 294-member assembly will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. Results will be announced on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||GNLF seeks all 3 hill seats from ally BJP||The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), an ally of the BJP, wants the saffron party to give it all the three hill seats in the Bengal Assembly polls in an effort to strengthen “regionalism” which they fear might be invaded otherwise. Mamata Banerjee’s decision to leave the hill seats to her “friends” — the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha factions — seems to have provided traction to the GNLF. A senior GNLF leader involved in the negotiations with BJP told The Telegraph that the party has demanded the hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong. However, sources said that the BJP is keen to repeat its 2019 experiment of giving a BJP ticket to a leader from a hill party in at least one seat. “We want all three hill seats as we are the (BJP’s) strongest ally in the hills. We supported the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls and it is only fair that the BJP is accommodating (to the GNLF) this time,” the leader said. Many in the GNLF believe that it is foolhardy for national parties to think that they would become vanguards of the hill people. “Our demands and issues can only be taken up by regional parties. Efforts to weaken regionalism is neither smart nor will it succeed,” the leader said. After GNLF came to power in the hills in 1988 no national or plain centric party has been able to hold sway over the hills. The leader drew parallels with Trinamul’s hill graph. “They tried their best to expand their party and field their own candidates but they were never successful. Even when we were with Trinamul we had specifically pointed out the importance of regional parties to their leadership,” a GNLF leader said. Trinamul has never won Darjeeling Lok Sabha or Assembly seats. During the Darjeeling Assembly bypoll in 2019, the BJP offered its ticket and thus the symbol to GNLF Leader Neeraj Zimba, who defeated Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang. This time many in GNLF are not comfortable with such an arrangement. “A section in the party wants to fight the election with our symbol, with support from the BJP,” a party source said. Ajoy Edwards, GNLF Darjeeling branch committee president, however, said that for the party the most important factor was to solve the hill issues. “Who gets the ticket from where is a secondary issue for the party. The primary issue is to solve hill issues,” said Edwards. The BJP in its 2019 election manifesto had promised tribal status to 11 hill communities and “permanent political solution.” Kalyan Dewan, president, BJP (hills) also said that longterm coalition interest should be of importance. “I cannot comment on what the GNLF thinks but elections come and go. We need to keep in mind the interest of coalition for the longterm benefit of the hill people,” said Dewan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Malda varsity registrar removed||Biplab Giri, the registrar in additional charge of Gour Banga University, Malda, was “relieved” of his responsibilities on Saturday amid murmurs that the varsity was going slow on his removal despite a recommendation from a state committee. A university source said: “Biplab Giri was relieved of his responsibilities on Saturday and the inspector of colleges Apurba Chakraborty has been asked to assume charge till a new registrar is appointed.” Giri, a faculty member of the physiology department of the varsity, became registrar in December 2018 but allegations of his highhandedness and failure to stick to varsity rules soon started surfacing. Following many such complaints, the state higher education department formed a threemember inquiry committee headed by Debkumar Mukherjee, the vicechancellor of Panchanan Barma University, Cooch Behar. The committee that started its probe in December 2020, handed its report to the state government in two weeks, recommending Giri's removal, sources in the higher education department said. A senior varsity teacher alleged that some officials were delaying in complying with the higher education department’s directive as they possibly wanted the registrar to continue in office. But after the state government recently appointed Shanti Chhetri as Gour Banga University vicechancellor, the new VC decided to remove the registrar. Giri, however, will continue teaching in his department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Asok Bhattacharya slams ‘selfinterest’ in politics||Veteran CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya, a fivetime Siliguri MLA who was considered by many to be a “mentor” to CPM leader Shankar Ghosh who defected to BJP on Friday, seemed to break his silence on his protégé on Saturday, alluding to Ghosh as a “disgrace to politics” without taking names. On Friday, a visibly upset Bhattacharya had refused to comment on Ghosh’s decision, calling it a “closed chapter”. A day later, the veteran leader from Siliguri came all guns blazing. “People who surrender their ideology for selfinterest are a disgrace to politics,” Bhattacharya said. “Politics is a serious business and there is hardly any place for people who compromise on ideology and worst of all, surrender to corporate capitalism,” said Bhattacharya speaking to the media during his campaign at the Bidhan Market area in Siliguri. Many considered Ghosh a promising leader of the CPM in his mid40s, but his decision to swing from the Left to Rightwing ideology seems to have rattled his former party colleagues. Speculations are rife that Ghosh might be a serious contender for the BJP ticket from either Siliguri or DabgramFulbari constituency. Bhattacharya is the sitting MLA of Siliguri and Trinamul heavyweight and state tourism minister Gautam Deb the DabgramFulbari MLA. “If Ghosh bags the BJP ticket he might take a chunk of CPM votes with him. In such a scenario, the Siliguri contest will be very competitive,” said an observer who, however, cautioned that the oldversusnew squabbling could not be ruled out. Trinamul has fielded Omprakash Mishra from Siliguri, a known face in the political arena of Bengal. Both Bhattacharya and Mishra have started their election campaign in full throttle. Bhattacharya, who is also the incumbent mayor of Siliguri, however, sounded unperturbed on the possibility of Ghosh bagging the BJP ticket from the city. “Any X, Y, Z can contest against me, we are not worried,” said Bhattacharya. The CPM leader said that the party had long chalked out their Assembly poll plans and has been campaigning for the past one month. “There are 33 wards in Siliguri and over 100 slum areas and I have already covered many of these areas,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||CID arrests businessman for coal smuggling||The CID on Friday night arrested businessman Randhir Singh from his home in West Burdwan’s Andal for his alleged involvement in a coal smuggling case. Sources said Singh, the first such catch since the state agency began to probe coal smuggling complaints lodged by Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) with the police, would run an unauthorised opencast coal mine within the leasehold area of ECL in Andal. The ECL had lodged a complaint against him with Andal police last year. A CID team led by DSP Kaushik Ghosh raided his residence on Friday night and arrested Singh. The additional chief judicial magistrate court in Durgapur on Saturday remanded Singh in CID’s custody for 10 days. The CID took him to Calcutta for further interrogations. “We will interrogate him in our custody and arrest other members of the coal syndicate. He used to operate an unauthorised opencast mine within the ECL jurisdiction and a case against him has been pending since last year,” said a CID officer. Sources said Singh was also a part of the coal smuggling syndicate allegedly run by Anup Majhi a.k.a Lala who is absconding after the CBI started a case against him last November and followed it up with raids at his homes and offices in Purulia, Durgapur and Calcutta. However, the CBI is yet to arrest anyone. The CID also raided three flats of Joydeb Khan, a businessman facing coal smuggling charges, in Durgapur’s Bidhannagar area on Saturday. Khan, who recently joined the BJP in Calcutta, was not present. The coal smuggling issue has become a political tool for both the BJP and the Trinamul to blame each other this poll season. “The CID has raided the flats of a coal smuggler who is now in BJP's shelter. People are watching everything and will defeat the BJP for their role in coal smuggling,” said Uttam Mukherjee, Trinamul leader in Durgapur. West Burdwan BJP president Lakshman Ghorui said once the CBI nabs Anup Majhi, the alleged kingpin of the coal smuggling syndicate, the “truth will come out”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul suspends 10 ‘Adhikari aides’ ||Ten district-level Trinamul leaders, including a panchayat samiti chief and two panchayat pradhans from the Shahid Matangini block in East Midnapore, were suspended for three years by the ruling party’s district core committee for “anti-party activities” after a meeting at the Tamluk party office on Saturday. The suspensions came in the wake of reports that they were acting against party interest by virtue of being allied to turncoat Suvendu Adhikari. Among those are block panchayat samiti sabhapati Dibakar Jana, his wife Tanusree, panchayat pradhan Shiladitya Adak and panchayat pradhan Minati Pattanaik. Trinamul district party president and water resources minister Saumen Mahapatra said on Saturday that another list of “possible or likely” party workers considered close to “a leader of our party who joined the BJP” (read Adhikari) had been drawn up in 25 blocks in the district. “The list has at least 150 names...We have many leaders in the Trinamul in name only but who actually work for a leader of our party who joined the BJP. They need to be identified immediately, and we hope the steps taken in Shahid Matangini block will send a strong message to all,” he said. Hooghly BJP MP Locket Chatterjee called on Adhikari’s father and Trinamul MP Sisir Adhikari and his son Dibyendu at their Contai home on Saturday afternoon, with sources saying Sisir received a formal invitation to the PM’s rally in Contai on March 24. “Locket Chatterjee stayed for over half an hour and had lunch with them,” said a source. Asked about the development, district president Mahapatra said the party was “taking note”. "Who is going where and talking to whom is all in our knowledge. The state-level leaders are being informed as well," he said. "Sisir and Dibyendu have been inactive for all pre-election activities and are being reported for the same," the minister added. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is slated to be back in Nandigram on March 19, at a two-delay from her earlier schedule owing to the injury she suffered in Nandigram on March 10. She will address rallies at Egra, Potashpur and Mechheda. "Security will be much enhanced this time around," said a police source, adding that district administration was looking into the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP asked to read Nandigram pulse on CM||The top BJP leadership on Saturday asked their party’s Bengal leaders to gauge the pulse of the people in Nandigram in the wake of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s injury, insiders have said. The meeting was held in Delhi at the official residence of BJP national president J.P. Nadda and attended by Union home minister Amit Shah. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, present at the meeting, said: “The leaders asked us about the incident. They wanted to know what were the repercussions of the chief minister’s injury in Nandigram.” “They have seen the video footage of the (Nandigram) incident and asked us about what people are saying about it,” Ghosh said. Ghosh and other BJP leaders like Rahul Sinha, Shivprakash, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Amitava Chakraborty, Mukul Roy, Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee met Nadda and Shah on Saturday to discuss candidates for the second and third phases of polls in Bengal. According to a source at the meeting, Nadda had brought up the issue of Mamata’s injury. Mamata hurt her left leg, chest and head in Nandigram during an outreach on March 10, and rushed to SSKM hospital in Calcutta. The BJP has so far been in two minds about how to react to the incident. While some like Ghosh blamed Mamata for “creating drama for sympathy”, others like Trinamul turncoat Adhikari — the BJP candidate from Nandigram against Mamata — stayed silent. A BJP old-timer said that no matter the changed equations between Adhikari and the CM, “she holds a special place in the hearts of people in Nandigram”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Door ajar on Mamata appearance at Hazra crossing ||Mamata Banerjee is likely to speak at a Trinamul event at Hazra crossing on Sunday, which will mark her first public appearance since Wednesday’s Nandigram incident that injured her, sources said. The Trinamul chief, who is using a  wheelchair now, will not be part of the rally from the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road to the Hazra crossing to be led by Abhishek Banerjee but is likely to join at the end and deliver an address. “The rally is by Abhishek, mainly in condemnation of the heinous attack on our supreme leader at Nandigram.... The chief minister has indicated she will join us at the end in Hazra,” said a party leader, adding she was yearning to be back in action despite doctors advising rest. Many Trinamul leaders said that if Mamata does show up at Hazra on Sunday, there would be pan-India attention on what she has to say. A Trinamul MP said Mamata might leave via chopper for Durgapur. She has campaigns lined up in Jungle Mahal next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Yashwant lambasts Centre’s ‘puppet’ EC||Former member of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet Yashwant Sinha, who joined Trinamul on Saturday, lambasted the Election Commission (EC) as the Centre’s “puppet” and its alleged bias against Mamata Banerjee. Sinha accused the EC of having yielded to the control of the BJP-led Centre and the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duopoly. “...the way the government of India, especially Modi-Shah,  has grabbed control of other democratic institutions… even the judiciary…the Election Commission too has succumbed to that control,” he said. Responding to Wednesday’s incident at Nandigram that left Mamata, Sinha said the EC was in no place to ascertain if it was an accident or attack. “The victim (Mamata) is saying how it happened. Who can narrate it better than that? It (the EC) is a puppet in the hands of the Centre.” “That is why there is no faith left in the Election Commission,” he added. “The victim, what she is saying, that is most important….” “I say this with a great deal of regret, that the Election Commission no longer remains an autonomous body…. Mind you, it was not like this before,” said Sinha. Sinha cited an instance from his career as an IAS to substantiate his argument. He said in the run-up to the 1980 Lok Sabha polls, when the late Ram Sundar Das was the chief minister of Bihar and Sinha was his principal secretary, the state government decided to change the DGP and chief secretary, after the polls had been notified. “The Election Commission objected, and sent a letter, saying it could not be done. Then we, on behalf of the Bihar government, sent a stinging response to the Election Commission...with every relevant provision in the Constitution. The commission was told that the likes of the chief secretary or DGP do not directly handle elections…and the commission was asked what objection they could possibly have.” “The Election Commission stayed quiet,” he said. “The laws of the land that are there today were in place even in 1980.” He explained how things were different. “Now, such a system has been put in place gradually that there is this creeping acquisition (of near-total control) when the commission notifies the polls.” According to Sinha, there are no constitutional provisions for the commission to exercise the kind of control it exerts nowadays, and that according to the Constitution, the EC controls only the machinery directly involved in the conduct of elections. “...Who will be the chief secretary, the commission will decide. Who will be the director-general of police, the commission will decide…. Where did the Election Commission get this authority?” he asked. Sinha also lambasted the EC for planning an eight-phase election in Bengal. “On what basis? ...I had tweeted, why not 294 phases, one for each seat? Keep conducting elections, and your authority will continue. Is there any meaning to this?” he asked. “The strangest thing is that districts have been split into multiple phases. These decisions have been taken in the control of Modi-Shah, and taken to give the BJP the advantage. I strongly oppose this,” he added. BJP’s state chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya feigned shock at Sinha’s views. “Even he (Sinha) has started saying this? Already? Well, it is the beauty of Trinamul, that it can teach its language so quickly to those it touches.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Yashwant Sinha recalls Didi’s hostage offer||Yashwant Sinha, who headed key ministries when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was in power but was sidelined by the Narendra Modi dispensation, on Saturday joined the Trinamul Congress. Sinha hailed Mamata Banerjee for having “forever been a fighter”. The former Union minister’s surprise induction into the party took place after a 45-minute meeting with Mamata at her residence on Saturday morning. Sinha, 83, shared with journalists an anecdote on the fighting spirit he saw and admired in the Bengal chief minister. He brought up the December 1999 hijacking of Indian Airlines Flight 814, which was taken to Kandahar in Taliban-controlled Afghanistan while on its way from Kathmandu to New Delhi. Sinha, then the Union finance minister, said on Saturday that at a meeting of the Union cabinet helmed by Vajpayee, Mamata, then the Union railways minister, made a selfless offer. “Mamataji readily offered herself as a hostage, in exchange of all the hostages… she said she would gladly give herself up to the terrorists, in exchange of the hostages. She said whatever sacrifice was necessary, she would happily make one  for the nation,” said Sinha, an Officier de la Legion d’Honneur, the highest civilian distinction of France. “These are the kind of powers that need to come together today in this fight….This pan-India fight is not just about elections or politics, it’s about protecting the asmita (pride) of the nation and its democracy,” he added. The acknowledgement as a relentless fighter has come at a time Mamata is fighting one of the most crucial battles of her political career. Sinha, who was an IAS officer for 24 years before stepping down from the service for a career in politics, held key positions in the Janata Party and the Janata Dal, before a long stint in the BJP. He and Mamata have been close for decades, and he was seen at various Trinamul events after he quit the BJP in 2018. The octogenarian attributed the formal plunge to the “tipping point” of the Wednesday evening incident at Nandigram. “The tipping point actually was the attack on Mamataji in Nandigram,” said Sinha. “Now that I met her today, and she described the (Wednesday evening) incident to me, it became clear to me that the forces the Trinamul Congress and the people of Bengal are today up against, and they can go to any extent. They can get people murdered, they can get them attacked, get them immobilised… any extent, to win an election,” he added. Sinha, who has been bitterly critical in public for years of the way Modi and Shah have been running his former party and the country, said they have pushed the country into a “very strange situation”. “Very strange, because the values we used to attach a great deal of importance to, and used to think that everybody would accord due importance to them in our democracy… those values are in danger today. They are not being complied with. We are all familiar with the concept that the strength of a democracy lies in the strength of the institutions of democracy,” he said. “Today, almost every institution of democracy has weakened. I, with a great deal of regret, have to say that the judiciary too is included in that. There is none that survives with the ability to rein in the government’s arbitrariness. For our nation, this is the greatest danger,” he said, that democracy does not only mean allowing the conduct of elections every five years. “This ruling party (the BJP) has just one objective. To win elections…wherever they take place, at whichever level.” Sinha said people were free to ask him why he was this critical of the BJP now, after being part of it for so long. “The party of Atalji’s time and the party now, there is aasmaan zameen ka antar (difference akin to that of the sky and the soil). Atalji used to believe in consensus. The current government believes in crushing. Atalji used to co-opt people. Now, they want to conquer people,” he said. Sinha recounted how Vajpayee’s NDA was “truly” a national coalition, with prominent representation from every state. “It was never Atalji’s intention to ruin them, to suppress them, so that the space they vacate will be for his party to grasp. The current BJP, who does it have left with it, Except Nitishji’s JDU in Bihar?” asked Sinha. Sources in Trinamul said Sinha would be sent “right away” to the Rajya Sabha, to fill the vacancy created by Dinesh Trivedi’s departure for the BJP. They said Sinha would be used extensively as a national spokesperson to counter everything Modi and Shah have to throw at Trinamul this campaign season. Sinha said it was now his duty to make the “foregone conclusion” of Trinamul’s victory in the Assembly elections more “thumping”. “Bengal has to send a message to the entire nation, that the nation will no longer tolerate this, whatever Modi and Shah have been carrying out from Delhi,” he said. “I have no doubt that this election is extremely important for Bengal’s future, but also for that of the nation’s future. The parivartan (change) of 2024 (the next Lok Sabha polls) in Delhi, the road to that would be paved from Bengal,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Newlyweds campaign against voting for BJP||The spirit of the farmers’ movement on Delhi borders permeated a wedding over a thousand kilometres away in Galsi, East Burdwan, where a newly married couple decided to urge their 400-odd guests not to vote for the BJP. The groom, Sheikh Mohammed Hafijur, 32, a college teacher who comes from a family of farmers in East Burdwan, reminded his guests on March 11 about the uprising of the peasantry against the BJP on the borders of Delhi and their demand to repeal the three farm laws. The appeal, a guest said, had struck a chord with those invited to the wedding reception. The couple, who recited the Preamble of the Constitution at the reception too, gave guests placards with the message — BJP ke ektio vote noy (Not a single vote to BJP). Hafijur, who has done his PhD in Persian from Visva-Bharati, is an assistant professor at a college in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur. He married Aziza Khatun, 24, from Birbhum’s Tarapith on March 10. “As polls are round the corner, I wanted to use our reception to campaign against the BJP,” Hafijur said, and added that they left the choice of whom to vote for with the invitees. Was it tough for him to convince his bride and family to agree to this anti-BJP campaign? Hafijur, whose family owns some 20 acres of land in Galsi, said it wasn’t. “The farmers’ movement is important to all of us,” he said, adding that he appealed to invitees to paste the placards in their respective areas. “Many guests were surprised to see my wife and I holding placards. When they asked us the reason, we told them about the farm laws. Later, many asked us for extra placards to use them in their campaign,” Hafijur added. Aziza, studying her bachelor’s in education from the University of Burdwan, said she was “overwhelmed” when her husband told her about his plan. She also asked women invitees to highlight how women are unsafe in BJP-ruled states. Manisha Banerjee, headmistress of Labhpur SNSN Girls’ High School in Birbhum, and one of the invitees at Hafijur’s reception, said she was surprised by the “bold initiative” taken by the young couple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Who is this Man?||I head out for Furfura Sharif in Hooghly district, 44 kilometres northwest of Calcutta, one early March morning. Hooghly is the potato bowl of Bengal. As the car speeds down the Durgapur Expressway, I notice freshly harvested potatoes in pink sacks dotting bare fields. I don’t have to ask for directions to the village centred around a 14th century mosque; it is all too well known. Furfura Sharif, according to one of several theories, derives its name from the Farsi word farre farrah, meaning glory and happiness. As my car veers off the expressway, I spot huge flex banners welcoming pilgrims to the upcoming Esaal-e-Sawab, an occasion where people congregate to pray for the deceased. The three-day-long gathering held every spring attracts over a million Muslim men from eastern India and Bangladesh. At the centre of the celebrations is a light green structure with golden domes — the mazar or tomb of Pir Hazrat Abu Baqr Siddique. The pir, known locally as Dada Huzur, was a 19th century Sufi saint, educationist and social reformer. He had founded charitable organisations, orphanages, madrasas and health centres. To date, large sections of Muslims from Howrah, Hooghly, South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and Dinajpur districts of Bengal visit Furfura Sharif to pay obeisance to him. The area covers at least 90 Assembly constituencies in a state in which Muslims constitute about 27 per cent of the population. In the past, come election time, politicians would come here to offer prayers and meet the pirzadas, or direct descendants of Pir Hazrat, and seek their blessings and support. This year, Furfura Sharif is in the news for a different reason. For the first time, a pirzada will be contesting elections. Abbas Siddiqui, the 35-year-old who has floated the Indian Secular Front (ISF), a formation suddenly embraced by the Left Front — and to an uncertain degree, the Congress — ahead of the Bengal polls, is the great-grandson of the pir. The place is milling with representatives of political parties, reporters and television crews. At the centre of it all is a freshly painted pink mansion, about 300 metres from the mazar. It is the office-cum-residence of Abbas and his family. As I step into the courtyard, I find Abbas surrounded by TV crews of five different national channels. Before I can introduce myself, he signals as if to say I should get in the queue with the rest of the journalists. As I wait, I watch the man in white kurta-pyjama, waistcoat and skullcap. He is almost six feet tall, clearly in love with the TV camera. His voice is hoarse, possibly from all those recent campaigns. Some men are at work erecting pandals for Esaal-e-Sawab. Young madrasa students in long robes and skull caps are scurrying around running errands. A couple of passers-by are gawking at the TV crews. A TV reporter, who is also waiting, is live-streaming all of this. Abbas shot to fame overnight, after Left Front leaders introduced him at the rally at Calcutta’s Brigade Parade Ground on February 28. His freshly minted party was introduced as the third component of the United Front of the Left and the Congress. The unsaid expectation — ISF would help them eat into the Muslim vote bank of their arch enemy, the Trinamul Congress (TMC). Before joining the coalition, Abbas had been in talks with the Hyderabad-based AIMIM, headed by Asaduddin Owaisi. At the Brigade Parade Ground, Abbas delivered a high-decibel speech calling for “the uprooting of Mamata, leader of the BJP’s B-team”. The Left Front-Congress combine has been repeatedly saying the ISF includes people from backward Hindu classes and Adivasis. The president of the ISF, Simal Soren, is also a member of the tribal community. But when I browse videos of Abbas’s past speeches at Islamic jalsas organised across Bengal, there is little doubt that he is conservative and fundamentalist to the core. Among his most controversial and incendiary speeches is the one in which he lashes out at the TMC MP Nusrat Jahan. In the 2020 speech at a jalsa in Sasan in the South 24-Parganas, he thunders “Jara deho bikkiri kore tara desh bikkiri korbe na ki maane aachhe... those who sell their own body can some day sell their own country”; Abbas also said he would ensure Nusrat is tied to a tree and beaten up. On other occasions, he called Calcutta’s mayor Firhad Hakim “a kafir”, “beimaan” and “namak haram” for organising Durga Puja. He even attacked Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for wearing the hijab and reciting Islamic verses, “to fool Muslims”. Ever since he expressed his intention to form a party to “expose the TMC’s appeasement politics”, Abbas has not tired of accusing the TMC and the state police of hounding his supporters. Apparently, these Muslim youths between 18 and 35 have been framed for possession of fire arms and narcotics, threatened and beaten up on their way to his jalsas, while he himself has been accused of spreading “terrorist ideology”. Biswanath Chakraborty, a political commentator and professor at Calcutta’s Rabindra Bharati University, has been following the rise of Abbas. He says, “Abbas wouldn’t have risen had his followers not been harassed and heckled by the TMC.” Chakraborty and his students conducted a survey among Muslim youth — educated and unemployed — which revealed their animosity towards successive governments. Says Chakraborty, “They feel the so-called secular parties have been playing with them. They think it is time to create their own political space.” Chakraborty says that, though late, the Left Front in Bengal has realised the ground reality of identity politics. He has no doubts about Abbas’s huge support base among the Muslim youth, but is not sure if he will be able to get the votes of Dalit Hindus and Adivasis. Justifying the Left Front’s move, Shamik Lahiri, a senior leader of the CPI(M), says, “Those belonging to scheduled castes, tribes and minority religions, and Adivasis are sick and tired of the TMC’s treachery and the BJP’s increasing atrocities. These people are now uniting as different organisations. The ISF is one such outfit.” And what does the Left have to say to the charge of aligning with a communal force? The CPI(M)’s politburo member Mohammed Salim says vehemently, “Defaming the ISF is part of a well-planned conspiracy being played out by the RSS and its associates...” The RSS-BJP may have been shrill in its criticism of the new front for bringing “Muslim fundamentalist politics” into mainstream politics, but BJP MP Swapan Dasgupta, also a columnist with The Telegraph, offers a more balanced analysis. Says Dasgupta, “A significant chunk of the Muslim vote plus the transferable vote of the CPI(M) would make the third formation more winnable and catapult the ISF to a position where it could claim to be the foremost representative of Muslims in the state... Abbas would become the Bengal counterpart of Assam’s Badruddin Ajmal.” In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP benefitted as the Left and the Congress votes fell into its kitty. The ISF can hope to harvest some of these votes for the United Front. Alternatively, if Hindu voters of the two old parties perceive the ISF as an aggressive communal force, they may turn to the BJP. The TMC’s top leaders, however, have decided to ignore Abbas. Saugata Ray, senior leader of the TMC, says, “Not only will I not say anything (about Abbas or the ISF), I won’t even utter the name.” Even within Furfura Sharif, Abbas doesn’t seem to have the support of all sections. Buzurgs, or elders, such as his uncle Pirzada Tawha Siddiqui stand firmly with the TMC. I spoke to Narul Islam, who works with a charitable outfit there. He says, “Dada Huzur had laid down a guideline for his descendants. Following that no pirzada directly joined politics in these 82 years after his demise. Abbas is an exceptional character and a controversial one too.” According to Dipankar Bhattacharya, general secretary of the CPI-ML (Liberation), Abbas’s rise is proof that a political vacuum has been created in Bengal due to increasing Hindu supremacist aggression. He says, “Abbas is trying to get into this. But the question is — has he got that leadership quality?” Bhattacharya is apprehensive that by yielding such a wide berth to the ISF, the Left Front-Congress alliance might help the BJP sharpen communal polarisation. Bhattacharya adds, “Hoping the anti-BJP voters are mature enough to avoid the BJP trap.” Why did you defy family diktat and join politics? The situation was never so bad. Never before have Muslims, Dalits or minorities faced such atrocities like the NRC or the CAA. Never before were Indian citizens driven into detention camps or threatened with deportation. The situation forced me. Even Babasaheb Ambedkar has said, “We will no longer beg for our rights but grab them.” Then why not fight the polls alone? Electorally we are not that strong yet. But we do have supporters in several districts. So, we decided to build an alliance… If we get the rights in this jot we will continue. I’d like to quote Kanshi Ramji, founder of the Bahujan Samaj Party, who said: “Hamein majboot sarkar nahi, majboor sarkar chahiye.” If a party gets over 200 seats, it will browbeat others. However, such dadagiri is not possible in an alliance. Why did you choose the Left and the Congress and not the AIMIM? Our talks with the AIMIM didn’t progress. We chose the Left Front and the Congress as they have a proven track record. The Left had done a remarkable job of distributing land to poor Muslims, Dalits and Adivasis. There was little corruption and the unemployment situation was not so bad during their regime. The Congress gave the country so many institutions, dams, power plants, railway networks. Was there an effort to tie up with the TMC? No. They’ve stamped us as “communal”. Some believe you will split the minority votes and help the BJP. What will happen if Muslim votes get split? Do you think this will help the BJP polarise all Hindu votes? Do you seriously believe all Hindus in Bengal want the BJP to come to power? Your past comments about Nusrat and Firhad Hakim had raised a storm. Those comments were put out of context. My point is you have to state your religion clearly and follow its basic tenets. If you are a true Muslim, you can’t worship an idol. Similarly, if you are a Hindu you cannot don a hijab and recite Islamic prayers. You can’t join an iftar if you haven’t done proper ritual fasting during Ramzan. You don’t have the right to insult either Hinduism or Islam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
14-03-2021||West Bengal||Polls: A People’s Puja||You know it is poll season, when even the lover’s red, red serenade does not escape the hawk eye of political campaigners. Tumpa Sona, a new musical release about romantic and class aspirations of a young man, had barely become the most-hummed tune in these parts this spring when, spotting a winner, Red cadres made it their anthem. On February 28, supporters of the Left-Congress coalition pranced their way into Calcutta’s Brigade Parade Ground to the accompaniment of the “inspired” number. It went, “Tumpa/ Toke niye Brigade jabo/Tumpa/Chain flag-e math sajabo/Tumpa/Athashe tulbo awaj/Tumpa/Modi Didi sob bhoge jak...” CPI(M) supporter Udit Sengupta, who is the creator of the new song, tells The Telegraph, “It is a way of communicating with the masses. My group will soon be coming up with another number in which we will talk about our Nabanna abhijaan (expedition) and the death of Maidul Islam Middya.” Nabanna is the name for the state secretariat; Middya was the unit secretary of the CPI(M)-backed Democratic Youth Federation of India who died in early February allegedly from wounds sustained in a police-protester clash. In the 1980s, RSP leader Jatin Chakraborty, who was the PWD minister in Jyoti Basu’s ministry, had termed Usha Uthup’s music “apasanskriti”, or decadence. Now, going against the party line about avoiding all things with a whiff of apasanskriti about them — senior CPI(M) leaders such as Sujan Chakraborty and Surjya Kanta Mishra shared videos of Tumpa Sona on their respective Facebook pages. Said a senior party member who did not want to be identified, “They have understood that there are certain things that have to be sacrificed for the greater cause. It is important to speak to the masses and they understand this language better than shuddha Bangla...” The other language that the masses are conversant in is that of sweets, which is why come any big event from Fifa to Covid-19, city confectioners get cracking to make the menu topical. This time round, Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick Sweets has come up with sandesh with party symbols on them. Sudip Mullick, director and owner of the mishti chain says, “We have also made sweets with the faces of Mamata Banerjee and Narendra Modi.” Only the two of them? He replies, “There are no other faces in this election.” These sweets, available in two flavours — vanilla and nolen gur — are not delectables the common man will buy. But yes, there will be conversations around them. And, according to Mullick, people who are involved in the business of politics will order these in the run-up to the elections. Once results are announced, there are sure to be bulk orders for gifting purposes. A cake themed on akal bodhon, which is basically an invocation of Durga by Ram in order to vanquish Ravana, is in the offing too. Speaking of Ma Durga, poll puja too shares its trappings with any other puja in these parts. And what is a puja without a pandal. North Calcutta’s Dompara is home to those artisans who make the kathamo or bamboo framework for idols. Bultu Malik is a resident of Dompara. According to him, till about 10 years ago, work for elections would begin months ahead and it would involve making bamboo frames for flexes, banners and other decorative elements on the elaborate puja tableau. “But that work has long stopped with the advent of digitisation and social media. Nowadays, there are no takers for raths made of bamboo either,” he adds. If you enter Dompara, you will find artisans frenetically making sticks — some as long as seven feet. Says Malik, “Each and every political party is ordering 8,000 to 9,000 sticks every day. The numbers will increase as each party will fix the party flags along roads, at street corners, and use them to adorn the stage at rallies.” If the city is all dressed up for elections, its denizens cannot be far behind. The pavements of Gariahat, New Market and Hatibagan are milling with hawkers selling saris and kurtas with party symbols embossed on them. And this great big electoral carnival comes with its own music. Yes, political parties are releasing music videos. The trend started with the release of a video titled Poriborton, a soft and rhythmic number by the BJP. It has been playing on YouTube and social media sites. Then the BJP MP Babul Supriyo came up with the number Phutbe ebar padma phool. Former MLA of the TMC, Madan Mitra, also launched a music video, one that showed him pumpkin in hand mocking Amit Shah, Prime Minsiter Narendra Modi and TMC turncoats who have crossed over to the BJP. Other numbers such as Bangla-e Shudu Dangabaji followed suit. To counter the political message, Debangshu Bhattacharya, the TMC spokesperson from North Bengal, has uploaded a poem on his social media timeline with the punchline “Khela khela khela hobe” — yes, yes, yes, the game is on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
