15-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Shah’s rally cancelled after ‘chopper develops snag’||The cancellation of Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s poll rally in Jhargram due to a “technical snag in his helicopter” has triggered a war of words between the TMC and the BJP. The ruling party claiming that the glitch was actually “poor turnout” and the saffron party leader tweeting a video of a jam-packed ground. Shah was scheduled to address a rally in the Jhargarm district on Monday, however, he delivered a brief speech virtually. Explaining the reason for the cancellation of his visit, the senior BJP leader said that he could not attend the rally as his chopper developed a technical glitch. “I was going there for campaigning. Unfortunately, my helicopter was damaged and I couldn’t come to see you,” Shah said while virtually addressing the rally. Taking a dig at Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee’s injury at Nandigram he said, “My helicopter developed a snag, but I will not call it a conspiracy.” Mamata was injured while campaigning in Nandigram on March 10, an incident the ruling party claimed was a “BJP conspiracy to take her life”. TMC was quick to hit back at Shah as it posted images showing a thin crowd and empty chairs at the Jhargram rally ground, which it claimed prompted the last-minute change of plans for Shah. TMC MP and Banerjee’s nephew, Abhishek, while addressing a rally at Chandrakona, a few kilometres away from Jhargram, mocked Shah for cancelling his rally “due to thin crowd”. “Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s scheduled rally at Jhargram was cancelled due to some technical glitch, it seems. Anyways, the photos of the rally that I have received show very few people. More people watch excavation work done by an earthmover or sip tea at a village shop than those present at the senior BJP leader's public meeting,” he said. On the other hand, the massive participation of people in the TMC’s rallies indicate that the party will return to power in the state on May 2 by bagging over 250 seats, Banerjee maintained. “Had he requested, we would have sent some people to the venue,” the chief minister, who is still recuperating from the injuries she sustained last week in Nandigram, said while addressing a public meeting in Purulia district. After a few hours, Shah posted a video on his Twitter page, showing a jam-packed ground. “I apologise to the people of Jhargram for not being able to address the rally in person due to a technical snag in my chopper.But I thank you all from the bottom of my heart for turning out in such large numbers. Let Jhargram be the harbinger of change and usher ‘asol paribartan’ (real change),” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt didn’t offer support for Tajpur port: Gadkari||Countering West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegation about Centre having “inordinately delayed” the Rs 15,000-crore Tajpur deep sea port project, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday claimed that the project was “decided by him” when he was the shipping minister but the state administration did not extend support towards it. Banerjee had earlier announced that the state government will execute the greenfield port project in Purba Medinipur district on its own in the PPP model as the Centre has been “inordinately delaying” it. “When I was the shipping minister, I used to often come to West Bengal and I had taken the decision for the Tajpur port. But the state government was not available. This port could have generated huge employment in the area,” he said while addressing a rally at Egra in the district. The state government had formed the West Bengal Maritime Board, through which an Expression of Interest had been floated. The last date of the EoI was February 19 but it has been extended till March 19. Sources in the Kolkata Port, which was the project partner on behalf of the Centre, said the SPV Bhor Sagar Port Ltd was formed at 76:24 stake and the company is alive. “We had spent Rs 3-4 crore for the technical feasibility report. The state government had also not formally communicated to us about their decision. We will evaluate options later, if required,” a port official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Shah wishes Mamata speedy recovery, but asks about pain of BJP workers' kin killed in TMC rule||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is in pain because of the injury she received recently, Home Minister Amit Shah said on Monday, wishing her a speedy recovery, but questioned that whether she could feel the pain of families of BJP workers who have been killed during the Trinamool Congress's rule in West Bengal. Addressing a rally at Ranibandh in the Bankura district, Shah promised that if the BJP is voted to power in West Bengal, it will implement the seventh pay commission for the state government employees. "Didi (Banerjee), when you got hurt in your leg, you felt pain. I wish you a speedy recovery. But, what about the pain of the mothers of 130 BJP activists who were killed by TMC goons. Did you ever try to feel their pain?" he said. "You never felt the pain of these people. They will give you a befitting reply while casting their votes in the assembly polls," he added. Shah said that if the BJP is voted to power in the state, it will ensure that the rights of the tribals are secured. "TMC seeks cut money even for a tribal certificate. We will ensure the land rights of the tribals. The special focus will be on education, health and drinking water for the tribals in the area. We will also mention it in our manifesto," he said. Bankura district, in the western part of the state, has a significant tribal population, crucial to any party's electoral success. Earlier in the day, Shah was scheduled to address a rally in the Jhargarm district but gave a brief speech virtually. The BJP said that he couldn't attend the rally due to technical glitches in his helicopter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||TMC MLA Debashree Roy quits party after being denied poll ticket||Noted actor and two-time TMC MLA Debashree Roy on Monday quit the party after being denied a ticket for the upcoming assembly elections. The Raidighi legislator, in a letter to TMC state chief Subrata Bakshi, said she will no longer be associated with the party. "Although, I don't hold any post in the party, but I felt it is necessary to write this letter as I wanted to inform the leadership that I don't want to be associated with the TMC anymore," she said. When asked about her future plans, Roy said she will concentrate on acting but is open to joining any other party if there is a "concrete proposal". Roy was scheduled to join the BJP in 2019 but her plans got scuttled after TMC turncoat and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee and his friend Baisakhi Bandopadhyay opposed her induction into the saffron camp. Incidentally, Chatterjee resigned from the BJP on Sunday after he was denied a poll ticket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Conspiracies cannot stop me from campaigning, says Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee on Monday said no conspiracy can stop her from campaigning ahead of the assembly polls in the state and will continue to fight against the BJP. Addressing her first rally in a district after being injured at the hustings in Nandigram, Banerjee said as long as she has her voice and her heart functions, she will continue to fight. "Wait for a few days, my legs will be better. I will see whether your legs move freely on Bengal's soil," Banerjee said without naming anyone. "Only conspiracy," she said, addressing the election rally here in Purulia district. She also said the BJP has come from Delhi with many of its leaders to win the assembly elections. "But I say you will not get Bengal," she said, claiming that her government has done a lot of development and welfare works in the state in its 10-year rule. "No other government in the world has been able to do as much work as ours. Their (BJP) prime minister cannot run the country, totally incompetent," she said. Banerjee was injured in her left leg, head and chest while campaigning in Nandigram on March 10 after filing her nomination from the high-profile seat, an incident the ruling TMC claimed was a "BJP conspiracy to take her life". The Election Commission, however, ruled out that there was an attack on the chief minister after reviewing the reports sent by its two special poll observers and the state government. The poll panel concluded that Banerjee sustained injuries due to a lapse on part of her security in charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Nurse held with brown sugar by Englishbazar police||Englishbazar police arrested a nurse carrying brown sugar weighing around 600gm, allegedly for supplying to peddlers, at Rathbari area on Sunday morning. The 31-year old nurse, identified as Azinoor Khatun a.k.a. Noor, was coming from Alipur area under Kaliachak police station on a bus when the police, acting on a tip-off, intercepted her at Englishbazar around 9am on Sunday. “She worked as a nurse in a private nursing home. Preliminary investigation reveals that she was offered a hefty amount to deliver the narcotic substance to someone in Englishbazar,” said Madan Mohan Roy, inspector-in-charge, Englishbazar police station. The police official said that the price of the brown sugar in the clandestine market would be around Rs 10 lakh. Following her interrogation police have identified the intended recipient of the consignment in Englishbazar but have not been able to arrest the person till late evening. The identity of the person is being kept under wraps for the purposes of the investigation. “It seems the nurse was peddling for the first time. Those who appointed her as a peddler have been identified too. Raids are underway to arrest the masterminds of the drug peddling racket,” a senior police official said. Police said peddlers are increasingly using women in the trade. “We are witnessing this trend. A few months back we had come across a similar case of women being asked to transport drugs by peddlers at Kaliachak area,” said a police official. Kaliachak is around 15km from Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Malda youth found dead in a flat in Egypt||Musharraf Hussain, 34, a research scholar from Malda studying in Egypt, was found dead in his Cairo flat on Saturday. Musharraf, whose family lives in the Madia Shovabajar area under Englishbazar police station had gone to Egypt to pursue higher studies in Arabic almost a decade ago. He was to return to his native place this April, his relatives said. “Early on Sunday, we received a phone call from some students of the Al-Azhar University in Cairo, informing us that Musharraf was found lying dead at his flat where he stayed alone,” said Piyar Ali, a close relative of the deceased. The family members have been told that Musharraf was found lying near the door of a room. “We were told that the flat owner initially refused to break open the door to this flat. Later, the door was broken with the help of the local police and Musharraf’s body was found lying near the door,” said Ali. Family members believe that Musharraf’s death is shrouded in mystery. “He had had a talk with family members just last week and seemed perfectly happy,” said a family member. Efforts are now on to get Musharraf’s body back to India, and if possible conduct an autopsy to ascertain the cause of his death, his relatives said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari runs into Nandigram memorial protest||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari was kept waiting for over two hours beside the Sonachura-Bhangabera road in East Midnapore’s Nandigram on Sunday morning by protesting Trinamul Congress workers who claimed he had lost his right to pay respects on the occasion of Shahid Divas following his defection to the saffron camp. The stonewall at Sonachura prompted Adhikari to retort later in the day calling Mamata Banerjee the “real” traitor to Nandigram, citing her government’s promotion of at least three IPS officers who had allegedly been involved in police firing at farmers in 2007. Adhikari attacked the chief minister at a rally organised by the 2007 land agitation veterans. Shahid Divas is observed in Nandigram on March 14 in remembrance of political workers who lost their lives in the police firing on the same day in 2007. The deceased were part of the anti-land acquisition movement spearheaded by Mamata. On Sunday, both the BJP led by Adhikari and Trinamul led by East Midnapore district leaders marshalled their forces to outshine each other’s tributes on an occasion that is believed to influence the mood leading to the Assembly elections. Tweeting on Sunday morning, the chief minister even went to the extent of stating that her Nandigram candidature was being made “as a mark of respect” to “this historic place”. “The standoff in Sonachura on Sunday morning resulted in physical altercations between opposing party workers which was stemmed by local police forces before they got worse,” said a witness in Sonachura. Trinamul-led protesters on Sunday morning set forth chants of “Mir Jafar” against Adhikari’s convoy, with attendees being vocal with their claim that Adhikari had “lost credibility and respect” among local residents. “We will not allow him to enter Nandigram and pay his respects on a day like this,” said panchayat member Ashwini Patra, who claimed more than 500 Trinamul workers had joined him for the road blockade. Adhikari was finally escorted to Sonachura shortly after noon by central forces and could pay respects to the victims of the land agitation. Later, he proceeded to an event organised by the Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee. Speaking to attendees and journalists, he said: “Police officers who were made to testify regarding the firing were later promoted by the chief minister personally.” Sources said he was referring to Arun Gupta, Tanmay Roychowdhury and Satyajit Banerjee. Banerjee recently joined Trinamul following his retirement from government service. “Such people have no business paying their respects on such a day,” said Adhikari, before going on to implore the crowd to name “the real Mir Jafar of Nandigram”. The crowd responded with resounding chants of the chief minister’s name. “If you think you can assign a few goons from Garchakraberia and have our democracy ruined, then you are wrong.… Central forces will be here this time,” he added. Adhikari also went to Gokulnagar later in the day to attend a similar commemoration programme. Trinamul leaders Bratya Basu, Purnendu Bose and Dola Sen paid Trinamul’s respects in Nandigram on Sunday in the absence of the chief minister who took part in an event in Calcutta. Speaking to journalists, minister Basu said the BJP had “no right” in usurping the Nandigram narrative, although he admitted Adhikari did have “a say” in the discourse. “The BJP has no business introducing their name into this narrative. They are total outsiders to what happened in 2007,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Congress leader says sorry to Left for dishonouring alliance in 2019 Lok Sabha elections||A Congress leader on Sunday offered a rare peace offering to the Left, the party’s alliance partner for the state elections — a public apology. Mohit Sengupta, the Congress candidate from Raiganj Assembly seat, apologised publicly to the Left Front for having dishonoured the alliance in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, which many believe led to the defeat of CPM candidate Md Salim and a win for BJP. “I tender my apology to all the workers of the CPM and Left Front for creating a misunderstanding during the last parliamentary election in 2019,” said Sengupta, while addressing a joint meeting organised by Left-Congress alliance at Bidhan Bhavan in Raiganj on Sunday. In the 2019 parliamentary election Md Salim of the CPM had been nominated from the Raiganj seat. However, despite being alliance partners, the Congress had fielded Deepa Das Munshi from the same seat. Sengupta on Sunday confessed that their party had not only fielded Das Munshi but had also carried out campaigns against Md Salim. “We campaigned against each other during the election and we lost the seat to the BJP candidate (Debasree Chaudhuri),” Sengupta, who is also the district Congress president of North Dinajpur, said. “It was a mistake on our part. We had not only field candidates in Raiganj against Left, but also carried out campaigns against him. As the Assembly election is approaching, it is my duty to tender my apology to all the Left workers,” said Sengupta. In the ensuing vote split in 2019, Raiganj was won by BJP candidate Debasree Chaudhuri, who is now the Union minister of state for child and women development. The 2019 Lok Sabha election results were a setback for the Left-Congress alliance which had in the 2016 Assembly election had fielded Sengupta as their candidate and he had emerged victorious. Sunday’s unconditional apology from the Congress leader seemed to have smoothed the ruffled feathers of the Left leaders and workers. “It was wrong for the Congress to have fielded its candidate in the 2019 election. (However), with this apology let bygones be bygones,” said Uttam Paul, the CPM district committee leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung camp’s 12 leave, hint at joining BJP||The Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha suffered a major setback with the party’s chief election coordinator, Subha Pradhan resigning along with 11 other Kalimpong district committee leaders. Pradhan dropped broad hints of aligning with the BJP, prompting the Gurung faction to remind the deserters the importance of “regionalism” Other prominent faces to leave the Gurung camp with him were former elected Gorkhaland Territorial Administration Sabha member and vice-president of Kalimpong district committee Gopal Ruchal, as well as others from Kalimpong like Sangay Bhutia, Gyan Bahadur Chhetri and Hari Sharma, and from Darjeeling, Tilak Chhetri. After the resignation, Pradhan said he felt that main issue (statehood) was being kept on the backburner in the volatile political atmosphere following the return of Bimal Gurung after over three years. Gurung had dumped the BJP and aligned with Trinamul in October last year alleging that the saffron party was not serious about hill issues. Pradhan, however, said: “Regarding the main issue, the BJP has mentioned (it) in its sankalp patra (manifesto)....” In recent times, a number of Gurung camp leaders have joined the BJP, including the party’s vice president Kalyan Dewan (now the BJP hill president), former GTA Sabha member Tilak Chand Roka and former party spokesperson B.P. Bajgain. Asked if Pradhan would follow suit, Pradhan said: “As an alternative I see BJP but I am not sure what the party (BJP) is thinking about me.” Observers believe this is enough hint of the political course Pradhan plans to chart. Similar hints were dropped by many others who resigned too. The Gurung camp said that they had not officially received the resignation letters and had come to know about the development through social media. Anil Lopchan, Gurung camp spokesman, told deserters the importance of regionalism. “Gorkha Janmukti Morcha was born for Gorkhaland and the issue is related to our identity and regional issues. If the regional party goes into oblivion it would mean our regional issues going into oblivion,” he said. “Our friends, wherever they go, should safeguard and promote regionalism.” A senior leader of the Bimal camp said that for some time the BJP leaders were trying to poach their leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati drama teacher suspended||Visva-Bharati authorities on Saturday night suspended assistant drama professor Rajesh K.V., also the general secretary of the Adhyapak Sabha, on charges of neglect of duty. Varsity sources said Rajesh, a native of Kerala, who joined Visva-Bharati in 2012, was accused of visiting the academics and research section of the varsity “almost every day”. “The undersigned is directed to communicate that Sri Rajesh K.V., Assistant professor, department of Rabindra Sangit, Dance and Drama, Sangit Bhavana, is placed under suspension with immediate effect,” the order signed by officiating registrar Ashok Mahato read. However, a source said: “There were allegations that he is being targeted for initially refusing to sign a petition prepared by authorities against a colleague.” Popular on campus as Rajesh Venugopal, he is the second teacher to be suspended after Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the president of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association and a critic of certain activities of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty. Bhattacharyya, an economics professor of renown, had been suspended in January. Since the start of the year, the varsity’s relationship with some of its “dissenting” faculty members has been rocky. On February 26, teachers of the English department were allegedly “confined” by authorities in a bid to grab a copy of a mass petition written to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the state of affairs within the varsity. The varsity authorities had later rejected the charge. All 10 teachers were recently showcased regarding their “absence” based on their “identifical undertakings” admitting to their absence, which a teacher said was “dictated” by the authorities. In a separate development, around eight teachers of the physics and philosophy departments — who were earlier showcaused — were chargesheeted for alleging that their counterparts from the English department were illegally confined on February 26 and for filing what varsity authorities termed “false police complaints” in the matter. “The situation on the campus can be understood easily as Dulal Ghosh, the nominee of Prime Minister and university Chancellor Narendra Modi in the varsity’s executive council, sat in protest with pensioners recently (when varsity authorities scrapped their free health consultation at Pearson hospital,” said a varsity official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar BJP functionaries upset over candidate selection||The BJP on Sunday announced economist Ashok Lahiri as the candidate for the Alipurduar Assembly seat and moments later, district party president Ganga Prasad Sharma said he could not divulge much about the nominee as he knew little about the contestant. Sharma’s candid statement has reflected the general mood among Alipurduar district BJP functionaries who seemed peeved over the national leadership’s decision to field the candidate without consulting them. “I came to know from the media that Ashok Lahiri would contest from Alipurduar. I don’t know him. So, how can I speak about him?” Sharma told this correspondent a few hours after Lahiri’s name had been announced. The BJP district chief said nobody in the party had informed him either about Lahiri’s candidature or the decision to field Bishal Lama — a former leader of the Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha — from Kalchini. Lama had joined the BJP a few days ago. Later in the evening, BJP supporters started a demonstration in front of Sharma’s residence at Jaigaon in the district, demanding that Lama’s candidature be dropped. Lahiri is a former chief economic advisor to the Indian government and was based mostly in New Delhi. Terming the BJP’s decision as a damper on the prestige of local leaders, Sharma said district committee members should at least have been consulted before the announcement. “Again, regarding Bishal’s candidature, I came to know about it through the media. Nobody discussed it with the district committee. We have lost our prestige because of the development around these two candidates,” said Sharma. Lama had contested from Kalchini as the Morcha nominee in the 2016 Assembly polls and lost to Trinamul candidate Wilson Champramary by a little over 1,000 votes. “We were at the opposite ends of the political spectrum till a few days back but now, he has been made a BJP candidate,” said a BJP leader. Sources in the BJP said there were at least 30 local leaders who wanted to contest from the Alipurduar seat. Apart from Sharma and Gunadhar Das, the previous district chief of the BJP, the names of people associated in other fields like medicine and education were doing the rounds in Alipurduar. “For the local aspirants, Lahiri’s name has come as a spoiler,” said another BJP leader. Alipurduar BJP leaders also said they could not fathom the reason for not naming the BJP candidate for the Falakata seat. “We have no idea what is happening with regard to the candidate selection,” said another BJP leader. The resentment shown by BJP leaders and workers regarding the two names underlines allegations that the BJP does not have much bench strength in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
15-03-2021||West Bengal||New entity in north Bengal poll fray||A section of Kamtapuris, tribal community and proponents of Greater Cooch Behar have forged an alliance — the Kamtapuri Bhumiputra Mahajote — and decided to contest in 40 of 54 Assembly seats from north Bengal. The first such alliance in north Bengal in recent times, it can split votes of established political parties. The Kamtapuri Bhumiputra Mahajote, announced at Jalpaiguri on Sunday, comprises entities such as the Kamtapur People’s Party (United), the Greater Cooch Behar Democratic Party, the Progressive Peoples Party (PPP), the Biswa Rajbanshi Unnayan Mancha, the Kamtapuri Rajbanshi Samannay Samity, the Uttarbanga Samajbadi Party, the Kshatriya Samity (Uttarbanga) and the Kamtapur Democratic Party. Nikhil Roy from the KPP (United), who is the president of the alliance, said: “We will field our candidates in 40 seats.” The issues the alliance flagged are inclusion of Kamtapur language in the Eight Schedule of the Constitution, tribal land rights, minimum wages for tea workers, measures to safeguard the “sons of the soil” and a separate state of Kamtapur. Alliance leaders criticised both the BJP and Trinamul for using their people as “vote banks”. They added they were open to post-poll pacts with any party. However, many political watchers pointed out that the alliance would definitely be a headache for major political parties. “There are at least 15 Assembly seats, especially in the tea belt, where the tribal populace is a deciding factor,” said an observer. A large population of the influential Rajbanshi community resides in Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar districts. Observers said even though the alliance has been formed it can’t claim that the entities under it represent their communities in totality. “Many tribals, Kamtapuris and other community members vote for Trinamul and the BJP. One cannot say that the alliance represents the entire gamut of the communities but in this competitive election, this alliance cannot be written off too in terms of influencing the outcome,” said an observer. Parimal Barman, treasurer of the newly formed body criticised Union home minister Amit Shah for allegedly failing to keep the promise “to develop a new tourism circuit by allocating funds to the tune of Rs 250 crore”. Alliance leader Mahesh Roy criticised the Trinamul-ruled state government for granting “paltry” funds to the Kamtapuri and Rajbanshi development boards. “While an autonomous council in Assam is getting Rs 125 crore every year, the (Bengal) state government allocated only Rs 10 crore each for Kamtapuri and Rajbanshi development boards. This amount of funding is insufficient,” said Roy. Community leaders also said that Kamtapuri and Rajbanshi communities were same and that the state should stop “creating a division within the community” by according separate recognition to Kamtapuri and Rajbanshi. “We will extent support to any party that will help fulfill our demands,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Extra-tight security for wheelchair-bound Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had multiple security rings on Sunday afternoon during her first wheelchair-bound public rally since Wednesday’s Nandigram incident that left her injured. Security detailing, multiple sources said, had never been as tight as it was on Sunday. The rally from Gandhi statue to Hazra on Sunday afternoon had visibly more police personnel — in uniform and plainclothes — to ensure no physical harm came to Mamata, entitled to Z-plus security cover, state home department sources said. Sources in Lalbazar said that instead of the regular 1,500-2,000 police personnel, around 2,500 personnel on Sunday were deployed from many units of Calcutta police to secure the start and end points of the rally, the route, aerial view and the area near the injured chief minister. A senior officer said that the Lalbazar brass did not want to take chances after the Nandigram incident. The officer added that special care was taken to ensure that no one could reach Mamata within the radius of a few metres throughout her route from Gandhi statue to Hazra via Mayo Road, JL Nehru Road, Park Street crossing, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road and SP Mukherjee Road. Around 60 police personnel — 40 in uniform and 20 in plainclothes, led by four senior IPS officers — accompanied the chief minister on the 5km stretch on Sunday. “Twenty-odd lady constables in plainclothes made a box formation around her. Apart from police, only those whom the chief minister personally wanted to assist her were allowed in this ring. The next layer comprised uniformed men and women officers around her, but maintaining a gap,” said a senior police officer. The stretch between the two ends of the rally had seven police pickets — each manned by over two dozen police personnel reporting to two IPS officers of deputy commissioner rank. The entire stretch was barricaded and police personnel at pickets ensured no one could break through the cordon. A police staffer video-recorded the movements of the chief minister and people near her. Unlike earlier, there was additional deployment on the rooftops of highrises along the line of route that falls under Shakespeare Sarani and Bhowanipore police station areas. An ambulance each, at the Hazra crossing and the Gandhi statue were kept on standby. Sunday’s police arrangements were in addition to the existing security cover that Mamata gets from the special security unit, comprising three personal security officers and four-five police personnel. The police arrangements not just included her safety but also ensuring no traffic snarls or law and order problems in the vicinity of the stretch from where the chief minister passed by on Sunday. On Wednesday evening, Mamata Banerjee was injured while standing on the footboard of her SUV at a crowded area in Nandigram, where she is contesting from. The incident had triggered the removal of two police officers involved in her security arrangement during the Nandigram event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
15-03-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee attends her first public meeting since injury||Used to pacing up and down the dais armed with a microphone, she sat in a wheelchair and with a plastered foot — an extraordinary sight in a state grown familiar to a boundless mix of movement and sound that explodes when Mamata Banerjee takes centre stage. Shorn of mobility, the voice of the 66-year-old lacked the usual thunder and the speech was over in barely 10 minutes. But the message from Mamata at the Sunday afternoon event — her first public meeting since her injury in Nandigram on Wednesday — was loud and clear:  “Don’t forget an injured tigress is more dangerous than a dead one.” The warning to her opponents capped the speech at the Hazra crossing in the city, which began with another reminder: “I have faced attacks several times in my life but I have never bowed my head.” Mamata had earlier made an appearance to lead a party march from the Gandhi statue at the Maidan to the Hazra crossing, covering the 5km in her wheelchair across 80 minutes in the afternoon sun. The reaction of the people along the route and the concerns expressed about her health suggested her injury had assumed a great deal of political significance in poll-bound Bengal. While Trinamul is hoping the sight of Mamata in a wheelchair will galvanise voters, the BJP is still trying to gauge the public response to her injury after some of its leaders had initially suggested it had been stage-managed. The BJP’s concerns were on full display on Sunday when the party approached the Election Commission demanding full disclosure of Mamata’s injury and the treatment she had received at SSKM Hospital, where she spent two days. “Have faith in me,” the chief minister said in her brief speech. “Sitting in this wheelchair, and with this broken foot, I shall travel across Bengal. And khela hobe (the game is on).” Her party colleagues and supporters broke into euphoric chants of what has become Trinamul’s main poll slogan: “Bangla nijer meyekei chay (Bengal wants it own daughter, none else).” The march that preceded the meeting was held to mark Nandigram Dibas, the anniversary of the killing of 14 people in police firing in 2007, an incident key to Mamata’s rise to power four years later. Most in her party had expected Mamata to turn up directly at the Hazra crossing after the march, which was to be led by Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee. But to everyone’s surprise, the chief minister’s convoy pulled up near the Park Street crossing around 1.50pm. The wheelchair-bound chief minister was taken through Mayo Road to the statue, where she paid tribute to the Mahatma. Then the march to Hazra began with Mamata at its head. Her security guards and aides such as Aroop Biswas took turns pushing her wheelchair along Jawaharlal Nehru Road under a blazing sun. Mamata seemed in some discomfort: she wiped her face with her sari and occasionally used her palm to shield her eyes from the sun. Large crowds had gathered along the route. The collective sighs that went up at the sight of her plastered leg and the constant enquiries on how she was feeling suggested her injury had become a hot topic. At Hazra, Biswas pushed the wheelchair up a ramp to the stage. Without wasting time, Mamata took the microphone and began her address, thanking everyone for their concern about her injury. “When someone asked, ‘How is your pain?’ my reply was the pain will persist as the doctors had suggested 15 days’ bed rest. But if I rest in bed, who will reach out to Bengal’s people?” she asked. Mamata is expected to campaign in Purulia on Monday. “I will have to be out on the streets, else the conspirators will have been successful,” she said. At her rallies, the chief minister is expected to build around her injury the theme of a conspiracy by adversaries to hurt Bengal and democracy, and paint herself as the protector of the ordinary people. “I’m in pain, but more than the physical pain it’s the pain in the heart that hurts,” Mamata said. “When democracy is trampled on, it hurts too much. Autocrats are inflicting pain on democracy; we have the responsibility to protect Bengal’s common people from that.” She suggested the battle for Bengal was a contest between good and evil. “Let’s pray that the evil forces are defeated and their conspiracy to capture Bengal is thwarted,” Mamata said. Towards the end of the speech came the warning for her opponents: “Nihoto bagher theke ahoto bagh onek beshi bhoyonkor.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
15-03-2021||West Bengal||EC removes Bengal security director over Mamata injury||The Election Commission on Sunday removed Bengal director of security, Vivek Sahay, and East Midnapore district magistrate and police superintendent after reports submitted to the poll panel had said there had been a breach in chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s security in Nandigram on March 10 when she had suffered injury to the left leg. The EC also placed under suspension Sahay and SP Pravin Prakash. The move by the commission is considered unprecedented as the poll panel has so far taken action against officials involved in election-related duties. “The director of security is responsible for providing security to VVIPs in the state and he is no way involved in poll-related affairs. The removal of the DM and the SP for their failure to provide security to the VVIP is also unprecedented. There is little doubt that the steps are taken to put bureaucracy in the state under unnecessary pressure,” said a senior government official. While the EC asked the chief secretary to appoint the new director of security in consultation with the DGP, the poll panel has appointed Smita Pandey, a 2005-batch IAS officer as the DM of East Midnapore after removing Vibhu Goel. The EC also appointed Sunil Kumar Yadav, a 2009-batch IPS officer, as the SP after suspending Pravin Prakash. The decisions were taken after the full bench of the EC met on Sunday morning to discuss the reports of the chief secretary, special observers deployed in the state and also reports submitted by the DM and SP of East Midnapore on the accident that injured Mamata necessitating her admission to the SSKM Hospital in Calcutta. “The EC found there was a large gathering in close proximity of the chief minister, which is a breach of security in case of a Z-plus security protectee. So, primarily, the director of security, who is responsible for VVIPs’ protection, and the district authorities who are in charge of security arrangements on the route the chief minister was scheduled to take, are held accountable for the breach,” said a source in the EC. Placing Sahay under suspension has raised several eyebrows in the state administrative circles as the ADG rank officer is highly regarded in Bengal’s police establishment. According to sources, all the reports submitted to the EC pointed out that the chief minister had been injured after the door of the car she had been travelling in had slammed her left leg. “But none of the reports could conclude how the door had gone back to hit the chief minister. All the reports mentioned there was a large crowd in close proximity of the chief minister,” said an official. Taking a further step, the poll panel has asked the chief secretary and the DGP to identify other “proximate security personnel” below the director of security, who failed to prevent the incident, and initiate suitable against them for their failure by March 17. This is considered to be a sensitive step as the security personnel work in the close proximity of the chief minister and have been working with her for years. “Identifying them guilty for the incident would be very sensitive,” said a source. The chief secretary has been asked to ensure investigation into the case filed at Nandigram police station gets completed within next 15 days and a report should be filed to the poll panel by March 31. “This action gives a hint the EC wants a detailed probe to find out whether it was a conspiracy or just an accident. This made it clear the issue remained inconclusive so far,” said an official. Sources at Nabanna said the actions initiated by the poll panel clearly suggested that the EC was focussing on the breach of security of the chief minister right at the moment. The press note issued by the EC does not reveal the contents of the reports it received as a source said it could be construed as prejudicing the police inquiry. However, the suspension of the SP and removal of the DM, the source claimed, was an indication of the EC’s dissatisfaction over not only their supervision of the rally but also alleged lacunae in the district administration’s reportage of the incident. “Trinamul was claiming removal of the DGP and the ADG (law and order) by the EC had triggered the incident. But the EC made it clear the lapses were on part of the security directorate of the state and the district authorities, who were not appointed by the EC. But it remained unclear whether it was a conspiracy,” said a source. Sources also said all the reports submitted to the EC were inconclusive to point out whether the incident was a conspiracy or it was just an accident. All the reports submitted pointed out the inconclusive video footage also. But now question are raised on whether a new DM and a new SP would be able to complete the investigation within 15 days, as directed by the EC, as they have to start the investigation afresh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
15-03-2021||West Bengal||BJP fields serving MPs as candidates for the Bengal elections||The BJP has fallen back on a pool of serving MPs and turncoats to come up with an incomplete list of candidates for the third and fourth phases of the Bengal elections, prompting questions on the party’s bench strength in the state and triggering expressions of discontent. The list announced on Sunday features 63 names although 75 constituencies will go to the polls over these two legs, leaving 12 seats to be assigned candidates at a later date. The list was announced after several days of deliberations in New Delhi in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Within an hour of the names being announced, protests were reported from party workers and leaders on the ground in Singur, Uttarpara, Raidighi and Behala East. Locket Chatterjee, MP from Hooghly, has been fielded from the Chinsurah Assembly seat; Babul Supriyo, Asansol MP and junior Union minister, from Tollygunge; Nishith Pramanik, Cooch Behar MP and Trinamul turncoat, from Dinhata; and Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta from Tarakeswar. A name that stood out was that of economist Ashok Lahiri, who will contest from Alipurduar. A member of the 15th Finance Commission, Lahiri is known for his proximity to the Prime Minister. He is a former chief economic adviser who has served with the World Bank and the IMF. But the challenge of hard-selling Lahiri to the electorate became apparent moments later, with the BJP district party president Ganga Prasad Sharma saying he knew little about the candidate. Overlooked for his Behala East seat, Trinamul turncoat and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee and his friend Baisakhi Banerjee sent separate letters to the state BJP chief, articulating their pain and informing him they were dissociating themselves from the party. But Chatterjee and his friend have been known to express displeasure in public and then fall in line. Actress Payel Sarkar, who joined the BJP less than three weeks ago, has been fielded in Chatterjee’s place. At 89, Trinamul deserter Rabindranath Bhattacharya will contest as BJP candidate from Singur. Other Trinamul defectors who have been given tickets are Rajib Banerjee from Domjur, Prabir Ghosal from Uttarpara and Dipak Halder from Diamond Harbour. Former CPM leader Rinku Naskar has been fielded from Jadavpur while Forward Bloc turncoat Biswanath Karak is the candidate for Goghat. “First of all, despite so many meetings at the topmost tier of the leadership, not all the names could be announced — again. Second, fielding all these MPs does not send a message of confidence to either the electorate or the party ranks, and it will be used against us by Trinamul,” a Bengal BJP functionary said. Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra rubbed it in with a tweet: “When ‘largest global political party’ lacks enough faces and strength to announce 294 names in one go for a state it claims it will sweep!” The choice of MPs also flies in the face of Modi’s campaign for “One Nation, One Election”, as by-elections will have to be held if these candidates win and move to the Assembly. “Most important, fielding even last-minute Trinamul deserter Rabindranath Bhattacharya from Singur, depriving those who have served the party loyally for years, has not been well-received…. These things are already allowing Trinamul to accuse us of not having enough decent candidates of our own to field in an election we so badly want to win,” said the Bengal BJP leader. Immediately after the candidates were announced from the BJP’s national headquarters, party workers in some places in Bengal took to the streets to protest the selections. “We are still trying to figure out the logic behind fielding such people. Trinamul’s Shantanu Bapuli, who has been fielded by us from Raidighi, is yet to formally join our party. Moreover, we in the BJP have accused him of corruption in handling relief after Cyclone Amphan,” a BJP leader said. Besides nominating Payel from Behala East, the BJP has fielded other actors who are greenhorns in electoral politics, such as Yash Dasgupta from Chanditala (Hooghly), Anjana Basu from Sonarpur South and Tanushree Chakraborty from Shyampur (Howrah). “These are not easy contests, and experienced politicians would have been better suited to such seats. Unlike Babulda and Locketdi, these newbies have spent little or no time in this arena,” a state BJP functionary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
